2012 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report contents panorama 6 detailed CSR Report 20 1 CSR policy 1.1. CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy 20 20 1.2. a process fuelled by dialogue 26 1.3. responsible purchasing principles 30 1.4. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 34 2 a responsible employer 2.1. establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance 38 38 2.2. building the Group's future 44 2.3. promoting workplace diversity 48 2.5. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 52 3 a world lived in trust 3.1. becoming the customers’ choice 58 58 3.2. communicating with peace of mind 64 3.3. supporting children and young people towards safe and responsible use of new technologies 66 3.4. responding to concerns about radio waves 68 3.5. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 70 4 an accessible world 4.1. combating the geographic digital divide 74 74 4.2. supporting local development 78 4.3. ensure accessibility by elderly, disabled, and dependent persons 82 4.4. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 84 5 towards a greener world 5.1. an ambitious environmental policy 90 90 5.2. contribute to combating climate change 92 5.3. optimising waste management 98 5.4. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 102 appendices 110 about this report 110 external opinion 114 environmental data 118 social data 126 correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact 131 for more information 147 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 2012 CorporateSocialResponsibility our presence worldwide enterprise business 220 countries and territories consumer / enterprise business 32 countries Armenia Iraq Poland Belgium Jordan Central African Republic Botswana Kenya Democratic Republic Cameroon Luxembourg of Congo Côte d'Ivoire Madagascar Dominican Republic Egypt Mali UK Spain Morocco Romania France Mauritius Senegal Guinea Moldova Slovakia Guinea-Bissau Niger Tunisia Equatorial Guinea Uganda Vanuatu Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 1 In a year marked by a deteriorating economic environment Stéphane Richard and heightened competition in all its markets, France TelecomOrange maintained its commitments as a socially responsible Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer company and retained its goal unchanged, namely to become the benchmark player in the telecommunications industry for Corporate Social Responsibility. Since signing the United Nations Global Compact in 2000, France Telecom-Orange has not deviated from its pledge. Our mobilisation efforts in 2012 in the area of human rights were illustrated notably by our contribution to deﬁning shared guidelines to address the issues of freedom of expression and privacy rights, as a founding member of the Telecommunications Sector's initiative “Industry Dialogue”. In addition, we set out our very practical commitments to protecting children online as part of our participation in the CEO Coalition “to make the Internet a better place for kids”, launched by the European Commission. 2 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange message from Stéphane Richard Corporate Social Responsibility contributes to what makes Orange different, more innovative and proactive Turning to networks, I am especially proud of our new data We will achieve our ambition to become the preferred operator centre, which opened in Normandy in 2012. The centre obtained in our markets through motivated teams determined to offer the French High Environmental Quality (HQE) certiﬁcation, with one best service to our customers. of the highest energy-efﬁciency ratios in Europe. It provides the perfect example of the advances achieved in our vast IT and I am ﬁrm in my conviction that we have the strengths to succeed: networks infrastructure modernisation project, which is a key a true culture of customer service, a passion for what we do, element of our strategy to address the challenges of climate high quality networks, and the capacity for innovation that has change. We were also rewarded for our efforts to mitigate always been our trademark. Continued innovation is the key to climate change this year through our inclusion in the “Carbon differentiation and the creation of value for the Group and for Performance Leadership Index”, illustrating the effectiveness of society as a whole. The participative innovation programmes our actions to reduce our carbon footprint. launched by France Telecom-Orange in Africa show the way forward as regards the role we want to play in the economic I am happy to report the most recent ﬁndings of our social and social development of the countries in which we operate. barometer, providing a measure of the labour relations climate Let’s not forget that new technologies are drivers of economic in the Company and conﬁrming the consistent improvement in growth, and of social and environmental progress! Ensuring the past two years. One year after launching our Orange People that technologies are for everybody and promoting new greener Charter, several projects are under way globally to further anchor practices are goals that ﬁt perfectly with our CSR policy. quality employee-employer relations at the heart of our daily operating procedures. We owe this success to the engagement Now more than ever, corporate social responsibility is of each and every one of our employees. We will continue our fundamental to our corporate strategy and contributes to efforts to disseminate a managerial culture based on respect what makes Orange different, more innovative and proactive, for the men and women in the Group and the goal of collective resolutely focused on delivering customer satisfaction and progress through individual development, thereby ensuring the creating value for all stakeholders. social cohesion required to face the challenges ahead together. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 3 2,300 solar energy sites (+300 in one year) in 20 countries, including 15 in Africa and the Middle East, opening up isolated villages with no electricity supply to telecommunications. More than 15,500 technical sites 231 in 15 countries have been equipped with an improved ventilation system, an innovation patented by Orange, which reduces energy consumption by up to 80%. 2,500 isolated villages in six African countries now have a million community phone customers 170,000 employees in more than 100 countries €16.8 million f ro m France's sheltered employement sector in 2012 p u rc h a s e s 10 000 adults and children attended a course run by Orange on N°1 or top equal safe internet use in 2012 on 192 of the 223 criteria examined Orange top of its category in the ARCEP (French telecoms regulator) voice and mobile data service quality report for the third consecutive year. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange The four major commitments of the Group's Corporate Social Responsibility policy: • recognize and support employees; • ensure transparency, quality and safety for our customers; • make the benefits of the digital world available to as many as possible; • ﬁnd innovative solutions for a greener world. 5.6 million in 13 countries this is the number of new customers for Orange Money's mobile financial transactions service. Its roll-out continued in 2012 in Uganda, Jordan, Guinea and Mauritius. emissions in 2012. metric tons of CO2 Fuel oil 6.8% 6,000 1.47 million Gas 14.8% employees Renewable involved in energy community actions CO2 2.2% Vehicle fuel in the Group 2.2% Electricity 72.0% 5,935 GWh e n e rg y c o n s u m e d in 2012 1.4 million 812 used mobiles collected in Europe. € Up 50% on 2011 thanks to enhanced customer awareness initiatives. million invested in research and innovation in 2012. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 5 panorama to become the leading CSR player to become the leading CSR player As a global player and large-scale corporate citizen delivering services used in the daily lives of 230 million customers worldwide, we fully embrace our role and responsibilities to our individual and business customers, and to society as a whole in the communities we serve. our vision of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an essential condition Dialogue, a group of global telecommunications operators and for the growth of the Company, driving innovation and manufacturers set up to advance freedom of expression and providing the opportunity for differentiation in our competitive respect for privacy through telecommunications technology, environment. Firm in this conviction, we have placed CSR at both key challenges for our industry. the heart of the Group’s strategy, reafﬁrming our goal, namely to become the benchmark player in the telecommunications We have also introduced speciﬁc anti-corruption measures. sector for Corporate Social Responsibility. Sustainable growth requires innovation and value creation for all stakeholders (employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, local CSR at the centre of our decisioncommunities, government bodies, NGOs, and associations, amongst others). For us, this means building with them a making and operating processes secure, safe, green digital world on a human scale, with the Embraced at the highest level of the organisation and broadest possible access. supported by all our teams, our CSR strategy informs decision-making and operating processes in the Group and constitutes a fundamental pillar of our Conquests 2015 a commitment founded strategic project. Our CSR policy is a collective and motivating approach, shared by all and included as a criterion for the on ethical principles calculation of bonuses for top management. Its progress is Our Group is founded on a set of core values that guide the regularly monitored by the Board of Director’s Governance principles of its actions with all stakeholders and reﬂected in and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and regular a long-standing commitment to sustainable development. In reports are presented to the Group’s Executive Committee. 1996, France Telecom-Orange signed the ETNO (European The Group’s CSR policy is managed by a dedicated Telecommunications Network Operators) Environmental Corporate Social Responsibility Department within the Quality Charter, and in 2000, it was one of the ﬁrst companies to join and Corporate Social Responsibility Division. It reports to the the United Nations Global Compact. Our Code of Ethics was Executive Committee and it is headed up by a member of the adopted in 2003 and updated in 2012. Translated into eight management team. languages, it sets out the Group’s action principles and the individual behaviours it expects from each of its employees. CSR sponsors, reporting to the highest organisational level, have been appointed in each Group function and entity We pay particular attention to ensuring respect for human operating across all our markets to monitor implementation rights. Directly in line with our membership of the Global of the strategic guidelines decided by the Group’s Executive Compact and with the 2006 Group-wide global agreement Committee. A network of CSR managers monitors the on basic social rights, we contribute to creating a shared operational deployment of the CSR policy. dialogue on human rights in the framework of the Industry 6 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama to become the leading CSR player panorama 2012 highlight responsibility extended to the supply chain In October 2012, Orange France ran its third consecutive biannual corporate social responsibility Since our responsibility extends beyond the enterprise edge, survey on a sample of 1,200 people representative we have worked closely with our suppliers to introduce a of French society. This time the survey scope was responsible purchasing policy to strengthen management changed to include nine mainland France regions and of ethical, social and environmental risks from end to end of the French overseas territories in order to identify the the supply chain. Responsible purchasing is based on our different expectations of the public from one region sourcing and supply chain Code of Ethics, which sets out the to the next. This was followed by the eighth biannual ethical, social and environmental commitments we expect survey of stakeholders in the Orange France business from our suppliers, as well as a structured assessment and lines, which was also run nationwide in order to identify monitoring process to better address the challenges of social the different expectations of local players by region. responsibility along the entire supply chain. Supplier audits conducted in the framework of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) are a key component of the system. France TelecomOrange, together with Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia, is a founding member of this international initiative which an approach informed now includes nine telecom operators. JAC members share by stakeholder dialogue resources for CSR audits of telecommunication suppliers according to a common methodology and objective: to To build a CSR policy aligned with the needs of society, develop long-term CSR implementation across all strata of the we established a structured process of dialogue with all ICT supply chain internationally. At the end of November 2012, our stakeholders. This process of listening to stakeholders close to 60 JAC audits had been conducted of suppliers in positions us to anticipate emerging needs and ensures we China, Taiwan, India, Japan, South Korea, Eastern Europe are more innovative and forward-looking in creating products and South America, covering 155,000 workers in total. and services to meet new needs. Dialogue is implemented at Group, business line and country level, where entities are in direct contact with local actors and have immediate 2012 highlight knowledge of local challenges. In October 2011 we joined forces with Deustche Four new countries (the Dominican Republic, Uganda, Telekom to create BuyIn, a Purchasing joint venture Romania and Belgium) implemented a structured dialogue for terminals, mobile communications networks and a process in 2012 with their stakeholders, according to a large portion of the ﬁxed network equipment and service methodology provided by the Group’s CSR Department. platforms. In 2012 we worked towards a common CSR Similarly, Orange Business Services launched stakeholder approach with a view to identifying supplier demands dialogue in Russia, together with dialogue focusing on its shared by both companies. This collaboration, which video-conferencing services. In all, 18 subsidiaries (nine of involved representatives from the Purchasing, Legal which are in Africa and the Middle East), accounting for 70% and CSR Departments of both companies, culminated of Group revenue, were engaged in a process of dialogue. in the publication of BuyIn's CSR Code of Conduct in September 2012 and BuyIn's teams were targeted by a major internal communications initiative. Distribution of the Code to suppliers began in December 2012 and will continue in the ﬁrst half of 2013. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 7 panorama to become the leading CSR player a strategy structured around four commitments and eight priorities Our CSR strategy is embodied in four fundamental commitments, in turn broken down into eight priorities, which are implemented in road maps updated every year as our objectives are achieved. 4 commitments 8 priorities main achievements in 2012 ■ social barometer in France: the ﬁfth and sixth half-yearly barometers conﬁrm the improvement in the labour relations climate with better results across all areas since the barometer was launched in 2010; ■ globally: completion of the second annual social barometer measurement campaign (initiated in 2011 in the majority of the Group’s countries); ■ roll-out and promotion of the Orange People Charter to all employees in 23 Group countries, and in countries in which Orange Business Services operates; ■ launch of the Group’s new health and safety policy in July 2012; place men and women ■ creation of a new Occupational Health, Safety and Quality of at the heart of the Life Department; Company by offering recognise a new social model, ■ inauguration of the ﬁrst Asia Paciﬁc Hub Orange Campus in India in November 2012; supporting employees and support in their development ■ more than 220,000 training hours were delivered by Orange Campus in 2012 and at end-2012 since it was launched, and meet corporate employees and societal challenges, followed by Campus training for almost 73% of the Group’s managers; particularly in respect ■ launch of a survey on the perception of gender equality in the of equal opportunities workplace policy targeting 13,000 managers in entities certiﬁed with the Gender Equality European Standard (namely France, Spain, Belgium and Orange Business Services); ■ signature in France of the LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) Charter, of which Orange is one of the founding members; ■ strengthened partnership and involvement as a member of the ILO (International Labour Organization) Global Business and Disability Network; ■ signature in France in December 2012 of a new Group agreement on the employment of seniors and measures to improve the later years of employees’ careers. ■ roll-out of the programme to simplify the customer journey in 24 subsidiaries, with 100 or more simpliﬁed journeys; ■ opening of new customer test centres in Armenia, Belgium, lead the way in terms of ensure quality of service in all Jordan and Mauritius (giving a total of 25 operational test centres at year-end 2012); our markets transparency, ■ roll-out of the “Orange and me” app (already in use in France, Spain, the Dominican Republic and Romania) to three new quality, security promote and ensure safe countries: Slovakia, Poland and Belgium. ■ signature in January 2012 of the ICT Coalition for a Safer and safety for and responsible use of Internet for Children and Young People; products and services, ■ establishment of a Group-wide “Orange for child protection” our customers particularly with regards Governance Committee; to protecting children, ■ review and distribution of the Group’s policy for the respecting privacy and protection of personal data. data security 8 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama to become the leading CSR player panorama 4 commitments 8 priorities main achievements in 2012 ■ LION2 and ACE high-speed submarine cables went live promote digital inclusion helping to open up digital services in Africa; by developing offers ■ launch of the dedicated Colourcall and Melovibe and solutions for as applications for the deaf and hearing-impaired in France, many people as possible Spain and Poland; and reducing all forms of ■ launch of the Maasma3 range in Egypt, offering a selection digital divide of handsets and/or price packages for the hearing-impaired, make the beneﬁts sight-impaired and the elderly. ■ launch of new ICT incubator projects in Niger and Tunisia, of the digital following the Dakar ICT incubator; ■ second annual Orange African Social Venture Prize, with world available more than 1,000 project entries assessed in two years; ■ launch of Djobi, a pilot mother-and-child project speciﬁcally to as many promote the economic targeting malaria; and social development ■ extension of community phone to two new countries, as possible of countries in which the Cameroon and Madagascar, i.e. a total of almost Group operates, through 2,500 villages in six countries; its services ■ roll-out of the “Labaroun Kassoua” offer in Niger, giving farmers in Niger access to price information for agricultural produce and livestock in more than 70 markets in the country; ■ launch of “Internet for all” by Orange Uganda to broaden Internet access in rural areas. bring eco-designed products and ■ measures to improve the energy efﬁciency of our Liveboxes services to market, and TV decoders to be rolled out with the next software and help to reduce versions; customers’ environmental ■ a pilot ecodesign project for the business market (VoIP offer); footprint through the ■ eco-labelling launched in Armenia. Group’s offerings take a bold stance on ■ the mobile handset collection rate improved 50% to almost collecting and recycling 10% at end-2012 (compared with 6.6% at end-2011). mobile handsets ■ more than 500 technical sites in 16 countries equipped with smart meters to accurately measure energy consumption in real time; ﬁnd innovative ■ continued optimisation of our ﬂeet of vehicles with CO2 criteria lowered further by segment; solutions for ■ new eco-driving and road-safety training available to all since September 2012 and 100 or so electric vehicles added to a greener world the ﬂeet to facilitate car-sharing; manage the Group’s ■ contribution to the work of the International energy consumption Telecommunications Union (ITU) on methodologies for to reduce its CO2 measuring energy consumption efﬁciencies in the ICT emissions by 20% sector; by 2020 ■ continuation of the Green ITN 2020 programme in France, Poland, Spain, Romania, Belgium, Moldova and Slovakia. Savings of more than 300 GWh of electricity were achieved in 2012, the equivalent of 110,000 metric tons of CO2; ■ installation of 300 new solar sites in 2012, bringing the total to over 2,300 (including 1,743 radio sites). Taken together, these solar sites generate 15 GWh of electricity per year, equivalent to saving 28 million litres of fuel and 76,000 metric tons of CO2. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 9 panorama recognise and support employees recognise and support employees our goal 30,000 people will retire from France Telecom-Orange between now and 2020, with the ﬁgure for France at one-third of the workforce. The Group therefore faces major social challenges, chief among them being how to attract new talent, protect jobs in an increasingly competitive sector, and plan ahead for the skills needed to meet the demands of new customer uses. This is why we place the Group’s men and women at the centre of our growth strategy. We have set the bar high with our goal of being recognised as one of the preferred employers in our main countries of operation. our priorities 1. establishing bonds between Establishing bonds between social performance and social performance and economic economic performance also means recognising and valuing performance individual contributions to the success of the Group as a whole. In addition to the inclusion of the composite social Our primary objective is to anchor the quality of employerperformance indicator in determining the bonuses paid to the employee relations at the heart of the daily running of the Group’s senior management, almost 40% of our added value business, which is the aim of our Orange People Charter, was redistributed to our employees in 2012 according to our launched by Stéphane Richard at the end of 2011. Based value-sharing model. on six commitments, it embodies our goal of becoming the preferred employer in the main countries in which we operate. Naturally, there is more to be done. Yet the ﬁndings of the At year-end 2012, the Charter was rolled out in 23 countries in most recent half-yearly social barometer survey illustrate that Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia and in Orange Business we are on the right track. Both 2012 surveys conﬁrm the Services. In France, the Charter’s intent is expressed through improvement in the labour relations climate since 2010, with the Social Contract. signiﬁcant progress reported across all areas. Improving the day-to-day quality of life and work organisation 2012 highlight are two of the challenges of the Social Contract and involve enhancing the comfort of employees’ working environment, simplifying IT tools, ensuring work-life balance, etc. On 31 December 2012 we signed a new agreement governing the employment of seniors and measures We are also especially vigilant about preventing occupational in favour of the later years of employee's careers with risks. The Group’s new health and safety policy (adopted the main trade unions. The seniors agreement, covering in 2012) and the creation of the new Occupational Health, the period 2013 to 2015, reafﬁrms the company's Safety and Quality of Life Department will enhance commitment to maintaining jobs for each of our coordination of our efforts to improve health and safety, employees, encouraging the employment of seniors and prevent occupational illnesses and reduce psychosocial risks. offering secure career paths. Our new social model is also founded on renewed dialogue with Sonatel, our Senegalese subsidiary, has introduced a all our employees. In addition to the informal communication major initiative to meet the health needs of employees channels open to all in the Group (chats, team meetings, etc.), and their families. Three free consultation centres have we are stepping up dialogue with personnel representative been set up in Dakar and at the different sites. Sonatel bodies through the work of the Global Group Committee and has also negotiated a health insurance scheme to ﬁnance the European Works Council. the care of an employee in a hospital in the Maghreb or on the French mainland if their condition should require them to leave the country. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama recognise and support employees 2012 highlight panorama In Romania we have opened a Sales Academy to train our 2,270 sales personnel. Objectives: to develop Orange's brand image on the market and position ourselves as a benchmark employer. After a combined 3. encourage and value diversity total of 4,000 training days in 2012, 82% of the We believe that difference and our wealth of skills and talent workforce has now been trained. Employees who have make Orange a more attractive and more innovative company successfully completed the course receive certiﬁcation. with more resources to efﬁciently serve our customers and In Botswana, as part of an enjeu collectif (collective identify society’s future needs. This conviction lies at the root challenge) project, our subsidiary decided to set up a of our long track record of initiatives in favour of diversity and skills reference framework for all its managers. With equal opportunity at all career stages. the help of the Orange Campus teams, it designed a Our diversity policy is articulated around a theme common to workshop-based customisable training programme. all Group entities, gender equality in the workplace. The Group It also introduced a quarterly meeting at which the has set itself the target of raising the percentage of women subsidiary shares its strategy and development in senior management to 35% by 2015. Accordingly, we are challenges. Botswana is the pilot country for this implementing proactive programmes in countries where we Orange Campus programme in Africa before it is rolled have a presence: women’s’ networks, shadowing initiatives, out to other countries in the Africa, Middle East and Asia providing students with the opportunity to learn about careers zone (AMEA). in our sector by shadowing female engineers or technicians, identifying and supporting female talent to empower them with positions of responsibility, actions to promote work-life balance, etc. Our commitment to gender equality earned us 2. address the skills issue through recognition as one of the ﬁrst companies to be awarded the a stronger managerial culture European “Gender Equality European Standard” designation Managers play a vital role in making Orange the preferred for our actions in France, Spain, Belgium and Orange employer. We support managers in their roles and Business Services. responsibilities by providing them with the resources and independence they need to successfully manage their teams. We are also engaged in promoting a route to work for groups Orange Campus was established in 2011 to ensure manager encountering particular difﬁculty in accessing employment, buy-in of our corporate managerial culture and sharing of such as young people from disadvantaged areas and the best practices across the Group. Some 73% of our managers disabled. (20% of whom were attached to our international subsidiaries) had completed one of the 60 management skills programmes 2012 highlight offered by Orange Campus by the end of the 2012 ﬁnancial year. To help women assert their skills in a multi-cultural Skills management is of particular strategic importance in our environment, Orange Business Services has developed sector, where technologies and practices change at a rapid the Women intercultural leadership development pace. The challenge facing the Group is thrown into even programme: a six-month collective development sharper relief when one considers that almost one-third of the programme for 15 women from different cultures who workforce in France is due to retire by 2020. work in different areas of the company. Our Strategic Workforce Planning agreement (Gestion In 2012, Orange Business Services launched a Prévisionnelle des Emplois et des Compétences GPEC) sets language mentoring programme whereby Englishout to meet a dual challenge: to identify future skill demands in speaking employees help French students from line with changes in our business, while providing employees disadvantaged backgrounds practice their English at with visibility on developments in their jobs and their required weekly conversation classes, to give them access to skill sets to help them to plan their career path and training international careers. requirements. Our dynamic employment policy also anticipates demographic change: we have committed to recruiting 4,000 new hires on permanent contracts in France over a three-year period, as well as 5,000 people in work-based learning programmes. In addition we are introducing measures to facilitate knowledge and skills transfer and to enable seniors to continue in employment. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 11 panorama ensure transparency, quality, security and safety for our customers ensure transparency, quality, security and safety for our customers our goal Our objective is to become the benchmark telecommunications operator for customer service in all our markets by 2015. To achieve this, we seek to offer the best telecommunications experience and provide personalised support to customers to help them navigate the digital world. The Group must also provide clear and appropriate solutions to growing concerns in the areas of data privacy, child protection and protecting from radio waves to enable all to access the beneﬁts of the digital world safely. our priorities 1. to aim for excellence in customer experience Today’s customers expect very high quality services, keen We keep a close eye on our progress through the pricing and personalised support to discover the new services Customer Experience Tracker (CET), the quarterly survey and uses ushered in by new information and communication measuring customers’ perception of the quality of their technologies. It is not enough to offer the best technology. At experience with Orange and the competition in our different Orange, we believe that the experience we offer our customers markets. Incorporated in the bonus calculation for topeach time they interface with our services and our company level management, the CET includes a CSR component makes the vital difference. Excellence means promoting the since 2011. “Orange customer relations culture”, training the advisers in our call centres and stores, simplifying customer journeys and incorporating the customer’s perspective from the design stage. 2012 highlight Our customer testing centres allow us to evaluate customer reworked to take these emotional aspects into account. All experience in real usage situations before we launch a managers and support staff have received the appropriate product or service. With four new centres opened in 2012 training. France, Spain, Moldova, Slovakia, Belgium, Côte (Armenia, Belgium, Jordan and Mauritius), we now have d’Ivoire and Orange Business Services have committed to 25 test centres in the countries where the Time To Market a similar initiative. process has been deployed. In Egypt, following a rigorous audit process, our subsidiary In Poland, the project “MyOrange” aims to move forward Mobinil's 110 and 250 call centres obtained COPC employees' communications with customers. 5,000 (Customer Operations Performance Center) certiﬁcation employees have been trained in the emotional aspect of in 2012. This benchmark standard in the call centre customer relations and feedback was very positive. 20 sector also recognises Mobinil's commitment to excellent processes that could generate customer contact were customer service. 2. protect personal data Data privacy is a growing concern for our customers and is an in Internet uses across all stages from the design of offers to area in which we want our policy to be irreproachable. In the the introduction of tools to ensure data security and respect framework of its global safety policy, the Group monitors and for its customers’ privacy. controls a range of risks that may be increased by the growth 12 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama ensure transparency, quality, security and safety for our customers In 2007, we were one of the very few companies in the panorama 2012 highlight sector to appoint a data privacy and freedom of information correspondent responsible for protecting customers’ and employees’ personal data. Reporting to the Group’s Chief In Spain we introduced a new family portal called Legal Ofﬁcer, he is the key point of contact for the French data Navega Seguro at the end of 2012. Its objective was privacy authority, the Commission Nationale de l’Informatique to provide parents and educational institutions with a et des Libertés (CNIL). Outside of France, the ofﬁcer works reference framework for safe internet use by children with a network of correspondents throughout the international and adolescents. We were also involved in the launch subsidiaries to help enforce data protection guidelines via of a new mobile application for smartphones and tablets Group-wide projects. He participates in events, seminars and Protect Children which is an easy way for customers work to promote sharing of best practices, and is careful to to notify us anonymously of child pornography websites. balance all the challenges inherent in the globalisation of the In France, Orange organised courses for parents: digital exchange of personal information. practical courses on how to protect children online were In 2012, our data protection policy was provided to security offered in the Orange shops in France. More than 130 experts in all countries. We have also upgraded our workshops were run in 19 French towns and cities to overall security policy to step up personal data protection teach parents how to conﬁgure the parental control requirements. software and how to support their children’s use of social network sites. Besides internal measures implemented to protect the security and conﬁdentiality of data, we offer our individual and business customers a comprehensive range of security We continued to roll out action plans in all our European solutions to facilitate and enhance the security of electronic subsidiaries based on three key priorities: exchanges. ■ actively and transparently promote responsible use by 2012 highlight passing on clear messages and information issued by approved associations and recognised experts; In 2012, to ensure the issue of personal data protection ■ train and support parents and educators to promote a is debated in the highest echelons of the company, we cautious and responsible attitude to safe Internet use; set up a governance committee run by members of the Executive Committee. Its role is to steer the Group's ■ heighten the visibility and effectiveness of parental controls. key initiatives to ensure the protection of personal data receives the attention and guarantee it merits. The ﬁrst 4. answer questions about radio waves meeting is due to be held in March 2013. We are determined to deal transparently with questions on the potential effects of radio waves emitted by cell phones and new communication technologies. Our subsidiaries provide customers and the general public with the appropriate 3. support young people to ensure information tools, by relaying recommendations issued safe and responsible usage by government bodies and the competent authorities on Our process of dialogue with stakeholders shows that the safe usage to limit exposure to radio waves. We are active main concern amongst customers and the public in general in participants in research on the subject by developing tools the majority of European countries is the protection of children to measure and visualise the intensity of radio waves and against the risk of unsafe Internet use. conducting research on dosimetry and metrology. In the absence of local regulations, all our subsidiaries apply ICNIRP* The commitment of France Telecom-Orange to increase standards relating to cell phone antennae and all our mobile online security for children and adolescents was strengthened phones have an SAR (Speciﬁc Absorption Rate, indicating considerably at end-2011/early-2012 with our participation in the maximum level of radio waves to which users can be two major international initiatives. The Group was a founding exposed) of less than 2 W/kg. We have also put measures in member of the “ICT Coalition” alongside 25 other companies place to reinforce employee protection in the context of our in the ICT sector, and it signed up to the “CEO Coalition to policy on radio waves at work. make the Internet a better place for kids”, launched in 2011 by Neelie Kroes, Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for the Digital Agenda for Europe. * International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection, WHO international commission (www.icnirp.de) Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 13 panorama make the beneﬁts of the digital world available to as many as possible make the beneﬁts of the digital world available to as many as possible our goal One of our primary missions and major responsibilities is to make the benefits of information and communication technologies available to as many as possible. We are firmly committed to tackling the digital divide in all its forms and to placing our technologies at the service of economic and social development, especially in emerging economies where ICTs play a major role in employment creation, and the provision of innovative solutions to the needs of the local populations in essential areas, including health, education and access to banking services. our priorities 2012 highlight 1. continue to develop the networks Europe: Combating all forms of digital exclusion naturally means In France, Orange 4G is now available in Marseille, reducing the geographical divide to broaden access to the Lyon, Lille, Nantes and, since early 2013, in the Opéra beneﬁts of the digital world to include even the most isolated neighbourhood in Paris. 15 more cities will be covered areas. The ﬁrst step is investment in technology and highby April 2013. quality networks in both mature and emerging countries. In Moldova, we launched its ﬁrst commercial 4G mobile Network development is one of the priorities of our services in the capital city of Chişinău on 20 November Conquests 2015 strategic project. This priority was 2012. reafﬁrmed to the European Commission in March 2012 in In Romania, a ﬁrst 4G specially for tablets was launched the presentation of our ten commitments in response to the in Bucharest on 12 December 2012. challenges of the digital agenda in Europe, three of which relate speciﬁcally to digital inclusion: In Luxembourg, 4G applications for professionals have been available in the country's capital since November ■ deploy 4G/LTE in all European countries in which Orange 2012. operates by 2015; In the Dominican Republic, 4G service has been available ■ offer FTTH (Fiber to the Home) to 15 million French homes in the capital, Santo Domingo, since December 2012. and 80% of companies by 2020 and participate in rolling out high-capacity broadband in our European markets; 4G was also deployed on a technical level in Belgium and Spain in 2012. ■ deploy 3G in Orange countries in the Africa-Middle East zone by 2015 and provide mobile coverage for 80% of the In terms of very high speed ﬁxed ﬁber optic broadband, population. we continued to roll this out in France in 2012 with almost 60 new urban agglomerations covered in 2012, i.e. a total of more than 200 communities, equating to almost ﬁve million households receiving the service by the end of 2012. In Spain in June 2012, we announced a €300 million investment plan for the next four years to bring ﬁber optic broadband to 1.5 million households in major cities. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama make the beneﬁts of the digital world available to as many as possible 2012 highlight panorama Africa: In April 2012, LION2 cable broadband brought cable meaning remote villages with no electricity had access to broadband to Mayotte for the very ﬁrst time, while telecommunications for the very ﬁrst time. improving connectivity in Kenya. 2,500 remote villages have now been equipped with our In December 2012, ACE (Africa Coast to Europe) cable communal telecommunications solution, community broadband came into service in the ﬁrst 13 countries phone. (France, Portugal, Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Equatorial Our Orange Money service, which offers secure banking Guinea, Gabon and Sao Tomé & Principe). Mali and Niger, services from a mobile phone, achieved the 5.6 million two landlocked countries, will receive the service via a landcustomer mark in December 2012, testimony to its based extension. Nigeria will also be connected to this commercial success. With its launch in four new countries cable in 2013. (Morocco, Jordan, Mauritius and Guinea) in 2012, Orange Money is now available in 11 countries in the Africa and In 2012, 300 new solar power sites were also Middle East region. commissioned, bringing the total to over 2,300 in 20 Group countries, 15 of these in Africa and the Middle East, 2. support economic and social 3. ensure accessibility by elderly development in emerging countries and disabled people With a reach extending to 21 countries in Africa and the To broaden access to technology for all, including people made Middle East, we have clear development goals in these vulnerable by age, disability or illness, Orange has adopted a markets. Aware of the major role new information and “design for all” strategy to ensure that difﬁculties with access communication technologies could play in the economic and are taken into account for our products and services at every social development of these countries, the Group launched stage from design to after-sales service. Special ﬁxed-line the “Orange for development” initiative in 2011 to boost telephone handsets, applications facilitating use of mobile economic and social innovation, focusing on three priorities: phones by the deaf, hearing-impaired and visually-impaired, sign-language customer service and accessible websites are 1. develop infrastructures and connectivity by improving some of the products and services we have developed to network coverage and extending access to all, especially ensure easier access to new technologies by the elderly and those living in rural areas; disabled. Our “autonomy offerings” range in France includes 60 products and services, providing an appropriate response 2. deliver value-added services to meet a range of needs in to all types of impairment. areas as diverse as health, education, agriculture, ﬁnancial services and administration; 2012 highlight 3. promote the ecosystems and initiatives to develop local markets for new technologies, with business incubation and start-up funding projects, open innovation platforms To help the deaf and hard of hearing, we have developed and research cooperation with universities or local two alternatives to the traditional ringtone to help them technical institutes. identify callers and senders of incoming texts: Melovibe, which they can use to link their contacts to a preset vibrating tune or to create their own vibrating tune using three notes, and Colourcall which allows users to select a colour they wish to be displayed on the screen and/or a ﬂashing light when they receive a call or text message. These products were launched in France, Spain and Poland in November 2012. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 15 panorama ﬁnd innovative solutions for a greener world ﬁnd innovative solutions for a greener world our goal In a world of limited natural resources, we believe that reducing our environmental impacts across the entire life cycle of our products and services is essential for the long-term success and competitiveness of the Company. This is why we have made ambitious commitments to reduce the footprint of our activities, improve the environmental performance of our products and services, and offer our customers innovative solutions that help them to reduce their own environmental impact. Only by acting on all three fronts simultaneously can we effectively contribute to addressing the major challenges of our industry, i.e. climate change and recycling of end-of-life electronic equipment. our priorities 1. contribute to combating We are also deploying solutions using renewable energy climate change sources, and have set the target of 25% of energy from solar power by 2015 for new mobile sites suitable for solar power As a telecom operator, we have a special responsibility to in Africa, the Middle East and Asia. At year-end 2012, we address the climate change issue. While the digital revolution have deployed more than 2,300 solar sites, representing is an undeniable vehicle for social and environmental 15 GWh of carbon-free energy, equivalent to annual savings progress, it results in ever-increasing volumes of data of 28 million litres of fuel and 76,000 metric tons of CO2. trafﬁc and the need for increasingly powerful and energyhungry infrastructures. Addressing the explosion in uses Above and beyond reducing our internal impacts, we must without increasing our networks’ energy consumption is also offer more energy-efﬁcient products to our customers. demanding indeed. However, we have adopted goals to Our teams at Orange Labs are developing ecodesign meet the challenge: France Telecom-Orange has committed methodologies to reduce the environmental impact of our to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and energy products and services throughout their life cycle. 2012 consumption by 15% by 2020 (compared with 2006 levels). also saw us work on improving the energy efﬁciency of the upcoming Livebox and TV decoder versions, some of which These objectives are an integral component of the Conquests will be available in 2013. 2015 business plan and are monitored quarterly by the Group’s Executive Committee, on the basis of speciﬁc indicators. We also provide individuals and businesses alike with a range of innovative solutions to meet the challenges of climate To reduce our energy and carbon footprint, we are continuing change and encourage a greener lifestyle, including electronic to roll out action plans in three areas: networks, buildings and billing, video conferencing, virtualisation of IT infrastructures, transport. remote monitoring solutions, etc. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama ﬁnd innovative solutions for a greener world 2012 highlight panorama By the end of 2012, 34% of the Group’s environmental To help us control our energy consumption, we also require systems had achieved ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, exceeding accurate, reliable metering. To this end, we have launched its target. The Group’s ISO 14001 certiﬁcation rate has a programme which aims to gradually equip our technical doubled in two years. sites with networked meters. By the end of 2012, over 500 additional sites in 16 counties in Europe and the AMEA Our Green ITN 2020 programme aims to reduce the energy zone were equipped with these meters which allow us to consumption of our networks and IT systems. Deployed monitor their consumption closely in real time. in 22 countries, mostly in Europe (France, Poland, Spain, Romania, Belgium, Moldova and Slovakia), it achieved The third Orange Green Fleet Forum took place in savings of more than 300 GWh of electricity and 28 million September 2012. This is an annual event dedicated to litres of fuel, mainly in the AMEA zone, in 2012. innovation in the ﬁeld of sustainable mobility which provides the perfect opportunity for the group to present new market In July 2012 we launched the new Normandy data centre trends and its own sustainable mobility developments. in France: a new generation, French High Environmental Orange was the ﬁrst company to take delivery of Renault Quality certiﬁed, data centre that is much more energy Twizys in April 2012 and around 100 orders for this new efﬁcient thanks to its innovative design and the use, electrical two-seater vehicle were placed in 2012. wherever possible, of natural air conditioning (cooled directly by the external air). The energy savings equate to the total annual electricity consumption of a city of 15,000 inhabitants. 2. encourage recycling of end-of-life electronic equipment Waste electronic and electrical equipment (WEEE) is a fast ■ working in partnership with the international solidarity growing waste stream that is increasing in line with new movement, Emmaüs International, we support the collection telecommunications uses. Promoting re-use of electronic of waste electronic equipment in Africa for processing in equipment meets a triple environmental, economic and social approved centres in Europe. objective: ■ increase recovery of the rare or dwindling resources in 2012 highlight these handsets (copper, nickel, tin, gold and silver); ■ make sure sensitive materials are processed correctly (lead, In 2012, our European companies collected near on 1.5 palladium, lithium in batteries, amongst others); million used mobile phones from their customers, i.e. around 10% of the mobiles distributed on these markets. ■ broaden access to mobile telephony for people with limited The collection rate was up 50% on 2011, which is in line resources, especially in emerging countries, by offering with our objectives. We achieved this result thanks to the low-cost reconditioned handsets. eco-citizen collection campaigns run by our subsidiaries in Spain, Poland, Slovakia and Moldova and in France, We are working on several fronts in this respect: where we also tested a prototype of a smart used mobile collection system, Mobo. ■ we prolong the life cycle of equipment by encouraging customers to keep their mobile phones for longer, or by On 26 June 2012, we signed a new strategic partnership developing second-hand mobile phone offers; with the WWF in Armenia aimed at raising awareness of environmental issues in this country where ecological ■ we organise advertising campaigns to encourage our awareness is fairly limited. We also saw the ﬁrst concrete customers to drop off their used mobiles and other result of this partnership: the launch of ecological electronic equipment for recycling; labelling for mobile phones. After France, Spain and Romania, Armenia is the fourth country to introduce this initiative which informs customers about the ecological performance of the different mobile and landline phones on sale in our shops and online. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 17 panorama next in 2013 next in 2013 Please see our detailed road maps in the 2012 CSR Report or on www.orange.com for information on all our objectives. our cross-sector challenges respect for human rights ■ bring Group reporting in line with the GRI human rights reporting recommendations; ■ formally set out Orange’s action to advance respect for freedom of expression as part of the Industry Dialogue; ■ collaborate with the Global Network Initiative to leverage its recognised expertise in this area. ethics ■ increase employees’ awareness of conﬂicts of interest; ■ develop ethical behaviour in service relations; ■ set out the Group’s corruption-prevention methodologies by country and implement the compliance aspect. stakeholder dialogue ■ organise dialogue in Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Egypt, Democratic Republic of Congo and Slovakia; ■ implement stakeholder dialogue at Orange Group level. responsible purchasing ■ apply the QREDIC performance improvement programme for Group suppliers in Poland and the three new AMEA countries; ■ encourage buy-in of the Inter-company Relations Charter by major suppliers in France to guarantee respect of CSR principles from end to end of the subcontracting chain; ■ strengthen the audit process initiated in the framework of the Joint Audit Cooperation. a responsible employer social performance ■ continue the Group’s commitments to social dialogue through locally appropriate means and regular meetings of ad hoc committees (the Global Group Committee and the European Works Council, etc.); ■ continue to analyse the quality of social relations by periodically escalating the ﬁndings of barometers and composite national/ international indicators and by incorporating these criteria in determining the bonuses paid to the Group’s 1,200 top managers. occupational health and safety ■ implement the Group’s health and safety policy, especially by establishing dedicated steering committees. managerial culture and skills development ■ establish an Orange Campus in Dakar; ■ extend the Group’s managerial reference system to all managers and team leaders, in France and worldwide; ■ continue to monitor the strategic skills management agreement (GPEC) in France. diversity ■ strengthen gender equality initiatives at all stages of employees’ careers and in all the Group’s countries, and set up ad hoc monitoring and evaluation systems; ■ increase the proportion of women in management bodies (objective: 35% by 2015); ■ increase support to the Group’s countries and divisions to help bolster local diversity policies, especially in the area of disability. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange panorama next in 2013 a world lived in trust panorama service quality ■ boost the Group’s action plans aimed at improving the customer experience. data protection ■ deﬁne a set of Group rules based on its security policy for the protection of personal data; ■ deﬁne Group policy for protecting privacy, communicate and apply it; ■ increase the amount of information provided for our customers on mobile phone risks and correct use. child protection ■ continue training and aid to countries to strengthen their child protection and support activities in view of digital risks; ■ roll out the components of the CEO Coalition for making the Internet a better place for kids at Orange. radio waves ■ launch a dedicated Group website; ■ conduct an audit (with risk assessment) in AMEA countries. an accessible world geographical coverage ■ continue to extend solar power according to local contexts; ■ launch initiatives to facilitate access to energy to power mobile phones in Africa. local development ■ launch the third social venture prize; ■ launch a crowdfunding pilot for African SMEs; ■ launch new incubators in African countries where the Group has a presence. accessibility for the elderly or disabled ■ make Orange’s main mobile apps available for Android and iOS; ■ create a Web catalogue of accessible solutions in Spain and Poland; ■ start a large-scale programme aimed at providing access for seniors to smartphone or tablet data connectivity and including forecast future use patterns by seniors; ■ continue dialogue on Orange branded stores in Spain and Poland. a greener world environmental management system ■ with the aim of raising the rate of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation to 60% by the end of 2015, continue implementing the action programmes undertaken in 2012 in the period 2013-2015. reducing our energy and carbon footprint ■ continue introducing systems for measuring the energy consumption of networks and ISs; ■ expand the installation of tools to measure energy consumption in buildings from France and Belgium to other countries; ® ■ draw lessons from the 2012 carbon audit (Bilan Carbone ) adapted for Poland and monitor the action plans arising from the carbon audits conducted in France and Spain. recycling of end-of-life electronic equipment ■ broaden the expert assignments on the processing of waste to other countries in the AMEA zone (Mali, Jordan and Côte d’Ivoire); ■ continue the Group’s active participation in working groups (ILO, UN, STEP) dedicated to the problem of waste electronic equipment to support local African initiatives for collection and recycling; ■ roll out new methods for the collection and recycling of WEEE from businesses and gradually broaden them to include other European countries where Orange Business Services operates; ■ raise the collection rate of mobiles distributed through our controlled distribution channels to 15%, i.e. an increase of 50% versus 2012. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 19 1 detailed CSR Report 1.1. CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is vital for the Group’s on-going success and creates value for all its stakeholders. Orange has developed an ambitious strategy to enable it to become the benchmark for corporate social responsibility in the telecommunications sector. This approach, central to the Group’s Conquests 2015 strategic project, is embodied in practical action plans articulated around four fundamental commitments and eight strategic priorities involving all Group entities. 1.1.1. reafﬁrming our goal The Group’s corporate social responsibility strategy is based on Priorities are updated at least once a year to keep abreast of a clear vision: to achieve sustainable growth, our company must changes in the ﬁeld. In the period 2010-2012, some of the eight constantly innovate and create value for all its stakeholders. strategic priorities deﬁned in 2009 were amended slightly and Working together with stakeholders, we want to build a safe renewed for 2013: and secure digital world accessible to as many as possible, while addressing the challenges of limited resources and the ■ place men and women at the heart of the Company by fragile balance of our planet. offering a new social model, supporting employees in their development and meet corporate and societal challenges, Firm in this deeply rooted conviction, France Telecom-Orange’s particularly in respect of equal opportunities; strategy is an ambitious one, aimed at becoming the benchmark player in the telecommunications industry for corporate social ■ lead the way in terms of quality of service in all our markets*; responsibility. ■ promote and ensure safe and responsible use of our products and services, particularly with regards to protecting children, clearly defined strategic priorities respecting privacy and data security; Enshrined at the heart of the Conquests 2015 strategic project, the Group’s CSR policy is embodied in four major commitments: ■ promote digital inclusion by developing offers and solutions for as many people as possible and reducing all forms of ■ recognise and support employees; digital divide**; ■ ensure transparency, quality, security and safety for our ■ promote the economic and social development of countries customers; in which the Group operates, through its services; ■ make the beneﬁts of the digital world available to as many as ■ bring eco-designed products and services to market, possible; and help to reduce customers’ environmental footprint through the Group’s offerings ■ ﬁnd innovative solutions for a greener world. ■ take a bold stance on collecting and recycling mobile The deﬁnition of Orange’s strategic CSR priorities is based on handsets; two complementary elements: ■ manage the Group’s energy consumption to reduce its CO2 ■ analysing stakeholders’ requirements (see Section 1.2); emissions by 20% by 2020. ■ identifying the risks and opportunities related to sustainable Each of these priorities is broken down into precise objectives development and assessing their impact on the Company’s accompanied by key performance indicators. growth. * Priority reviewed in 2012, expanding its scope. ** Priority reviewed in 2011, as the former description was overly limiting. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange CSR policy CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy 1 a policy shared by all a rigorous and audited process Embraced at the highest level of the organisation, France France Telecom-Orange’s CSR policy applies the principles of Telecom-Orange’s CSR policy motivates all employees in every inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, as deﬁned in entity and country in which the Group operates on a daily basis. AA1000 APS (2008) standard. This is the international reference for corporate social responsibility and emphasises the need to A dedicated CSR organisation involves every level in the take stakeholder requirements into account (see appendices for Company: more details on the application of the AA1000 standard). CSR policy ■ the Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility The Group has also adopted the principles deﬁned in the Committee: formed by the Board of Directors, it ratiﬁes ISO 26000 standard on Corporate Social Responsibility. strategic CSR policy and monitors application of the Code of Ethics; CSR is managed through a special reporting tool called “Indicia”, which measures changes in the performance of each ■ the CSR Department: led by a member of the senior entity through qualitative and quantitative questionnaires. The management team, the department ensures that policy is deﬁnitions and methodologies for reporting each indicator have deployed throughout the Company’s operations by providing been clearly formalised in line with the relevant international technical and methodological support to subsidiaries and guidelines, particularly those of the Global Reporting Initiative reporting on projects to the Group Executive Committee; (GRI – see appendices). ■ CSR sponsors: appointed in each Group function and For several years, Orange has had an external CSR audit entity operating in all its markets and reporting to the highest carried out by one of its auditors (see appendices) in order to level in the organisation, CSR sponsors meet in the CSR ensure the reliability of indicators and the proper application of Sponsors Committee or interact directly with the Group CSR the Group’s commitments in the entities. Department. They ensure implementation of the strategic guidelines deﬁned by the Executive Committee; The Group amended its reporting procedures in 2012 to incorporate the new requirements of the French environmental ■ the network of CSR managers: covering all Group entities law, Grenelle 2, and comply with Decree 225 of that law (despite and business lines, the network contributes to the operational its late publication), following the substantial commitment of the deployment of policy and meets six times a year. CSR Department and CSR teams worldwide. The certiﬁcation of attendance and fairness required by the decree was provided To help incorporate CSR issues in subsidiaries’ decision-making by one of our Statutory Auditors. processes, CSR Committees were formed in several countries (including Senegal, Poland and Spain). recognised performances In addition to this dedicated organisation, the Group regularly In order to gain an external view of its policy, France Telecomorganises Group-wide and national campaigns to raise Orange responds to questionnaires from non-ﬁnancial ratings awareness of CSR issues and encourage the active and onagencies every year and maintains a regular dialogue with going engagement of employees. ﬁnancial analysts and socially responsible investors. strengthened integration The Group has been included in the FTSE4Good index (since 2002), the Aspi Eurozone® index, as well as the VIGEO 2012 marked a new phase in the integration of corporate World 120, VIGEO Europe 120 and VIGEO France 20 indices, social responsibility by all Group functions and business lines, managed by ratings agency VIGEO. with signiﬁcant buy-in of the approach to these challenges at all stages of daily decision-making and operating processes. An increasing proportion of CSR projects are now managed independently by the relevant entities or are steered jointly with the CSR Department, which is responsible for launching projects on emerging issues. Major work was carried out in 2012 with the marketing teams to further anchor CSR in the design of the Group’s new offers, with particular emphasis on child protection, energy efﬁciency and data privacy. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 21 1 CSR policy CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy The Group’s commitment to corporate social responsibility was also rewarded by numerous awards and rankings in 2012: ■ the Group garnered ﬁve prizes in the 2012 AfricaCom Awards: “Most innovative service prize”for Deezer (Mauritius and Côte d’Ivoire), “Best network improvement” for the “Internet for ■ France Telecom-Orange was included in the Carbon all” programme in Uganda, “Best quality user Experience” Disclosure Project’s Carbon Performance Leadership Index of for Voice service in Mali (a services platform using voice 33 FTSE Global 500 companies (the 500 largest companies recognition to get around the problems posed by illiteracy by revenue) whose strategies demonstrate the strongest and offering access to all types of content), “Best smart commitment to tackling climate change and reducing carbon device for Africa” for Internet on TV in Jordan (feature-rich emissions; decoder), and “Changing life awards” for Birth declaration in Senegal (a mobile application for ofﬁcial registrations of births ■ the Group is placed 42nd in the world ranking (and eighth for village elders, eliminating the need to travel to registration in the telecommunications sector) in the Newsweek Green centres); Ranking, a classiﬁcation that assesses the environmental management performance and transparency of disclosures ■ Orange Business Services won three World Communication by the 500 largest companies in the United States and in the Awards: Best Global Operator, Best Cloud Service for its Global 500, by revenue, market capitalisation and workforce; “Business Together as a Service” and “Users’ Choice”, demonstrating the excellence of its customer service. Orange ■ the Group’s 2011 CSR Report was ranked ﬁrst of the CAC 40 Business Services was also included in Gartner’s Leaders’ by the French Conseil de l’Ordre des Experts Comptables Quadrant for global and pan-European network service (council of the association of chartered accountants), providers. according to an assessment based on three criteria: relevance (30%), transparency-comparability (35%) and reliability (35%); ■ France Telecom-Orange was in the Top 3 of the Capitalcom – Women ranking, which singles out companies for their inclusion of diversity as an indicator of performance; Z a fair value sharing model France Telecom-Orange has put in place a value sharing model that distributes the wealth created between all the stakeholders fairly. sums reinvested into the Group sums allocated to stakeholders to ensure its durability €10.8 billion employees (labour costs) €19.1 billion suppliers (purchase of goods and services) €6.8 billion customer support Net capital expenditures on tangible (revenues) €1.4 billion and intangible assets banks and bondholders (net ﬁnancial expenses) €0.8 billion €43.5 billion €3.6 billion R&D expenditure shareholders €0.3 billion €3.7 billion reduction of the debt and other elements public authorities (duties and taxes) €0.1 billion corporate sponsorship and philanthropy 22 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 1.1.2. responsible governance CSR policy CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy 1 To ensure the implementation of our CSR policy and to The network of ethics correspondents helped to deploy control day-to-day risks, we have put in place rigorous internal awareness-raising and training campaigns in all countries control and governance systems based on clear governance in 2012, according to local contexts: principles. ■ in France, 13 business line ethics guides and 12 quizzes are available on the Intranet for employees to consult. All Orange clear structure and governance principles France employees were included in a push mail ethics quiz France Telecom-Orange complies with the principles of from March to June 2012 to assess their knowledge of corporate governance deﬁned speciﬁcally by the Loi de business line ethics rules; CSR policy sécurité ﬁnancière (ﬁnancial security act) in France and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the United States. ■ in Poland, 99% of Orange employees completed the second ethics e-learning module; In addition to the Executive Committee, governance of France Telecom is managed by the Board of Directors and its ■ in Spain, an ethics newsletter was sent to all employees specialist committees, the Audit Committee, Governance and in 2012, and articles on our ethics policies are included Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the Strategy in the weekly newsletter on a regular basis. A new ethics Committee. training programme was adopted for managers. As part of the Group’s drive to prevent corruption, a speciﬁc The Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility communications campaign was launched in December 2012 Committee met six times in 2012 to monitor application of recapping on the Group’s policy on corporate gifts; the Group’s CSR strategy and to examine speciﬁc projects, such as the corruption-prevention programme, the Group’s ■ in Moldova, each new hire receives ethics training during contribution to economic and social development in Africa their ﬁrst day on the job. Employees were invited to consult and the Middle East, its environmental impact, and its gender the new version of the Group’s Ethics Charter on the Intranet equality policies. and to complete the Orange Ethics e-learning module; For more information, see Section 16 of the 2012 Registration ■ in Mali, each employee receives a copy of the Code of Ethics Document. when they are hired, and the induction seminar for new hires includes a presentation on ethics. An awareness campaign a founding document: took place in September 2012, which will be renewed over the coming years; the Group’s Code of Ethics Our Code of Ethics was adopted in 2003 by the Board of ■ in Niger, all employees signed an undertaking to comply with Directors and sets out the Group’s principles for actions and the Code of Ethics during an ofﬁcial ceremony, and several relations with customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers measures have been established to strengthen ethics and competitors, as well as the guidelines for environmental policies: creation of an Ethics Committee and a network of stewardship and its actions in countries in which it operates. ethics correspondents, inclusion of an ethics section on the Intranet, preparation of an ethics quiz and a special email It also sets out a certain number of principles relating to address for information or questions on ethical issues. individual behaviour with which each employee, manager and director is expected to comply. This Code of Ethics is aligned with the fundamental principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations Global Compact and the guiding principles of the OECD for multinational corporations. A new, simpler and more appealing version was published in 2012 and disseminated globally. The Group’s Ethics Committee oversees consistent application of the Code of Ethics and monitors ethical practices in the Group. It advises entities on implementation of the Code. The Committee’s role is speciﬁed in the Code of Ethics. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 23 1 CSR policy CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy rigorous risk management Continuously improving internal controls within the Group relies proactive prevention of fraud and corruption In addition to the principles set out in the Group’s Code of Ethics, on an organisation, procedures and checks and balances several years ago France Telecom-Orange drew up a proactive implemented by the General Management and all personnel strategy to prevent the risks of fraud and reduce any possible under the responsibility of the Board of Directors. The Group’s consequences thereof. This programme is drawn up and Internal Control Department steers the system. The Group managed by the Fraud and Revenue Assurance Department, Audit and Risk Control Department and the Group Fraud and which ensures the proper deployment of the strategy and its Revenue Assurance Department evaluate this system. effectiveness among the Group’s managers. The Group’s anti-fraud strategy includes a speciﬁc section relating to antiAt least once a year, each of the Group’s operational entities corruption, which has been deployed in the Group’s main identiﬁes the major risks within its scope (including environmental, entities, responsible for almost all of the Group’s revenue. An companyand community-related risks). Changes in the list of alert system allows employees to voice their concerns and these risks and the implementation of action plans are checked report any breaches in complete conﬁdentiality. during internal control reviews and also, once a year, by the Risks Committee. At the end of 2012, the Group decided to consolidate its anticorruption strategy by formalising an anti-corruption policy For more information, see Section 16.5 Risk management and aimed at integrating the principle of zero tolerance into daily internal control in the 2012 Registration Document. practices. This policy is available on www.orange.com in the governance/documentation section. The anti-corruption programme has been strengthened and will be implemented focus in Q1 2013. anti-corruption: recognised The Group has also reinforced its organisation by creating a new for our transparency compliance function, responsible for implementing an integrated France Telecom-Orange was number eight in the compliance programme to ensure reinforced protection against Transparency in Corporate Reporting classification regulatory, ﬁnancial and reputational risks. A Group Chief published in July 2012 by Transparency International, an Compliance Ofﬁcer was appointed in December 2012 under internationally-recognised anti-corruption organisation. the direct authority of the Chairman and CEO in order to put in This ranking evaluates the transparency of the antiplace an organisation guaranteeing compliance with standards corruption programmes of the 105 largest listed and deployment of the corresponding programmes. companies. The Group ranks top in the telecommunications sector with a score of 6.6/10. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange increased commitment with respect to human rights focus CSR policy CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy 1 France Telecom-Orange was one of the ﬁrst companies to sign The Industry Dialogue action principles the United Nations Global Compact in 2000, thus asserting its In March 2013, the eight Industry Dialogue companies commitment to respecting and promoting basic human rights (Alcatel-Lucent, France Telecom-Orange, Nokia Siemens in its activities and sphere of inﬂuence. This commitment is Networks, Millicom, Telefonica, Telenor, Telia Sonera, explicitly included in the Group’s Code of Ethics. In 2006, France and Vodafone) signed a memorandum of agreement Telecom-Orange conﬁrmed its commitment to respecting setting out the foundations of their joint action on human rights both internally and in its relationships with its freedom of expression and confidentiality of private data suppliers and subcontractors by signing a global agreement in telecommunications. Common action principles were CSR policy with the UNI Global Union on basic social rights within the published in seven languages (English, Arabic, Chinese, Group. Spanish, French, Russian and Turkish) following on from the 2012 collaboration with various stakeholders The Group also takes part in the “Industry Dialogue”, which is a including representatives from civil society, NGOs union of operators and manufacturers in the telecommunications and also government representatives. The principles, sector with the aim of establishing a common dialogue signed in March 2013, set out a common framework with stakeholders with respect to human rights. More that will provide a basis for the Group’s processes speciﬁcally, the Group focuses on two key challenges for and policies on freedom of expression and privacy the telecommunications sector: freedom of expression and in the ICT sector. More specifically, they relate to the protection of privacy. It is primarily based on the international interactions and boundaries between a Government’s framework of the UN: “Protect, Respect & Remedy”. In 2012, duty to protect human rights and the responsibility participating companies developed shared action principles of telecommunications companies to respect these aimed at developing a common frame of reference. The Group rights. They can be viewed at www.orange.com/en/ has also signed a two year partnership with the Global Network responsibility/strategy/dossier-droits-humains/freedomInitiative (www.globalnetworkinitiative.org) for collective of-expression-and-user-privacy-rights. reﬂection and to exchange good practices with regard to the challenges posed by the freedom of expression and protection The Industry Dialogue companies also took part in the of privacy within the telecommunications sector. European Commission’s public consultation aimed at drawing up sector guidelines for privacy and freedom of Orange is also involved in a working group on the broader human expression. rights programme established by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), a sector NGO which aims to share best practices in this area. key dates 1996 2008 ■ signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter*. ■ signing of the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate initiative. 2000 2009 ■ signing of the UN Global Compact. ■ signing of the Code of Best Practice for Women in ICTs drawn up under the aegis of the European Commission. 2003 ■ formalisation of the Group Code of Ethics. 2011 ■ signing of the ICT Coalition for a Safer Internet for Children 2006 and Young People. ■ signing of Group agreement with the UNI Global Union. 2012 2007 ■ publication of Orange’s 10 commitments for contributing to ■ signing of the European reference framework for safer use of the implementation of the Digital Agenda for Europe launched mobile telephones by teenagers and children. by the European Commission. * European Telecommunications Network Operators. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 25 1 CSR policy 1.2. a process fuelled by dialogue Listening to stakeholders and taking on board their expectations forms the basis of France Telecom-Orange’s CSR policy. This structured and regular dialogue with those concerned in the Company’s operation meets three objectives: ■ ensuring that the Group’s CSR projects are consistent with the priorities of stakeholders; ■ identifying and prioritising the risks and opportunities linked to community issues and the needs in countries in which the Group operates; ■ identifying opportunities for innovation opening up new prospects of growth for Orange whilst supporting the social and economic development of the countries concerned. 1.2.1. a structured methodology 1.2.2. enriched dialogue in the main Several years ago, France Telecom-Orange implemented a countries method for structured dialogue with its stakeholders based on In France, Spain and Poland, dialogue with stakeholders is well the three principles of the AA1000 standard: established and thus requires advanced programmes to enrich the analysis of CSR challenges year after year: ■ inclusivity: in the main countries in which it operates and in an increasing number of countries, Orange identiﬁes the ■ in 2012, Orange Poland launched a highly developed process stakeholders that make up the Company’s ecosystem and for responding to stakeholders. Based on consultations then surveys a large representative sample. This identiﬁcation organised in 2011, and in response to questions and requests work is performed collegially by the Company’s different at this time, Orange Poland organised three public meetings departments, under the responsibility of the CSR manager in different regions of the country, bringing together more than and with the validation of the Management Committee; 80 representatives of external stakeholders. During these meetings Orange Poland presented its existing CSR actions, ■ materiality: this principle reﬂects the effective and real what was not done and why and what Orange Poland plans importance of a Company’s different responsibility issues, to do in the future. These meetings were followed by the which vary depending on the ﬁeld of activity, location in which publication of a very comprehensive report, detailing Orange it operates and the time at which it acts. In order to dialogue Poland’s achievements and commitments; with stakeholders, Orange identiﬁes, on a country by country basis, the most material topics both for the Company and its ■ Orange Spain is also innovative in terms of responding ecosystem. A study conducted in 2009 by the Group’s CSR to stakeholders; in July 2012 it published a very detailed Department, with the help of internal and external experts, consultation report, which includes all the results from the identiﬁed six areas and 23 primary responsibility issues. 2011 consultation and presents the Company’s areas for These areas and issues serve as the basis for surveys used CSR action; by the subsidiaries to question stakeholders on their primary concerns and expectations, adapting them to the local ■ during the second half of 2012, Orange France relaunched context. The importance of CSR issues for the stakeholders its biannual survey of all stakeholders on their perception and and the Company’s business at any given time is represented expectations in terms of the Company’s social responsibility: in a materiality matrix; ■ a brainstorming day was organised with Internet, telecoms ■ responsiveness: after having identiﬁed the stakeholders and CSR opinion leaders, to detect new trends and any and their expectations with regard to Orange, the Company weak signs that would not yet be detected by listening to designs and implements action plans to meet these so-called “traditional” stakeholders, expectations by providing speciﬁc responses. ■ a public survey questioned 1,200 people in mainland This approach is implemented both at Group and business France and in the overseas territories on three topics: the line level, to ensure the coherence of global policies, and at perception of Orange and its assessment as a responsible country level, which is the most in touch with local issues and company; the evaluation and priorities of the relationship players. with Orange and expectations of Orange in terms of CSR, 26 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange CSR policy a process fuelled by dialogue 1 ■ Orange France then conducted a survey among stakeholder representatives, this method confronts internal and “business line” stakeholders in the 11 regional operations external opinions on the Subsidiary’s CSR issues. An action departments. Between 25 and 30 stakeholders were plan is then created which is tailored to the expectations and consulted in each department, representing players from concerns of the local stakeholders and in line with the Group’s the world of politics, the Company’s business partners CSR priorities. and media type civil society players, etc. In 2012, this policy was deployed in new countries such the Finally, Orange France completed its stakeholder dialogue Dominican Republic, Côte d’Ivoire, Uganda, Romania and system by launching six-monthly plenary meetings with Belgium. CSR policy child protection associations, parent associations and other associations specialising in digital and child protection, In Belgium for example, the dialogue organised in based on the model for meetings organised with consumer December 2012, involving 18 representative stakeholders, associations. indentiﬁed, using gap analysis (measurement of the gap between employees’ perception of external stakeholders’ expectations and the latter’s actual expectations), that 1.2.3. a policy deployed in an increasing problems linked to the development of the local economy number of countries were underestimated by the Mobistar teams and are now highly placed in stakeholders’ expectations of the Company. To support the deployment of stakeholder dialogue in The question of transparency has also become omnipresent subsidiaries that do not currently have such a system in place, among Belgian players: transparency in offers, transparency the CSR Department has drawn up a structured methodology on the potential risks linked with telecoms and transparency in for countries in the form of a “CSR Dialogue Toolkit”. Based communication, for example. on internal reﬂection workshops and external interviews with Z gap analysis conducted in Belgium (internal and external vision) importance for stakeholders (measured through interviews) 4.00 3.75 transparency of offers customer care 3.50 local employment child protection service and network quality 3.25 privacy and data security sustainable value chain 3.00 e-health products and services e-education OEM 2.75 support for local economy e-citizenship economic inclusion (Internet) accessibility 2.50 customer experience support for local economy e-banking environmental footprint 2.25 economic inclusion (Voice) climate and energy digital inclusion for all geographic inclusion safe and responsible use 2.00 e-rural harmful effects of products and services local digital content innovative products and services 1.75 for sustainable development contribution to local social 1.50 and economic development 1.25 impact on the business 1.00 (internal data) 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 2.25 2.50 2.75 3.00 3.25 3.50 3.75 4.00 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 27 1 CSR policy a process fuelled by dialogue Z generic list of stakeholders of an Orange subsidiary in the AMEA zone health authorities regulatory body innovation NACs i customer support national health authorities telecommunications ministry AMEA marketing SME & microbusiness customers WHO French data privacy authority (CNIL) LOBs key accounts ministry of health standardisation body innovacom technocentres suppliers environmental authorities Development & ICT bodies i employees network equipment suppliers ministry of environment local authorities handset equipment suppliers agriculture ministry brand ambassadors call centre education ministry employee representatives (executives and general supplies local authorities non-executives) elected local authorities (mayors, members shareholders of parliament, regional councillors) shareholders investors local communities communities around FT sites lessors of real estate developers and owners of buildings opinion leaders (public or private) community leaders leader of political opposition telecom partners doctors inﬂuential people telecom partners religious representatives further education NGOs and associations schools and university Child Care association training centres environmental association authorities business internal civil society i innovation stakeholders health association consumer associations partners NACs i user associations bank / IMF resident associations pharmaceutical companies minority associations general public others customers/non-customers, users… experts i professional associations sociologists Development players i competitors association of telecom operators Development and ICT experts CSR association aid agencies informal vendors social entrepreneurs / innovative NGOs (ICT) formal vendors microﬁnance institutions distributors wholesalers media competitors development NGOs Orange partner stores and franchisees traditional media venture capitalists active cybercafes traditional operators non-traditional media social entrepreneurship (networks) former telecentres (affected) operators of other models 28 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 1.2.4. new applications of stakeholder dialogue key dates CSR policy a process fuelled by dialogue 1 2006 Having seen the beneﬁts of the stakeholder dialogue method in ■ completion, with the help of a specialist agency, of a Group the subsidiaries, in 2012 Orange undertook a study to develop study of stakeholders’ expectations in mobile telephony and this methodology, using it to focus on a speciﬁc issue within a the Internet. country or to identify the bases for innovation in a speciﬁc area. 2008 a specific example: e-agriculture in Africa ■ ﬁrst structured dialogue processes with stakeholders in Following its initial implementation in Mali in 2011, speciﬁc France, Spain and Poland. CSR policy dialogue on the potential offered by information and communication technologies for the development of agriculture 2009 in the Côte d’Ivoire was organised in 2012. ■ preparation by the CSR Department of the “CSR dialogue This dialogue was an opportunity to identify and then meet toolkit”, a structured methodology for dialogue with and exchange with the main stakeholders in the agricultural stakeholders available to the Group’s subsidiaries; economy (cooperatives, agri-food companies, landlords). ■ test in two countries: Madagascar and Côte d’Ivoire. The main agricultural challenges and issues, as well as the potential offered by communications were identiﬁed with the stakeholders. The dialogue process then identiﬁed speciﬁc 2010 projects and local partners to help with these. At the end of ■ deployment of a stakeholder dialogue process in four new this year, Orange decided to create an e-agriculture action plan African countries. focused on three short and medium-term projects with local partners. A new information system for product prices on the 2012 agricultural markets will also be introduced in Africa in 2013. ■ launch of speciﬁc dialogue processes for e-agriculture in Africa and at Orange Business Services. a participative innovation programme at Orange Business Services A speciﬁc dialogue on future videoconferencing services was implemented at Orange Business Services. The goal was to identify future challenges, the biggest trends and barriers in terms of usage of image in the communications services. The internal vision of these challenges and biggest trends was compared with that of our external stakeholders (clients, key market players, authorities, civil society). Analysis of these interviews will allow the business unit to update its offering strategy. In addition to the identiﬁcation of projects and action plans, this type of themed dialogue brings CSR in line with the Company’s strategy, showing that a policy of consulting stakeholders on a speciﬁc issue not only allows the Company to act more responsibly but also to identify areas for development that would not have been detected without this eco-systematic approach. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 29 1 CSR policy 1.3. responsible purchasing principles For several years, France Telecom-Orange has implemented a responsible purchasing policy. The aim of this is to ensure the application of corporate and social responsibility principles in its relations with its suppliers by improving how it controls ethical, social and environmental risks. 1.3.1 control risks linked to the supply chain France Telecom-Orange selects suppliers using a structured requirements being introduced at Buyln seven-step process, including an evaluation of suppliers at the All of the above principles have also been introduced into the moment of the selection or listing, as well as throughout the framework for the joint venture created with Deutsche Telekom term of the purchase contract. In addition to assessing quality, in 2011, Buyln, to pool the purchasing activities of the two lead times and costs, supplier evaluation and selection takes groups in certain areas (handsets, mobile communication into account: strict compliance with the applicable laws and networks, and for a large share of the landline equipment and regulations as well as the environmental, social and societal service platforms). 2012 was marked by several initiatives to: criteria adapted to the purchasing typology. ■ establish structured CSR governance at Buyln in the form demanding contractual requirements with of an Operational Committee and a half-yearly Steering regard to human rights and protecting the Committee, to ensure in particular the implementation of environment responsible purchasing processes; All contracts with the Group’s approved suppliers include a ■ draw up a Buyln supplier Code of conduct, describing responsible purchasing clause entitled “Ethical practices the joint social and environmental requirements of France corporate social responsibility”. This clause is supplemented by Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom and prepare the the UNI Group agreement (global union) on basic social rights communication of the code to suppliers; signed in 2006, which includes a section on suppliers and subcontractors. This document ensures that all France Telecom ■ draft the CSR clauses integrated into contracts signed by suppliers and service providers are committed to: Buyln. ■ efforts against all forms of compulsory or forced labour; strict monitoring of supplier practices ■ prohibition of child labour; Once suppliers have been contracted, their practices are regularly evaluated using several systems to ensure better ■ non-discrimination. control of supplier risks: Moreover, in a bid to explain the Group’s CSR commitments ■ an evaluation tool created by the Group, QREDIC®, and expectations to its suppliers more clearly, and allow the fully integrates CSR evaluation into the supplier’s overall latter to transmit these to their own subcontractors, France performance. Each contract is assessed once or twice Telecom-Orange has drawn up a Sourcing and supply chain a year (or on request) with support from the entities Code of conduct, detailing its ethical, social and environmental concerned. The results are presented to the suppliers and, requirements. The goal: to ensure that the working conditions where necessary, lead to the drafting of improvement plans. along France Telecom-Orange’s subcontractor chain are safe, At the end of 2012, QREDIC® covers all of the Group’s that workers are treated with respect and dignity and that purchasing contracts and was deployed in local contracts in manufacturing and delivery processes are environmentally 18 countries (including six new countries deployed in 2012: friendly. Armenia, Botswana, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Mali and focus Second symposium for contact centres: an excellent opportunity for dialogue Orange ran its second symposium for contact centres in from Orange Business Services, Purchasing and Paris on 13 and 14 November 2012. The objectives were Customer Relations managers from 16 Group countries to foster dialogue on the key topic customer relations -, plus the Customer Relations Departments from the to share best practices and to obtain information about Europe and AMEA zones. the topics discussed at the conferences. Following the success of the first European symposium in Poland in The symposium, organised by Group Purchasing, 2011, this annual event, now opened up to the whole provided an ideal opportunity for dialogue between the Group, gathered together ten suppliers, representatives Group and its partners. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange CSR policy responsible purchasing principles 1 Nigeria). In total, more than 500 local suppliers distributed Z breakdown of non-conformities identiﬁed over the majority of the purchasing areas were evaluated during the 2012 JAC audits in this way; ■ CSR evaluations of the Group’s suppliers: this is document 4 forced labour based, either using an Orange questionnaire or with help from discrimination 4 disciplinary practices 9 1 EcoVadis, a company specialising in responsible purchasing. environment The aim is to further control suppliers by presenting the 10 Group’s major ﬁnancial challenges, paying particular attention CSR policy wages to suppliers in categories associated with environmental, 10 72 social and ethical risks. In 2012, 160 new evaluations were child or youth labour health and safety conducted, making a total of 282 evaluations at the end of 2012, covering 46% of suppliers associated with critical or major risks. These evaluations lead to the creation of action 26 plans to correct the risks or weaknesses identiﬁed. Areas of working hours improvement have been identiﬁed for 68% of the suppliers evaluated; 29 ■ on-site CSR audits: to monitor compliance with contractual business ethics requirements, and better integrate the protection of human rights among its suppliers and subcontractors, in December 2009 France Telecom initiated a Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) with Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia, to combine their CSR audits of suppliers according to a consolidated programme a common methodology based on the social responsibility In October 2012, the Purchasing and Logistics Chain standard SA 8000 and environmental standard Department and CSR Department jointly launched a project ISO 14001. The system, which now brings together nine to give new impetus to the responsible purchasing policy to telecommunications operators, veriﬁes, evaluates and ensure greater contribution to the Group’s CSR strategy. promotes standards and best practices for subcontracting common suppliers and establishing corrective action The aim is to put into place a structured action plan that plans. In 2012, 59 JAC audits were conducted across integrates stakeholders’ CSR expectations and the risks 81 production sites (compared to 39 in 2011). Thirty-ﬁve identiﬁed by ensuring better coordination and consistency of these audits were ﬁrst-time audits (23 in China, four in of the CSR actions conducted at Group level and the local Brazil, two in India, two in Mexico, two in Slovakia, one in actions conducted at country level with regard to purchasing. Poland and one in Turkey). A total of 24 follow-up audits evaluated the implementation of corrective action plans in This plan is based around four priority areas: factories audited in 2011: out of the 105 non-conformities ■ favouring suppliers who meet the ethical, social and in 2011, 56 had already been resolved in 2012; environmental requirements; ■ in addition to audits conducted under the JAC framework, ■ promoting protection of the environment and local laws France Telecom-Orange also performs CSR audits in its among suppliers; business sectors or on speciﬁc issues: in 2012, the Group performed audits on waste management subsidiaries in ■ monitoring the adoption of CSR and ethical priorities by the Romania and Senegal, on two mobile collection providers in different players in the purchasing chain; Romania and in Belgium and environmental audits of three suppliers in France. ■ integrating CSR into the governance and internal processes of the Purchasing Department while pursuing its integration in Buyln. This action plan will be gradually deployed from 2013, with two speciﬁc results expected at the start of the next ﬁscal year: update of the supplier Code of conduct and contractual CSR clauses. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 31 1 CSR policy responsible purchasing principles 1.3.2. make purchasing a lever for local development One of the priorities of France Telecom-Orange’s CSR policy is to contribute to social and economic development in countries where the Group is present. Purchasing has a signiﬁcant role to play in this area. Within this logic, an indicator was created in 2010 to help monitor local purchasing. Z shareasofalocal purchases percentage 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% external supply purchases 50% 40% local purchase 30% expenses 20% item reviewed 10% by Deloitte: moderate level of assuarnce. ce lan d ain um an ia kia va lic l ga li Ma t as t yp an n oo ny a or d p ou an Sp lgi va ldo ub ne Co Eg rd er Ke ew Gr Fr Po Be m Slo Mo ep Se Jo m Ro nR ry Ca th Ivo of ca st ini re m Do ■ The calculation method was modiﬁed to make the data more reliable (see note “About this report” in the appendix). ■ The total share of local purchases for 2012 is 44% (the 2011 value calculated using the same method yields a value of 45.6%). This slight drop is essentially due to a sharp rise in network spending and the purchase of client equipment from international groups. focus stronger links with suppliers and subcontractors buying for a greener network In addition to its policy of controlling purchasing risks, France The IT teams at Group Purchasing have taken steps to Telecom wants to build long-term partnerships with its monitor the suppliers of network equipment and to keep suppliers, providing them with a clear vision of new objectives an eye on the environmental impact of their purchases, and developments in its business, particularly in relation to ensuring that all purchases meet the latest Green IT networks, where cooperation is particularly important. standards (Energy Star, EPEAT, the European eco-label In 2011, the Group’s Purchasing and Logistics Chain Department etc.) to help them meet the energy reduction targets of initiated an Industrial and Commercial Plan to develop its the Green ITN 2020 roadmap. During the call to tender supply processes for network equipment. A collaborative tool process, suppliers are questioned about the electricity for business macro-planning signiﬁcantly reduces stocks while consumption of their equipment and asked what action increasing the availability of hardware, and offers the Group they have taken to meet the CO2 reduction targets. The and its suppliers a forecast of volumes over six rolling months. Purchasing Department examines, and encourages, new Suppliers’ capacity restrictions are better integrated and in energy reduction solutions. It works with the operating return there is increased visibility of changes in volumes over six teams to ensure that machines at the end of their life months, which allows them to anticipate their own ﬂuctuations. are replaced with equipment with the best energy/ Each month the quality of the projections is measured and gap performance ratio. Server consolidation projects are analysis is shared with the suppliers. It is therefore easier to level also encouraged, as is a move to virtual environments out the Group and its partners’ supplies, to coordinate shipping with the help of appropriate software. and thus reduce the carbon footprint, while also reducing the social impact linked to sudden drops in volume. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange greater use of the sheltered workers sector Directly in line with its commitment to the integration of disabled key dates CSR policy responsible purchasing principles 1 workers in the workplace, France Telecom-Orange supports 2004 small and medium-sized companies in the sheltered workers ■ introduction of the QREDIC® tool to assess the overall sector. performance of suppliers; Since 2011, the Group is committed to obtaining a minimum of ■ Introduction of an “Ethics and environment” clause in all of the 15 million euros of its purchases from this sector each year. This Group’s purchasing contracts. objective was surpassed in 2012, with more than 16.8 million euros of purchases obtained from the sheltered workers sector. 2008 Over time, the work contracted to this sector has diversiﬁed: CSR policy ■ the “Ethics and environment” clause is changed to “Ethical cleaning and maintenance of green spaces, as well as back practices – corporate responsibility” and now includes ﬁve of ofﬁce work, printing and network services. the basic ILO conventions on forced labour, child labour and combating discrimination. favour SME access to the Group’s call for tenders and promote diversity 2009 The Group signed the inter-company relations charter governing ■ launch by Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia et France relationships between major clients and their suppliers in 2010 Telecom-Orange of Joint Audit Cooperation, a cooperation and is committed to supporting the development of SMEs in agreement to combine CSR audits on Asian suppliers. France. In 2012, French SMEs accounted for more than 1 billion euros of spending at national level. 2010 ■ launch of a new strategy for supplier CSR evaluations with the France Telecom-Orange conﬁrmed its commitment on help of an external specialist company, EcoVadis; December 18, 2012 by signing the charter for “publicly funded companies to promote the emergence and development of ■ publication of the Code of conduct for the Group’s suppliers; innovative SMEs”. Finally, France Telecom-Orange has held the “responsible supplier relations” label, issued by the CDAF ■ signing of the inter-company relations charter in France. (French association of buyers), since the start of 2013 as well as the inter-company mediation label. This label forms part 2011 of the extension and implementation of ten commitments for ■ extension of the JAC cooperation agreement to include four responsible purchases deﬁned in the inter-company relations new operators; charter. ■ launch of BuyIn, a joint purchasing company formed by In addition, to promote diversity among suppliers, from 2011 France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom. calls for tenders in France include criteria to evaluate their commitment in four main areas: equal opportunities for men 2012 and women, recruiting and retaining employees with disabilities, equal opportunities for all, and combating of all forms of ■ extension of the JAC cooperation agreement to include two discrimination. new operators; ■ implementation of CSR governance at Buyln. focus Second JAC forum: a wider dialogue on meeting CSR challenges in the supply chain The second Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) forum was took part in the discussions on incorporating CSR into the held in Shanghai on 10 January 2013. The forum was supply chain. The main topics were working hours, ethics, an excellent occasion to take stock of achievements to the environment and health and safety. The forum provided date and the challenges that lie ahead, before a very wide the perfect opportunity to strengthen the cooperation audience including not only suppliers and representatives between all stakeholders and to share good practices and of the nine operator members of JAC, but also of the encourage their adoption throughout the supply chain. NGOs, consultants and institutions. A total of 150 people Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 33 1 CSR policy 1.4. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 1.4.1. 2012 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 responsible purchasing ■ introduction of a 2012 ■ structuring of the governance of Buyln in relation to responsible purchasing responsible purchasing via a bi-monthly CSR Operational Committee and a half-yearly CSR policy (Code of conduct, Steering Committee; CSR clause, etc.) in line ■ approval of the Buyln supplier Code of conduct describing the joint social with that of the Orange and environmental requirements of France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom Group at Buyln (joint and communication of the Code of conduct to suppliers, including the venture created with questionnaire on compliance with requirements; Deutsche Telekom to ■ drafting of CSR clauses for inclusion in Buyln contracts; pool purchases). ■ training of all Buyln employees in the supplier Code of conduct using dedicated e-learning modules, an explanatory brochure and communication measures. ■ consolidate the use of 2012 ■ local deployment of QREDIC®* in six new countries, totalling 18 countries QREDIC® in countries covered; already covered and ■ in total, the evaluation of more than 500 local suppliers across the majority extend this to four new of purchasing areas. countries. ■ continue supplier 2012 ■ 160 supplier CSR evaluations** performed in 2012, i.e. a total of 282 CSR CSR evaluations with evaluations since 2011; the aim of evaluating ■ at the end of 2012, 46% of the 516 suppliers linked to critical or major CSR 500 strategic or nonrisks had been evaluated. compliant CSR suppliers every three years. ■ Continue identifying 2012-2013 ■ determination of areas of improvement for 68% of the suppliers evaluated, areas for improvement based on the CSR risks identiﬁed. among the suppliers evaluated and monitor the implementation of the action plans deemed necessary. * Methodology used by the Group to evaluate its suppliers in six areas, one of which is CSR. ** CSR evaluations measure the maturity of suppliers in this area and are conducted either internally or using an external company. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange CSR policy 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 1 objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 CSR policy ■ strengthen the auditing 2012 ■ in 2012, the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) was extended to include two process with the Joint new operators, Telenor and Teliasonera. The JAC was founded in 2009 Audit Cooperation by by France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia and extended increasing the number to four additional operators in 2011 (Belgacom, KPN, Swisscom and of audits, extending the Vodafone). It now brings together a total of nine operators; scope and working more ■ organisation in January 2012 of the ﬁrst JAC Forum to promote closer closely with suppliers. collaboration with suppliers to achieve a more responsible and transparent supply chain (150 invitees including suppliers, CSR institutions, NGOs, local authorities and Telecoms operators); ■ extension of the scope of the JAC audit from 39 to 83 production centres and 35 new JAC audits (social and environmental) conducted. ■ conduct social and 2012 ■ additional social audits as a complement to audits performed under the environmental audits JAC framework: in addition to the JAC ■ two consulting assignments and audits of waste management subsidiaries programme. in Romania and Senegal; ■ audit of two suppliers in Romania and Belgium under the framework of the cell phone collection programme; ■ environmental audits of three suppliers in France. respect for human rights ■ strengthen country-level 2012 ■ in June 2012, initial communication to the countries concerning reporting on human the reinforcement of indicators (based on the GRI); rights based on the ■ participation in a meeting of telecommunications players (Industry Dialogue) commitments taken to formalise the common principles of action for human rights and freedom in 2011. of expression with reference to the UN Protect, Respect & Remedy framework; ■ communication and presentation to all of the Group’s countries of Orange’s human rights commitments and the monitoring indicators linked to the ﬁrst systematic reporting of indicators at the end of 2013. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 35 1 CSR policy 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 1.4.2. 2013 roadmap objectives deadline ethics As part of the programme for the continued improvement of the Group’s ethics programme, each country, entity or area creates its own programme of actions for the areas selected at Group level. ■ raise awareness of the concept of conﬂicts of interest by reinforcing actions already taken to prevent 2013 – detect – declare and handle relationships with the following: clients, employees and suppliers, etc.; ■ develop the concept of ethics in the Service Department with regard to: 2013 ■ the protection of client data, ■ proper conduct towards competitors, ■ social networks: attitude to be adopted for professional or personnel interactions, ■ client relations with regard to marketing, sales and after-sales service; ■ in terms of anti-corruption, develop the Group methods per country and implement the compliance section. 2013 respect for human rights ■ adapt the Group’s reporting to the GRI requirements with regard to human rights; 2013 ■ formalise Orange’s principles of action with regard to freedom of expression within the Industry Dialogue, of which Orange is a founding member; ■ collaborate with the Global Network initiative to beneﬁt from its recognised expertise in this area. stakeholder dialogue 1. at country level: ■ organise dialogue in countries where this was not possible in 2010-2102 due to political or organisational 2013 reasons: Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Egypt, DRC, Slovakia; ■ renew dialogue in countries where this has already taken place, using different methods (individual interviews, 2013-2014 panels, surveys) and update the CSR action plans. 2. dialogue applied to speciﬁc areas or services: ■ use stakeholder dialogue methods to identify the ecosystem and issues relating to a speciﬁc topic or area to 2013 create speciﬁc action plans or projects. 3. at Group level: ■ introduce stakeholder dialogue at Orange Group level. 2013-2015 36 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange CSR policy 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 1 objectives deadline responsible purchasing 1. favour suppliers who meet ethical, social and environmental requirements: ■ consolidate the local use of QREDIC® in countries already covered; 2013 ■ launch its use in Poland and in three new AMEA countries; 2013 ■ reinforce CSR criteria when choosing suppliers and monitor the implementation of contractual clauses in this 2013 CSR policy area; ■ reinforce our knowledge of suppliers particularly regarding the proactive ﬁght against corruption, via the due 2013 diligence process, risk analyses and the appropriate procedures; ■ ensure the adhesion of our major suppliers in France to the inter-company relations charter to guarantee 2013 compliance with the CSR principles throughout the subcontracting chain; ■ continue supplier CSR evaluations with the aim of evaluating 500 strategic suppliers or suppliers associated 2011-2013 with critical or major risks every three years and reinforce Corrective Action Plans; ■ strengthen the auditing process with the Joint Audit Cooperation: 2013 ■ by increasing the number of suppliers, ■ by extending the number of production sites audited, ■ and working more closely with our suppliers when implementing corrective action plans; ■ reinforce the visibility and reliability of our forecasts for business subcontracted to our suppliers, 2013 while reducing the impact of changes in forecasts on the supplier network, particularly in France. 2. promote the concept of the environment and social laws among suppliers: ■ improve the incorporation of all environmental or social criteria in calls for tenders; 2013 ■ optimise the logistics of mobile handset deliveries and the collection of end-of-life network equipment, 2013-2014 in order to help achieve our objectives in reducing CO2 emissions and the optimisation of waste treatment; 3. monitor the adoption of CSR and ethical priorities by the different players in the purchasing chain: ■ develop the existing CSR training module to better integrate social and societal commitments: inter-company 2013 relations charter, diversity and changes to the Group’s environmental policy; ■ reinforce the Ethics anti-corruption awareness/training programme using internal communication tools and 2013 overhaul of the training module; ■ extend the training and awareness practices for contract users to include a responsible contractual 2013 relationship with their subcontractors. 4. integration of CSR in Buyln ■ aid Buyln in implementing: ■ a CSR management system, in line with the governance model deﬁned in 2012, with the appropriate 2013 processes, ■ the most powerful tools in terms of risk assessment and evaluating suppliers’ CSR performance, based on 2013 good practice in the telecoms sector and beyond. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 37 2 a responsible employer 2.1. establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance France Telecom-Orange, convinced that social performance and economic performance are inseparable for long-term overall success, has been reviewing its social policy since the end of 2009 to place its employees at the heart of the organisation, with one clear ambition: to be among the preferred employers in the main countries where the Group operates by 2015. 2.1.1. Social quality at the heart of the Company’s day-to-day business For Orange, it is not possible to achieve sustainable economic Two years after the launch of the Social Contract in France, the performance without social quality. It is only with motivated barometer conﬁrms the improvement in the social climate: the teams eager to offer its clients the best service that the Group different half-year editions show an improvement in employee can achieve its ambition of becoming the preferred operator satisfaction in the ﬁve areas included in the barometer: in each of the countries in which it operates. This conviction, management, quality of life in the workplace, CSR strategy, which is shared by all members of the Executive Committee, recognition-pay, professional development. is backed by dedicated resources: in France, 900 million euros has been invested since 2010 to ﬁnance the implementation of The sixth social barometer, conducted in December 2012 the new Social Contract. among 3,664 employees in France shows that, overall, they are happy in their work: a more serene social climate ■ 90% think that the quality of life in the workplace is similar To support the deployment of its new social model, two or better than in other companies (compared to 79% in years ago the Group set up a global process for continued October 2010); observation and analysis of social quality, using several systems: a half-yearly social barometer in France and annual barometer ■ 54% believe that the quality of life in the workplace is better in the majority of international countries, a composite social than in other companies (compared to 28% in October 2010); performance indicator (CSPI) which is taken into account for ■ the percentage of employees who believe that it is worse (3%) the remuneration of the main Executive Directors, as well as has been slashed by ﬁve since October 2010 (16%). analysis groups comprising managers, HR, Executive Directors, employee representatives, health services and social workers. The average score given by employees to express their perception of quality of life is 6.9/10 (compared to 6.2 in October 2010): this score is higher than the French average among the active workforce (6.5, including the liberal professions and SMEs) according to a survey conducted by CSA in September 2012. Z change in the perception of employees of the France Group in each themed area average score between -100 and +100 calculated based on surveys in each area reminder H1 2011 H2 2011 H1 2012 H1 2012 S2 2012 H2 2010 040 +2.4 37.2 +0 37.2 34.4 34.9 535 31.8 +2.6 +0.4 +4.0 +0.5 36.8 +5 36.3 030 +2.6 32.2 +0.2 32.4 27.5 +5 26.1 +1.4 29.6 525 +5.7 20.4 020 16.4 17.3 +3.1 +8 +0.9 13.4 +1.6 15.0 515 +2.5 10.0 +0.9 10.9 +0.3 +2.5 +4.5 13.2 13.5 010 +6 7.5 +1.2 8.7 55 3.3 +4.2 7.5 +6 00 Dec. 2010 June 2011 Dec. 2011 June 2012 Dec. 2012 management quality of life in the workplace CSR strategy recognition-pay professional development 38 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a responsible employer establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance 2 Internationally, the second campaign of annual measurement of The average in the ﬁve themed areas is 29 and there is a the social barometer was conducted in 2012 in the majority of signiﬁcant improvement (on average four points) in each area. the Group’s countries. More than 25,000 people responded to the last session, bringing the participation rate to 62%, a three As in France, despite the notable improvements made, point improvement on 2011. employees have high expectations in terms of professional development and recognition. Z change in the perception of employees outside France in each themed area average score between -100 and +100 calculated based on surveys in each area Group 2011 Group 2012 39 35 36 a responsible employer 33 33 29 29 26 20 19 15 15 re en t p de rofe ve ss co em wo lop ion m al en ls an rki d q ng t ba ag ua en lity vir glo an of onm th en ej t m re ob co gn itio str n ate gy & CS R the Orange People Charter deployed in 23 countries The Orange People Charter was launched in November 2011 ■ provide a work environment for outstanding customer by Stéphane Richard and in 2012 it has been deployed in satisfaction; 23 countries in Europe, in the Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) zone and in Orange Business Services. Developed ■ empower managers and hold them accountable for progress jointly with the countries and divisions, this charter deﬁnes the and success; common principles establishing the Group’s relationship with its ■ provide a positive quality of life at work; employees, taking into account local speciﬁcities. It embodies the Group’s commitment to becoming the preferred employer ■ recognise and reward employees for their individual and in the Group’s main countries and is based on six commitments collective contributions to our success. aimed at creating conditions for mutual success: It is due to the work of all employees that this charter has come ■ act as a responsible employer; to life and make its mark on daily life. ■ offer career and development opportunities; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 39 2 a responsible employer establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance dynamic social dialogue To support its international development, the Group has implemented social dialogue bodies covering all activities at all levels: nationally, in Europe and globally. 2012 was marked in particular by the renewal of a large number of employee representative bodies within the Group in France. Global Group Committee: including 31 members elected for four years representing 22 countries, each comprising more than 400 employees. globally This provides representation for all employees worldwide and a common platform for information across the Group, including details of the overall business strategy and transnational projects outside Europe. It met twice in 2012. European Works Council: comprising 28 employee representatives and 19 European countries, it is a forum for discussion and dialogue on broad economic, ﬁnancial and social matters that go beyond the borders of in Europe any single country. Its composition was renewed on November 1, 2012 for a term of four years. It met three times in 2012. 27 of the Group countries have implemented employee representation bodies in different forms (Company committees, employee forums, employee representatives): ■ the French Works Council, a body that brings together the Group’s French subsidiaries met four times in 2012 to discuss 15 topics relating to business, the ﬁnancial position, employment changes and the Group nationally structure; ■ the Central Committee of the Economic and Social Unit (CCUES), a body representing employees of France Telecom, Orange France S.A., Orange Distribution and Orange Reunion met 15 times over 24.5 days. For more information on employee representation bodies, see 2.1.2. greater focus on workplace health Section 17.1.4 on social dialogue in the 2012 Registration and safety Document. As part of its new social model, in 2012 France Telecom-Orange Several collective agreements were signed in 2012 to deﬁned a new Group-wide Policy on Occupational Health, supplement and reinforce the Social Contract within the Group. Safety and Quality of Life. This policy redeﬁnes the Group’s objectives in this area, with speciﬁc targets and indicators. a few examples: All of the Group’s entities need to have a formal health and safety policy customized for their activities to apply the Group ■ an agreement in France on the employment of seniors, policy to their own operations. They also must implement an measures to support employees during the second half of occupational health and safety management system if they their careers and the addendum to the Strategic Workforce have not already done so. The aim is to incorporate health and Planning (Gestion Prévisionnelle de l’Emploi et des safety in all activities and to become the benchmark employer Compétences, GPEC – see Chapter 2.2.2) agreement; in the sector by deploying an occupational health and safety ■ an agreement in Germany on the re-integration of employees management system that covers all subsidiaries. after an extended leave due to illness or disability, as well This policy includes a new governance system with the creation as mandatory agreements in several countries dealing with of: pension plans, the rules for calculating collective bonuses, internal rules for local employee representative bodies and ■ a Strategic Health and Safety Committee, chaired by a updates to plant rules governing employee rules and working member of the Executive Committee, tasked with managing conditions; the application of the Group’s health & safety policy in each entity, monitoring the “Health & Safety” dashboard across the ■ in Senegal, a wage agreement reviewing basic wages and Group and proposing additional actions as necessary; other forms of compensation. ■ the Occupational Health, Safety and Quality of Life In addition to discussions held in the employee representation Department was created on February 1, 2012 to steer and bodies, Orange has a range of innovative initiatives in place monitor implementation of policy and best practices. to encourage employees to engage in discussions in less formal settings, such as the Company’s social network, These bodies will reinforce the structures that have been in place “Orange plazza”, now accessible to 75% of Orange employees for several years, such as France’s National Health, Safety and worldwide, with almost 37,000 members and more than 1,600 Working Conditions Committee (CNHSCT), the Health, Safety professional communities. and Working Conditions Committees and the network of people involved in prevention. 40 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange careful management of psycho-social risks a responsible employer establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance In France, as part of an agreement on the evaluation and prevention of psycho-social risks at work, signed on May 6, 2010, a survey 2 on stress and working conditions was carried out during the fourth quarter of 2012 by an external independent ﬁrm and overseen by the French National Stress Prevention Committee (CNPS). The results clearly show that the social climate is more serene: 81% of employees are proud to belong to the Company, 80% say that they have the support of their managers and 94% say they have the support of their colleagues. 76% of employees who changed jobs within the Company thought that their most recent move was positive. The survey also shows however that some employees are still vulnerable. Under these circumstances, the Group continues to pay close attention to working conditions and to monitor the most vulnerable employees. consolidated reporting In 2012, the Group concentrated its efforts on extending the dashboard of the four key health and safety indicators to all subsidiaries in France and abroad. The dashboard was created in 2011 and includes the number of fatal occupational accidents and the number of occupational accidents with lost time. There were six fatal accidents within the Group in 2012, including two fatal workplace incidents in France and four accidents while commuting to or from work in the Africa, Middle East and Asia region. a responsible employer number of occupational accidents with lost time 2012 (1) 2011 (2) 2010 (2) Group total R 905 including France Telecom S.A. 677 687 777 (1) Indicator gathered covering 99.61% of the Group’s scope. (2) The values indicated for 2010 and 2011 are not available outside the scope of France Telecom S.A. R element veriﬁed by Deloitte, moderate assurance. number of fatal occupational accidents 2012 2011 (1) 2010 (1) Group total R6 including France Telecom S.A. 2 3 1 (1) The values indicated for 2010 and 2011 are not available outside the scope of France Telecom S.A. R element veriﬁed by Deloitte, moderate assurance. scope of France Telecom S.A. 2012 (1) 2011 (2) 2010 frequency rate of occupational accidents (3) 4.49 4.56 5.22 severity rate of occupational accidents (4) 0.30 0.32 0.35 number of employees whose cases were classed as occupational illness 116 62 49 (1) The values indicated for 2012 are provisional. (2) The 2011 results have been updated with their deﬁnitive values. (3) The frequency rate of occupational accidents corresponds to the number of occupational accidents with sick leave per million of theoretical working hours. (4) The severity rate of occupational accidents corresponds to the number of days of sick leave for occupational accidents per million of theoretical working hours. focus key prevention personnel in France preventing musculoskeletal disorders Late 2012, the Group turned its attention to all aspects of Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are an increasingly the jobs of prevention officer and nurse in France, with a common occupational illness and are currently most view to improving skills, encouraging networking across prevalent in the developed countries. Orange France regions and involving all the prevention officers at the very has set up a prevention website to help employees adopt early stages of planned changes. good habits in their day-to-day lives. To help them adapt their working environment, employees will find advice on This led to the creation of multidisciplinary prevention workstation ergonomics (adjusting their seat and footrest, committees. Chaired by the Director of the unit in question, screen position, etc.) on the website. the committees comprise employees working in all areas of prevention (occupational physicians, nurses, prevention officers, ergonomists and occupational psychologists) who work together to take account of health and safety issues and working conditions of greatest concern to employees. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 41 2 a responsible employer establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance 2.1.3. value sharing model recognising individual and collective contributions The men and women who work at Orange add to the value incentive bonuses and profit-sharing in France of the Group and its proﬁts. Key to the success of the Group, At year-end 2012, 34 incentive agreements were signed within they deserve to be recognised and rewarded for the work they the Group’s companies in France. These agreements are based undertake on behalf of customers and the Company. This ethos mostly on a ﬁnancial indicator and operating priorities, including underpins the sharing model implemented by the Group. Based the quality of service provided to customers. on recognising individual and collective contributions, the model uses fair, incentivising remuneration mechanisms such as Under the terms of the new agreement signed in June 2012 variable bonuses for managers based on group and individual at France Telecom S.A. covering 2012 to 2014, 70% of targets and incentive, proﬁt-sharing and employee shareholding the incentive bonus is based on achieving an Operating systems designed to allow employees to share in the Group’s Performance Indicator (OPI) and 30% is based on a Customer value. Service Quality Indicator (see Section 3.1.1) that measures customer satisfaction across all markets. Employees are not assessed merely based on quantitative indicators. Their contribution is also evaluated according to For 2011, the last year of the previous agreement, incentives qualitative indicators such as lasting customer satisfaction and representing 4.9% of wages, or an average of 1,950 euros, individual contributions to Group effectiveness. were paid in May 2012. The Group has also developed programmes such as “Orange For the year 2012, under the new agreement, a provision for Bravo” to provide non-monetary incentives to employees and surpassing the Operating Performance Indicator and Customer recognized employee actions that demonstrate the Orange Service Quality Indicator was applied at December 31, 2012. spirit. This programme was deployed across 37 countries in 2012 to distinguish the employees or teams nominated by peers and managers for their constructive attitude and personal commitment. Over 600 employees were nominated in 2012, with a sharp rise in the number of team nominations. (In millions of euros) 2012 2011 2010 France Telecom S.A. incentive bonus 202 (1) 185 (2) 217 (3) (1) Amount funded at December 31, 2012. (2) Updated 2011 amount. (3) Includes an exceptional incentive payment of 54 million euros. As regards proﬁt-sharing, negotiations are under-way in 2013 for a new Group France proﬁt-sharing agreement with the trade unions. (In millions of euros) 2012 2011 2010 special proﬁt-sharing reserve of the Group 170 (1) 197 (2) 304 (1) Amount funded at December 31, 2012, including 140 million euros funded in the France Telecom S.A. accounts. (2) The deﬁnitive 2011 value has been set. partageons: a new free share award plan The Group’s new free share award plan known as Partageons For more information see Section 17.1.2 of the 2012 Registration (Let’s share) was established on July 27, 2011 to create a Document. personal connection between the Group’s employees and the success of the “Conquests 2015” strategy. 16.7 million shares were awarded under this programme, which covers approximately 150,000 employees of France Telecom S.A. and its French and non-French subsidiaries that decided to take part. 42 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 2.1.4. encouraging community involvement a responsible employer establishing bonds between social performance and economic performance 2 The new Social Contract adopted by Orange also takes ■ in Poland, the Group launched a community service week corporate social responsibility values into account. To promote with the support of the Foundation to encourage employees a spirit of community involvement, the Orange Foundation to get involved in charitable activities. For instance, several (http://fondationorange.com) has a variety of initiatives in place volunteers from Orange led hands-on, technical workshops to encourage and reward the Group’s employees and retirees in 13 of the Group’s partner universities to familiarize students to actively participate in community service programmes such with technological and managerial topics. 54 such workshops as charitable activities, project sponsorship, Group projects for have been held, with over 900 attendees, since 2011. humanitarian causes, skills sponsorship, etc. These projects give meaning to individual and collective actions and bring employees together around common shared concerns. key dates Many community service projects were launched across all 2004 countries in 2012 under the auspices of the Orange Foundation ■ establishment of the European Group Committee. or at the initiative of employee volunteers who wanted to contribute to local efforts. 2007 a responsible employer To recognise these initiatives, to celebrate the spirit of ■ the France Telecom Foundation celebrates its 20-year community action demonstrated by 6,000 employees involved anniversary and becomes the Orange Foundation. in 17 different countries and to encourage further community involvement, the Orange Foundation held its ﬁrst ever Orange 2009 Solidarity Week from September 17-22, 2012. ■ inventory of stress and labour conditions in France and launch of conferences on reform. a few examples: ■ as in previous years, large numbers of employees from many 2010 countries got involved by taking part in Orange Digital Solidarity ■ establishment of the Global Group Committee; orientation workshops, a programme aiming to boost access to information and communication technologies among ■ implementation of the new Social Contract in France; the less fortunate by providing training to the members of ■ launch of the Orange Solidarité Numérique (Orange Digital partner associations. 2,400 employees volunteered in this Solidarity) programme. programme, which sponsored 1,000 orientation workshops in ten countries; 2012 ■ a number of employees also responded to solidarity projects ■ ﬁrst ever Orange Solidarity Week; launched by the Group: 230 employee projects were supported in 2012 in 29 countries with a total budget of ■ implementation of the Orange People Charter in 23 905,000 euros; countries. ■ over 1,300 employees participated in the Orange Chante that met throughout the year, including ﬁve new choirs in Africa; ■ Orange Business Services also supports employees involved in charitable activities through its “give a day, get a day” operation. This system, already in place within Orange Business Services’ American sites, gives employees an extra day of paid vacation in return for a day of community service work. Thanks to the initiative of an employee in Indonesia, a group of volunteers was formed there to help create construction materials for houses intended for low-income households; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 43 2 a responsible employer 2.2. building the Group's future To support the Group’s development in a responsible and sustainable manner, France Telecom-Orange has taken a series of commitments to: ■ build a common and shared managerial culture, placing the human dimension at the heart of the Company; ■ anticipating and planning for changes in Group careers; ■ support employees’ professional development throughout their careers; ■ increase external recruitment; ■ help young people enter the labour market. 2.2.1. build a common managerial culture Managers play a key role in implementing the new Social ■ organising common activities to share and interact with Contract and making Orange a ﬁrst-rate employer. The Group managers from other entities and countries; has established a dedicated programme to help managers fulﬁl their responsibilities while giving them the necessary tools and ■ guaranteeing high quality activities through an “Orange autonomy to successfully lead their teams. Campus” label. At year-end 2012, almost 73% of the Group’s managers (20% a common framework of whom work for international subsidiaries) had completed at Following the Orange Management Charter adopted in 2011 least one of the 60 Orange Campus managerial development and in an effort to fulﬁl the commitments deﬁned in the Orange programmes, for a total of 220,000 hours of training. People Charter and Social Contract in France, a managerial framework was launched to strengthen management teams and unique initiatives in the countries develop managerial skills by drawing on a common foundation In the same vein as the Orange Campus programmes, several of four key “people” skills (cross-divisional cooperation and entities within the Group have adopted initiatives to motivate inﬂuence, diversity, employee development, team leadership) and unite managerial teams around a common management and four key “business” skills (customer guidance and service culture while supporting their professional development. quality, strategic vision, results-based management, change management). This framework was designed for all Group a few examples: managers and touches on all development practices – training, mobility, hiring, etc. ■ in Botswana, most managers were selected for their technical skills and motivation. To help these employees collectively Orange Campus: backbone of Orange’s new assume their managerial responsibilities, Orange Botswana managerial culture decided to develop a standard set of skills for all of its managers and relied on Orange Campus teams to design Created in January 2011, Orange Campus aims to create a a customised training programme based on participatory community of managers and support them in carrying out their workshops. Quarterly meetings to share strategies and day-to-day responsibilities in order that they can play a key role development challenges within the Subsidiary were also in ensuring a balanced relationship between the Company and scheduled. Botswana is piloting this Orange Campus each of its employees. programme in Africa, with hopes of rolling out similar This system draws on three main ideas: programmes in other countries in the Africa, Middle East and Asia region; ■ bringing managers together to partake in activities in friendly places to encourage group work and cooperation. ■ in Spain and Slovakia manager-speciﬁc programmes named Three Orange Campus sites have already been opened “Orange manager” and “being a manager at Orange”, in France, Spain and Poland and a fourth will soon be respectively, are currently in the process of being rolled out. unveiled in Senegal. 2012 also saw the launch of the ﬁrst The objective of these programmes is to encourage group Asia Paciﬁc Hub Orange Campus. Founded in India with reﬂection via hands-on workshops in order to deﬁne and Orange Business Services, the Asia Paciﬁc Hub is designed evaluate the role of an Orange manager and to develop as a place for managers from all regional countries to come action plans to implement to help managers grow and together. Other hubs will continue to be rolled out at sites that achieve their goals. 90% of the managers in Spain have can serve several different countries with signiﬁcant numbers already participated in 70 workshops. and diversity of managerial staff; 44 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange focus a responsible employer building the Group's future 2 mon intinéraire (My career path): a new career path management tool 2.2.2. addressing the skills issue In 2012, Group HR gave France Telecom S.A.’s 100,000 In an industry where technologies are constantly evolving, it is employees access to a new tool, mon itinéraire (My essential to start planning now to prepare for future business career path). Employees can take advantage of this changes in order to make sure that the Group has the skills extremely user-friendly tool to simulate their career necessary to overcome the challenges of tomorrow. For path in their current division and region or project Orange, the challenge is even bigger since 30,000 of its French career moves to another division or another region employees (one-third of its workforce) will be retiring by 2020. of France. Initial feedback from employees who have tested this tool has been very positive: they all report anticipating and planning for changes the tool is simple and fun to use but, above all, that it is in Group careers very useful to have greater visibility of the divisions and promotion prospects within the Group. Over the next Identifying short and longer term trends, assessing risk areas few months, standard career paths will be added to the and offering employees career prospects in line with these tool and it will be progressively rolled out to all French a responsible employer trends is the challenge of the Strategic Workforce Planning subsidiaries. (GPEC) agreement approach adopted by the Group. This entails a mutual commitment: ■ each employee is responsible for his or her own career training for all development; To support professional development and to increase customer satisfaction, the Group is constantly enriching its training ■ each country adopts a set of solutions and skills with the programmes for all employees. With 44 professional skills help of both the Group and national HR teams to support training schools worldwide and managerial training via Orange professional development and staff promotion. Campus, the Group makes professional training a priority. A job reference framework common to all Group companies The Group continues to provide technical, sales and crossrepresents a proactive approach to managing its employment, sector training leading to certiﬁcation; almost 2,000 employees career and skills needs in all of its business sectors, both at obtain recognized credentials in over 50 ﬁelds each year. the Group level and within its main countries, France, Poland, Spain, rest of Europe and AMEA. Despite a challenging economic environment and greater competition across all markets, the Group continued its training This approach is reﬂected in: efforts, with an average of 31 hours of training per employee ■ a Strategic Workforce Planning (Gestion Prévisionnelle de in 2012, up 5% from 2011. 145,000 employees have been l’Emploi et des Compétences, GPEC) agreement in the trained in 33 countries. organisations; a few examples: ■ a recruitment policy focused on business-line needs; ■ in Romania, Orange launched a sales academy to train its ■ training programmes (curriculum, professional training 2,270 salespeople. The goal of the academy is to develop courses) that are directly linked to business line changes and Orange’s brand image within the market to give it the the need for new skills; reputation of a benchmark employer. 82% of the sales staff has already been trained, with a total of 4,000 training days ■ GPEC in each region. completed in 2012. Employees who pass the training course receive certiﬁcation; In France in 2012, the Group continued to further implement the GPEC agreement signed in March 2011. A Monitoring ■ in Poland, the “bestseller” training programme offers sales Committee was formed in May 2012 and led to the signature of and customer service teams more than just certiﬁcation. an addendum in October 2012, whereby the Group pledged to Each trainee receives a personalized evaluation of his or her report employment and skills trends each year in over 85 labour skills and potential for growth. Successful trainees may be markets. promoted and offered a specialized training course for their new position and a raise; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 45 2 a responsible employer building the Group's future ■ the Slovakian mentoring programme allows new employees in the sales and customer service divisions to learn their jobs more quickly and effectively thanks to the knowledge of more experienced colleagues. This system offers promising employees the opportunity to receive professional development and to take on new responsibilities. As a testament to the success of the programme, three of the focus ten employees who received mentoring became front-line managers within a period of six months; new agreement to promote the employment of seniors ■ in Egypt, Mobinil launched a programme in partnership with an outside book retailer to help employees advance On 31 December 2012, a new agreement on the professionally by offering them a chance to purchase employment of seniors and measures to improve the books and videos once a month on managerial topics such later years of employees' careers was signed in France as conﬂict resolution, negotiation, coaching, etc. Mobinil with the main trade unions. In effect for the 2013also encourages its employees to partake in e-learning 2015 period, the agreement pre-empts the 'generation and launched a campaign called “learning today, leading contract' and allows employees approaching the end of tomorrow” to promote distance learning. Over 80% their career to reduce their working hours in exchange employees took part in almost 400 training activities under for a reduced salary. Through this agreement, the Group this programme between January and August 2012. is reasserting its priorities of protecting jobs, supporting senior employees in the later stages of their career and safeguarding career development. a highly dynamic employment policy Preparing for the future also means predicting needs and hiring people now who will be necessary in the business world of tomorrow. Despite the difﬁcult economic situation, the Group Employment opportunities for young people under workkept its employment-related commitments, especially with based learning contracts is a key objective under the Group’s respect to the employment of young people: employment policy. 5,100 people were working under workbased learning contracts in France as of December 31, ■ in France the Group hired 2,112 people under permanent 2012. employment contracts, thereby meeting its objective of almost 10,000 permanent new hires between 2010 and 2012; The Group has reafﬁrmed its commitment to being a responsible employer over the 2013-2015 period by implementing an ■ internationally, 6,091 employees were hired under permanent employment policy with three core components: employment contracts in 2012. ■ employment management that respects workers’ For a total of 8,203 new permanent employees Group-wide, livelihoods, as reﬂected in the lack of a redundancy plan or this represents almost 5% of the Group’s workforce as of yearvoluntary redundancy plan; end 2011. ■ proactive employment management that strives for “painless” adaptation of organisations and procedures, focus such as partial replacement of staff as they naturally leave the Group, in keeping with the Social Contract, at a rate of Orange Business Services launches one new employee for every two that retire (i.e. a 2013-2015 the Cloud Academy hiring plan set at 4,000 employees); Cloud computing, the concept of accessing data and ■ CSR-focused employment management seen in the hiring services on a remote server, is one of the Group's of 5,000 young apprentice employees per year and a senior priority areas of growth and innovation. In order to employment policy to ensure employees a place within the consolidate its expertise and give itself the means with Company in their later years. which to become a leading provider of cloud services for business, in September 2012 Orange Business Services launched its Cloud Academy: a collaborative attracting young talent online workspace entirely dedicated to the cloud that To attract new talents and ensure the ongoing success of the centralises all information relating to this growing field Group, Orange has launched targeted recruitment campaigns of activity. The Academy is intended to help business or speciﬁc partnerships with prestigious schools and universities leaders cloud experts and novices alike enhance their and has made a range of innovative recruitment tools available cloud computing knowledge and skills. such as the Orange Jobs mobile app. The Group also contributes to skills development and training people from different backgrounds by supporting a variety of educational programmes and scholarships around the world. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a few examples: a responsible employer building the Group's future 2 ■ Orange Poland has partnered with 18 universities and ■ in 2011, in Armenia, Orange launched the Innovation Prize to prestigious institutes in ten Polish cities to launch the Twoja give a helping hand to students attending Yerevan University Perspektywa (your career prospect) contest for students and the country’s engineering school. The winner had the studying technical or economic subjects. This contest, based opportunity to further develop his/her innovation project on questions and case study problems available online, has during a six-month paid internship in one of the Group’s been growing in popularity. The nine ﬁnalists are offered threeFrench research and development laboratories. Another month internships at Orange Poland plus a monetary award candidate was offered a six-month internship at Orange for the top four winners. In conjunction with the competition, Armenia. Orange is the only carrier in Armenia to offer volunteers from Orange provide hands-on, technical students the chance to receive laboratory training abroad. workshops in 13 of the partner universities to familiarize the students with technological and managerial topics. In the The Orange Graduate Programme is also a strong attraction for 2011-2012 edition of this programme, 900 students took young talents with high potential who have a unique opportunity part in 54 workshops; to start their career with Orange. Each year, 60 graduates join the Group in this way to take on roles with signiﬁcant levels of responsibility. a responsible employer training number of training hours (in millions) 2012 2011 (1) 2010 (1) Group total 5.18 including France Telecom S.A. 3.35 3.29 3.15 (1) The indicators for 2010 and 2011 are not available outside the scope of France Telecom S.A. number of training hours per employee 2012 2011 (1) 2010 (1) in the Group 30.7 in France Telecom S.A. 35.6 35.2 34.5 (1) The indicators for 2010 and 2011 are not available outside the scope of France Telecom S.A. key dates 2003 2011 ■ framework agreement for forward planning of employment ■ 10,000 managers trained on Orange Campuses; and skills in France. ■ new management charter drafted; 2004 ■ Strategic Workforce Planning (GPEC) agreement signed in ■ production of Group job reference framework; France. ■ 2005-2008: 45 professional training courses created. 2012 2006 ■ Mon itinéraire (My career path) tool created to help employees manage their career goals; ■ Orange management schools established in France, the United Kingdom and Poland. ■ new agreement signed in France on the employment of seniors and measures to enrich the later years of employees’ 2010 careers. ■ 10,000 individual training rights (DIF) in France. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 47 2 a responsible employer 2.3. promoting workplace diversity Diversity within the Group is key to help make Orange a preferred employer and attract new talents. France Telecom-Orange intends to make equal opportunities a trademark of its social policy from the recruitment stage and throughout its employees’ working lives. This commitment to promote diversity and equal opportunities not only reﬂects the Group’s values but also its conviction that diversity contributes to the Company’s performance, innovation capacity and attractiveness. 2.3.1. gender equality: a top priority France Telecom-Orange has made gender equality a priority a few examples: in its diversity policy. Thanks to this commitment, the Group was one of the ﬁrst French companies to be certiﬁed under ■ to increase the number of women hired in France, Orange the Gender Equality European Standard for its Group-wide has developed an “equal and fair hiring” kit to better inform policy and for its actions to promote equal opportunities in managers and HR supervisors. A hiring experiment was also France, Spain, Belgium and within Orange Business Services. conducted in relation to technical positions in the support/ After receiving this certiﬁcation, more than 13,000 managers maintenance units; this experiment targeted women who from the four certiﬁed entities were surveyed regarding their were seeking jobs but lacked the technical skills typically perception of the equal opportunities policy. This poll conﬁrmed required for these positions. The Group has also partnered that managers consider the equal opportunities policy to be a with major industrial corporations via the Elles bougent priority for the Company. association, which works to encourage more young women to take up engineering or technical careers; In 2012 the Group continued to expand equal opportunities programmes throughout all countries, targeting four ■ many of the national subsidiaries have implemented complementary areas: “shadowing” activities to allow young students to learn more about the day-to-day work of the Group’s female engineers and technicians. In 2012, for example, more than 60 girls promote gender parity in all roles within visited Orange Business Services in Benelux, Brazil, the the Group and especially in technical roles United States, Hong Kong, India, Italy and Singapore; In 2012, women accounted for almost 37% of the permanent active workforce in France and across the Group as a whole. ■ in Botswana, a partnership with the WEGSA (Women Engineers and Girl Scientists in Africa) forum, sponsored by To promote balanced male/female representation in all roles UNESCO, has enabled 27 young people (including 17 girls) to within the Group, Orange is working to increase the number of learn more about engineering and technology careers and to women hired by taking actions to attract more young women consider studies or work in this area. to scientiﬁc and technical subjects, areas in which women are currently under-represented, and by ﬁghting stereotypes in technical ﬁelds, which are all too often considered “a job for men”. focus equality in the workplace: further recognition for Orange For the second year running, in 2012 Orange was classed career choices and encourage them to take up technical in the top three French companies for gender equality by and scientific careers. Managed since its creation in April CapitalCom. The Group was also awarded the Trophée 2012 by Stéphane Richard, CEO of France TelecomSocial des Télécoms (Telecoms sector social action Orange, the Capital Filles association has since been award) for its Capital Filles initiative. This programme, joined by other companies and enjoys the support of a aimed at girls from priority areas for education and rural number of government departments. areas, is intended to give them confidence when making 48 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a responsible employer promoting workplace diversity 2 promoting access by women to positions The Group Compensation and Wages Department coordinates of responsibility a network of compensation managers in all countries or regions in which the Group operates; these managers are responsible To combat the “glass ceiling” that can impede women’s careers, for analysing and eliminating any discrepancies in pay between the Group has introduced a programme to identify and support men and women. female talent. Its goal is lofty: to increase the proportion of women it its management bodies (at the Leader and Executive Between employees with equal levels of responsibility and Committee management level) to 35% by 2015. With women seniority, salary discrepancies are minimal: the 2012 the representing 23.6% of the network of leaders and 28% of women-to-men wage ratio was 98.3% (versus 98.1% in 2010). the Executive Committees at year-end 2012, the Group is working to increase these numbers through a variety of actions The average responsibility level among women, however, implemented at the Group level as well in major countries: remains lower than that among male employees, which results in a moderate wage gap when considering all levels ■ proactive measures are drawing women into “talent pools” of of responsibility together and justiﬁes the Group’s efforts to employees identiﬁed as having upper management potential; promote women’s access to positions of responsibility. a responsible employer ■ a mentoring programme for women identiﬁed by their supervisors helps support the personal and professional striking a work-life balance development of female employees with managerial The Group puts measures in place that facilitate work/ aspirations: 80 women are beneﬁting from a special life balance by ensuring that parenthood is not a source of 2012-2013 programme called WILD (Women Intercultural discrimination for women or men. Leadership Development), which was adopted by Orange Business Services to help 15 talented females ascend to In line with the Group’s Charter for Parenthood in the Workplace, international positions of responsibility; an awareness-raising campaign on work-life balance was carried out in 2012 using a variety of channels, including a conference ■ several entities are implementing equal opportunities held by Orange Business Services with over 130 participants networks: following in the footsteps of Orange Business and diversity training for managers in Spain that touched on Services’ women’s network launched in 2011, which now this topic. has over 300 members, Orange France launched an equal opportunities network in January 2013; In France, Orange carried out a study about 23,300 employees (7,100 of whom were women) to evaluate to what extent having ■ the Group also participates in national and international a child impacts the career path of women and men. initiatives, such as Jump (www.jump.eu.com), Women in Leadership (www.wileurope.org), the European professional A parenthood guide was also created within France Telecom S.A. women’s network (www.europeanpwn.net) and the EVE This guide provides a summary of the administrative, legal and programme (www.eveprogramme.com), which offer the employment-related information that future parents need to Group’s females networking and personal development know, as well as the various beneﬁts offered by the Company to opportunities and help raise gender equality awareness employees with children. among male employees. In Spain, Orange has been certiﬁed as an EFR (Empresa Familiarmente Responsible, i.e. “family friendly company”) ensuring equal pay since 2011. In 2012, this certiﬁcation was extended to its To ensure equal pay for employees with equal levels of network of directly-owned stores. responsibility and seniority, the Group conducts periodic assessments in its major countries and prepares speciﬁc Several countries including Slovakia and Romania have budgets to correct for any potential discrepancies among implemented beneﬁts for employees on maternity leave that go individual employees identiﬁed. above and beyond local regulatory requirements. percentage of women Group 2012 2011 2010 % of women in the active workforce RR 36.5% 36.5% 36.4% % of women in supervisory staff R 28.2% 27.7% 27.5% R item veriﬁed by Deloitte, moderate assurance. RR eviewed by Deloitte: reasonable assurance. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 49 2 a responsible employer promoting workplace diversity 2.3.2. support for those who face barriers to employment Aside from their commitment to encourage gender equality supporting the employment of young people in the workplace, the Group’s entities also take measures to from disadvantaged neighbourhoods respond to local challenges such as the employment of people In addition to promoting the employment of young adults that typically face high barriers to employment, such as the (see Section 2.2), the Group has adopted a proactive policy disabled or young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. to help young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds ﬁnd employment by supporting various organisations. a historic commitment to workers with disabilities In 2012, the Group’s commitment in this regard was illustrated through the following initiatives: In France, the Group has been helping people with disabilities to ﬁnd employment for over ten years. This commitment took ■ its participation as a partner in France’s ﬁrst Passerelles vers an international dimension in 2010 when the Group joined the l’emploi durable (Gateway to sustainable employment) day International Labour Organization’s (ILO) “Global Business and dedicated to the employment of young people; Disability Network”. ■ open-houses held as part of a National Youth Day: at In France in 2012, the Group continued to roll out the actions Orange Business Services’ headquarters in Saint-Denis, over set forth under the 2011 agreement to promote employment 100 young people from local institutions visited the facility of the disabled. The hiring and onboarding programme and learned about the Company and its divisions through brought the hiring rate for disabled workers under permanent an interactive programme that included a presentation on contracts from 3.2% in 2011 to 4.3% in 2012 and increased Orange’s work-study programme and workshops led by the number of work-based learning contracts by 70%, from 39 the Group’s HR specialists on CVs, cover letters and job to 70 contracts in 2012. The percentage of disabled employees interviews; across all entities covered by the French economic and social unit, including disabled employees declared under the French ■ the Group’s involvement as a special partner in the Nos DOETH system (mandatory yearly declaration for disabled Quartiers ont des Talents (Our Neighbourhoods have Talent) employees), outsourcing to the protected sector, and civil event, which allows young graduates and students from servants re-assigned to a different job by a career transition disadvantaged neighbourhoods to interact with companies board, stood at 4.97% in 2012, versus 4.56% in 2011. that help young people enter the workforce; In 2012, the Group’s Mission Insertion Handicap also provided ■ assistance from over 800 employee volunteers to help give assistance in Poland to help adapt workstations for disabled young people from low-income backgrounds the keys to employees. enter the business world; A new training course on “how to manage employees with ■ Orange Business Service’s new mentoring system under its disabilities” was introduced within Orange Business Services in Passeport Avenir (passport to the future) programme, which November 2012. A new specialised professional training course helps young people from low-income backgrounds improve was also launched in late 2012 to allow disabled people ﬁnd their English through regular telephone conversations with employment as customer service technicians. Five disabled volunteer English speakers within the Group. workers made up the course’s ﬁrst class. Accessibility audits have also been carried out at ten sites in France. 50 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange focus a responsible employer promoting workplace diversity 2 Energie Jeunes programme supported by Orange In June 2012, the Energie Jeunes association (http:// Currently implemented in the Ile-de-France and Nord energie jeunes.fr/), which France Telecom-Orange has regions, the programme will eventually be rolled out in supported since its inception, held its first convention, every region in France. France Telecom-Orange contributes which was attended by more than 200 stakeholders. by sending several employees into the participating establishments and playing a key role in the deployment Energie Jeunes works with schools located in priority of the association in other regions. education areas to combat early school leaving, which affects a large proportion of young people every year. key dates 2003 2010 a responsible employer ■ establishment of Mission Insertion Handicap. ■ participation in the establishment of the Arborus fund for gender equality in the workplace in Europe. 2005 ■ Orange France was the ﬁrst technology company to obtain 2011 the Gender Equality label. ■ certiﬁcation under the Gender Equality European Standard. 2007 2012 ■ creation of the Group Diversity Division. ■ Orange named the winner in the Major Corporation Division of the Trophées de la Diversité (diversity awards). 2008 ■ signing of the Charter for Parenthood in the Workplace and the Plan Espoir Banlieues (plan to bring hope to underprivileged urban suburbs). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 51 2 a responsible employer 2.5. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 2.5.1. 2012 review objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 establishing economic performance and social performance ■ generalise dialogue 2012 ■ global social dialogue system implemented, reﬂecting the Group’s with staff in all countries international expansion: where we operate ■ the Global Group Committee, which covers all of the Group’s companies using means adapted worldwide, to local contexts (staff ■ the European Works Council, which represents 19 countries and covers representative bodies, the Group’s subsidiaries in the European Union, engagement surveys, ■ the French Works Council, which covers the Group’s companies within staff forums). France, ■ the Central Committee of the Economic and Social Unit (CCUES), which represents the employees of France Telecom, Orange France S.A., Orange Distribution and Orange Reunion, these four companies recognized as being very closely linked in terms of their organisation, management and business; ■ local bodies (employee forums, staff representative bodies, etc.) established in almost all countries in which Orange is present; ■ three European Group Committee Meetings held in March, June and November 2012 to inform and consult with staff representatives on economic, ﬁnancial and labour issues in Europe (the Group’s general activities and strategy, economic and ﬁnancial situation, etc.); ■ third round of new members appointed to the European Group Committee; these members began their term in November 2012. ■ meet with the Global 2012 ■ in accordance with the agreement signed in 2010 and following an initial Group Committee on a meeting in May 2011, two Global Group Committee Meetings held in regular basis and discuss January and May 2012; the following items were discussed at these the major international meetings: questions. ■ Chrysalid (operational efﬁciency and sharing of best practices among the Group’s countries), ■ the international strategy of Orange Business Services, ■ the Group’s technical policy, ■ the Group’s new ethics charter, ■ the corporate social responsibility policy, ■ the 2011 employment situation and the outlook for 2012, ■ the Group’s innovation strategy (Nova+ project), ■ ﬁnancial ﬁgures, etc. 52 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a responsible employer 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 2 objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 ■ continue to monitor 2012 ■ sixth French employee satisfaction survey conducted by an independent the composite social institute in December, following a half-yearly schedule, among performance indicator 4,400 individuals. As with previous surveys, the results conﬁrm steady on a half-yearly basis improvement since October 2010; in France and apply it ■ second international annual social barometer conducted (introduced in in a format adapted to most Group countries in 2011) in the form of anonymous questionnaires international contexts. available on a dedicated online platform. Note: The social performance indicator is a composite that represents both a responsible employer HR indicators (50%) and the results of the survey (50%). This index is used when determining bonuses for the Group’s top management. ■ progressively deploy the 2012 ■ the Orange People Charter deployed in 23 countries (Armenia, Belgium, Orange People Charter Botswana, Cameroon, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Jordan, Kenya, internationally. Madagascar, Mali, Moldova, Niger, Orange Business Services, Poland, Romania, Senegal, Slovakia, Spain, Tunisia, United Kingdom, Central African Republic, Guinea-Bissau and Uganda) a year after being launched by Stéphane Richard in November 2011; ■ information packet distributed internally via the Intranet recognising worldwide initiatives to mark the ﬁrst anniversary of the Orange People Charter. ■ update and reinforce the 2012 ■ new health and safety policy signed and launched by the Chairman and Group health and safety Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in July 2012: policy. ■ policy accompanied by a memorandum from the Group HR Director explaining the objectives and quantitative and qualitative KPIs used to monitor application of this policy, ■ Group Occupational Health, Safety and Quality of Life Department created. ■ recognise collective 2012-2013 ■ “Let’s share”* plan launched in mid-2011. Fulﬁlment of the collective performance by performance criterion will be evaluated at year-end 2013, and the target is highlighting the identical for all Group employees eligible under the plan; involvement of staff in ■ local incentive bonus plans launched by Spain and Cameroon in 2012. the Company’s success and associating them in performance sharing. * Free share award scheme involving more than 80% of Group staff in 92 countries. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 53 2 a responsible employer 2012 review and 2013 roadmap objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 building the Group’s future ■ after France, Poland and 2012-2013 ■ ﬁrst Asia Paciﬁc Hub Orange Campus opened in India in November 2012 Spain, set up an Orange with virtual training platforms to provide managerial skill-building Campus in the AMEA programmes around the world at dedicated sites; zone. ■ preparations under way for the opening of the Dakar campus during the ﬁrst quarter of 2013; ■ Orange Campus range strengthened to meet business and team management needs and to take local circumstances into account; ■ more than 220,000 hours of training dispensed by Orange Campus in 2012 to the Group’s French and international entities; at year-end 2012 more than 73% of French-based managers across all French and Corporate entities had taken part in an Orange Campus training programme since its launch; ■ Orange managerial framework launched to strengthen management and provide professional develop based on a common foundation of eight key skills; this framework was designed for all Group managers and touches on all development practices – training, mobility, hiring, etc.; ■ deploy training actions ■ awareness raising campaign and sessions begun in September 2012, to improve management targeting leading managers and executives and the HR community. This quality. framework will be rolled out on a gradual basis: The awareness raising campaign and sessions began in September 2012, targeting leading managers and executives and the HR community; ■ strengthen professional ■ almost 2,000 employees obtain recognized credentials in over 50 ﬁelds training and recognition each year through 17 professional skills schools; of prior and experiential ■ more than 14,000 request to take advantage of individual training rights learning. (DIF) approved, in line with 2011; ■ ambitious certiﬁcation programmes implemented in our customer relations business lines: ■ Poland: introduction of the “bestseller” programme to provide customer service and sales teams individual evaluations of their skills and areas for improvement in addition to certiﬁcation, ■ Orange Slovakia: new professional certiﬁcation programme allowing new employees in the sales and customer service divisions to learn their jobs more quickly and effectively through a mentoring relationship with more experienced colleagues, ■ France: professional certiﬁcation programme launched in early June 2012 for salespeople and customer advisers, to recognize their sales performance and quality relationships with customers and colleagues. 207 people certiﬁed since the third quarter 2012, representing 20% of all salespeople and customer advisers, ■ Orange Business Services: Cloud Academy launched with a certiﬁcation programme, in partnership with Cisco, EMC and VMWare; ■ “Up Skilling” skill building programme launched in India at the beginning of the year. ■ monitor the Strategic 2012-2013 ■ in accordance with the agreement, Monitoring Committee formed in May 2012 Workforce Planning and addendum signed in October 2012, whereby the Group pledged to report (GPEC) agreement signed its employment and skills trends each year for over 85 labour markets in France; in France in March 2011. ■ Itinéraires (career paths) computer application launched in November 2012 so that employees can stay informed of: ■ possible training options available in their region, ■ the existing entities and their business lines, ■ possible opportunities to transfer from one line of work to another. In addition to local professional development opportunities, employees also have access to typical career paths for each business line deﬁned by the relevant subsidiaries across all regions. 54 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 a responsible employer 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 2 promoting workplace diversity ■ strengthen gender equality 2012-2015 More than 13,000 managers surveyed from the Group’s GEES certiﬁed entities opportunities initiatives at regarding their perception of the equal opportunities policy. all stages of employees’ 1. equal pay: very little difference between employees with the same seniority and careers and in all the level of responsibility. The average level of responsibility for women is lower than Group’s countries, and set that of men, however, resulting in a moderate wage gap: up ad hoc monitoring and ■ measures have been taken in France for several years to achieve greater equality evaluation systems. in pay; speciﬁc budgets were re-approved in 2012 to compensate for individual ■ increase the proportion of wage gaps; for the ﬁrst time ever, these budgets applied to both men and women in management women, namely those who had received promotions; bodies (objective: 35% ■ at the Group level, the Compensation and Wages Department coordinated a by 2015). network of national/regional compensation managers to monitor, analyse and reduce any potential discrepancies in pay between men and women. 2. increased diversity within teams in all business lines, but especially in technical roles. a responsible employer Measures taken include the following: ■ number of women hired under permanent contracts in France increased from 31.7% in 2010 to 33.7%; ■ “equal and fair hiring” kit developed and distributed among managers and HR; ■ job listing adapted to be more inclusive of women; ■ hiring experiment conducted in the Paris region in relation to technical positions in the support/maintenance units; this experiment targeted women who were seeking jobs but lacked the technical skills typically required for these positions; ■ actions taken to increase the number of women in technical positions: partnership formed with Elles bougent, group mentoring system launched (sessions/ discussions) in three Orange departments for female non-managers and middle managers, etc.; ■ shadowing programmes created to “demystify” technical careers among young women and encourage them to enter these positions. 3. higher percentage of women in managerial positions with the goal of increasing the number of women in management bodies to 35% by 2015 by identifying and supporting female talent: ■ actions taken to support Orange’s reputation as an employer and to attract more female applicants, through a partnership with Vox Femina and participation in events and networks to offer networking and personal development opportunities, such as Eve, Jump, Women In Leadership, and the European Professional Women’s Network; ■ internal networks developed: 300 members in Orange Business Services’ women’s network; Orange equal opportunities network launched in January 2013 in France; ■ efforts made toward reaching the goal of a 35%-female “leaders” network by 2015 including proactive measures to draw women into “Talent Pools”, of employees identiﬁed as having upper management potential and a mentoring for women selected by their superiors to encourage the personal and professional development of women with managerial aspirations (80 women involved in the second round held in 2012-2013). WILD programme (Women Intercultural Leadership Development) introduced by Orange Business Services to help 15 talented females ascend to positions of responsibility within Orange Business Services’ international entities. 4. ensuring a work-life balance by taking parenthood into account and adapting work organisation: ■ in line with the Group’s Charter for Parenthood in the Workplace, various awareness-raising efforts were made via a number of channels, including a conference held by Orange Business Services and diversity training for managers in Spain that addressed the importance of a work-life balance; ■ EFR (Empresa Familiarmente Responsible in English “family friendly company”) certiﬁcation received in Spain for our network of stores. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 55 2 a responsible employer 2012 review and 2013 roadmap objectives deadline main achievements in 2012 ■ continue to implement 2012 In France: diversity policies in Group ■ LGBT Charter (which Orange helped to draw up) signed by the Ministry of countries in relation Women’s Rights. to local challenges, In relation to the professional integration of young people: and strengthening the ■ participation as a partner in France’s ﬁrst Passerelles vers l’emploi durable monitoring of action (Gateway to sustainable employment) day dedicated to employment plans and results. opportunities; ■ open-houses held as part of a National Youth Day, including at Orange Business Services’ headquarters in Saint-Denis, where over 100 young people from local institutions visited the facility and learned about the Company and its divisions through an interactive programme that included a presentation on Orange’s work-study programme and workshops led by the Company’s HR specialists on CVs, cover letters and job interviews; ■ participation in the third edition of the Nos Quartiers ont des Talents event. 4,000 young graduates and students interacted with companies that help young people enter the workforce; ■ assistance provided by over 800 employee volunteers to help give young people from low-income backgrounds the keys to enter the business world. Disabilities: ■ partnership and involvement efforts furthered by becoming a member of the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) “Global Business and Disability Network”; ■ assistance provided by the Group to Poland under a partnership agreement to help adapt workstations for disabled employees. 56 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 2.5.2. 2013 roadmap a responsible employer 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 2 objectives deadline establishing bonds between economic performance and social performance ■ strengthen awareness-raising and communication efforts toward employees regarding CSR-related topics; 2013-2015 ■ deploy training actions that include these factors within the different business lines; 2013-2015 ■ strengthen awareness-raising and communication efforts regarding different CSR-related topics in our school 2013-2015 relations; ■ further Group commitments in relation to social dialogue via appropriate channels, according to the local context, 2013 and hold regular ad hoc committee meetings (Global Group Committee, European Works Council, etc.); ■ continue to analyse social quality through periodic surveys and national/international composite indicators 2013 and incorporate these results when calculating the bonuses awarded to the Group’s upper management team internationally; ■ continue to reinforce the Orange People Charter and to analyse any discrepancies between the actions taken 2013 a responsible employer and the employees’ perceptions via the employee satisfaction survey; ■ implement the Group’s health and safety policy, especially by establishing dedicated Steering Committees; 2013 ■ recognise collective performance by highlighting the involvement of staff in the Company’s success and 2013 associating them in performance sharing. building the Group’s future ■ establish an Orange Campus in Dakar; 2013-2015 ■ expand the Group managerial framework to include all upper managers and team managers both in France 2013-2015 and internationally; ■ continue to monitor and implement the Strategic Workforce Planning (GPEC) agreement. 2013 promoting workplace diversity ■ strengthen gender equality opportunities initiatives at all stages of employees’ careers and in all the Group’s 2013-2015 countries, and set up ad hoc monitoring and evaluation systems; ■ increase the proportion of women in management bodies (objective: 35% by 2015); 2013-2015 ■ increase support to the Group’s countries and divisions to help bolster local diversity policies, especially in the 2013-2015 area of disability. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 57 3 a world lived in trust 3.1. becoming the customers’ choice To ensure that it remains the preferred choice of its customers, Orange is implementing an ongoing service quality improvement programme, enhancing the simplicity of its offers and providing personalised support to customers to help them have the best telecommunications experience. 3.1.1. a ﬁrm ambition in respect of customer experience Within a highly competitive, constantly changing market, it’s the a few examples: quality of the experience customers encounter whenever they come into contact with the Company that counts. This includes ■ in Poland the “MyOrange” project aims to transform the when they go into a store, when they contact a call centre, ways employees interact with customers. 5,000 employees when they use an Orange product or service, etc. The Group have received training focusing on the emotional aspects strives to be the best in every ﬁeld and every market. of customer relations. 20 processes that could generate customer contact were reworked to take these emotional aspects into account. This led to the creation of an “emotion a new culture of customer service map” used in conjunction with the customer experience Beyond pricing and technology, which are important factors and the processes. All managers and support staff received but not necessarily decisive when customers are choosing speciﬁc training and the feedback was extremely positive: a provider, Orange plans to go above and beyond a carriers’ over 50% of employees wanted to learn more about the call of duty and set itself apart through an experience that only emotional dimension of customer relations; Orange knows how to offer. ■ the OSE! project implemented by Orange’s South-east To do this, Orange promotes an “Orange customer relations Department in France combines several different initiatives culture” based on four key principles: with a common goal: increasing employee development to better serve customers. These initiatives include: mon service ■ respect for customers as customers and as people; Orange, a dedicated customer assistance for employees’ ■ a friendly attitude and actions; families, a workforce-wide half-yearly survey on workplace quality of life and the Ambassadose programme to encourage ■ truly committed to solving customer problems and showing employees to promote Orange services within their personal that commitment sincerely; network in order to attract new customers; ■ a passion for service and the use customers make of new ■ at Orange Business Services a training programme for technologies. customer service employees aims to foster the Orange culture throughout the customer contact centres serving Several of the Group’s European subsidiaries are also adopting the business market to make interaction with customers a approaches based on these principles to make their customer positive, unique experience. This two-day programme was relations stand out from the competition. very warmly received during the pilot phase and will now be expanded to include all 800 Cairo-based employees. It will then be extended to customer services in Delhi and Rio, and focus possibly even to France; ﬁrst COPC-certiﬁed call centres in Egypt ■ Spain, Moldova, Slovakia, Belgium and Côte d’Ivoire are Following a thorough auditing process in Egypt, carrying out similar initiatives. Mobinil's 110 and 250 call centres were awarded COPC (Customer Operations Performance Centre) certification in 2012. This call centre industry standard acknowledges Mobinil's commitment to ensuring excellence in customer service. 58 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a world lived in trust becoming the customers’ choice 3 competent, motivated teams a service quality that is continually monitored Representing the ﬁrst point of responsibility for the quality of The Customer Experience Tracker (CET) has been in place the service delivered to customers, Orange’s customer service since 2008 to compare the quality of the experience encountered teams must be able to carry out their mission effectively. To by customers within Orange versus the competition, regarding achieve the objectives of excellence set in this area, the Group all aspects of the customer experience. Focusing on four has launched two initiatives to strengthen skills and increase the thematic areas (offers, quality, customer relations and emotions), involvement of employees that come into direct contact with the CET has also included a CSR component since 2011. customers: Incorporated since 2010 in the bonus calculation for top-level management, the CET is now being used in France, Spain, ■ the Orange certiﬁcation programme offers customer services Poland, Belgium, Romania, Slovakia, the Dominican Republic, employees a two-level accreditation recognising their Moldova and Armenia. 19 countries in the Africa, Middle East professional qualiﬁcations; and Asia (AMEA) zone use a similar tool called the “Quality of Service Barometer”. ■ the yearly “Orange customer champions” recognizes Orange’s best salespeople and customer assistants in 24 countries An analysis of the 2012 CET results shows that clarity of (Armenia, Belgium, Botswana, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, communications, simplicity of commercial offerings, quality of Egypt, Spain, France, Jordan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Mali, customer relations and simplicity of product use have a large Madagascar, Mauritius, Moldova, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, impact on the customer experience. Dominican Republic, Romania, United Kingdom, Senegal, Slovakia and Tunisia). The 450 “champions” identiﬁed in the In particular, there was signiﬁcant progress in Spain, where 2012 edition of the awards met up in Marrakesh, Morocco the customer experience improvement initiative introduced for a seminar. three years ago with over 100 dedicated staff yielded results commensurate with the efforts made: customer satisfaction up 21%, complaints down 78%, average resolution time down 65%, and churn rate down 64%! a world lived in trust Z general public satisfaction intention to recommend (average score out of 100) broadband Internet mobile services 90 100 75 90 2008 60 2009 80 2010 45 2011 70 30 2012 60 item reviewed 15 by Deloitte: reasonnable level of assurance ce land in ce Po d in ium an Do Slo va tri a an Sp a an lan Sp a ia mi va kia ldo Au Fr Po Fr Be lg Ro nican Mo s m Repu blic Ar m en ia Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 59 3 a world lived in trust becoming the customers’ choice focus Orange Spain insources Europe's largest customer service centre With a view to improving service quality whilst helping to centre was reintegrated, 25% of employees had already protect jobs, in 2012 Orange Spain decided to insource taken training in customer relations. The new centre aims the call centre located in Oviedo, which was previously to enhance customer satisfaction, particularly in the use managed by an external company. The centre, which of smartphones and tablets, and become the benchmark employs 800 people and handles some four million calls for customer service. The first customer satisfaction a year, was totally revamped to become one of the most surveys held directly with customers produced some modern call centres in Spain. Just a few months after the excellent results. Z breakdown of number of customers (in millions) 80 70 60 50 40 Internet 30 Fixed-line 20 Mobile 10 ce lan d ain um an ia kia va en ia lic ga l li Ma t as t yp an n oo ch an Sp lgi va ldo ub ne Co Eg rd er tri Fr Po Be m Ro Slo Mo m Ar ep Se ry Jo m Au nR Ivo Ca ca ini m Do focus Orange Business Services: the world's ﬁrst ICT supplier to comply with new ISO and ISAE audit and assurance standards The ISO 20000:2011 and ISAE 3402 standards recognise a new worldwide standard designed to assess the reliability world-class service management. of service providers' internal control systems.This dual certification in global industrial standards guarantees the Orange Business Services is the first information Group's customers excellence in terms of both procedures and communication technology (ICT) supplier to be and services, through the implementation of controls and simultaneously certified at global level according to the new protection measures that are necessary to provide them service management standard ISO 20000: 2011 and ISAE with the highest possible levels of satisfaction. (International Standard on Assurance Engagements) 3402, 60 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 3.1.2. simplifying the telecommunications experience a world lived in trust becoming the customers’ choice 3 In a changing world where technology is more and more pervasive, customers are looking for solutions and services that are close at hand and that make their day-to-day lives easier. The Group decided to focus on the reliability and the simplicity focus of its offerings and to develop efﬁcient support services to service quality recognised accompany its customers throughout their user journey. by multiple awards simplified catalogues the following are some examples of the awards won in 2012: To keep pace with new functionality and changing customer needs, new services are launched every year. In order to make ■ Orange, No.1 mobile network in France for the third simplicity the essence of the customer experience, Orange time: the official report by the French regulatory has been working on a programme to simplify its catalogues authority for posts and electronic communications (pruning) for three years, with the ambitious aim of reducing its (ARCEP) on the quality of voice and data services of current offering by 40%. 1,200 offerings were “pruned” in 2012 mobile operators (2G and 3G) in Metropolitan France, for a total of over 2,400 offerings eliminated from the catalogues published on 30 November 2012, confirmed that since the programme began. In 2012 the pruning process was Orange provides its 27 million customers with the expanded to include the Dominican Republic and countries best mobile network, achieving first place on twice as in the AMEA region such as Jordan, Madagascar, Egypt many criteria as its nearest competitor; and Senegal. Simplifying our offering also entails developing bundled packages that combine ﬁxed-line telephone, cell ■ Orange Business Services, three-time winner at the phone, television and Internet services. These packages include 2012 World Communication Awards: Best Global the Open plan, which has already attracted 3 million customers Operator, Best Cloud Service and the Users' Choice in France, or ﬂexible solutions such as the Animals line, a Award. These awards confirm Orange Business segmented plan that can be tailored to customers’ needs. Services' leading position in terms of customer satisfaction, innovative cloud solutions and service In France the Origami line has also been revamped to highlight performance on a global scale; this offering and to make it clearer and more attractive. a world lived in trust ■ Data Communications Service Provider of the Year 25 testing centres 2012 in the Asia-Pacific region: for the second year running, Orange Business Services was named With four new centres opened in 2012, in Belgium, Jordan, Data Communications Service Provider of the Year Tunisia and Mauritius, the Simplicity network now has a total of 2012 at the Asia Pacific ICT Awards, organised 25 testing centres in countries that have adopted the “time to by international market research and technology market” process. Centres will be opened in Kenya and Armenia analysts Frost & Sullivan; in early 2013. ■ five awards won at the 2012 AfricaCom Awards: These testing centres are used to assess customers’ perception Orange received five awards at the AfricaCom of the level of simplicity of offerings at each stage of the customer Awards, an annual ceremony that rewards the most experience (understanding of the offering, pre-purchase/signremarkable innovation and achievements across the up, at purchase/sign-up, at installation and use, at payment, telecoms industry in Africa. Orange won the Best when making different types of customer service requests, etc.). Innovative Service award for its Deezer service, In 2012, more than 600 offerings were tested in the centres, which was launched in Mauritius in May 2012 and up 10% from 2011. This ﬁgure encompasses 1,500 “customer in Côte d'Ivoire in June 2012. Orange was also moments” that were analysed and 10,000 customer problems awarded second prize in four other categories of the that were diagnosed. AfricaCom Awards: Best Quality User Experience for its VOICES project launched in Mali and Best In addition to reviewing the Company’s services offering-byNetwork improvement for its Internet For All service offering, testing centre by testing centre, four years of testing launched in Uganda. conducted in eleven countries (Botswana, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, France, Morocco, Dominican Republic, Senegal and Romania) were analysed and revealed that customers do not clearly understand pricing systems and beneﬁts as communicated to them prior to sale. As a result of this ﬁnding, an initiative was launched to improve the pre-sale information phase and to take the multilingualism and illiteracy prevalent in these countries into account. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 61 3 a world lived in trust becoming the customers’ choice Other actions carried out in 2012: ■ Orange Dominicana’s Santo Domingo testing centre has adopted the “what’s hot” programme, based on a ■ the Warsaw (Poland) and Chişinău (Moldova) testing centres methodology developed in France. This programme provides have developed new tests to gauge the simplicity of the real-time reporting of problems encountered each time an customer experience, whether customers are simply getting offering is launched and suggests corrective actions. information or signing up for a plan, at points of sale; ■ the Antananarivo testing centre has developed a test to assess customers’ understanding of marketing materials; Z number of simplicity tests per year 583 541 357 291 214 111 125 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 focus optimised customer journeys At year-end 2012, the programme to simplify the customer Orange receives the Janus du Commerce 2012 experience encompassed 24 national subsidiaries and had award for its Très Grandes Boutiques resulted in 100 improvement projects. These projects include This prize, sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, the launch of a new service to assist users with transferring Finance and Foreign Trade, was awarded to Orange their Internet services when moving, creation of the “My ﬁrst in 2012 by the French Design Institute for its Très smartphone” plan, the opening of a new customer service Grandes Boutiques: a new, innovative distribution centre in Kenya and a revamped electronic billing system in concept dedicated to service and the customer Poland. The Group launched 15 processes to improve the experience based on digital interactivity. The Très business customer experience as well in 2012. Grandes Boutiques stores are based on four key On October 23, 2012 the Group recognised the ﬁve best concepts: customer welcome, experience sections for projects for simpliﬁcation of the customer experience out of a TV, music, sport and online gaming, customer support total of 36 projects, all customer tested, from 15 countries. and interactivity through electronically-tagged, free-totry devices. The teams are trained to offer impeccable service quality and guide visitors through every stage applications to make life easier of the digital experience. The jury also rewarded To supplement direct interaction with customers over the phone the concept's eco-design, which was produced in or in stores, Orange also worked to quickly launch so-called partnership with the WWF. “service apps” such as Orange et moi, Orange Connect and Assistance Livebox. These applications allow customers the option of managing their services and connectivity and of troubleshooting any technical issues on their own, if they so desire. Already in use in France, Spain, the Dominican Republic and Romania, Orange et moi was launched in Slovakia, Poland and Belgium in 2012. 62 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange key dates a world lived in trust becoming the customers’ choice 3 2004 2010 ■ simplicity+ programme launched. ■ CET integrated into the formula for calculating the bonuses awarded to top management; 2006 ■ quality committees established; ■ ﬁrst three customer testing centres opened in France and Poland. ■ new customer testing centres opened in Madagascar, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, Romania and Slovakia; 2008 ■ CET (Customer Experience Tracker) launched to assess ■ Customer Experience Simpliﬁcation Programme launched. customer experience across all markets; 2012 ■ new customer testing centres opened in Spain and Egypt. ■ new customer testing centres opened in Belgium, Jordan, Tunisia and Mauritius; ■ 24 countries with over 100 projects under the Customer Experience Simpliﬁcation Programme. focus Orange Tunisia focuses on simpliﬁcation As part of the implementation of the 2015 Customer Secondly, a number of long-term initiatives were Experience programme, Orange Tunisia launched an implemented: revamp of postpaid offers, a new initiative to simplify the in-store customer buying process, communication plan, training for sales advisors and with a pilot project designed to simplify the process for new, clearer and easier-to-read bills. Key to the success contract customers. The main aspect to be optimised was of the project was the commitment from people, with a world lived in trust waiting time. With a view to boosting customer loyalty, all departments taking part in a collaborative process Orange Tunisia set itself the ambitious target of cutting that helped foster a real culture of improvement for the waiting times by 30%. To achieve this, the sales team was customer experience. bolstered and time-consuming activities were delegated to the back office. Demonstration smartphones were also made available to customers to give them something fun to do whilst waiting. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 63 3 a world lived in trust 3.2. communicating with peace of mind Personal data protection is a growing concern among customers. Orange strives to be a leader in this respect. As part of its Global Safety Policy, the Group monitors and controls risks across all stages starting with the offering design phase. It puts tools in place to ensure data security and privacy for its customers. 3.2.1. a comprehensive data security security solutions for customers system Besides internal measures implemented to protect the security and conﬁdentiality of data, Orange offers its individual and Every day, a massive volume of important and conﬁdential business customers a comprehensive range of security solutions data is exchanged on the Internet and on mobile telephones. helping to facilitate electronic exchanges whilst providing endTo protect this data from the threats inherent to information to-end protection: and communication technologies (spam, virus, phishing, etc.), the Group has drawn up a strict set of ofﬁcial principles, a few examples: implemented a security management system and developed tools to ensure that electronic data is exchanged in a secure ■ in 2012, the Group partnered with Thales to create manner. Cloudwatt: a company that offers secure, robust corporate cloud computing services using cutting-edge computing a global security policy infrastructures, such as the Normandy computing centre located in Val-de-Reuil, France; Information security is one of the three cornerstones of the Group’s Global Security Policy. Spearheaded by the Group ■ in September 2012, Orange Moldova launched the ﬁrst Security Department, this policy is regularly reviewed to take mobile-based government e-service with the assistance of any new risks into account. In 2012 Orange developed a draft Technocentre. 100% secure thanks to a certiﬁcate integrated security policy for the protection of personal data to supplement into the SIM card of each mobile device, this solution paves its Global Security Policy. Distributed to security experts in every the way for a new generation of government services; country, this new policy aims to establish a common Group-wide framework inspired by the requirements set forth in European ■ in France Orange joined forces with world digital security Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of personal data. leader Gemalto for the large-scale launch of a SIM-based near ﬁeld communication solution that makes it possible to managing security risks deploy contactless mobile services on the mass market. “SIM UpTeq NFC” is the ﬁrst solution on the market to offer a level To anticipate data security threats and to take these threats into of security on par with chip and PIN payment cards; consideration when developing new products and services, France Telecom-Orange applies a method for assessing ■ Orange Business Services is helping the Centre Hospitalier major risks known as High Level Risk Assessment or HLRA. Régional Universitaire de Montpellier (university hospital Since 2012 this method has been part of the Group-wide centre of Montpellier) to digitise its patient data and establish “Time to Market” launch process for new offerings. It is used an electronic medical record system. The hospital wanted by all marketing entities to help increase awareness of data an environment that would meet medical data security protection and security factors across all stages starting with requirements laid down by the Shared Healthcare Information the offering design phase. Systems Agency (ASIP Santé). Orange uses its Flexible Computing Santé solution to securely host the electronic As part of the security management system, in compliance medical records. with the ISO 2700x standards, each country has established processes to assess risks and implement any necessary security measures. focus As part of security audits (full security, business continuity plan, a governance committee on personal data data security, etc.) carried out internally by the Group’s Auditing In order to ensure that the issues relating to personal Department within the countries and entities and communicated data protection are taken into account at the highest to the Group Security Department, the security management level of the company, a governance committee was system is regularly reviewed and corrective and preventative created, governed by the members of the Executive action plans are developed in response to any incidents or nonCommittee. Its role is to supervise the Group's key conformities identiﬁed in the audit report. actions reconciling the use of personal data with the guarantee of protection to which Orange is committed. Its first meeting is scheduled for March 2013. 64 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a world lived in trust communicating with peace of mind 3 focus ■ employees are regularly reminded of personal data protection requirements; Business VPN End Users: securing remote access to information systems ■ all contracts with suppliers and partners include a speciﬁc clause on the protection of personal data, if applicable. With the growth of combined professional and personal uses in the workplace, user terminals are more varied and less controlled. IT Systems managers are thus well-informed customers faced with a tricky task: guaranteeing the security of We regularly provide practical advice to customers to heighten computer data whilst allowing access to IT networks their awareness of risks and promote safe, responsible uses irrespective of location and work tools. To support that will help to protect their personal data, namely under these new practices, in October 2012 Orange Business the security section on the Orange Assistance website Services launched Business VPN End Users : a new, (http://assistance.orange.fr). scalable and modular solution to secure remote access to IT systems via smartphones, tablets and computers, For companies, the Orange Business Services Security blog at low cost. (http://www.orange-business.com/fr/blogs/securite) allows experts to share experiences and best practices in relation to digital security. a stronger commitment 3.2.2. greater protection of personal data In March 2012, the Group made ﬁrm commitments vis-à-vis the European Commission to help strengthen protection of its The development of social networks, online shopping, mobile customers’ personal data. marketing and cloud-based data storage has given rise to major new challenges in terms of personal data protection. The This commitment will be reﬂected in projects such as a personal Group has adopted a series of speciﬁc measures to protect the dashboard to be made available to all clients by 2015, allowing personal information of its customers and employees. them to access the personal information used by Orange. a world lived in trust the “data protection officer”, a key component key dates Since 2006, France Telecom-Orange has been one of the few companies in its sector to appoint a data protection ofﬁcer in 2006-2007 charge of ensuring that its customers’ and employees’ personal ■ publication of a Group-wide global security policy and information are safely protected. Working under the Group’s deployment of a security management system throughout Legal Affairs Director, the data protection ofﬁcer is the dedicated the Group in compliance with the ISO 27001 standard; contact person, in France, for the French data privacy authority (Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et des Libertés, CNIL), ■ appointment of a data protection ofﬁcer in charge of the France’s regulatory body in this area. Outside of France, the protection of personal data. ofﬁcer works with a network of correspondents throughout the international subsidiaries to help enforce data protection 2008 guidelines via Group-wide projects. The ofﬁcer also participates ■ publication of the Conﬁdential Code, an internal charter in many presentations, seminars and projects outside the translated into eight languages that sets out rules for the Company that aim to encourage the sharing of best practices protection of private information. among companies that want to understand and equip themselves to overcome challenges related to the globalisation 2012 of personal data exchange. ■ establishment of a Governance Committee on personal data. strict measures Rigorous measures are implemented in all countries: ■ the Group has implemented systems to keep updated lists of people identiﬁed and authorised to access the databases containing customers’ personal information; ■ the identity of database users is controlled using strict authentication processes; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 65 3 a world lived in trust 3.3. supporting children and young people towards safe and responsible use of new technologies Promoting safe, responsible use of new technologies among children and adolescents is one of eight priorities set forth in the Group’s CSR policy. To meet our customers’ ever growing expectations in the area of online protection for children, Orange’s policy revolves around three principles that go hand-in-hand: ■ actively promoting responsible use by passing on clear messages and information issued by specialised institutions and associations; ■ supporting and training parents and educators to help them to better understand the tools and to create responsible reﬂexes in children; ■ improving and increasing the visibility of TV-, computerand mobile-based parental control tools as the digital world evolves. 3.3.1. an international commitment These awareness-raising actions address three main target groups: In partnership with national, European and international organisations, Orange is involved in efforts to establish the ■ the Group’s 170,000 employees: these employees are basic principles necessary to make the Internet a safer place of directly impacted if they are parents or future parents and children and adolescents. thus represent the best ambassadors for safe, responsible use of technology among customers; To this end, Orange is a member of the following initiatives: ■ customers in any and all markets; ■ the Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content, an initiative launched in 2008 by the GSM Association, ■ the general public. which represents 850 mobile phone carriers throughout 218 countries around the world; Orange is a partner of the international NGO FOSI, or Family Online Safety Institute, which works to make the Internet safer ■ the CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for children and their families. The Group participates in FOSI’s for kids, an initiative launched by Neelie Kroes, European studies to promote a culture of online responsibility and to Commissioner for the Digital Agenda. This coalition gets encourage digital citizenship. high-level ofﬁcials from the information and communication technologies value chain involved in the effort to promote The Group also has been lending its support to Safer Internet child safety; Day for three years. This event sponsored by the European network Insafe promotes proper Internet use and works to put ■ the ICT Coalition, which brings together 26 companies young people in control of their digital life. in the information and communication technologies sector around a set of guidelines to increase online safety for children and adolescents; 3.3.3. helping parents and education ■ in February 2012, Orange signed the Privacy Design Aside from awareness-raising, Orange aims to assist parents Guidelines for Mobile Applications. and educators monitor and teach proper online behaviour among young people. a few examples: 3.3.2. sharing expert recommendations Orange has been working for many years to share ■ in Armenia, Orange formed a partnership with the Armenian recommendations published by institutions, associations and Committee for a Safer Internet (www.safe.am) to train IT recognised experts in the ﬁeld of safe, responsible Internet use. teachers in secondary schools; The Group has designed a series of materials providing clear, ■ in Moldova, Orange has joined forces with the NGO PRO targeted information to different groups, such as parents’ guides Info to train 60 IT teachers and Orange employees in child and dedicated websites, and also carries out awareness-raising safety on the Internet; campaigns, workshops, round-table discussions, etc. 66 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange focus a world lived in trust supporting children and young people towards safe and responsible use of new technologies 3 CEO Coalition to make the internet a better place for kids: concrete progress After the CEO Coalition's statement of intent was signed, 5. effective takedown of child sexual abuse material. Orange worked with the 30 other signatories to draw up Following these joint efforts, carried out in liaison with concrete measures focusing on five action areas: representatives of civil society, Orange undertook to implement 1. simple and robust reporting tools; a range of concrete actions across the whole of its European scope by the end of 2013. 2. age-appropriate privacy settings; Orange's commitments can be consulted at www.orange.com/ 3. wider use of content classification; en/responsibility/ensure-transparency-quality-and-security4. wider availability and use of parental controls; for-all/promoting-safe-and-responsible-uses-for-the-young. ■ in 2012, Orange Romania carried out a large-scale key dates awareness-raising campaign known as e-sign. As part of this campaign, Orange held six discussion groups 2005 with children and 20 education sessions on online safety, ■ publication by a number of European subsidiaries of guides developed ten informational videos and organised round for parents on the subject of children and cell phones. tables in ﬁve cities to promote these educational materials. Overall, 200 students have participated in the education 2007 sessions and round tables, with involvement from over ■ signing of the European Framework for Safer Mobile Use by 140 teachers. Hands-on workshops were also held for the Young Teenagers and Children. children of Orange employees; ■ in 2012, Orange France established the parents’ course, a 2008 series of practical training activities held in Orange stores ■ contribution within GSMA to the launch of the Mobile Alliance focusing on online child safety. Over 1,500 parents signed Against Child Sexual Abuse Content. a world lived in trust up for 134 workshops organised in 19 French cities in 2012. These workshops presented two training modules, parental 2011 control and responsible use of social networks. A new ■ Orange joined the CEO Coalition and ICT Coalition. programme will be launched beginning in March 2013; ■ Orange Spain implemented a new family portal in late 2012 2012 named Navega Seguro. Its purpose is to give parents and ■ signature of the Privacy Design Guidelines for Mobile educators a frame of reference for proper use of the Internet. Applications from the GSMA. focus 3.3.4. content control tools Protect Children: a new application Well aware of how people are using digital media in new for smartphones and tablets in Spain ways and how the use of smartphones and connected TV is exploding among young people, even among the very In Spain, Orange took part, alongside Telefonica, young, Orange is working tirelessly to better protect children Vodafone and Yoigo and in cooperation with the NGO and adolescents. In 2012 the Group drew up an exhaustive Protégeles, in the launch of Protect Children, a new inventory of the protection tools offered throughout all of its mobile application for smartphones and tablets that European subsidiaries. The ﬁndings from this inventory will be allows customers to report offensive content simply and used as tips to make these tools more effective and to simplify anonymously. parents’ lives by offering them easier-to-use applications and software. Orange’s engineers and technicians are constantly working to improve these services across all of our channels. As technologies converge, risks multiply and spread from computers to cell phones and TVs, and it is important to deal with the issue as a whole. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 67 3 a world lived in trust 3.4. responding to concerns about radio waves The massive development and use of cell phones and the erection of cell phone antennae has given rise to some concerns on the possible ill effects of radio waves on health. The Group considers these valid questions and strives to provide the clearest answers possible. The Group’s radio wave policy aims to ensure that business can grow sustainably by taking a variety of different considerations into account. The expansion of wireless networks must be well thought out, stakeholders need to be properly informed and the general public and employees must be protected from the potential effects of electromagnetic waves. 3.4.1. clear commitments on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection, an international commission afﬁliated with the World Health Organisation, The Group has had a radio wave policy in place for several www.icnirp.de). All cell phones sold by the Group have a years; this policy can be broken down into the following ﬁve SAR* (Speciﬁc Absorption Rate) below 2 W/kg. Cell phone main objectives: antennae are regularly tested by subsidiaries to ensure they adhere to national regulations or, in the absence thereof, to 1. provide clear information to all parties concerned by the limits set forth by the ICNIRP. The results are published radio wave issues: Orange monitors the results of scientiﬁc on the websites of the national regulatory bodies, where studies, keeps stakeholders continuously informed via applicable; different communication channels (Internet, extranet, seminars and ﬂyers) and enters into open discussions with 4. promote proper use of cell phones: Orange encourages local authorities, residents and consumers concerned by appropriate use of cell phones by providing an earbud kit radio waves and communication technologies; with each device purchased and by using various channels and materials to educate customers on the proper use of 2. contribute to research efforts: the Group provides indirect cell phones (website, brochures, etc.); ﬁnancial support to research projects, giving public health authorities complete freedom and independence to allocate 5. apply a Group policy on radio waves in the workplace, the funds to the studies of their choosing. The Group also which: uses its technological expertise in the ﬁelds of dosimetry and metrology to contribute to various European projects such ■ anticipates the implementation of European Council as FP7, Mobikids and LEXNET or to French projects such Directive 2004-40 concerning minimum provisions aimed as the ANR’s (the French national research agency’s) Fetus at promoting an improvement in the level of health and project, Mobiexpo and Acte (analysis and characterisation safety protection for workers, of very young children to LTE wireless communication systems, a programme led by Orange). As regards the ■ sets out the goals to be achieved, the principles to be establishment of standards, the Group is involved in various complied with and the basic values to be adopted so that international working groups (Cenelec, ITU, IEC) working employees are informed about, and protected from, the to develop transparent methodologies that are viable on a potential effects of radio waves. technical level; To supervise the application of its policy, the Group formed a 3. comply with regulations on cell phones and antennae: dedicated oversight body – the Radio Wave Committee – that if there are no national regulations in force, the Group works with a network of radio wave ofﬁcers appointed in each asks its subsidiaries to apply the recommendations and country. A resource centre serves as a “one-stop shop” for limits set forth by the ICNIRP (International Commission information on radio wave issues. focus support missions in AMEA zone subsidiaries To support the deployment of its radio waves policy, also presented its radio waves policy at the first meeting the Group's CSR Department provides technical and of the association of Tunisian operators (A3T), which methodological support to its subsidiaries. Several support was attended by the Tunisian Minister of Information missions were completed in 2012 in countries within the Technology and Communication and a number of Tunisian AMEA zone: national institutions; ■ in Tunisia, the Group put Orange Tunisia in touch with ■ in Senegal, France Telecom-Orange supported Sonatel the French developers of a software application used in publicising proper cell phone use on the subsidiary's to simulate residents' exposure to cell phone antennae. e-commerce website. These usage recommendations, set Orange Tunisia is currently assessing the simulations, out by the Group based on the recommendations of the which will be used to inform populations of their exposure competent authorities, allow customers to reduce their level before installing new cell phone antennae. The Group exposure to cell phones if they so desire. 68 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a world lived in trust responding to concerns about radio waves 3 Tunisia Iraq Morocco United Kingdom Poland Jordan Belgium Egypt Luxembourg Slovakia Mali Niger France Austria Moldova Senegal Guinea-Bissau Romania Central African Guinea Republic Cameroon Ivory Coast Equatorial Uganda Spain Armenia Guinea Kenya Congo Dominican Republic Caraïbes Madagascar International ICNIRP recommendations Botswana Orange applies the international ICNIRP recommendations other local legislation followed by Orange Mauritius Reunion Vanuatu key dates a world lived in trust 1994 ■ formalisation of the Group’s policy on radio waves and ■ development of a dosimetric technique for mobile telephony creation of communication tools; by France Telecom researchers (electromagnetic ﬁeld ■ Orange extended the inclusion of a hands-free kit in all its measurement method); packs to subsidiaries using its mobile catalogue. ■ ﬁrst Group colloquium on radio waves. 2010 2002 ■ development of a Group policy on radio waves in the ■ Orange was the ﬁrst international carrier to include a handsworkplace setting forth the Group’s key guidelines. free kit in all packs sold by its French subsidiary. 2012 2007 ■ creation of a centralised Group resource centre for information ■ appointment of an ofﬁcer responsible for radio waves at on radio wave-related issues. Group level and establishment of a network of radio wave correspondents in all subsidiaries that didn’t yet have one; * The speciﬁc absorbtion rate or SAR is a measurement that denotes the amount of energy carried by the radiofrequencies emitted by an electronic radio device (e.g. cell phone) toward a user when this device is operating at full power under worst-case conditions. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 69 3 a world lived in trust 3.5. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 3.5.1. 2012 review Objective deadline main achievements in 2012 customer experience customer relations 2012 ■ programme launched to develop the behavioural skills of the Group’s As part of the aim of offering employees who are in contact with customers to improve service; the best customer experience ■ programme launched to simplify the customer experience, covering in 2015, strengthen the Group’s 24 national subsidiaries; over 100 individual customer experiences action plans to: analysed; improvement plans deﬁned and implemented; ■ mobilise all Group business ■ new testing centres opened, for a total of 25 centres for customer lines to improve service testing of new products and services prior to launch; quality; ■ services apps (Orange et Moi, Orange Connect, Livebox assistance) ■ simplify and segment our deployed to provide customers with personalised, automated support, offerings; available any time, to help them manage their services or connectivity ■ facilitate the customer sales or to troubleshoot when devices fail; and after-sales relationship in ■ network service quality monitored and optimised; named the “best all our channels; mobile network” in France by Arcep in 2012; ■ provide the correct support ■ Mobinil call centre certiﬁed under the COPC standard; for customers throughout ■ personalised recommendations provided to post-paid mobile their journey with Orange, customers in various countries to suggest changes to their contract together with a fair reward for and better meet their needs. their loyalty. ■ analyse CET results with 2012 ■ pilot project deployed in Slovakia to analyse correlations between the new CSR components CSR perceptions and changes identiﬁed by the Customer Experience to identify any correlations Tracker (CET). between the CSR and customer satisfaction. ■ deﬁne action plans for each 2012 ■ customer sponsors named in major countries; Quality Committees country on the basis of the formed at the Group level to oversee the quality and customer main points of progress experience improvement programmes carried out in the Group’s identiﬁed. countries and entities. responsible communications 2012 ■ communications academy founded in January 2012, including a three■ roll out responsible hour responsible communications module, for the Orange Group’s communications practices by communications and marketing employees; holding training courses and ■ brand managers (representing the Group’s Brand Department in their appointing an “ambassador” respective countries) trained; in each country in which the ■ responsible continuous improvement strategy developed by the Events, Group is present; Cultural and Corporate Partnerships and Solidarity Department: ■ extend the “responsible ■ six priorities and 12 operational commitments deﬁned; consistent approach to events” to all reporting system established based on 12 indicators, major internal and external ■ operational tools created to support teams (toolkit, best practices kit, events initiated by the leaﬂet, online reporting tool). Group’s communications teams. 70 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a world lived in trust 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 3 Objective deadline main achievements in 2012 security and personal data protection security standards 2012 ■ Group Security Standard drawn up and disseminated as part of 2012 ■ deﬁne a set of standard rules reporting. This standard explains the minimum security requirements to be to be applied by each Group applied throughout the Group to ensure data security, physical security and entity: organisation that mirrors personal security in consideration of country-speciﬁc risks. Special attention corporate, rules of governance, was paid to ensuring that the Group’s sensitive data is secure, especially suite of security policies. personal data. data security 2012 ■ initial version of the security policy for the protection of personal data ■ publish and deploy a more distributed amongst the Group’s security experts; robust data protection policy; ■ roll-out of the Public Key Infrastructure programme and encryption ■ accelerate the deployment tools in 2012 (France, Jordan, Moldova, Tunisia, Romania, Poland, of authentication and Sofrecom and Orange Business Services). encryption techniques within the Group. protection of privacy 2012 ■ Governance Committee established, led by members of the Executive ■ roll out, communicate on Committee, in order to oversee major Group undertakings related to and deploy the Group policy the importance and guarantee of personal data protection (ﬁrst meeting relating to the protection of held on January 21, 2013); a world lived in trust privacy; ■ technical recommendations guide deﬁned to guarantee the protection ■ increase the amount of and integrity of personal data; information provided for ■ personal cloud services expanded for the general public using secure, our customers on the risks eco-friendly infrastructure; and correct use of mobile ■ launch of Cloudwatt, a company founded by Orange and Thales to phones; provide companies with secure, robust cloud computing services ■ in addition to the personal using cutting-edge computing infrastructures, such as the Normandy cloud, provide companies computing centre in France. throughout the EU with secure access to high quality services from eco-designed data centres located in Europe; guarantee at all times to our customers the full ownership and easy, secure retrieval of their data (reversibility). ■ provide Orange customers 2012-2015 ■ speciﬁcations developed for the functionality of the forthcoming with the right to control, dashboard, designed to allow customers to better manage their check and manage the personal data; personal information they ■ technical feasibility studies carried out. provide on Orange platforms, for all services managed by Orange; provide them with a dashboard of their personal data by 2015. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 71 3 a world lived in trust 2012 review and 2013 roadmap Objective deadline main achievements in 2012 promoting safe and responsible uses safe and responsible usages 2012 ■ decision made to establish an Orange Society Forum, which will begin ■ establish an international work in early 2013; forum involving scientists and ■ collectif du temps (time collective) initiative launched in France in practitioners from various April 2012 to provide an open forum to reconcile day-to-day life and disciplines to monitor the the digital world, real time and virtual time. dedicated website launched impact of digital immersion to mark the occasion. on individual and collective behaviour. child protection 2012-2013 ■ resources centre accessible to all Group entities created; ■ create a resource centre ■ active participation by the Group in the CEO Coalition to make to train and help countries the Internet a better place for kids sponsored by the European to strengthen their child Commission; protection and support ■ child safety assessment carried out covering all European subsidiaries activities in the face of the of Orange in order to better integrate this factor into the Group’s risks inherent in the digital marketing efforts; sphere; ■ new offers devised and prepared at the Group level, taking child safety ■ contribute actively to the considerations into account from the design phase; CEO Coalition to make the ■ speciﬁc operations launched by the European subsidiaries as part Internet a better place for of Safer Internet Day; kids; ■ GSMA Mobile Privacy Initiative Developers Guidelines for Mobile ■ promote the use of Applications signed in February 2012. offerings meeting parents’ requirements. radio waves ■ create a common resources 2012 ■ resource centre (technical support team and extranet access to centre to share good essential operational documents) created in collaboration with Orange practices. France; ■ various missions carried out throughout the year to bring subsidiaries (Tunisia, Moldova, etc.) up to the standards. ■ hold a seminar on radio 2012 ■ operation postponed until 2013 so as to include the Group HR waves in the AMEA zone. Department’s work related to health and safety and protection of workers; ■ radio wave seminar held in Paris with participation from Egypt, Mali, Senegal, Spain and France. 72 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 3.5.2. 2013 roadmap a world lived in trust 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 3 objectives deadline customer experience As part of the aim of offering the best customer experience in 2015, strengthen the Group’s action 2013 plans to: ■ simplify and segment our offerings and provide clearer explanations of the customer beneﬁts associated with each plan, especially as concerns high capacity broadband services (4G and ﬁber); ■ develop loyalty offers; ■ simplify the customer experience and technical architecture; ■ mobilise all Group business lines to improve service quality; ■ facilitate the customer sales and after-sales relationship in all our channels (stores, call centres, online channels and social networks). responsible communications communications academy 2013 ■ continue training sessions on responsible communication as part of the communications academy; ■ incorporate this training module as a requirement in the training programme followed by new employees. responsible approach to events 2013 ■ have the event-based communications teams in France adopt this approach. promoting safe and responsible uses ■ develop a plan for the sessions of the Orange Society Forum focusing on major social challenges; ■ spotlight the Forum and make sure that the information and recommendations it develops are publicised; a world lived in trust ■ continue to train and help countries to strengthen their child protection and support activities in the face of the risks inherent in the digital sphere via the resource centre; 2013 ■ launch initial offerings designed with families in mind; ■ implement targeted marketing/communication actions on the topic of digital parenting; ■ apply the guidelines of the CEO Coalition to Make the Internet a Better Place for Kids within Orange. radio waves ■ expand the common resources centre to share good practice; ■ launch a dedicated website; ■ provide training to countries on health and safety aspects; 2013 ■ conduct an audit (with risk assessment) in AMEA countries; ■ support and educate less-developed countries in this regard. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 73 4 an accessible world 4.1. combating the geographic digital divide To bring the beneﬁts of the digital world to everybody everywhere, France Telecom-Orange’s investments target four complementary areas: ■ developing infrastructures to extend the coverage of ﬁxed and mobile networks; ■ rolling out alternative solutions for remote areas; ■ expanding the network of submarine ﬁber optic cables to improve Internet connectivity for Africa, the Middle East and the Indian subcontinent; ■ carrying out an in-depth renovation of the networks and their equipment and deploying new technologies (ﬁber, 4G) meeting requirements for increased bandwidth. 4.1.1. extending network coverage cables to connect Africa One of Orange’s main responsibilities is to build the best Africa continues to be one of the continents that is less possible network for its customers. well-endowed when it comes to network infrastructures. Orange is making an active contribution to major projects to lay In developed countries, where mature technologies already submarine ﬁber optic broadband cables to improve the capacity enjoy broad coverage for both mobile and ﬁxed line broadband, and quality of Internet connectivity in Africa, the Indian Ocean, coverage is being improved by entering into pooling agreements the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent. Following the with other operators and introducing alternative solutions for EASSy (Eastern Africa Submarine System) and IMEWE (India isolated areas, in partnership with the local authorities. Middle East Western Europe) cables, which were commissioned in 2010, the Group installed two new submarine cables in 2012: In emerging countries, the challenge is to establish – rapidly and at a controlled cost – coverage enabling the greatest possible ■ LION2: this cable, which was put into operation on April 12, number of potential customers to access the services available. 2012, brings broadband service for the ﬁrst time to Mayotte and improves Kenya’s connectivity. LION2 represents the second phase of France Telecom’s broadband Internet alternative solutions for isolated areas expansion plan in the Indian Ocean and supplements the To help open up isolated areas, where technical or economic LION (Lower Indian Ocean Network) cable launched in limitations prevent the deployment of ADSL technology, the late 2009; Group offers alternative innovative solutions including satellite Internet in France, Internet connection via the mobile network in ■ ACE (Africa Coast to Europe): this cable, which was put Africa, the Middle East and in emerging European nations, etc. into operation in December 2012, required 12,000 km of ﬁber optic cables to connect 13 countries (France, Portugal, The deployment of solar-powered sites also helps to develop Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, access to communications in rural areas without access to Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Sao the electrical grid, whilst at the same time preserving the Tomé & Principe). Two landlocked countries, Mali and Niger, environment. With 300 new solar-powered sites installed will also be served by this cable through a land-based in 2012, the Group now has more than 2,300 solar-powered extension. Nigeria will also be connected to this cable sites across 20 countries in which the Group is present, in 2013. The current phase is only the ﬁrst step in a plan that including 15 countries in Africa and the Middle East, making will eventually have the ACE cable running 17,000 km and it possible for isolated villages without electricity to access connecting seven additional countries: the Canary Islands telecommunications. (Spain), Benin, Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Namibia and South Africa. Another unique solution to provide community access to telecommunications in isolated villages is the community focus phone. The concept is simple: a hook-up kit including an aerial, a cell phone and a solar battery charger. Previously deployed Internet For All in Uganda in Mali, Niger, Côte d’Ivoire and the Central African Republic, in 2012 this solution was brought to two new countries, In November 2012, Orange Uganda launched its Internet Cameroon and Madagascar, for a total of 2,500 villages For All offer, extending web access to the country's rural equipped with a community phone. areas using parabolic antennas to relay 3G signals. This project won the Best Network Improvement award at the AfricaCom 2012 awards, which recognise the most remarkable innovations and achievements in the African telecoms industry. 74 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange an accessible world combating the geographic digital divide 4 focus high capacity mobile broadband The fourth generation of mobile networks: LTE (Long Term investments bearing fruit in Romania Evolution), commonly known as 4G, is designed to provide In Romania, 2012 was marked by the completion of the the best performance, greater capacities and lower costs in an rural network modernisation programme, which ensures environment where data exchange is growing strongly. 3G network coverage for 99.7% of the population The Group plans to deploy 4G in all European countries were (compared with 55% previously). Orange Romania was Orange operates by 2015. named among the operators providing networks with the best upload speed. ■ in France, Orange has rolled out 4G coverage in Marseilles, Lille, Lyon and Nantes, as well as in Paris’ Opéra neighbourhood in January 2013. 15 more cities will be covered by April 2013, Initial 4G services were launched in late 2012 to professional bringing 3G to emerging countries and corporate customers, while 4G will begin to be available In developing countries, especially in Africa, where copper to the general public during the ﬁrst quarter of 2013; networks are scarce, 3G mobile networks are key to expanding Internet access. The Group has pledged to deploy 3G service ■ in Moldova, Orange launched its ﬁrst commercial 4G mobile in all of its African and Middle Eastern countries and to offer services in the capital city of Chişinău on November 20, 2012; mobile coverage for 80% of the population by 2015. ■ Initial 4G coverage, for tablets only, was launched in In June, Orange launched a 3G network in Côte d’Ivoire and the Bucharest, Romania on December 12, 2012; Congo, bringing the number of countries in the AMEA zone with ■ in Luxembourg, 4G applications for professionals have been 3G/3G+ technology to 15. available in the country’s capital since November 2012; ■ in the Dominican Republic, 4G service has been available 4.1.2. increased bandwidth for all in the capital, Santo Domingo, since December 2012; Mature markets are needing increasingly broad bandwidths as a result of the explosion of uses and new consumer ■ 4G was also deployed on a technical level in Belgium and requirements. The future lies in high capacity ﬁxed-line and Spain in 2012. mobile broadband, essential lever to attract customers in At the same time, the Group plans to better serve its customers different regions and countries. and improve the performance of its European mobile networks through H+ technology. This technology can be used to reach speeds three times faster than 3G+ and represents a stepping stone toward 4G. an accessible world focus Karkara Phone: more than 200 villages connected in Niger The Karkara Phone project seeks to connect the most land-based fixed network, the cost of transporting fuel remote rural areas using a community-based solution and the high costs of structure deployment. Orange has that works in areas where there is no GSM network. Since overcome these problems by using solar-powered radio its launch, Karkara Phone has enabled 234 off-network base stations. Orange Niger’s ambition is to expand this village communities across Niger to be connected, initiative over the next few years to all villages located on allowing them to benefit from mobile telecommunication the fringes of or outside the GSM coverage zone, within services for the first time. Network connection is a radius of 10 to 30 km. In 2013, the deployment will limited in these remote areas owing to the absence of a continue with 300 new kits sent out. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 75 4 an accessible world combating the geographic digital divide fixed high capacity broadband Fiber optic broadband, up to 10 times faster than ADSL key dates and capable of reaching over 100 Mbps, will encourage the 2003 emergence of new Internet and multimedia uses in the home, ■ signature in France of the national agreement on the businesses and public services. This is not only a major issue coverage of “white zones”. in regional competitiveness but also in the day-to-day life of all citizens. France Telecom-Orange has made proactive 2007 commitments in this respect. ■ launch of the programme to construct solar base stations to develop access in rural areas of African countries. ■ in France, the “La Fibre” programme is continuing with its ambitious objectives: the Group has pledged to 2009 invest 2 billion euros to ensure the coverage of 10 million households by 2015 and 15 million (i.e. 60% of households) ■ commissioning of the LION submarine cable (Indian Ocean); by 2010, in 3,600 municipalities. At year-end 2012 there ■ introduction of the ﬁrst community phones in Mali. were almost 5 million households already served by this programme in over 200 municipalities; 2011 ■ Orange has continued to expand the ﬁber optic network in ■ launch, in France, of the wholesale ﬁber offering enabling the Spain through public and private partnerships in Madrid, pooling of FTTH networks outside very densely populated Catalonia and Asturias. In June 2012 it unveiled a plan to areas and signature of FTTH network sharing agreements invest 300 million euros over the next four years to cover with Free and SFR. 1.5 million households in major cities; 2012 ■ high capacity ﬁber optic broadband is also available in ■ new FTTH network sharing agreement with Bouygues Slovakia; Telecom; ■ in conjunction with the FTTH (Fiber to the Home) initiative, ■ presentation of the Group’s commitments to the Digital VDSL2 technology makes it possible to offer high bandwidths Agenda for Europe in Brussels; and to reduce roll-out costs by partially reusing existing copper cables. As a result, since 2011 Poland has beneﬁted ■ commissioning of the ACE and LION2 submarine cables. from VDSL offerings with up to 80 Mbps in bandwidth. 76 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange an accessible world combating the geographic digital divide 4 Orange Belgium Orange Poland 94.2% 69% 99.7% 99.7% Orange Luxembourg Orange Slovakia 95% 79% 99.6% 99.8% Orange France Orange Moldova 98.6% 96.6% 99.9% 98.2% Orange Spain Orange Romania 92.2% 98.4% 99.2% 99.94% Orange Caraïbes Orange Armenia 79.6% 97.9% 96.8% 98% Dominican Republic 3G Voice outdoor population coverage 71.7% 2G Voice outdoor population coverage 95.6% Orange Morocco Orange Tunisia 50.8% 92.6% 99% 84% Orange Niger Orange Jordan 11.2% env. 50% 75% 99.8% Orange Mali Iraq 18% NA 80% 85% Orange Senegal Egypt 40% 84% 91% 99.82% Guinea Bissau Central African Republic NA NA 70% 61% an accessible world Guinea Conakry Orange Uganda 15% 37% 60% 76% Orange Ivory Coast Orange Kenya 35% 15% 94.6% 79% Orange Cameroon Orange Madagascar NA 16.1% 93.3% 68.2% Equatorial Guinea Orange Vanuatu NA 84% 92% Reunion 97.1% Orange Congo Orange Botswana 9% 51% 30% 90% Orange Mauritius 67% 99% 3G population coverage 2G population coverage Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 77 4 an accessible world 4.2. supporting local development Information and communication technologies are a major economic and social lever in developing countries. Orange is working toward three objectives to boost innovation in this area: ■ increasing access to information and communication technologies in emerging countries and mature markets alike by providing offerings suitable for people with low incomes; ■ deliver value-added services to meet a range of needs in areas as diverse as health, education, agriculture, ﬁnancial services and administration; ■ encourage the development of an eco-system based on new technologies, which supports entrepreneurship and promotes the emergence of products, services and content suited to the local market. 4.2.1. customised offerings for people ■ in 2012 the Group launched its “Digital World for All in with low incomes Emerging Markets” programme to increase access to basic mobile services among illiterate customers unfamiliar with new Orange is committed to encouraging access to the new technologies. Field studies were conducted in Senegalese technologies by the largest possible number of people in all cities and villages to better understand the behaviours and countries, and, as a result, has created speciﬁc offerings for needs of illiterate customers in terms of their use of mobile people with low incomes. Aside from the low-income plans, services. These studies gave rise to the development of three which have been available in France and other European easy-to-use visual and voice-based service concepts: audio countries for several years, and the sale of new or used lowmessaging, contact sharing and text-to-speech (TTS); cost cell phones, the Group has also embarked on a broader mission to develop services tailored to the needs of people with ■ in February 2012, Orange launched France’s ﬁrst offering low incomes. classiﬁed as a “low-income Internet service”. Available throughout metropolitan France, this offer enables lowa few examples: income households to access broadband Internet at speeds of up to 20 Mbps, as well as unlimited telephone calls to ■ the community phone concept developed by the Group in ﬁxed lines in metropolitan France and French overseas collaboration with the Grameen Foundation has already departments. helped to bring collective access to mobile telephony in almost 2,500 villages in Mali, Niger, Côte d’Ivoire, Central African Republic and, since 2012, Cameroon and Madagascar. In addition to access to communication at the lowest possible cost, these community phones encourage the development of micro-enterprises: a person with an aerial, a mobile phone and a solar battery charger can in effect become the operator for an entire village; focus an original approach to help customers with low incomes to manage their spending more efﬁciently In France, a trial was held with the ANSA (New agency for the range of offers available and therefore do not always active inclusion), the CSTB (French Scientific and Technical choose the offer most suited to their needs. With a view Centre for Building) and a private social housing provider, to increasing the proportion of disposable income after among social housing households in the Paris region. An essential expenditure of people living in this deprived in-depth sociological study was carried out to begin with, urban area, Orange and its partners implemented themed to identify household uses in terms of equipment, energy workshops to teach residents how to reduce their dayconsumption and telephone and internet use. Where to-day spending. Overall, eight workshops were held telecommunications are concerned, the study showed between November 2012 and April 2013. that households have difficulty finding their way through 78 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange focus an accessible world supporting local development 4 Djobi: an innovative application to combat infant mortality As part of its programme to develop m-health services areas in Mali and Senegal using a mobile application in emerging countries, Orange became involved to remotely monitor the health of children and their in a research-action project funded by the Fond mothers in remote rural areas. The mothers, trained in Francophone des Inforoutes and implemented by the the use of cell phones to collect data, will be able to NGO RAES (African education network for health) with help health specialists manage community centres by the purpose of reducing infant mortality in Mali and contributing to initiatives to prevent malaria, a major Senegal. The DJOBI project was thus launched in 2012. cause of maternal and infant mortality. In October 2012, This initiative seeks to reduce infant mortality in six pilot this programme was rewarded by the mHealth Alliance. 4.2.2. a speciﬁc strategy in developing countries With operations in 21 countries in Africa and the Middle East, a few examples: France Telecom-Orange has high hopes for expanding into these markets even further. Well aware of the major impact of new ■ to overcome the lack of banking infrastructure in many African information and communication technology on the economic countries, the Group launched Orange Money in 2008: a and social development of these countries, the Group deﬁned a simple, secure solution enabling users to open a payment speciﬁc initiative named “Orange for Development” based on a account linked to a mobile number, which also provides a three-pronged approach: means for companies or small businesses to simplify payment for trade services and even wages. At the end of 2012, this 1. develop infrastructures and connectivity by improving service was available in 11 countries (Senegal, Madagascar, network coverage and extending access to all, especially Mali, Niger, Kenya, Botswana, Cameroon, Morocco, Jordan, those living in rural areas (see Section 4.1); Mauritius, and Guinea) and was being used by over 5.6 million people; 2. deliver value-added services to meet a range of needs in areas as diverse as health, education, agriculture, ﬁnancial ■ in Niger, Orange developed the “Labaroun Kassoua” services and administration; service, which gives farmers access to price information for agricultural produce and livestock in more than 70 markets in 3. promote the ecosystems and initiatives to develop local the country. The service had 8,000 or more unique users from markets for new technologies, with business incubation May to October 2012. A similar service called “MFarmer” is and start-up funding projects, open innovation platforms currently being rolled out in Mali; and research cooperation with universities or local technical institutes. ■ to encourage students to take up scientiﬁc studies, the Group’s Senegalese subsidiary, Sonatel, developed an online In 2012, Orange for Development’s over-arching reference an accessible world portal entitled Maths en Herbes (Budding Mathematicians) framework was broken down into ten operational areas designed speciﬁcally for students preparing to take exams to (Infrastructure, M-health, M-agriculture, M-money, Ecosystem, graduate from middle school. The portal’s content is entirely e-gov, Education, Smart Cities, Electricity for people in based on the ofﬁcial maths curriculum for students in their last unpowered areas and Open & big data). year of middle school. It uses innovative teaching methods such as videos of classes, demos, corrected exercises, developing innovative products and services quizzes, archives of past exams, a glossary, and teacher meeting local priorities monitoring tools. Launched in 2012 and fully funded by Sonatel, the website has already welcomed 18,000 visitors; Orange relies on innovation to provide new products and services meeting the requirements of local populations in ■ several of the Group’s African subsidiaries have launched ﬁelds such as digital ﬁnance, agriculture, health, education simple, creative services that are accessible from low-cost and administration. These new value-added services can be cell phones to facilitate and improve access to health care. developed or simply distributed by Orange within the framework These services include an initiative in Kenya to ﬁght counterfeit of revenue-sharing partnerships with third parties. drugs, the Duty Chemist solution in the Côte d’Ivoire, which allows patients to look up the nearest emergency chemist Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 79 4 an accessible world supporting local development from their cell phone and the DJOBI project to ﬁght infant mortality in Mali and Senegal (see focus); stimulating the creation of businesses To support local development, France Telecom-Orange favours ■ shared medical imagery applications and video-conferencing the path of open innovation to enable it to work with local players makes it possible to link hospitals so that healthcare facilities to create solutions that are best suited to the requirements of located in isolated, rural regions can beneﬁt from the expertise the area. The Group relies especially on Orange Labs and the of major hospitals. For instance, in Senegal, four regional Technocentre, which make up the Group’s global research hospitals were connected to the two national hospitals and innovation network, with 5,000 employees (researchers, located in Dakar, the country’s capital. A similar programme engineers, technicians, marketers, designers, etc.) across was launched in Kenya in late 2012 with the objective of 12 countries on four different continents. creating a network of six hospitals. In emerging economies, the development of an eco-system based on new technologies entails the creation of special philanthropy that meets local needs business incubator mechanisms such as open technical A natural extension of the Group’s CSR activities, the Orange platforms, young enterprise incubators, and investment funds. Foundation works in 30 countries to sponsor programmes that Partnerships with specialist players help to create key skill sets address local needs: health, education, digital solidarity and for local markets. Orange also builds up partnerships with local employability, culture, etc. The Foundation’s aim is to foster universities and specialist schools to encourage training and the communication, exchange and sharing among populations identiﬁcation and integration of local talent into the Company: among the groups that need it most, such as African women. a few examples: Two areas of focus have been identiﬁed for its work in Africa and the Middle East: education for girls and health. ■ following the example of the business incubator established in 2011 in Dakar (Senegal) for information and communication In 2012, two new foundations were created in Botswana and technologies, in 2012 the Group launched two new ICT Romania bringing the number of Orange Foundations worldwide incubator initiatives in Niger and Mali, to be inaugurated to 15 (seven of which are in Africa). in 2013; The various projects supported in 2012 include the women’s ■ each year Orange Uganda holds the Community health education and literacy programme carried out in Innovations Awards, a contest that recognises the best Madagascar by the EAST association, which focuses on water, ideas in mobile applications for agriculture, health and agriculture and health in tropical areas, with support from the education. The 42 participants in the 2012 edition of Orange Foundations, Elle and Sanoﬁ. The programme was the awards were able to test their pilot applications on selected by the Women’s Forum for the Women for education the platform provided to them by Orange. The winners, 2012 award. Sekabira Yasin and Frederick Bisaso, designed an For more information on the work of the Orange Foundation application called My revision guide to help students study throughout the world, go to: www.fondationorange.com with tests and random questions. The prize awarded (approximately 3,200 euros and a 12-month internship) focus Orange Côte d'Ivoire's village project: a comprehensive response to the basic needs of local people In Côte d'Ivoire, the lack of basic infrastructures providing Telecom foundation launched the Orange Village access to water, health and education in rural areas is a programme in 2012. The goal of the programme is to glaring reality and a key demand of the population and provide a comprehensive response to these essential stakeholders. Water points are unsanitary; the nearest concerns, following a simple principle: one water point, health centres are often located more than 16 km away, one school and one health centre for every village. endangering the lives of pregnant women who travel to Thanks to the keen involvement of Orange-Côte d'Ivoire them; and children travel more than 14 km every day to Telecom's volunteers, five pilot villages were created their straw hut classrooms. Drawing on its experience across the country in 2012 and eight new villages are in the field, with more than 280 projects supported planned for 2013. across the country in six years, the Orange-Côte d'Ivoire 80 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange will allow them to further develop their pilot application. Second place was awarded to the inventors of a “Diet some key dates an accessible world supporting local development 4 assistant” application, which recommends healthy, 2000 balanced foods to those who want to watch their weight; ■ launch of the Banespymes project in Spain to support the creation of innovative SMEs based on new technologies. ■ in Côte d’Ivoire, Orange kicked off the international “Data for Development” contest in late 2012 in relation to the Orange for Development programme. The goal of this contest is to 2009 contribute to development and people’s well-being. For ■ launch of Orange Money. purposes of the contest, the Group provided the scientiﬁc community with a unique database based on the consolidated, 2011 anonymous mobile communication information of Orange ■ launch of the “Orange for Development” initiative to contribute Côte d’Ivoire’s subscribers between December 2011 and to the economic and social development of countries in the April 2012. The results should identify typical mobile user Africa, Middle East, Asia zone. behaviours with a view to creating new services likely to meet the population’s needs. The best results selected by the ■ inauguration of the ICT incubator in Dakar. Data for Development jury will be presented during the 2013 NetMob conference. 2012 ■ launch of two new ICT incubator projects in Niger and Mali. focus second edition of the African Social Venture Prize The African Social Venture Prize, created by Orange in ■ Takachar, which won second prize, is a waste processing 2011, aims to support entrepreneurs and start-ups that improvement system launched in Kenya that generates use Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) charcoal from organic waste; to meet the needs of populations. Some 450 applications were received for the 2012 edition. Projects were proposed ■ Third place went to Niokobok, a Senegalese distributor in a variety of fields, including health, agriculture, education, allowing Senegalese people living outside the country energy, industry and even business, illustrating the potential to order provisions online (23 basic food, hygiene and of telecommunications in Africa's development: cleaning products) for their families. ■ first prize was awarded to the Ivorian company Vivus Limited. Its project: using mobile technology to help sellers of foodstuffs, vegetables and fruit avoid losses arising from difficulties adjusting to demand; an accessible world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 81 4 an accessible world 4.3. ensure accessibility by elderly, disabled, and dependent persons Information and communication technology (ICT) is opening up new horizons for everyone, but most particularly for the elderly, disabled, and chronically ill. That’s why for the past several years Orange has been committed to incorporating accessibility criteria into the design of its products and services – all the way through to after-sales service – and is developing e-health services to make life easier for the chronically ill and their families. 4.3.1. a design strategy for all a tailored distribution network Orange has adopted a “design for all” strategy with the goal of In France, Autonomy offerings are distributed through a enabling everyone to use the very best technology. This strategy speciﬁcally tailored distribution network: 239 approved is managed by the Group’s Accessibility Department and is built Autonomy shops and four dedicated Rainbow areas; an on four main pillars: Autonomy section on the Group’s website, www.orange.fr; and a dedicated customer centre for disabled people available by ■ adapting Orange products and services, and designing phone (toll-free from France at 0 800 11 22 33), e-mail (offres. products that combine innovation, simplicity, and ergonomics autonomie@orange-ftgroup.com), or fax (0 800 24 69 96). This to cater to speciﬁc disabilities; remote sales service is available every Tuesday and Thursday for the deaf, hearing impaired, and speech impaired. ■ incorporating the notion of accessibility in all the Group’s activities, from design through to marketing, in all its markets; By the end of 2012, over 6,000 people (salespeople, technicians, webmasters, and marketing staff) had been trained in the ■ establishing a tailored distribution network; Autonomy offerings and in customer service for the elderly and disabled, and 750 qualiﬁed advisers had also received special ■ working with national and international institutions, training. organisations, and customers to better identify today’s needs and develop partnerships. The Group’s efforts in 2012 focused on training employees at the 1014 customer centre on the Autonomy range and the dedicated offerings “Easy Internet” option that lets users easily surf the Internet thanks to an intuitive interface on a USB key. The Group is also A dedicated range, “autonomy offerings, a solution for everyone”, in the process of rolling out numerous accessibility initiatives provides a response to every type of impairment (hearing, vision, − like sound boxes, audio-induction loops, a signage system speaking, mobility, grip, and cognition). In France, more than using pictograms, and equipment for the disabled − at its stores 60 such offerings are presented in a catalogue sent out twice in France. a year. A vocal format of the catalogue has also been available on the Group’s website, orange.fr, since February 2012. A Expertise in adapting its distribution network is also being catalogue of Autonomy offerings is also available in Spain. shared with Orange Spain. Stores in the country have been ﬁtted with audio-induction loops to make it easier for people Several other projects are in test or launch phase throughout with auditory impairments to speak with sales staff. Orange the Group: Spain has also developed a training programme called Orange ■ to help the deaf and hearing impaired identify callers and for All in association with the Spanish National Organization for senders of text messages, Orange has developed two Blind People, ONCE. Over 4,000 salespeople have already been applications offering an alternative to traditional ringtones: trained to meet the special needs of the elderly and disabled. Melovibe, which lets users associate vibrating melodies to different contacts in their mobile phones; and Colourcall, open to every idea which lets users select which of a palette of colours will be To respond to the new requirements of disabled people, displayed when calls or text messages are received from France Telecom-Orange applies an active policy of meetings different contacts. These services were introduced in France, and partnerships with specialist professionals, institutions, and Spain, and Poland in November 2012; organisations. ■ Mobinil, the Group’s Egyptian subsidiary, introduced the In 2012, the Group participated in: Maasma3 service in 2012 that offers a range of adapted handsets and prices for the hearing and visually impaired. ■ the work of the Club Accessibilité des Grandes Entreprises (large corporations’ accessibility club); ■ international working groups on accessibility within the European Commission, the ITU, and AFNOR; 82 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ■ meetings relating to the transposition of the European Directive of November 25, 2011 and spearheaded by the an accessible world ensure accessibility by elderly, disabled, and dependent persons The Group also offers services like remote diagnostics to meet the speciﬁc healthcare challenges of emerging countries (see 4 Comité Interministériel du Handicap (Inter-Ministry Disability Section 4.2). Committee), Arcep, and the Observatoire de l’Accessibilité (accessibility research institute); For more information, visit the Orange Healthcare website: http://healthcare.orange.com/. ■ all major disability-related conferences and trade shows in France (like Autonomic Paris, Marseille, and Metz), as well focus as numerous community-based events with local disability organisations. a programme for all elderly and disabled people in Poland 4.3.2. ensuring website accessibility In Poland, 2012 saw Orange set up a working group to better understand the needs of elderly and disabled Since 2005, the Group has been involved in a vast programme people, as well as their expectations with regard to to make its internal and external websites accessible, in line with information and communication technology. Following the international Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) standards. this project, a training programme was created to help older people understand and use new technology more Several accessibility features are already available on the www. effectively. A total of 1,561 older people took one of the orange.fr and www.orange.com websites, the Fondation 83 training courses organised in 2012 in 67 local libraries. Orange blog, and the customer section of the orange.fr website. Specific research was also carried out on the needs of For example, the font sizes are relative so they can be increased deaf and blind people. The products and services that or decreased, and the images have textual alternatives. Regular address the needs of disabled people are now clearly accessibility audits were carried out on Orange’s main websites identified with special icons in the company catalogue and online shops in the eight major European countries. These and at www.orange.pl. audits showed that the Group’s main websites meet on average 70% of the requirements of the WAI AA label with no blocking points. Following these audits, Orange’s subsidiaries in Spain, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia undertook a major revamp of their websites with the support of the Group’s Accessibility some key dates Department. 2003 ■ ﬁrst edition of the Solutions Handicap catalogue in France. 4.3.3. addressing the challenges of health and dependency 2007 ■ ﬁrst experiments with customer service accessible to deaf For more than ten years, France Telecom-Orange has been and hard-of-hearing customers through direct contact over developing dedicated solutions to meet challenges in the the Internet using French sign language or text in real time. areas of healthcare and dependency, so as to allow for bettercoordinated care and improved comfort for the ill, enable the elderly and dependent to continue living at home, enable 2010 hospital treatments to be administered at patients’ homes, and ■ the Group received the gold medal at the Geneva 2010 an accessible world let doctors remotely monitor patients suffering from chronic International Exhibition of Inventions for its B-Link project, an illnesses. application developed by Orange Labs Poland enabling users to control their computer by blinking their eyes. ■ In France, Orange has developed a remote monitoring system for people suffering from kidney disease, in partnership with 2012 Grenoble university hospital and the Calydial and Agduc ■ launch of the Melovibe and Colourcall applications in France, community dialysis centres. This system enables patients Spain, and Poland; to remain in constant contact with their healthcare provider thanks to tablet computers installed at the patient’s home ■ Orange wins the Autonomic’innov Special Jury Recognition and connected to his or her ﬁxed telephone line. This system Award for its commitment and innovations to promote won the Innovation Award in the Remote Healthcare category disabled access to communications. at major French medical industry conference Health IT 2012. ■ In January 2012, Orange launched the DiabeTIC remote healthcare platform in Spain. This system − developed through a joint venture between the Spanish subsidiaries of Orange Healthcare and Sanoﬁ − contains smart devices and integrated services so that diabetics can communicate back and forth with their healthcare providers. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 83 4 an accessible world 4.4. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 4.4.1. 2012 review objective deadline main achievements in 2012 supporting local development ■ continue the deployment of Village Phone 2012 ■ Village Phone was deployed in two new countries: Cameroon in at least two new countries. and Madagascar; ■ launch the pilot “Internet for All” project ■ Orange Money was included in the services offered in certain (Internet village) in Uganda. regions; ■ Orange Uganda introduced Internet for All on November 18, 2013, expanding Internet access to the country’s rural areas thanks to parabolic antennas that relay 3G signals. Internet for All aims to shrink the digital divide and improve the daily lives of the Ugandan people. This initiative won the Best Network Improvement award at the AfricaCom 2012 awards, which recognise the most remarkable innovations and achievements in the African telecoms industry. ■ develop mobile Internet offerings for 2012 ■ in Africa and the Middle East: the most disadvantaged, improve ■ in-depth market research was performed on the lowestclassiﬁcation of requirements of low income customer segment (the biggest by population revenue customers and carry out in most AMEA countries), which is particularly large in rural experiments to meet their requirements areas, under optimum conditions. ■ several pilot projects were carried out in the ﬁelds of agriculture, healthcare, education, and partnerships (like Mfarmer with the GSMA in Mali); ■ in France: ■ tests were carried out among poor households in association with CSTB, ANSA, and a social housing developer. These tests concerned the households’ disposable income, and will allow the Group to go beyond simply offering social rates to helping such households select the right services and optimise usages. ■ structure the Group’s actions in respect 2012 ■ the Orange for Development reference framework was of contributing to economic and social broken down into ten operational areas (infrastructure, development by establishing a reference m-health, m-agriculture, m-money, ecosystems, framework (Orange for Development) e-government, education, smart cities, energy for individuals and the relevant governance. in regions without coverage, and open & big data) to improve ■ promote local entrepreneurship through the framework’s cross-functional governance; the use of incubators, and hold the African ■ initial work was done on the ITC, Renewable Energy, Social Venture Prize for the second and Environment incubator in Niger, for an ofﬁcial kick-off consecutive year. in mid-2013; ■ contribute to the ﬁnancing of young ■ an incubator project was launched on the back of the Orange businesses in Africa through contributions Tunisia “Developers” programme, for an ofﬁcial introduction to investment funds. in mid-2013; ■ establish external partnerships with the ■ the African Social Venture Prize was held for the second aim of better meeting country needs and consecutive year; requirements in respect of rural, healthcare ■ an operational positioning study on crowdfunding for African and education development. SMEs was carried out in association with SRI ﬁrm PhiTrust ■ launch a project to develop and distribute and an investment fund for African SMEs managed by I&P; services for rural people using a network ■ the Rural Lab project was launched in association with the of local agents. Grameen Foundation. The Group spoke with interested partners in Ivory Coast and designed a pilot test to be run in 2013. 84 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange an accessible world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 4 objective deadline main achievements in 2012 ■ provide solutions contributing to rural 2012 ■ the Labaroun Kassoua service in Niger was expanded; development through offerings in the ﬁelds this service gives farmers price information for agricultural of agriculture, healthcare, and education produce and livestock in more than 70 markets in the that take account of the magnitude of country. It had more than 8,000 unique users between May the social and economic beneﬁts. and October 2012; ■ continue to roll out Orange Money in four ■ the DJOBI initiative was launched in Mali to provide a new countries. mobile application that monitors the health of children and their mothers in remote rural areas. The results of the initiative will be used to develop other m-health applications for French-speaking Africa; ■ Orange Money exceeded the 5.6 million-user mark, anchoring its market success ahead of its 2012 target; ■ Orange Money was launched in Guinea on September 19, 2012 (the 11th country in the AMEA region). ■ Establish the “Digital world for all in 2012 ■ the “Digital world for all in emerging countries” programme emerging countries” programme. was launched to create simple vocal and visual concepts and improve access to basic mobile services for illiterate customers, who are often unfamiliar with new technologies; ■ ﬁeld studies were carried out in July 2012 on how illiterate customers use mobile services in cities and towns in Senegal, in order to better understand these customers’ needs and behaviours; ■ three new services concepts were developed: audio messaging, contact sharing, and African Text-to-Speech (TTS). an accessible world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 85 4 an accessible world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap objective deadline main achievements in 2012 ensuring accessibility by elderly and disabled people Continue, in the eight main European 2012 handsets: countries and at least in two developing ■ tests were carried out on around 20 mobile phones/yr at countries, the deployment of a range of the Orange mobile accessibility expertise centre, and the offers suited and dedicated to commercial target of at least four handsets validated in each country communication tools: was reached; ■ continue to select a range of handsets and ■ the CTC carried out customer tests to assess the actual expand the range (50 suitable products that accessibility of several handsets. changed twice a year and tests by the CTC catalogues: for selection (France)); ■ Orange Spain developed a paper catalogue of its ■ offers for the elderly or disabled in Egypt; accessible solutions and published the 2nd issue; ■ at least four senior or disabled-approved ■ accessibility factors were integrated into products and mobile handsets in the range for each services being created for the Group and into new product country in Europe; development; ■ paper catalogue offers (Spain), ■ in France, a catalogue is issued every six months conferences/exhibitions (Poland), with Autonomy offerings including a selection of over transfer of commercial and autonomy 60 products; merchandising communication tools; ■ accessibility factors were integrated into products and ■ continue the process of integrating services being created for the Group and into new product accessibility into offers being developed development; for the Group and the development of ■ the Maasma3 service was launched in Egypt offering a new products that respond to the needs selection of handsets and/or special prices for the elderly, of senior users such as multi-support user hearing impaired, and visually impaired, and including the assistance solutions employing interfaces mobile Voice Assistant service; adapted to seniors with a view to “Easy ■ the Colourcall and Melovibe applications, developed by Internet” personalised support and suitable Orange Labs, for the deaf and hearing impaired were applications as well as interfaces simpliﬁed launched in November 2012 in France, Spain, and Poland; for seniors. ■ the Easy Internet service was broadly distributed through trial versions of the software so the elderly can test a solution suited to their needs; ■ best practices in adapted marketing communications tools were shared between different Group countries (e.g., alternative catalogue formats like paper, audio CDs, and vocalised online versions in France); ■ a menu dedicated entirely to accessibility was integrated into the new Orange TV; ■ a fully-accessible My Livebox application was introduced, letting users control their Livebox from a smartphone, and on PCs through the Livebox assistant that lets users obtain information about the status of their Livebox; ■ support was provided for developers of Android and iOS applications to improve compatibility with settings and tools used by the disabled. 86 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange objective deadline main achievements in 2012 an accessible world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 4 Launch a Web accessibility policy in these 2012 ■ audits were completed at end-2011 and the results were countries: communicated to countries; ■ continued improvement in website ■ support was given in priority to countries with major website accessibility with one audit per year upgrades planned (Romania, Slovakia, Poland, and Spain); of the main websites in Europe with ■ regular audits were performed of websites, online stores, recommendations and support for local and Orange Care in eight major countries. teams. Put in place suitable physical and remote 2012 In France: distribution channels in these countries: ■ in the French store network, 239 stores were branded as of ■ in France, develop a suitable distribution November 30, 2012, including almost all the main stores, network (branded stores, freephone which have a services area; number and an autonomy page on the ■ training was expanded to cover all Orange stores in France orange.fr website). Supplement the (around 600); system by developing a 1014 customer ■ remote sales services in French sign language and/or text relay for seniors particularly and support were made available on Thursdays in addition to Tuesdays; for “Easy Internet”; ■ the autonomy section of the orange.fr website was updated ■ develop access to offers in European with a system to select headings; countries through channels coupled to ■ staff at the 1014 customer centres were trained on the offers related to these countries. Autonomy range for the elderly and disabled, and on support for the Easy Internet service; ■ the Group’s charity network was enhanced through training for correspondents in volunteer elderly organisations. Other countries: ■ expertise in adapting stores was shared with Orange Spain; ■ cooperation was undertaken with Poland and Spain to expand their charity networks. an accessible world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 87 4 an accessible world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 4.4.2. 2013 roadmap objective deadline combating the geographic digital divide ■ continue deploying solar stations according to local conditions; 2013-2015 ■ study the possibility of switching sites powered by fuel engine generators to solar or solar-fuel hybrid; ■ improve broadband coverage in Africa by leveraging the Group’s network of submarine cables and terrestrial 2013-2015 backbone network; ■ launch initiatives to facilitate access to energy to power mobile phones in Africa; 2013 ■ superfast mobile broadband: deploy 4G/LTE in European countries were Orange operates by 2015; 2015 ■ deploy 3G in Orange countries in the Africa-Middle East zone by 2015 and provide mobile coverage for 80% 2015 of the population. supporting local development ■ use the results of studies currently underway to improve the provision of telecommunications services to the most needy; ■ reinforce the Group’s positioning in emerging ﬁelds − like m-agriculture, e-government, smart cities, and energy supply to rural areas − through its Orange for Development (O4D) reference framework and a crossfunctional implementation approach; ■ leverage the data owned by the Group to further economic and social development (Data for Development); ■ hold the third African Social Venture Prize; ■ launch an experiment to raise ﬁnancing for African SMEs through a crowdfunding platfor; 2013 ■ launch new incubators in African countries where the Group operates; ■ continue rolling out the “Digital world for all in emerging countries” programme. local sponsorships ■ support local communities by creating new charities to meet citizens’ needs; ■ provide responses to growing integration issues (social, professional, and cultural) with innovative digital technology-based solutions in all ﬁelds and, insofar as possible, in all countries; ■ continue providing aid with a focus on women in Africa and the Orange Villages project. 88 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange an accessible world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 4 objective deadline ensuring accessibility by elderly and disabled people ■ enhance the process for testing and selecting handsets, in order to provide countries with a full line-up of accessible handsets; ■ improve the accessibility of the Livebox and Orange TV decoder; ■ make Orange’s main mobile apps accessible on Android and iOS; ■ make the digital world more accessible to the elderly and disabled through new versions of services packages, applications, and adapted software; ■ make it easier for customers to select accessible solutions in Spain and Poland through online catalogues; ■ help the elderly in Poland access the digital world through training and coaching; ■ launch a major programme for the elderly involving a complete ecosystem (handsets, interfaces, services, and support) and a fully-integrated end-to-end approach. The programme will offer the beneﬁts of data connections via smartphones and tablets, and be based on projects anticipating the elderly’s future usages; 2013 ■ identify customers’ main navigation paths online and audit the corresponding accessibility; ■ set up an indicator that can track improvements in the accessibility of the main websites in each European country; increase the amount of sales and advisory support provided to the disabled: ■ continue implementing local product support strategies and improve efforts by sharing best practices; ■ continue working with Spain and Poland to roll out branded stores; ■ upgrade the Autonomy section of the website in line with the 2013 e-shop strategy; ■ in France, as part of the training programme for the 1014 customer centre targeted distribution school, implement proactive training measures for regional representatives and charity correspondents on Autonomy offerings, and present the method to other countries. an accessible world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 89 5 towards a greener world 5.1. an ambitious environmental policy In a world with limited natural resources, companies will only be able to ensure their long-term success by controlling their energy consumption and reducing the environmental impact of the life cycle of their products and services. That’s why the Group has taken a proactive approach to help preserve the environment and maintain the conﬁdence of its stakeholders − while seizing new opportunities related to the development of green technologies. 5.1.1. an all-encompassing approach certification rate doubled in just two years Initiated in 1996 with the signature of the European To track deployment of EMSs and make this progress Telecommunication Network Operators (ETNO) Environmental transparent to the Group’s stakeholders, Orange has introduced Charter, the Group’s environmental policy has developed in an indicator that gives the percentage of the Group’s entities three complementary areas: relative to its entire scope that have received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. The data are published annually and certiﬁed by an ■ reducing the Group’s direct environmental impact, with a independent organisation. particular focus on two key issues: shrinking its energy and carbon footprint and improving waste management; The Group’s ISO 14001 certiﬁcation rate was 34% at the end of 2012, up from 17% in 2010 − or a 100% increase in just two ■ reducing the impact of the Group’s products and years. Key events in 2012 included: services at customer sites by using eco-design methods and encouraging environmentally responsible usages; ■ six more Orange France sites receiving certiﬁcation, bringing the total number to twelve, and two more business ■ developing innovative products and services that processes, bringing the total number to six. Nearly let everyone − businesses and individuals − lower their 20,000 employees across France are covered by the initiative, environmental impact. launched in 2004; ■ two more Orange Business Services sites receiving 5.1.2. faster deployment certiﬁcation − the main Paris site (Orange Stadium) and the site in Cairo, Egypt − following the 2010 certiﬁcation of the To achieve its targets for reducing its environmental impacts and Cesson-Sévigné site in France; risks, the Group is progressively rolling out ISO 14001-compliant Environmental Management Systems (EMSs) at its main entities. ■ the certiﬁcation in November 2012 of Orange Romania for The internationally-recognised ISO 14001 standard describes all its operations and the introduction of an integrated quality, how companies should organize themselves to manage the safety, and environment management system; environmental impact of their activities. ■ the certiﬁcation of Sonatel, the Group’s Senegalese subsidiary, for 14 network sites and the introduction as part of this certiﬁcation of an integrated quality, safety, and environment management system. entities having obtained ISO 14001 certification by the end of 2012 subsidiary scope FT Marine All facilities Orange France Six key processes and 12 priority sites Orange Spain All mobile, ﬁxed-line, and ofﬁce building activities (except for the data centre acquired in July 2012) Orange Poland Mobile activities Orange Business Services Three priority sites Orange Slovakia All activities Orange Moldova All activities Orange Romania All activities Mobinil (Egypt) All activities Orange Mali All activities Sonatel (Senegal) 14 priority sites 90 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange towards a greener world an ambitious environmental policy 5 strong ambitions for 2015 responsible paper management To speed deployment of EMSs at all its entities, Orange has The Group has implemented measures to reduce its paper set itself an ambitious goal: have 60% of the Group’s scope consumption and encourage the use of Forest Stewardship covered by 2015 (including 100% of Orange France’s scope). Council-certiﬁed paper, which ensures the paper comes from sustainably-managed forests, or recycled paper. In 2013 the Group will implement a new approach to its EMSs and ISO 14001 certiﬁcation strategy, with greater involvement In France, Orange has cut its paper consumption by 20% in from operational management teams, the addition of Orange two years, and 80% of sales documentation and 92% of ofﬁce stores to the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation scope in France, and the paper is printed on FSC-certiﬁed or recycled paper. transition from a process-based approach to an activitiesand units-based approach for technical businesses (networks). In Spain, 96% of paper purchased (for any need) is either FSCcertiﬁed or recycled. Switching to electronic billing also helped the Group reduce Z ISO 14001 certiﬁed scope at year-end its paper consumption signiﬁcantly: the savings totalled over 1,900 tonnes of paper in 2012 alone. 34% careful management of rare resources 25% A speciﬁc study was carried out in late 2011 on the rare 17% resources used in the electronic equipment distributed by 14% 14% Orange. In 2012 the Group used the results of the study to 13% map out these rare resources, in order to assess the level of the Group’s dependence and to implement the appropriate measures, especially with respect to suppliers. In June 2012 Orange shared the conclusions of this work with the in-house 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and independent experts that took part in the study, and with several large companies in other sectors also concerned by this issue. R element veriﬁed by Deloitte, moderate assurance 5.1.3. protection of biodiversity some key dates Compared with industrial companies, France Telecom-Orange’s 1996 activities have a relatively limited impact on biodiversity. ■ signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter. Nonetheless, the Group is engaged in a range of environmental initiatives to reduce its internal impacts and to protect 1998 biodiversity, partnering with NGOs such as the French bird ■ establishment of the Group’s Environment Ofﬁce. protection association (Ligue de Protection des Oiseaux) and the WWF. 2001 Orange provides ﬁnancial aid to the WWF to support its mission ■ launch of the Environment Management System (EMS) to “Protect Overseas Biodiversity”, and is a preferred partner deployment programme based on the ISO 14001 standard. for WWF France’s ecoregion programs in New Caledonia and French Guiana. 2008 ■ creation of a strategic partnership with the WWF. bird protection efforts For over ﬁve years, Orange has been working with the French 2012 towards a greener world bird protection association (Ligue de Protection des Oiseaux) ■ 34% of the Group’s operations are ISO 14001 certiﬁed. through regional agreements to place stoppers on its metal telephone poles and protect cave species. 93% of metal poles in France have been capped. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 91 5 towards a greener world 5.2. contribute to combating climate change Faced with the issue of climate change, France Telecom-Orange has made a proactive commitment: to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and its energy consumption by 15% against 2006 levels, both by 2020. This represents a real challenge given the current growth in uses and the continuing increase in data trafﬁc. The Group is also developing innovative solutions to enable its customers to reduce their own carbon footprints. 5.2.1. lower energy consumption ■ more energy-efﬁcient telecommunication equipment: by networks 66% of mobile access equipment in ten countries has already been replaced with next-generation, less energy-hungry The Group’s networks and information systems account for equipment − delivering energy savings of over 70 GWh; nearly 66% of its total energy consumption. In 2012 Orange continued to roll out its Green ITN 2020 action plan to ■ more precise and reliable tracking of energy consumption improve its energy performance. This plan has been deployed through dedicated indicators and the installation of “smart” in 22 countries which account for over 95% of the energy energy meters at the Group’s technical sites: by end-2012 consumed by the Group’s technical installations. It cut the over 500 additional sites in 16 countries had been equipped Group’s energy usage by over 300 GWh in 2012 − preventing with these meters. around 110,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions − thanks to actions in ﬁve key areas: Z energy consumption by type (in 2012) in toe* ■ more efﬁcient air-conditioning systems: by end-2012 over 15,500 technical sites in 15 countries had been ﬁtted with a more efﬁcient air-conditioning system using a patented 3% 0% Orange innovation. This system can deliver up to 80% energy 9% gas coal savings compared with traditional air-conditioning systems, vehicles while eliminating the use of harmful refrigerants; ■ consolidated and virtual calculation centres thanks to the 17% 71% oil fuel electricity EcoCenter project: since 2007, more than 21,000 servers have been virtualised, reducing the Group’s energy consumption by nearly 78 GWh in 2012 and preventing over 6,200 tonnes of CO2 emissions; ■ greater use of renewable energy: the Group is focusing particularly on powering base stations (antenna repeaters) with solar energy, with a target of 25% renewable energy used to power new solar energy-eligible stations by 2015 in Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. At end-2012, more than 2,300 solar base stations were installed in 20 countries where Z CO 2 emissions 1.52 million tonnes of CO2 the Group operates, including 15 in Africa and the Middle East. They generate over 15 GWh of solar power, saving the equivalent of 28 million litres of fuel oil and preventing the emission of 76,000 tonnes of CO2 every year. 21.37% France 43.69% rest of the world 6.11% Spain 28.83% Poland * Tonne of oil equivalent. 92 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange Z total energy consumption in 2012: 1,247,517 toe 5% 5% towards a greener world contribute to combating climate change 5 8% 59% 66% buildings transport 8% IT&N 29% 21% b co uild or k trs tot al al, in ne da inc ing ga gs s) tw taC l. F s( ele TM ctr ici ar ine el, ty) (fu ild ets bu ﬂe 5.2.2. improving the energy efﬁciency of buildings Buildings account for almost 30% of France Telecom-Orange’s The Group’s two main tertiary sector buildings in Spain have total energy consumption. To help meet the Group’s goal taken measures to improve the energy efﬁciency of their airof reducing total energy consumption by 15% by 2020, the conditioning and lighting systems in ofﬁces and car parks International Facilities Management Department is implementing (central controls, low-energy equipment, automatic meter an action plan to improve buildings’ energy efﬁciency. reading, etc.) that have cut energy consumption by nearly 80%, or 118 MWh per year. a real-estate environmental policy The Group’s real-estate environmental policy, adopted in meters in buildings October 2012, is set forth in a series of best practices including To better track energy consumption in its tertiary sector around 50 action sheets distributed to countries. Following buildings, in 2010 the Real Estate Department began equipping feedback and discussions with countries in 2012, measures its largest buildings in France with smart meters; 45 sites had have already been undertaken to reduce energy consumption such meters by end-2012. and establish energy requirement forecasts for the 2015 horizon. The Group plans to cut the energy consumption of its buildings In Spain, 100% of ofﬁce buildings have been equipped with by 7% in three years. smart meters. Orange France has also set up a detailed energy consumption action plans in five countries tracking system for nine of its stores. Two pilot stores have been In 2012 the Group furthered its action plan to save energy in equipped with an automatic meter reading system. By tracking tertiary sector buildings; this plan has been rolled out in ﬁve energy consumption in this manner, Orange France will be countries accounting for nearly 85% of its energy consumption able to assess the effectiveness of energy-efﬁciency measures (France, Poland, Spain, Egypt, and Belgium). Steps taken in before they are rolled out in other countries. France, Egypt, and Belgium delivered energy savings of 7%, 4%, and 5%, respectively, between 2010 and 2012. In France, 720 refurbishment projects were carried out at 527 sites towards a greener world in 2012, addressing all technical areas of a building, such as heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, lighting, and plumbing. By drawing on the experience of ISO 14001-certiﬁed sites and low energy-consumption (HQE) buildings, the Group was able to establish a list of best practices and incorporate environmental requirements into its national real estate agreements. The Real Estate Department signed 128 environmental appendices with its largest real estate owner, Foncière des Régions. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 93 5 towards a greener world contribute to combating climate change buildings of high environmental quality The Group has tightened its environmental requirements for focus new buildings, drawing on France’s High Environmental Quality Orange selected in the Carbon (HQE) building certiﬁcation programme. Several sites in France, Performance Leadership Index Egypt, and Poland have already been HQE, BREEAM*, or LEED** certiﬁed. The Group reports annually on the implementation of its action plans as part of the Carbon Disclosure In 2012, Mobinil, the Group’s Egyptian subsidiary, obtained Project (www.cdproject.net). In 2012, Orange's efforts LEED Gold certiﬁcation for its new 13,000 sq.m. call centre. to reduce its carbon emissions led to it being included in the Carbon Performance Leadership Index (CPLI), The Group’s site in Mumbai, India is its ﬁrst to obtain LEED Gold an annual ranking that lists the 33 companies from for Commercial Interiors certiﬁcation, an international Green the FTSE Global 500 to have demonstrated the most Building Council environmental certiﬁcation. solid commitments in terms of climate strategies and reducing carbon emissions. Orange was adjudged New construction programmes have also been launched in to be one of the world's two best operators for its Ivory Coast, Cameroon, and Botswana. performance in terms of energy consumption 5.2.3. reducing the impact of transport The Group’s vehicle ﬂeet accounted for almost 4% of its total a more eco-friendly fleet of vehicles energy consumption in 2012. Orange is focusing on two areas The Group has a ﬂeet of over 35,000 company vehicles in to reduce the environmental impact of its transport: optimising Europe and Africa (including 23,500 in France), accounting its vehicle ﬂeet and promoting best practices for sustainable for nearly 4% of its energy consumption and 9% of its CO2 mobility among its employees. emissions. The overall objective is to move towards average emissions of 130 g of CO2 per kilometre. Average emissions for the Group’s passenger cars in France fell to 108 g of CO2 focus per kilometre in the 2012 catalogue, thanks to a stepped-up ﬂeet renewal programme and the incorporation of lower CO2 Orange Poland assesses its carbon footprint emission criteria in its car purchasing speciﬁcations. The Group reviews its catalogue every six months to take into account After France, Belgium and Spain, in 2012 it was the new technologies offered by car makers, especially for “clean” turn of Orange Poland to assess its direct and indirect vehicles. The Group added fully-electric and hybrid vehicles to greenhouse gas emissions, using the Bilan Carbone® its catalogue, which are increasingly popular among employees. method developed by the French Environment and Around 100 Twizys − Renault’s new fully-electric two-seater − Energy Management Agency (ADEME) and adapting it to were ordered in 2012 with the goal of encouraging car sharing. the local context. The results, which are currently being analysed, will be used to draw up action plans in 2013. Local Orange units tested electric utility vehicles (minivans) in 2012, notably through the SAVE (Seine Aval Véhicule Electrique) programme bringing together local government agencies and partner companies such as EDF, Orange, and Schneider Electric. * Environmental assessment method for buildings developed by the Building Research Establishment (BRE) equivalent to the HQE® standard in English. ** Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED): North American standardisation system created by the US Green Building Council. 94 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange a forum for sharing best practices For the past three years Orange has been hosting the annual focus towards a greener world contribute to combating climate change 5 Orange Green Fleet Forum to ensure that everyone involved in optimised ﬂeet management with Fleet vehicle purchasing at the Group (both internally and externally) Performance adheres to the Group’s CSR policy, to reduce the CO2 emissions of its vehicle ﬂeet. The 2012 Forum gave employees from Since late 2011, Orange has gradually been equipping Orange and other large companies an opportunity to discuss the vehicles in its fleet with the Fleet Performance unit shared goals and challenges, and to learn about the latest developed by Orange Business Services. By recording technological advancements in ﬁelds like sustainable mobility, daily mileage logs and eco-driving data, this electronic hybrid and electric technology, and the associated services. unit facilitates and optimises vehicle management, leading to reduced fuel costs and CO2 emissions. This solution is also available to business customers. promote sustainable mobility among employees The Group’s travel policy encourages employees to use the cleanest form of transportation possible and rely on The Group is also continuing to train employees on eco-driving, videoconferencing or teleconferencing whenever possible to or driving techniques that lower the risk of an accident and reduce their travel. reduces fuel consumption by up to 10%. Over 6,000 employees have been trained in France and Poland since 2010; the goal is Several entities have introduced initiatives to encourage staff to train 30,000 in the next three years. to limit the use of their personal cars; these include carpooling programmes, bike racks (and showers) so employees can cycle to work, and taxi sharing in India. In France, Orange has made 2,000 cars available to employees for car sharing. Z Group CO 2 emissions (in tonnes of CO2 and kg CO2/customer) 1,600,000 8.4 1,500,000 8.1 1,400,000 7.8 1,300,000 7.5 1,200,000 7.2 1,100,000 6.9 1,000,000 6.6 900,000 6.3 800,000 6.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Group CO2 emissions (T CO2) kg CO2 / customer The Group’s energy efﬁciency action plans have already limited the rise in CO2 emissions resulting from growth in data trafﬁc. Without these plans, emissions would towards a greener world have increased by at least 12% in 2012. However the full beneﬁts of these plans will be visible only in the long term. Due to the amount of time needed to renew network equipment and roll out new technology, the action plans’ full effects will not be seen for another seven or eight years. Changes in the Group’s CO2 emissions between 2011 and 2012 reﬂect factors like variations in the CO2 emission coefﬁcients for electricity, and higher fuel oil consumption in African countries as a result of political events (a lack of electrical power). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 95 5 towards a greener world contribute to combating climate change 5.2.4. helping customers shrink their carbon footprint videoconferencing, Forfait Informatique, Flexible Computing, Business VPN, and music streaming (versus downloading) services, in 2012 Orange Business Services completed an In addition to lowering its direct energy consumption, Orange analysis on its Flexible Computing Express cloud computing also aims to reduce the indirect environmental impact of service. This analysis was used to estimate the service’s impact its products and services at customer sites by improving in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and around ten other the products’ and services’ energy efﬁciency, encouraging criteria. customers to select greener equipment through ecolabelling, and developing innovative solutions that can help customers shrink their carbon footprint. ecolabelling to build customer awareness In 2008 Orange became France’s ﬁrst operator to add ecolabels to its ﬁxed-line and mobile handsets, in association with the WWF. eco-design: reducing impacts at the source The Group is now implementing this initiative in other countries. R&D staff at the Technocentre and Orange Labs use eco-design After Spain in 2009 and Romania in 2010, ecolabelling was methods to develop products and services with a diminished rolled out in Armenia in 2012. Environmental awareness is still environmental impact throughout their life cycle. For instance, fairly limited in Armenia, and Orange intends to help encourage in 2012 the Group worked on improving the energy performance environmentally-responsible behaviour. Orange’s ecolabels of the new versions of the Livebox and decoders that will be give the handset’s rating on a scale of 1 to 5 for three criteria: introduced in early 2013. carbon footprint, natural resource preservation, and eco-design − letting customers take environmental considerations into R&D staff at the Technocentre and Orange Labs are also account when they purchase telephones. continuing to experiment with eco-design methods for services. This is a new, complex approach that takes into account both the necessary physical equipment and the associated software, innovative solutions allowing everyone to activities, and processes throughout a service’s life cycle. reduce their carbon footprint In 2012, the Group launched a new eco-innovation pilot project While sometimes a source of environmental impacts, information for its Multi Connect Business Avaya business communications and communication technology can also play a major role in service. The main measures concerned the procurement, ﬁghting climate change thanks to solutions that enable home remote administration, and maintenance processes and working, transport optimisation, e-commerce, paperless product functionalities. The project’s eco-innovation approach administration, “smart” facilities management, smart grids, and was presented at the Electronics Goes Green 2012 conference smart cities. These all serve to bolster economic growth while in Berlin in September 2012. reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Orange Business Services offers a full range of innovative solutions that let companies The Group also performs life cycle analyses on some of its shrink their carbon footprint. solutions to assess their main environmental impacts. Following analyses performed on the Business Everywhere, telepresence, some examples: focus ICT Footprint project: assessing the environmental impact of new technology In 2012, Orange made a significant contribution to the ICT and the Flexible Computing Express service. For each Footprint project (www.ict-footprint.com) launched by the pilot, three deliverables were filed with the Commission: European Commission. The goal of this project is to test the an overall report, a calculations table and an audit report workability and compatibility of new emerging standards comprising recommendations for applying and upgrading on environmental footprinting in the ICT sector. Drawing these methodologies. The work carried out on the on its expertise in the field of carbon assessments and lifeFlexible Computing Express service was presented at cycle analyses, the Group tested several methodologies the last European conference of the SETAC (Society of issued by the International Telecommunication Union Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry), which was held (ITU) and the European Telecommunications Standards in Copenhagen in November 2012. Institute (ETSI): the methodology for organisations (ITU-T L.1420) on its French activities and the methodologies for The Group thus contributes to the development and goods, networks and services (ITU-T L.1410 and ETSI TS convergence of these standards thanks to its experts 103 199) on a smartphone, the Video On Demand service present in both the ITU and the ETSI. 96 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ■ in 2012, Orange Business Services entered into interoperability agreements with Verizon and AT&T to reinforce the global some key dates towards a greener world contribute to combating climate change 5 community of telepresence services users by substantially 2007 increasing the number of termination points that companies ■ launch of a project to build solar base stations in Africa. can access. Orange Business Services already had interoperability agreements with AT&T, BT, Cisco, Tata, and ■ Orange obtains the Trophy for clean and economic Telefónica; technologies awarded by ADEME and the magazine Industrie et Technologies for its patented Optimised Ventilation solution; ■ Orange Business Services enhanced its vehicle ﬂeet management line-up in 2012 with the Fleet Performance ■ launch of the EcoCenter server virtualisation programme in Eco-driving service that helps companies reduce their France. operating costs, cut CO2 emissions, and lower their insurance premiums. Fleet managers, executives, and sales managers 2008 can track the fuel consumption and mileage of speciﬁc ■ signing of the United Nations Caring for Climate programme. vehicles or an entire ﬂeet from a secure website, and assess user behaviour along various criteria; 2009 ■ through its “Smart Cities” strategic programme, the Group is ■ launch of the ﬁrst Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in France helping to build more sustainable and dynamic urban areas. and Belgium. This programme helps structure the needs of cities that want to use digital technology to support their sustainable 2010 development. Five focus areas have been identiﬁed: smart ■ Orange receives a 2010 Global Telecoms Business Award in metering; connected cars, smart public transport, smart the Green Power Innovation category for its programme of homes and buildings, and innovative urban services; solar base stations. ■ Orange Consulting experts offer a range of “Green IT” services such as energy audits to assess the energy consumption of 2011 IT equipment and to develop dynamic scenarios for reducing ■ launch of a Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in Spain; this consumption. The Group wrote a white paper on this ■ Orange wins the Best Mobile Technology for Emerging issue in 2012, which will soon be published on the www. Markets Award at the 2011 Global Mobile Awards for its orange-business.com website. Orange Consulting also programme of solar base stations. performs carbon audits of IT systems and assessments of the environmental beneﬁts of IT solutions like video-conferencing. 2012 ■ the Group contributes to the European Commission’s ICT Footprint project to develop standardised methods for assessing the environmental impact of new technologies. towards a greener world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 97 5 towards a greener world 5.3. optimising waste management Optimising waste management is one of the priorities of the France Telecom-Orange environmental policy. The Group is focusing on two complementary areas to: ■ optimise the management of waste generated internally by introducing processing channels suited to each category of waste and ensuring their end-to-end traceability; ■ help to manage waste generated by products and services sold, with particular attention being paid to the collection and recycling of mobile handsets and other electric and electronic equipment. 5.3.1. ensuring appropriate treatment of internally-generated waste In 2012 the Group continued to implement appropriate ■ managing waste collection and treatment channels; processes for handling each category of waste in each country, according to three main principles: ■ ensuring the transparency and traceability of these channels; ■ measure the quantities of waste generated by activities, ■ setting up the right contractual agreements, especially with drawing up inventories for each country based on the Group’s outside companies; classiﬁcations; ■ keeping abreast of legal issues. ■ ensure the waste goes through appropriate treatment processes taking into account of the local environment; in Africa and the Middle East As part of its role to provide technical support to countries, ■ ensure traceability of the source of this waste by progressively in 2012 the Group’s CSR Department developed a reference mapping the treatment processes in all countries. guide for waste management tailored to the speciﬁc conditions in African and Middle Eastern countries. in Europe Based on the results of audits performed in European countries Audits and programmes to share best practices were carried in 2011, in 2012 the Group developed a reference guide for out in several African countries, most notably Senegal. waste management in the region. The goal is to encourage the In Egypt, Mobinil set up a mobile phone collection and recycling sharing of best practices to improve waste collection, with a programme for its employees and furthered its efforts to collect special focus on the following: and recycle paper, cables, and batteries. ■ performing an inventory of and classifying waste generated by the Group and its customers; Z main waste treated by the Group (excluding ordinary waste) 2.3% 7.2% other-non hazardous waste waste electrical and electronic equipment other hazardous waste 1.5% (WEEE) paper carboard 7.2% 5.5% WEEE collected from customers batteries 4.4% 2.8% metal poles 36.8% 32.3% cables wooden poles 98 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange towards a greener world optimising waste management 5 5.3.2. increasing the collection and recycling of customers’ electronic equipment To combat the proliferation of electrical and electronic equipment ■ in Africa, following the creation of the ﬁrst telephone equipment waste resulting from the increasing usage of digital devices, waste collection and treatment workshops in association Orange is acting on several fronts in order to: with Emmaüs International, mobile phone collection initiatives were launched in 2012 in the four countries concerned: ■ extend the life of mobile telephones by putting in place Burkina Faso, Benin, Niger, and Madagascar. schemes to encourage customers to keep their telephones for longer; reselling used equipment: a win-win ■ sell reconditioned second-hand mobiles in several European proposition countries; The reusage of mobile phones that are old but still working is the best solution from an environmental perspective: extending ■ build customer awareness through incentives to increase the this equipment’s useful life both reduces the production of collection rate of used telephones by 50% per year. electronic waste and saves the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be necessary to make new equipment. It is a collection rate on the rise also a good way to provide access to new technology to those In 2012, the Group collected 10% of the telephones distributed with low incomes, as the used equipment can be obtained at at its points of sale in France, Spain, Poland, Belgium, Slovakia, a lower cost. and Romania − or a 50% increase over the 6.6% rate in 2011. For all these reasons, Orange has started selling used mobile This progress reﬂects the scale of the Group’s efforts in all phones in France (on orange.fr and sosh.fr), Spain, and, under a European countries to build customer awareness of the pilot programme, Poland. Studies are underway to expand this importance of recycling mobile phones. initiative to other countries. some examples: Another initiative concerning used ofﬁce computers was launched in 2012: the “PC by Orange” programme (see Focus). ■ the Group sponsored collection campaigns in several European countries, including Spain (in association with focus UNICEF), Poland (among employees), Slovakia (in primary schools), Moldavia (among the general public), and France strengthened waste reporting to take into (among the general public, local government agencies, and account the Grenelle 2 environmental law companies); In order to monitor the processing of the Group's waste ■ in France, in addition to awareness-building campaigns, as closely as possible whilst taking into account both the Orange continued to roll out Mobo, its mobile-phonerequirements of the Grenelle 2 law and different country collecting robot, through agreements with publicand privatecontexts, Orange has established a new reporting sector organisations like shopping arcades, universities, process that distinguishes evacuated waste (metric media libraries, ofﬁces, and primary and secondary schools. tons of waste no longer stored on the Group's sites or Orange also launched a targeted communications campaign under its direct control, but which have been entrusted on social networks (www.hello-mobo.fr); to a service provider or an external organisation, with or without a related financial transaction) and recovered ■ to encourage customers to bring in their old phones, for the waste (waste that has been recovered through re-use, past four years Orange has been offering to buy back used material recovery or energy recovery). In 2012, more mobiles. New buyback offers were introduced in France, towards a greener world than 86% of the waste produced by the Group was Romania, and Poland in 2012. A feasibility study is underway recovered. in Egypt; Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 99 5 towards a greener world optimising waste management specific work on companies’ waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) Special collection processes are needed for waste electrical The Group has developed a paid collection service to meet the and electronic equipment (WEEE) from business customers. needs of customers looking for a speciﬁc collection service for their old equipment. In France, the Group has set up a Corporate Environmental Department to collect and treat WEEE from equipment installed This France-based initiative could be extended to other countries at business customer sites. This system allows for compliance subject to the same environmental regulations, adapting it to with the new regulatory requirements for business WEEE, while the corresponding domestic markets. encouraging the reuse of such equipment and consequently the extension of their useful lives. Z increase in the number of mobiles collected Z evolution of the collected quantity (tonnes) of customer WEEE and evacuated 1,600,000 3,500 OBS 1,400,000 3,000 rest of the world 1,200,000 Slovakia 2 500 1,000,000 Romania 2,000 800,000 Belgium 1,500 Spain 600,000 1,000 Poland 400,000 France 200,000 500 2009 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 R element veriﬁed by Deloitte, moderate assurance. focus the PC by Orange: a product enjoying a new lease of life in France and Africa Over 6,000 PC Hello computers, initially intended for a markets. Renamed PC by Orange, this PC is now target group of first-time buyers in France, lay unused available in six African subsidiaries: Cameroon, Niger, in the Group's inventory. Rather than keep storing them Uganda, Côte d'Ivoire, Botswana and Madagascar. or destroying them, Orange launched a project to give Over 5,000 units have already been shipped and an them a new lease of life in Africa and the Middle East additional 1,000 units will be in 2013. The Orange where there is strong demand for low cost electronic Foundation also acquired some of the PCs with a view products. A cross-company working group, bringing to offering them to over 120 local associations in France together teams from the export, purchasing and and in Africa, in order to favour the digital inclusion of marketing departments, made this project a success disadvantaged groups by offering a product tailored to the needs of African 100 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange some key dates 2006 2010 towards a greener world optimising waste management 5 ■ mapping of waste processing channels in France. ■ participation in work undertaken by the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) to optimise the 2007 management of electronic waste; ■ deﬁnition of guidelines on waste applicable to all Group ■ establishment of two mobile phone collection and recycling countries. channels in Burkina Faso and Benin in partnership with Emmaüs International and Ateliers du Bocage. 2009 ■ audits of WEEE collection and processing channels in France, 2012 the United Kingdom, Spain and Poland showing a good level ■ creation of a dedicated channel to collect and treat data, of compliance with the requirements of the WEEE Directive. ﬁxed-line telephone, and imaging WEEE at business customer sites in France. focus Mapping waste management in Senegal At the request of Sonatel (the Senegalese subsidiary The assignment also allowed clearer classification of of France Telecom-Orange) and the Group's CSR the various types of waste produced by Sonatel to be Department, in November 2012 a team from the implemented and enabled the subsidiary itself to improve Purchasing Department carried out a support assignment its knowledge of waste processing channels and their with the aim of optimising waste management by associated risks and check the compliance of its service establishing a map of the various waste processing providers more effectively. It also allowed the Group to channels in Senegal. Its objectives: gain a clearer understanding of the situation in the AfricaMiddle East zone, particularly with respect to the difficulties ■ assess the extent to which waste processing complies in finding reliable waste processing channels for certain with national and international law; types of waste, such as WEEE. Following this assignment, cooperative processes with European service providers ■ examine the process for collecting, transporting and were strengthened in order to improve the processing and processing WEEE, batteries and other hazardous waste; traceability of waste. ■ meet with partners involved in recycling and audit their Moreover, through Orange's participation in international processes and compliance. working groups (UNEP, ITU, GeSI), local processing solutions are encouraged. towards a greener world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 101 5 towards a greener world 5.4. 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 5.4.1. 2012 review objective deadline main achievements in 2012 Environmental Management Systems continued deployment of ISO 14000 EMS in 2012-2013 ■ Sonatel (Senegal): ISO 14001 certiﬁcation was obtained the main countries and organisations of the in June 2012 for networks’ technical buildings; Group ■ Orange Romania: ISO 14001 certiﬁcation was obtained ■ present new countries involved in the EMS in November 2012 for all operations; process for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and extend ■ the ISO 14001-certiﬁed scope was expanded the scope of the countries that are already signiﬁcantly in several countries that were still not certiﬁed; 100%-certiﬁed (see following objective for more details); ■ initiate an ISO 14001 process for the new ■ an ISO 14001 certiﬁcation process was introduced for building that will accommodate the Group’s the new headquarters building (Olivier de Serres) in head ofﬁce in 2012. December 2012. continue the deployment of ISO 14001 2012-2015 ■ all certiﬁcation objectives were reached and the certiﬁcation on sites with signiﬁcant ISO 14001 certiﬁcation rate target was exceeded environmental impact (34% vs. a target of 30% by end-2012): ■ drive action plans in the period 2012-2015 to ■ Orange France: the ISO 14001-certiﬁed scope was increase the rate of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation to expanded signiﬁcantly to six business processes and meet the following milestones: end-2012: 30%; twelve priority sites (November 2012), end-2013: 40%; end-2014: 50%; end-2015: ■ Orange Business Services: ISO 14001 certiﬁcation 60%; was obtained for the Cairo site in March 2012 ■ in 2012, undertake the following actions: and for the main Paris site (Orange Stadium) in ■ continue to extend certiﬁcation of Orange December 2012, France sites to cover new processes and ■ Orange Spain: all ﬁxed-line operations are now major sites, ISO 14001-certiﬁed. All Orange Spain operations and ■ present Orange Business Service’s main sites are now certiﬁed (except the new data centre Paris site and its Egyptian site in Cairo for created in July 2012), ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, ■ Orange Romania and Sonatel (Senegal): targets were ■ roll out Orange Spain’s ISO 14001 certiﬁcation reached (see previous objective), to ﬁxed line activities to achieve total ■ all other ISO 14001 certiﬁcations previously obtained certiﬁcation by the end of 2012, by Group entities were maintained in 2012. ■ present Orange Senegal’s technical function for certiﬁcation in spring 2012, ■ present the Orange Romania’s technical function for certiﬁcation in autumn 2012. 102 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 5 objective deadline main achievements in 2012 reducing the Group’s carbon footprint networks and IT systems 2012-2015 ■ further progress was made on the Green ITN 2020 ■ lead in-depth targeted work with France, Poland, programme initiated a few years ago and targeting Spain, Slovakia, Côte d’Ivoire, and Egypt in priority France, Poland, Spain, Romania, Belgium, − which account for 86% of the Group’s energy Moldavia, and Slovakia; initial estimates for the year consumption − to select and prioritise methods show over 300 GWh of electrical energy savings of reducing energy consumption; − preventing 110,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions − ■ model energy paths for 2012-2015. thanks to actions taken by the countries; ■ action plans in the AMEA region were stepped up with a reporting effort requested from the main countries in the region; ■ modelling work for energy paths was launched as part of the Green ITN 2020 programme. ■ progressively introduce systems for measuring 2012-2015 ■ communicating meters were tested and installed the energy consumption of networks and ISs. to measure energy consumption in 16 countries in Europe and the AMEA region, as part of the Group’s RAN renewal programme; ■ by end-2012, 500 sites had been equipped with these meters, allowing for precise real-time tracking of energy consumption. ■ continue to innovate in the ﬁelds of renewable 2012-2015 ■ renewable energy (solar solutions) were rolled out in the energy, effectiveness of technical buildings, etc. AMEA region: 300 new solar sites were set up in 2012, bringing the total to 2,300 sites (including 1,743 base stations). All solar-powered sites have annual carbonfree electricity consumption of 15 GWh, saving 28 million litres of fuel oil and 76,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions; ■ 66% of RAN equipment was replaced by end-2012 in ten countries covered by the renewal programme; ■ Orange Labs continued to perform research and experiments on renewable energy, exothermic buildings, and 400 volt direct current power supplies; ■ the vehicle ﬂeet’s environmental performance was improved with even lower CO2 emission criteria per segment; in July these criteria became mandatory for all new vehicles delivered; ■ a new eco-driving and road safety training programme was developed and made available to all employees in towards a greener world September 2012, and electric vehicles were added to the ﬂeet to encourage car sharing. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 103 5 towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap objective deadline main achievements in 2012 tertiary sector buildings 2012 ■ the installation of energy measurement tools in buildings ■ continue the installation of energy measurement in France continued, with 55 buildings equipped; tools in buildings in France; ■ ofﬁce buildings: a Group environmental policy was ■ consolidate the policy of reducing consumption adopted in February 2012, focused on 12 key within the main European countries; measures. This policy was implemented in countries ■ implement action plans to reduce buildings’ through a guidebook of best practices. energy consumption. In 2012 these should primarily concern France, Spain, Egypt, Belgium, and Poland, where the adaptation of buildings to speciﬁc needs also helps cut energy usage; ■ green buildings: include environmental speciﬁcations in new building programmes (the countries concerned in 2012 are France, Côte d’Ivoire, Cameroon, and Botswana). evaluations and training 2012 ■ in France, work continued on the action plan introduced ■ ﬁnalise the Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in at each Environmental Steering Committee following the Spain; Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory: four new topics were ■ undertake a Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in addressed (networks, mobile handsets, eco-design, and Poland, adapted to the particular conditions in distribution channels); that country. ■ a carbon calculator was developed for operating ■ draw lessons from the Bilan Carbone® carbon divisions, so that each one can measure its carbon inventories in France and Spain. Use them as footprint (in the western France pilot region); the basis for action plans and introduce this ■ the Bilan Carbone® carbon inventory in Spain was issue into the strategic thinking of the Group; completed in 2012 and action plans were introduced to ■ continue training courses for network architects reduce the network’s energy consumption; and introduce an eco-design course. ■ Poland measured its carbon footprint and will introduce the corresponding energy action plans in 2013; ■ network architecture training was fully integrated into the architecture training course in association with Sup Télécom Paris Tech university. environmental performance of products and 2012 ■ work was done to improve the energy performance of services the new Liveboxes and set-top boxes, which will be ■ develop eco-design initiatives for the domestic rolled out with new software versions; network with the launch of new Liveboxes and ■ an eco-innovation workshop was held for future Orange set-top boxes; boxes; ■ develop eco-design for services; ■ work was organised by service brick, and software ecodesign work was started; ■ “green patterns” were published; ■ an eco-design/eco-innovation pilot project was completed for the business market (the “Multi Connect Business Avaya” communication-over-IP offer); ■ introduce eco-design tools and methods across ■ eco-design tools and methods were distributed for the board for training and processes around training, innovation processes, and product launches for innovation and product launch; the residential market; ■ the decision was made to review the eco-design tools and methods; ■ prepare to market mobile terminals and chargers ■ work done within the GSMA and ITU was continued; separately, to derive all possible beneﬁt from the recent introduction of a standard for a universal charger; 104 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange objective deadline towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap main achievements in 2012 5 environmental labelling 2012 ■ eco-labels were introduced in Armenia in June 2012; ■ continue with the international roll-out of eco■ the Group contributed to two GSMA working groups to labelling for mobile handsets and contributions establish a common methodology and tools that the ITU to setting an international standard (GSMA, will use as a basis for standardisation in 2013. European Union). promote eco-behaviours 2012 ■ in France: ■ pursue roll-out programmes for e-billing in Europe, with a 2012 target of 80% penetration for the Internet, 50% for mobile telephony and 30% for ﬁxed telephony; ■ promote longer technical and commercial life ■ following the launches of the Sosh range in France and and usage of mobile handsets similar offers elsewhere in Europe, the share of “SIM only” offers is growing sharply and encouraging the introduction of repackaged handset offers, for which the Group plays a driving role. biodiversity paper consumption 2012-2015 ■ for Orange France in 2012: overall objective: to preserve forests and reduce ■ 80% of sales documentation was printed on FSC-certiﬁed the quantity of waste connected with the use of or recycled paper, paper in the ofﬁce ■ 92% of the ofﬁce paper used was FSC-certiﬁed or recycled; ■ increase the use of recycled and certiﬁed paper with the aim of Orange France achieving 100% ■ for Orange Spain in 2012: ■ 100% of sales documentation was printed on of sales documentation printed on recycled or FSC-certiﬁed or recycled paper, certiﬁed paper and 80% for ofﬁce paper; ■ 82% of the ofﬁce paper used was FSC-certiﬁed or ■ increase the use of FSC-certiﬁed or recycled recycled; paper in the ofﬁce (internal). For Orange Spain: use 100% of certiﬁed or recycled paper by 2015 for both internal consumption and customer or sales documentation; ■ reduce the Group’s overall paper consumption 2012-2015 ■ Orange France cut its paper consumption by 3% relative through various measures, raising awareness to 2011. internally, e-billing, etc. rare resources 2012 ■ a project group involving all stakeholders was ■ map the Group’s dependence on rare resources. created in June 2012 to assess the challenges, risks, and opportunities for the Group. towards a greener world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 105 5 towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap objective deadline main achievements in 2012 waste management development of new processing channels 2012-2015 ■ reference guides for waste management were in African countries developed, tailored to the speciﬁc conditions in African ■ play a pioneering role in developing subsidiaries and Middle Eastern countries; and solutions enabling African countries to ■ expert assessments and measures to share best collect and recycle their waste efﬁciently and practices were initiated, most notably Senegal, in 2012; effectively; ■ Egypt: Mobinil set up a mobile phone collection and ■ contribute to the various reﬂections launched on recycling programme for its employees and furthered this topic (e-waste academy, etc.); its efforts to collect and recycle paper, cables, and ■ mobilise Orange subsidiaries in these countries batteries; and support local initiatives with all the players ■ the Group increased its participation in international concerned, particularly in Egypt, Tunisia, and working groups on waste management (GeSI, ITU) to Côte d’Ivoire. set up collective, effective solutions for waste treatment. WEEE Directive 2012 ■ in France, the Group set up a Corporate Environmental ■ launch new initiatives for business WEEE and Department to collect and treat WEEE from ﬁxed-line institute improved channels to collect, process, equipment installed at business customer sites; and reuse this equipment, satisfy changes ■ a paid waste collection service was developed and in regulations, and improve our response to launched in late 2012 to meet customers’ needs in customers’ demands; France; ■ continue Group initiatives to enable European ■ Based on expert assessments carried out in European subsidiaries to increase the collection of WEEE countries, a reference guide on waste management in and other waste, and optimise the processing Europe was developed to encourage the sharing of best of this waste whilst taking into account the latest practices to improve waste collection and treatment, changes in the WEEE Directive. equipment reuse, and channel traceability, and to prepare for new WEEE Directive requirements to go into effect in 2014; ■ an initiative was launched to improve waste management reporting so that efforts to reuse and recycle collected waste are better taken into account, in accordance with France’s Grenelle 2 requirements. 106 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange objective deadline towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap main achievements in 2012 5 collection and recycling of mobile phones − 2012 ■ the mobile phone collection rate at end-2012 was give a new dimension to the mobile recycling 10% in France, Spain, Poland, Belgium, Slovakia, policy to continue to increase the rate and Romania − or a 50% increase over the 6.6% rate of collection by over 50% per year: in 2011; ■ deploy Mobo (the “smart” collector) and its ■ Mobo deployment agreements were signed with ecosystem in pilot phase in France and other publicand private-sector organisations in France, and European countries; a communications campaign was launched on social ■ launch second-hand mobile offerings networks (www.hello-mobo.fr); in a number of European countries; ■ the Group started selling used mobile phones in France ■ extend the collection of mobiles to the business and Spain (on orange.fr and sosh.fr), and under a pilot market as part of the replacement of ﬂeets programme Poland. Studies are underway for other of handsets; countries; ■ launch civic collection actions in European ■ new mobile phone buyback offers were introduced in countries. France, Romania, and Poland; ■ recovery programmes speciﬁc to the business market: no special developments; ■ the Group sponsored collection campaigns in several European countries, including Spain (in association with UNICEF), Poland (among employees), Slovakia (in primary schools), Moldavia (among the general public), and France (among the general public, local government agencies, and companies); ■ study the feasibility of large-scale collection 2012 ■ mobile waste collection initiatives were carried out in four and recycling schemes in Africa. African countries (Madagascar, Burkina Faso, Benin, and Niger). towards a greener world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 107 5 towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 5.4.2. 2013 roadmap objective deadline Environmental Management Systems continue deploying ISO 14000 EMSs in the Group’s main countries and entities, to reach a 60% ISO 14001 2013 certiﬁcation rate by end-2015. reducing the Group’s carbon footprint networks and IT systems 2013 ■ continue the work started in 2012 with France, Poland, Spain, Slovakia, Côte d’Ivoire, and Egypt − which account for 86% of the Group’s energy consumption – to identify and prioritise ways to cut energy consumption; ■ continue to progressively introduce systems for measuring the energy consumption of networks and IT systems; ■ leverage the results of tests performed in 2012 to further innovate in the ﬁeld of renewable energy. tertiary sector buildings 2013 ■ expand the measures to install energy measurement tools in buildings in France and Belgium to other countries. evaluations and training 2013 ® ■ identify the main conclusions of the Bilan Carbone carbon inventory carried out in Poland in 2012 (adapted to the speciﬁc conditions in that country). environmental performance of products 2013 ■ reduce the environmental impacts of Home Network handsets; ■ apply the results of the eco-innovation workshops in the development of the next Orange box; ■ continue using eco-design techniques for services; ■ carry out a second eco-design/eco-innovation pilot project for the business market; ■ supplement the eco-design recommendations for network architects. electronic labelling 2013 ■ promote standardisation efforts based on pilot projects carried out by the Group. equipment lifetimes 2013-2015 ■ substantially increase the usage of electronic billing and extend the useful lives of handsets. 108 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange towards a greener world 2012 review and 2013 roadmap 5 objective deadline biodiversity ■ launch a speciﬁc impact study on biodiversity for each business line (networks, cables, ofﬁce buildings, and 2013-2015 transport), and outline an action plan to reduce the Group’s impact on biodiversity; ■ expand the use of FSC-certiﬁed or recycled ofﬁce paper, and reduce the Group’s overall paper consumption; 2013-2015 ■ introduce action plans for each business concerned, so as to incorporate rare resource issues into business 2013 processes. waste management WEEE 2013 ■ deploy new methods for collecting and treating WEEE among business customers in France, and progressively expand them to other European countries where Orange Business Services operates; ■ train the sales force on end-of-life issues for equipment, so they can help business customers contribute to meeting waste collection and recycling targets; ■ actively participate in the implementation of the amended WEEE Directive in the various European countries where the Group operates; ■ implement measures on a European level to help reach the collection targets set forth in the new Directive (for 2016 and 2019 in particular). reach a 15% collection rate by end-2013 for mobile phones sold through the Group’s controlled 2013 distribution channels, or a 50% increase from 2012 achieve this target by: ■ improving the effectiveness of phone buyback programmes, especially in France and Belgium; ■ introducing a pilot buyback programme in the AMEA region; ■ expanding used mobile phone offers and the range of handsets offered in Europe; ■ expanding mobile phone collection initiatives across Europe, and developing “structural” initiatives beyond existing environmental measures; ■ studying the feasibility of large-scale collection and recycling schemes in Africa. towards a greener world Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 109 A appendices about this report This report is intended to provide a fair and balanced view veriﬁcation of the report of the global performance of the France Telecom-Orange Group over the 2012 calendar year. It endeavours to meet the As in previous years, France Telecom-Orange requested one main requirements for information expressed by the Group’s of its auditors to review progress on the goals in the roadmaps stakeholders (customers, shareholders, rankings agencies, given in this report and verify a selection of social, environmental, employees, suppliers, public authorities and local communities). and human resources indicators and the application of the AA 1000 APS (2008) principles. The summaries for these indicators that have been externally period and frequency of report veriﬁed are identiﬁed by the symbols R and RR. Every year since 2002, the Group has published an Annual The conclusions of this work appear on pages 114-117. Report on sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. This report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2012. It also includes a number of qualitative items from early 2013 (outstanding achievements). application of the principles of the AA1000 standard In all signiﬁcant aspects, the process of drawing up the 2011 scope and methodology of report Corporate Social Responsibility Report adheres to the three principles (completeness, materiality and responsiveness) of The content of the report has been produced on the basis of the AA 1000 APS (2008) standard, a benchmark in the matter indicators selected in such a way as to give an account of the of corporate social responsibility focusing the recognition of main economic, social, societal and environmental impact of stakeholders’ requirements (www.accountability21.net). the Group’s activities. The choice of these indicators has been partly determined by the recommendations of international benchmark bodies such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), completeness the UN Global Compact, the guiding principles of the OECD The identiﬁcation of our stakeholders’ requirements is a key and the ISO 26000 standard on the social responsibility of element in our process of identifying sustainable development organisations. issues. The list of the Group’s main stakeholders appears on page 28. The indicators have been collected, calculated and consolidated with the support of dedicated IT tools. Unless otherwise stated, the data presented covers all the Group’s activities and the materiality countries in which it operates. The selection of the most signiﬁcant sustainable development issues connected with the Group’s activities takes account For environmental data, the scope of the report covers an of requirements expressed by stakeholders and an internal average of 98% of the Group’s sales. The rate of coverage, prioritisation of risks, which is regularly reassessed. estimated as a percentage of the sales of the entities included in the reporting scope, is given for each environmental indicator in the table of data on pages 118-125. responsiveness Action plans covering sustainable development issues For social data, the rate of coverage estimated as a percentage signiﬁcant to the activities of France Telecom-Orange are of the Group’s workforce is given in the table on pages 126-130. reassessed annually, and new issues are identiﬁed at the same time. These issues and plans are set out in roadmaps at the end of each chapter of this report. 110 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices about this report A The report is an essential element of the Group’s response social data to the requirements expressed by its stakeholders. Published annually, it enables us to recognise the impact of, and progress The social reporting in this document is based on HR-Info, an with, undertakings made to these stakeholders. France information system that differs from that used for the Annual Telecom-Orange takes account of suggestions for improvement Report and reference document (Magnitude) because only transmitted by its readers, as well as conclusions drawn from HR-Info allows distinctions to be made by gender and sociothe veriﬁcation work undertaken to improve the quality of its professional category. reporting. male-female management split (permanent contracts at end of period) compliance with international The rule for calculating the “management personnel” indicator is reporting guidelines based on the active workforce on permanent contracts. The “management personnel” indicator includes employees in GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) the “executive” category, which corresponds to the consolidation This report was developed in line with the Global Reporting of levels E, F, and G of the French National Telecommunications Initiative (GRI) version 3 guidelines. Based on the method of Collective Agreement (Convention Collective Nationale des assessment recommended in the guide to the GRI G3.1 Télécommunications). application levels, the self-assessment of this report has been undertaken using application level A+. Group entities outside France use a document describing the levels in the Collective Agreement to assign a level to each employee. correspondence with the Global Compact percentage of women in the “Leaders” France Telecom-Orange signed up to the United Nations Global Compact in July 2000. network The “Leaders” network is a manager network that had As part of the Compact, the Group is required to issue a 1,118 members at end-2012. These members hold positions Communication on Progress report each year. For the Group’s of very high responsibility in the France Telecom-Orange Group. compliance with this requirement, see the reporting standards table in the appendix. number of leavers The “number of resignations”, “number of redundancies/ correspondence with the ISO 26000 dismissals”, and “number of leavers per gender” only include standard departures of active employees on permanent contracts. The international ISO 26000 standard published in Therefore permanent departures of employees on temporary November 2010 provides guidelines on the social responsibility leave (for example due to a long illness, assignment to nonof organisations. The ISO 26000 standard revolves around active service, or unpaid leave) are not included in these seven central issues covering various areas of action connected indicators. with the social responsibility of organisations. For the Group’s compliance with these reporting guidelines, see Health and safety indicators the correspondence table in the appendix. The deﬁnitions of the Group’s health and safety indicators were redeﬁned in 2011. Roll-out of the reporting system was almost completed at end-2012, with a coverage rate of over 91% of staff − or over 99.6% for France alone. Countries report changes in calculation methods appendices accidents in accordance with domestic regulations. The method of calculating CO2 emissions related to the consumption of electricity in France was altered in 2011 to incorporate the Ademe emission factor. Historical data has also been recalculated in order to calculate Group emissions. Local purchase indicators were reprocessed in 2011 to include new purchase categories and consolidated purchase volumes. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 111 A appendices environmental data CO2 emissions The 2012 version (with the 2009 results) of the GHG Protocol Environmental reporting is based on the Indicia reporting was used to calculate CO2 emissions for electricity, except for tool. Only those countries consolidated in the Annual Report France, for which the Group took 60 g CO2/kWh as the value contributed to CSR reporting. The following changes in for the period 2008 to 2012, based on the Ademe’s revised reporting scope occurred between 2012 and 2011: Switzerland estimates. Prior years were therefore corrected. The emissions was removed and the Democratic Republic of the Congo was factor for Orange Business Services International entities added. throughout the world corresponds with the “world” factor of the GHG Protocol 2005. energy The coefﬁcients used for the other kinds of fuel (gas, fuel oil, The energy consumption of data centres and networks shared coal, petrol, diesel and LPG) are also taken from the GHG with other operators are accounted for either partly or totally. (2007). The consumption of mixed equipment (network and mobile) in France is allocated in its entirety to the indicator covering the consumption of networks outside the mobile activity. electronic waste (e-waste) collected from customers The energy consumption of premises, particularly shops, for WEEE collected from “private” customers consists of WEEE which the France Telecom-Orange Group does not pay an (mobile, landline and multimedia handsets) returned to sales invoice directly, is not reported. outlets, by mail or collected by service providers on behalf of The consumption of energy from urban heating plants is not Orange. accounted for due to the difﬁculty of estimating the related CO2 This indicator includes the mobile phones of Group employees. emissions. It includes batteries and accumulators that are part of equipment Electricity consumption by the Group’s Polish entity (Orange when it is returned by a customer, and other types of batteries Poland) is calculated from a statistical sample of invoices received and accumulators collected separately at various collection during the ﬁnancial year. In the same way, the consumptions of points. electricity of Orange Spain and France networks are based on In France, WEEE from “business” customers (OBS France) is a part of estimation. not included in this indicator but rather in the internal WEEE The “fuel oil consumption (all buildings and all uses)” indicator indicator (network). comprises consumption (excluding vehicles) of domestic fuel oil, diesel and gasoline, as well as marine heavy fuel oil and evacuated and recovered waste diesel for FT Marine’s ﬂeet. Reporting on waste incorporates the concept of evacuated waste (i.e. waste that is no longer stored in the Group’s sites transport or under its direct control, but which has been disposed of to Most of the data for train and air travel are provided by Carlson a service provider or an external body, with or without a related Wagon Lits, which covers more than 80% of the mileage ﬁnancial transaction), and recovered waste (i.e. waste that has travelled by the Group’s employees. Distances covered during been recovered through re-use, material recovery or energy train and air journeys are estimated using the great circle route recovery). method (the shortest distance between two points on the Earth’s Non-hazardous waste is not included. Fluorescent bulbs, PCB surface). The CO2 emission factor for short-haul air transport in and printer cartridge waste is accounted for, but is now included the GHG Protocol (180 g CO2/km per passenger) is used for all under “Other hazardous waste”. The Group is working to ﬂights (short-, mediumand long-haul). The CO2 emission factor identify and develop sustainable waste collection and treatment for train transport is taken from the “Bilan Carbone™” method processes in the AMEA region. At this point an exhaustive when available for the corresponding country. report of waste treatment data for this region is not available. In the other countries, a standard factor of 100 g CO2/km per In France, only waste handled by a service provider having signed passenger is used. a framework contract with the France Telecom-Orange Group is Local travel agencies, besides Carlson Wagon Lits, that provided listed in the report as ofﬁce waste and non-customer network reporting data are also taken into consideration, as well as the WEEE, with the exception of cables and other hazardous waste travel undertaken by families of expatriate employees. (including bilge water and sludges) from FT Marine and a limited quantity of waste from FTR&D and FT Marine. Different dedicated service providers are used, depending on the type of waste concerned (copper cables, paper, network equipment, batteries, wooden poles, etc.). Particular attention is paid to wooden poles, in order to prevent their reuse and 112 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange to ensure they are properly eliminated. For all sites on lease, household and similar waste is not reported, as they are These data come from the consolidate data in the Group’s purchasing IT system (Gold) and include for each entity: appendices about this report A managed by the landlord. ■ the total amount of orders; The same deﬁnitions and methodical analysis method are used in other European countries. In non-European countries, given ■ the total amount of orders from local suppliers. that established channels are often not available to treat certain With the following deﬁnitions: types of waste, the quantity of recovered waste generally corresponds to all evacuated waste that had been sold. ■ local suppliers: environmental management system ■ suppliers that are not subsidiaries of a larger company, The “Size of ISO 14001 certiﬁed sites or activities” indicator ■ suppliers that are subsidiaries of a company operating on is calculated based on the ratio of energy consumption of the a national scale only; scope covered by the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and total electricity consumption, except for France, for which the indicator is ■ external suppliers: calculated based on the ratio of the number of employees covered by the certiﬁcation to the total number of employees. ■ suppliers that are subsidiaries of an international company. The indicator for a country is not given if complete data are not CET (Customer Experience Tracker) available. The indicator published corresponds to the average score given by Orange customers for the following question: “[...] Would you Orange Business Services International recommend Orange mobile/broadband Internet to your friends OBS International reporting is based in 133 sites in 11 countries and family?” where OBS operates. These countries represent 72.6% of staff Those questioned awarded a score on a scale of 0 to 10. The and 60% of building areas (m2) occupied. The countries are scores were averaged out and multiplied by 10 to give a score Australia, Brazil, Switzerland, Egypt, Germany, India, Mauritius, out of 100. Russia, Singapore, United States, and United Kingdom. local purchases The Group calculates the percentage of orders placed with local suppliers for each country (geographically speaking). appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 113 A appendices external opinion assurance report of one of the Statutory Auditors on the corporate responsibility reporting process year ended December 31, 2012 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. For the attention of France Télécom Group Executive These items were prepared under the responsibility of the Management Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Department in accordance with the following reporting criteria: Pursuant to your request and in our capacity as one of the Statutory Auditors of France Télécom, we have conducted (1) for the principles, the AA1000 APS (2008); procedures on the following items: (2) for the main achievements, the corporate responsibility (1) the description given by France Télécom on page 26 of the policies and guidelines prepared by the France Télécom 2012 Group Corporate Responsibility Report (“the report”) Group and described in the 2012 roadmaps; on the compliance with AA1000 APS1 (2008) principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in the report’s (3) for the selected Information, all the procedures relating to preparation process (“the principles”); the reporting of environmental, social and societal indicators (the “Reporting Criteria”), available for consultation at the (2) the description made by France Télécom on pages 8-9, Corporate Social Responsibility Department, that are 34-35, 52-56, 70-72, 84-87, 102-107 of the report on summarized on pages 112-114 of the report; the state of progress of the objectives set in the report’s roadmaps and of the validity of their presentation (“main (4) for the GRI Self-Assessment, the GRI G32 sustainable achievements”); development reporting guidelines. (3) the corporate responsibility Information selected by France It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on these items Télécom and identiﬁed by the symbol R or RR among based on the work we performed. Our work covers only these the information published on pages 32, 41, 89, 91, 100, items and not the entire report. 118-121, 138-140 of the report (“the selected Information”); We conducted our procedures in accordance with ISAE 3000 (4) France Télécom’s self-assessment of the report based on (International Standard on Assurance Engagements), the GRI G3 guidelines (“the GRI Self-Assessment”), available AA1000 AS1 (2008) and the professional guidelines applicable on pages 131 to 146 of the report. in France. Our procedures satisfy the requirements of a Type 2 veriﬁcation in accordance with AA1000 AS (2008) standard. The Professional 1 http://www.accountability.org/standards/index.html 2 https://www.globalreporting.org/reporting/reporting-framework-overview/application-level-information/Pages/default.aspx The report can be given an A GRI application level if the company (i) has reported information for all the indicators required by this standard, (ii) has explained for each indicator category the managerial approach adopted and (iii) has provided information on all of the key indicators required by the standard. It can be given an A+ application level if the existence of this information has given rise to an external veriﬁcation. 114 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices external opinion A Code of Conduct governing the statutory auditor profession, to (1) description of the compliance which we are bound, guarantees our independence with regard with AA1000 principles to the criteria required by the AA1000 AS (2008). We have carried out the following procedures, in order to obtain: nature and scope of procedures We met the people responsible for Corporate Responsibility at ■ a reasonable assurance that the description of the principles (1) the France Télécom headquarters (Executive committee and deﬁned above, the description of the main achievements (2), Corporate Social Responsibility Department) and a sample and the selected Information (3) identiﬁed by the symbol RR of legal entities3, in order to assess the implementation of the have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance report’s preparation process as deﬁned by France Télécom and with the above-mentioned reporting criteria; the identiﬁcation of signiﬁcant events in 2012. ■ a limited assurance that the selected Information (3) identiﬁed We conducted tests at corporate level and for the aboveby the symbol R and the GRI Self-Assessment (4) do not mentioned entities on the implementation of the procedure contain any material anomalies likely to call into question the relating to: fact that they have been prepared, in all material respects, fairly and in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting ■ the identiﬁcation of stakeholders and their expectations; criteria. ■ the identiﬁcation of material Corporate Responsibility issues; To assist us in conducting our work, we referred to the corporate responsibility experts of our ﬁrm. ■ the implementation of Corporate Responsibility policies and guidelines. We compared the material issues described by France Télécom in its report with those presented by the main Télécommunications sector companies in their Corporate Responsibility reports and those arising from our review of the sector’s press in 2012. appendices 3 Two OBS entities (Equant in India and Egypt) and a sampling of legal entities in the following countries: Belgium (Mobistar), Cameroon (Orange Cameroun), Egypt (Mobinil), Spain (France Télécom Espana), Poland (Orange Poland), Dominican Republic (Orange Dominicana), Senegal (Sonatel), Slovakia (Orange Slovensko). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 115 A appendices external opinion conclusion of reasonable assurance We have veriﬁed the set-up within the Group of a process to collect, compile, process and check the selected Information In our opinion, France Télécom’s description on page 26 of the with regard to its completeness and consistency. We have report on compliance with the AA1000 APS (2008) principles familiarized ourselves with the internal control and risk of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in the report’s management procedures relating to the compilation of the preparation process has been prepared, in all material respects, Information. We have conducted interviews with individuals in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria. responsible for corporate responsibility reporting. Concerning the selected quantitative Information: (2) main achievements ■ for the consolidating entity and controlled entities, we have set up analytical procedures and veriﬁed, using sampling nature and scope of procedures techniques, the calculations as well as the consolidation of We assessed France Télécom’s description of the state of this Information; progress of the objectives set in the report’s roadmaps and of the validity of the presentation of the main achievements by ■ at the sites that we have selected4 , based on their activity, conducting interviews and collecting substantive evidence from their contribution to consolidated indicators, their location the relevant entities. and a risk analysis, we have: ■ conducted interviews to verify the proper application conclusion of reasonable assurance of procedures and obtain information to perform our veriﬁcations, In our opinion, France Télécom’s description of the state of progress of the objectives set in the report’s guidelines and of ■ conducted substantive tests, using sampling techniques, the validity of the presentation of the main achievements on to verify the calculations performed and reconcile the data pages 8, 9, 34, 35, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 70, 71, 72, 84, 85, with supporting evidence. 86, 87, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107 of the report has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the aboveFor the Information selected by the Group and identiﬁed by mentioned reporting criteria. the sign RR in the report, the level of measurement accuracy and the performance of more extensive procedures than those performed on other Information selected by the Group and identiﬁed by the sign R, in particular regarding the number of (3) selected Information tests, enabled us to express reasonable assurance. nature and scope of procedures We assessed the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria with respect to its relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity and reliability, by taking into consideration, when relevant, the sector’s best practices. 4 Two OBS entities (Equant in India and Egypt) and a sampling of legal entities in the following countries: Belgium (Mobistar), Cameroon (Orange Cameroun), Egypt (Mobinil), Spain (France Télécom Espana), Poland (Orange Poland), Dominican Republic (Orange Dominicana), Senegal (Sonatel), Slovakia (Orange Slovensko), representing 92% of total employees, as well as 87% of energy consumption (excluding transportation), 84% of CO2 emissions, 98% of internal evacuated waste and 98% of recycled waste published by the Group. 116 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices external opinion A conclusion of reasonable assurance (4) work on the GRI Self-Assessment In our opinion, the Information selected by France Télécom and nature and scope of procedures identiﬁed by the sign RR has been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Reporting Based on the GRI cross-reference table shown on pages Criteria. 131 to 146 of the report, we satisﬁed ourselves that for each indicator contributing to the A+ application level, a disclosure was provided in the report or in another document referred to in conclusion of limited assurance the table and published by the Group. Based on our work, we have not identiﬁed any material anomaly likely to call into question the fact that the Information selected conclusion of limited assurance by the Group and identiﬁed by the sign R is presented, in all material aspects, fairly and in accordance with the aboveBased on our work, we have not identiﬁed any material anomaly mentioned Reporting Criteria. likely to call into question the fact that France Télécom’s selfassessment of the report based on the GRI G3 guidelines Without calling into question the conclusions of our procedures that contributed to the A+ application level is presented, in expressed above, we draw your attention to the fact that, as all material respects, fairly and in accordance with the aboveindicated in the methodological note presented in the section mentioned reporting criteria. “about this report” on pages 110 to 113, the Group is in the process of identifying and securing its waste collection and treatment channels in certain countries of the EMEA region. Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 15th, 2013. One of the Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés Frédéric Moulin Partner appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 117 A appendices environmental data nc: Not collected na: Not applicable R: item reviewed by Deloitte: moderate level of assurance RR: item reviewed by Deloitte: reasonnable level of assurance Z environmental performance (energy) reporting scope, as a France EUROP Correspercentage ponof the overall dance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic facilities presenting a risk fuel tanks units 2,221 1,517 213 0 325 48 166 0 860 energy consumption Scope 1 fuel (all buildings, all use) m3 EN3 99.8% 15,247 3,359 2,997 322 93 23 145 20 4,927 gas m 3 EN3 99.6% 18,313,387 3,499,336 0 238,140 0 267,156 28,167 0 0 coal tons EN3 100.0% na 100 na na na na na na na gazoline + GPL for company’s vehicles liters EN3 99.0% 58,432 859,699 64,348 0 244,517 159,981 301,809 143,263 707,952 diesel gazoline for company’s vehicles liters EN3 99.0% 30,037,792 5,471,908 559,179 1,862,598 889,410 476,689 134,839 37,465 169,612 SCOPE 1 TOTAL ENERGY GWH EN3 99.5% 670 139 41 25 12 9 6 2 65 CO2 emissions (fuel-gas-coal) CO2 tons EN4 99.8% 78,582 16,006 8,031 1,322 250 578 442 53 13,204 CO2 emissions (vehicles) CO2 tons EN5 99.0% 82,743 17,094 1,691 5,122 3,028 1,692 1,089 444 2,151 Scope 1 CO2 emissions (energy only) Tons CO2 EN3 99.5% 161,325 33,099 9,722 6,444 3,278 2,269 1,531 497 15,356 CO2 emissions from Tons green house gas eqCO2 EN19 19.0% 0 8,500 0 0 721 57 0 61 13,718 Scope 1 CO2 emissions Tons CO2 EN16 99.0% 161,325 41,599 9,722 6,444 3,999 2,326 1,531 558 29,074 Scope 2 electricity GWh EN4 99.6% 2,215 617 274 110 116 66 24 15 29 of which green energy GWh EN6 100.0% 0 0 0 110 0 0 0 0 1 Scope 2 CO2 emissions Tons CO2 EN16 99.6% 132,904 395,277 81,730 0 47,971 14,554 9,623 1,583 16,776 Scope 1 + Scope 2 CO2 Tons CO2 EN16 99.3% 294,229 436,877 91,452 6,444 51,970 16,880 11,154 2,141 45,850 118 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices environmental data A Group 2012: Group validated values AMEA Validated Values (updated without United Kingdom, for years 2006 to 2009) Orange Other Business Ivory AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali Coast Egypt Jordan Cameroun Countries International 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 205 0 569 1,449 234 0 0 94 7,901 5,666 5,992 5,996 6,445 5,601 3,916 2,073 4,129 1,523 30,224 319 3,318 20,029 93 88,841 77,798 71,087 80,750 49,480 44,872 51,117 0 0 0 0 143 0 0 157,382 22,503,710 21,662,486 23,836,444 23,867,165 24,729,068 25,285,598 27,988,080 na na na na na na na na 100 87 119 197 271 284 213 47,389 87,908 681,473 775,654 312,565 116,994 61,505 541,918 5,165,407 5,885,434 6,867,479 9,518,387 10,442,078 13,513,958 12,970,338 682,047 269,049 994,508 0 840,008 777,344 699,344 1,315,803 45,217,595 42,733,872 45,091,672 44,358,123 46,326,910 42,299,296 42,084,210 31 51 34 357 15 47 240 21 R R 1,766 1,610 1,588 1,732 1,367 1,295 1,416 5,556 11,065 4,082 80,999 854 8,893 53,679 554 284,149 253,491 239,159 264,565 181,010 165,924 336,475 1,988 949 4,357 1,846 3,054 2,416 2,070 4,908 136,642 131,524 140,344 144,637 152,138 150,410 146,599 7,544 12,014 8,439 82,845 3,908 11,309 55,748 5,462 420,791 385,015 379,503 409,203 333,147 316,334 483,075 0 0 0 0 0 0 65 1,511 24,633 7,536 15,881 14,105 24,309 15,185 7,544 12,014 8,439 82,845 3,908 11,309 55,813 6,973 RR 445,424 392,551 395,384 423,308 357,456 331,519 483,075 63 27 45 278 57 20 121 93 R R 4,169 3,984 4,039 3,916 3,700 3,137 3,059 appendices 4 2 1 1 0 1 5 0 124 122.80 8.37 9.74 9.77 12 77 36,663 12,466 18,680 128,960 33,202 4,694 42,635 46,464 R R 1,024,182 930,592 1,060,789 1,016,110 970,052 825,704 773,883 44,207 24,479 27,119 211,805 37,110 16,003 98,448 53,437 1,469,605 1,323,143 1,456,173 1,439,418 1,327,508 1,157,223 1,256,958 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 119 A appendices environmental data reporting scope, as a France EUROP Correspercentage ponof the overall dance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic Scope 3 ﬂight distances for business trips km EN29 99% 166,610,963 6,026,275 7,758,780 1,169,243 4,360,473 1,359,521 2,727,164 1,176,117 3,382,822 train distances for business trips km EN29 99% 98,361,564 7,978,790 2,786,981 1,353,461 18,968 0 2,539 0 0 Scope 3 CO2 emissions Tons CO2 EN16 99% 30,924 1,883 1,540 276 787 245 491 212 609 total emitted CO2 (Scope 1+2+3) Tons CO2 EN16 99% 325,153 438,759 92,992 6,720 52,757 17,125 11,645 2,353 46,459 KPI: electricity consumption/ kWh/ customer customer 99% 31.07 26.08 19.70 23.29 11.24 22.42 12.01 24.59 9.07 KPI: CO2 due to electricity consumption/ kg/ customer customer 99% 1.86 16.70 5.89 0 4.66 4.97 4.81 2.65 5.22 KPI: total energy consumption (Scopes “1+2”)/ toe/1000 customer customers 99.6% 9.7 7.4 4.6 6.1 2.6 6.0 3.1 5.8 3.8 KPI: total energy consumption (Scopes “1+2”)/ kWh/ customer customer 99.6% 40.5 32.0 22.6 28.6 12.4 25.6 15.0 27.8 29.4 KPI: CO2 emitted (all energies = Scopes “1+2+3”)/ kg/ customer customer 99% 4.6 18.5 6.7 1.4 5.1 5.8 5.8 3.9 14.5 120 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices environmental data A Group 2012: Group validated values AMEA Validated Values (updated without United Kingdom, for years 2006 to 2009) Orange Other Business Ivory AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali Coast Egypt Jordan Cameroun Countries International 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 4,433,645 2,853,687 2,829,079 3,034,844 1,526,985 3,320,400 1,887,178 63,085,553 277,542,729 290,385,071 284,772,951 215,613,397 254,818,910 242,680,598 184,211,947 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,754,452 112,256,755 113,164,635 105,266,548 86,939,923 96,283,916 62,030,773 59,901,669 798 514 509 546 275 598 340 11,531 R R 52,076 54,139 53,110 40,063 50,620 35,479 36,752 45,005 24,993 27,628 212,351 37,385 16,601 98,788 64,968 R R 1,521,681 1,377,282 1,509,283 1,479,481 1,378,128 1,192,702 1,293,710 8.45 3.13 6.88 8.14 14.99 3.46 11.71 na 19.47 19.03 20.17 21.23 21.21 20.66 19.90 4.89 1.45 2.86 3.78 8.69 0.81 4.12 na 4.67 4.29 5.18 5.24 5.28 5.41 4.72 2.2 1.2 2.0 2.7 3.7 1.5 4.5 na 5.8 5.69 6.07 6.55 6.57 6.50 6.83 12.6 9.1 12.0 18.6 18.9 11.6 34.8 na 27.8 26.8 28.2 30.9 29.3 29.1 29.9 6.0 2.9 4.2 6.2 9.8 2.9 9.5 na 7.0 6.38 7.30 7.70 7.38 7.76 8.06 appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 121 A appendices environmental data Z environnemental performance (Water Waste EMS) reporting scope, as a France EUROP Correspercentage ponof the overall dance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic consumed water m3 EN8 97% 1,354,160 771,901 26,437 0 40,000 21,970 9,230 0 2,700 paper & carboard, internal (ofﬁces) and external tons EN1 93% 12,098 3,002 3,083 0 731 691 286 0 4 Evacuated internal waste internal (network & tertiary) WEEE tons EN22 96.5% 1,212 473 12 579 239 97 0 0.333 178 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 96.5% 81% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% na 100% 99% metal poles tons EN22 90.1% 1,070 0 na na 0 na 0 na na ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 90.1% 100% na na na na na na na na wooden poles tons EN22 97.5% 14,269 52 na 0 na na 0 0 na ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 97.5% 100% 100% na na na na na na na cables tons EN22 97% 15,819 409 na na 7 na 0 0 na ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 97% 75% 100% na na 100% na na na na batteries tons EN22 98% 1,145 13 11 18 75 27 0 0.15 42 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 98% 88% 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% na 100% 100% paper carboard tons EN22 97% 2,375 135 144 22 132 64 60 6.980 7 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 97% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% other hazardous waste (PCB – printer cartridges – Fluorescent tubes included) tons EN22 96% 620 0 4 1 2 15 0 0 3 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 96% 18% 100% 20% 100% 100% 100% na na 0% other non-hazardous waste tons EN22 85% 0 558 0 103 0 193 0 0 nc ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 85% 100% 100% na 13% na 6% na na nc TOTAL EVACUATED INTERNAL WASTE TONS EN22 94.6% 36,509.1 1,640.7 171.0 722.7 455.8 394.9 59.5 7.5 229.6 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 94.6% 87% 100% 92% 88% 100% 54% 100% 100% 98% 122 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices environmental data A Group 2012: Group AMEA Validated Values (updated without United Kingdom, for years 2006 to 2009) Orange Other Business Ivory AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali Coast Egypt Jordan Cameroun Countries International 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 105,601 0 72 0 41,555 0 0 52,281 2,425,907 3,825,222 3,835,075 3,267,350 3,180,810 2,858,518 3,921,562 0 0 172 18 75 0 0 38 20,199 23,215 25,278 23,615 32,238 25,890 34,733 0 376 12 21 0 nc 0 4 3,204 2,273 2,125 2,517 2,433 1,787 1,990 na 100% 43% 100% na na na 8% 92% na na na na na na 0 na 2 147 0 40 0 0 1,259 1,153 950 722 547 1,625 415 na na 100% 100% na 100% na na 100% na na na na na na 0 na 9 na 0 0 0 na 14,329 11,903 11,740 9,360 11,868 10,861 11,830 na na 100% na na na na na 100% na na na na na na 77 na 10 0 0 0 0 6 16,329 8,968 8,214 5,698 5,698 7,106 4,663 100% na 55% na na na na 0% 76% na na na na na na 41 107 24 383 0 35 12 9 1,942 2,402 2,664 1,546 1,863 2,455 2,188 98% 0% 100% 100% na 100% 0% 80% 87% na na na na na na 20 56 0 38 0 0 25 95 3,180 3,482 2,957 3,057 2,520 2,216 746 0% 0% na 0% na na 56% 71% 95% na na na na na na 0 0 0 0 0 nc 0 9 654 379 591 660 231 309 270 na na na 0% na na na 84% 21% na na na na na na nc 0 0 0 0 0 13 140 1,007 1,052 644 904 793 937 2,376 na na na na na na 0% 3% 58% na na na na na na 138.3 538.3 57.4 589.1 0 74.9 50.5 264.1 R 41,903 31,613 29,885 24,464 25,953 27,295 24,478 appendices 85% 70% 80% 94% na 100% 28% 33% R 87% na na na na na na Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 123 A appendices environmental data reporting scope, as a France EUROP Correspercentage ponof the overall dance Group’s Dominican indicators units GRI turnover France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Moldova Armenia Republic KPI: tons of internal tons/ evacuated waste/ Meuros of MEuros of turnover turnover EN22 94.6% 1.40 0.49 0.04 0.46 0.53 0.59 0.41 0.20 0.51 WEEE collected from customers (including batteries) tons EN22 98.2% 2,144 0 117 37 43 2 0 15.385 0 ■ Percentage of Recovery % EN22 98.2% 80% 100% 9% 100% 100% 100% na 100% na KPI: WEEE collected from kg/1000 customers customers EN22 98.2% 30.08 0.01 8.42 7.96 4.18 0.62 0 25.79 0 EMS KPI EMS: importance of ISO 14001 certiﬁed scope % 92.5% 19.9% 28.2% 95.0% 0% 100% 100% 100% 0% 0% 124 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices environmental data A Group 2012: Group AMEA Validated Values (updated without United Kingdom, for years 2006 to 2009) Orange Other Business Ivory AMEA services Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Figure Senegal Mali Coast Egypt Jordan Cameroun Countries International 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 0.23 2.24 0.11 0.45 0.27 0.07 0.12 0.96 0.70 0.66 0.53 0.54 0.59 0.49 15 0 0 0 nc 0 10 32 R 2,416 3,121 1,607 1,357 1,586 1,913 1,632 100% na na na na na 72% 100% 78% na na na na na na 2.03 0 0 0 nc 0 0.94 na 11.54 15.35 8.22 7.74 9.60 12.67 11.78 41.3% 100% 0% 100.0% 0% 0% 0% 4.1% 33.9% 25% 16.8% 14% 13.9% 12.9% na appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 125 A appendices social data -: not available na: Not applicable nc: Not collected RR: item reviewed by Deloitte: moderate level of assurance R: item reviewed by Deloitte: reasonnable level of assurance scope France EUROP (in % of the overall Other GRI Group’s Dominican EME Indicators code headcount) France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Armenia Moldova Republic countries In the Group (end of the year) Number of male employees LA13 100% 67,333 12,371 2,018 1,169 1,518 900 219 508 651 88 Number of female employees LA13 100% 38,398 9,864 1,944 618 1,442 411 202 461 620 61 Total number of employees LA1 100% 105,731 22,235 3,962 1,787 2,960 1,311 421 969 1,271 149 Percentage of women among the employees LA13 100% 36.3% 44.4% 49.1% 34.6% 48.7% 31.4% 48.0% 47.6% 48.8% 40.9% Total number of employees CDI (Permanent contracts) LA1 100% 104,351 21,287 3,815 1,773 2,806 1,207 415 969 1,271 138 Total number of employees CDD (Temporary contracts) LA1 100% 1,380 948 147 14 154 104 6 11 Total number of employees (Full Time) LA1 100% 99,877 21,920 3,780 1,738 2,878 1,310 420 969 1,270 148 Total number of employees of the previous year LA1 100% 105,920 23,560 3,187 1,771 2,846 1,368 396 929 1,243 1,412 Number of men (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 20,786 2,705 311 467 503 479 32 84 32 11 Number of women (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 8,838 1,014 116 174 348 92 12 39 23 4 Number of employees (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 29,624 3,719 427 641 851 571 44 123 55 15 Percentage of women (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 29.8% 27.3% 27.2% 27.1% 40.9% 16.1% 27.3% 31.7% 41.8% 26.7% % of women in the “leaders” Global ﬁgure (concerning 1,118 leaders at the end of 2012), difﬁcult to split between the different countries, network LA13 100% because of transverse-corporate activities Average age of the workforce LA1 100% 47.4 40.1 38.7 37.7 32.0 34.8 29.3 30.6 31.2 32.9 Total number of permanent employees (CDI) in 2011 LA1 100% 104,184 22,488 3,146 1,763 2,607 1,242 389 928 1,243 1,345 Number of redundancies LA2 100% 73 1,295 61 101 35 63 134 35 % of redundancies per country (compared to 2011 permanent employees) LA2 100% 0.1% 5.8% 1.9% 5.7% 1.3% 5.1% 0% 0% 10.8% 2.6% Number of external recruitments LA2 100% RR 2,159 1,161 578 239 387 75 62 136 236 63 % of external recruitments (compared to 2011 permanent employees) LA2 100% 2.1% 5.2% 18.4% 13.6% 14.8% 6% 15.9% 14.7% 19% 4.7% (1) OBS International takes into account: Equant (which number of employees throught 160 countries including France, represents 93.3% of the overall number), 12 Etrali subsidiaries (2.4%), 7 Globecast subsidiaries (2.9%) & 7 Silicomp subsidiaries (1.4%). (5) Corrected 2010 Group Total (taken out of the HR data of Mauritius – 1,726 employees – and Equatorial Guinea – 491 employees –, unconsolidated entities in 2010). There are small discrepancies between the values presented above and those published in the annual report or registration document. These discrepancies stem from certain speciﬁc information that was unavailable for four entities within the Group, which made it impossible to calculate the relevant indicators for these companies. 126 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices social data A AMEA Other Orange Group Other countries/ Business Total 2009 Ivory AMEA word services Group Total Group Total Group Total (without Senegal Mali Coast Egypt Jordan Cameroun Kenya countries organisations International (1) 2012 2011 2010 (5) UK) 1,261 334 820 3,585 1,759 438 1,300 1,671 1,323 9,033 108,299 109,175 107,112 108,212 641 110 527 1,188 557 225 363 1,019 595 2,986 62,232 62,715 61,287 62,195 1,902 444 1,347 4,773 2,316 663 1,663 2,690 1,918 12,019 RR 170,531 171,890 168,399 170,407 33.7% 24.8% 39.1% 24.9% 24.1% 33.9% 21.8% 37.9% 31.0% 24.8% RR 36.5% 36.5% 36.4% 36.5% 1,902 387 1,337 4,773 2,129 603 1,663 2,385 1,808 11,925 166,944 167,648 164,406 166,439 57 10 187 60 305 110 94 3,587 4,242 3,993 3,968 1,902 444 1,347 4,773 2,312 663 1,663 2,690 1,906 12,013 164,023 166,153 163,607 167,057 1,870 424 1,361 4,777 2,430 639 1,712 1,994 1,949 12,141 171,929 168,356 168,107 171,811 227 37 144 372 148 185 114 126 606 5,647 33,016 32,557 31,206 29,484 90 7 61 101 42 49 50 45 284 1,578 12,967 12,498 11,833 11,084 317 44 205 473 190 234 164 171 890 7,225 45,983 45,055 43,039 40,568 28.4% 15.9% 29.8% 21.4% 22.1% 20.9% 30.5% 26.3% 31.9% 21.8% R 28.2% 27.7% 27.5% 27.3% Global ﬁgure (concerning 1,118 leaders at the end of 2012), difﬁcult to split between the different countries, because of transverse-corporate activities R 23.6% 23.80% 23.15% N/A 41.1 34.6 39.4 31.5 36.5 37.8 41.4 31.9 35.8 38.3 43.7 42.6 42.8 42.4 1,870 382 1,351 4,777 2,156 573 1,712 1,655 1,823 12,050 167,684 164,365 164,372 166,882 10 27 4 10 10 26 64 411 R 2,359 2,050 3,311 3,770 0% 0% 0.7% 0.6% 0.2% 1.7% 0.6% 1.6% 3.5% 3.4% 1.4% 1.2% 2% 2.3% 75 35 61 546 120 39 117 349 328 1,437 R 8,203 10,163 10,090 7,168 appendices 4% 9.2% 4.5% 11.4% 5.6% 6.8% 6.8% 21.1% 18% 11.9% 4.9% 6.2% 6.1% 4.3% Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 127 A appendices social data scope (in % of France EUROP the overall Other GRI Group’s Dominican EME Indicators code headcount) France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Slovakia Armenia Moldova Republic countries In the Group (end of the year) Number of resignations LA2 100% 475 564 60 104 215 36 35 71 62 48 % of volontary departures (compared to 2011 permanent employees) LA2 100% 0.5% 2.5% 1.9% 5.9% 8.2% 2.9% 9.0% 7.7% 5.0% 3.6% Total number of employee departures (male) LA2 100% 1,145 1,061 78 153 145 54 18 28 106 54 Total number of employee departures (female) LA2 100% 625 971 54 58 112 52 17 43 90 44 Total number of employee departures < 30 years LA2 100% 348 501 18 77 129 26 29 61 113 52 Total number of employee departures 30-50 years LA2 100% 399 1,093 112 127 124 80 6 10 80 44 Total number of employee departures >50 years LA2 100% 1,023 438 2 7 4 3 2 Number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA4 100% 105,342 19,873 3,517 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (compared to 2012 employees) LA4 100% 99.6% 89.4% 88.8% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Total number of trained workers LA10 99.6% 90,991 21,352 3,011 1,992 1,808 1,320 712 1,219 360 Total number of hours devoted to training LA10 99.6% 3,527,077 606,792 190,475 57,987 48,822 49,725 30,308 46,262 6,446 Average number of hours of training per year and per employee LA10 99.6% 33.4 27.3 48.1 32.4 16.5 37.9 31.3 36.4 43.3 % of employees who had a performance appraisal (2), (6) & (7) LA12 82% 84.9% 99.0% 99.2% 100% 93.8% 95% (3) The 4 indicators below are temporary values on a restricted scope of reporting Number of fatal accidents LA7 89% 2 Number of related work accidents (3) LA7 89% 732 61 7 1 2 1 1 1 Number of days lost due to non-fatal Work Accidents LA7 89% 47,846 2,894 162 39 179 3 11 5 Total number of days lost due to illness LA7 89% 1,053,264 119,032 7,622 13,723 6,982 10,225 570 5,007 2,679 (1) OBS International takes into account: Equant (which number of employees throught 160 countries including France, represents 93.3% of the overall number), 12 Etrali subsidiaries (2.4%), 7 Globecast subsidiaries (2.9%) & 7 Silicomp subsidiaries (1.4%). (2) The given ﬁgure for France concerns only the FTSA employees. (3) The number of accident have been reported on 9 countries: USA, UK, Brazil, India, Singapore, Australia, Germany, Belgium, Egypt and Mauricius, or 7,475 emmployees (61% of OBS Intl); missing reporting countries: Russia & Switzerland. (5) Corrected 2010 Group Total (taken out of the HR data of Mauritius – 1,726 employees – and Equatorial Guinea – 491 employees –, unconsolidated entities in 2010). (6) The given % refer to the mid year performance employees appraisal campaign. For France & OBS, it concerns performance appraisal of senior managers (level E, F, G); for the other countries, when values are available, it concerns the complete population of employees. (7) For Poland, collected reporting on only TP, Centertel & Orange Customer Service Sp.Zoo (OCS) (96% of CDI employees). There are small discrepancies between the values presented above and those published in the annual report or registration document. These discrepancies stem from certain speciﬁc information that was unavailable for four entities within the Group, which made it impossible to calculate the relevant indicators for these companies. 128 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange AMEA Other Orange appendices social data Group A Other countries/ Business Total 2009 Ivory AMEA word services Group Total Group Total Group Total (without Senegal Mali Coast Egypt Jordan Cameroun Kenya countries organisations International (1) 2012 2011 2010 (5) UK) 13 14 495 133 6 128 151 204 1,074 R 3,888 4,582 4,052 3,845 0.7% 0% 1.0% 10.4% 6.2% 1% 7.5% 9.1% 11.2% 8.9% 2.3% 2.8% 2.5% 2.3% 30 10 62 365 121 11 120 129 239 1,201 5,130 6,169 5,718 6,150 11 4 15 165 38 8 46 79 109 376 2,917 3,162 3,143 3,529 4 2 2 377 73 4 50 92 119 563 2,640 2,837 2,840 2,738 17 11 41 145 73 15 101 111 216 858 3,663 4,603 4,107 4,630 20 1 34 8 13 15 5 13 156 1,744 1,891 1,914 2,311 1,902 663 685 78 1,640 133,700 132,079 130,393 131,372 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% 25.5% 4.1% 13.6% 78.4% 76.8% 77.4% 77.1% 1,625 280 584 3,086 1,867 434 782 230 8,573 140,226 139,433 139,139 137,337 89,296 13,776 35,679 96,452 42,369 18,754 25,499 9,072 225,324 5,120,114 4,868,034 4,755,346 4,818,308 46.9 31.0 26.5 20.2 18.3 28.3 9.5 4.7 18.7 30.0 28.3 28.2 28.3 93.9% na na na na 1 2 1 R6 4 na nc 8 27 35 1 9 4 1 14 R 905 852 na nc 68 207 1,000 21 175 67 15 146 R 52,838 53,873 nc nc 7,961 4,346 11,705 8,621 2,260 1,495 4,600 4,307 6,613 R 1,271,011 na na nc appendices Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 129 A appendices social data Zoom in France, FTSA only (information concerning over 100% of FTSA employees) FRI correspondence scope (in % of the overall Group’s headcount) Value Number of fatal accidents LA7 56% 2 Total number of days lost due to illness LA7 56% 967,857 Frequency rate of occupational accidents in 2012 : Provisional value LA7 56% 4.49 Severity rate of occupational accidents in 2012 : Provisional value LA7 56% 0.30 Total number of male trained workers LA10 56% 52,389 Total number of female trained workers LA10 56% 31,452 Total number of hours devoted to training male employees LA10 56% 2,051,353 Total number of hours devoted to training female employees LA10 56% 1,248,340 FRI correspondence scope (in % of the overall Group’s headcount) Value Total number of trained staff / technicians (level A B C) LA10 56% 31,987 Total number of hours devoted to training staff/technicians (level A B C) LA10 56% 1,191,338 Total number of trained supervising staff/foremen (level D) LA10 56% 21,235 Total number of hours devoted to training supervising staff/foremen (level D) LA10 56% 826,552 Total number of trained managers (level DBis) LA10 56% 13,028 Total number of hours devoted to training managers (level DBis) LA10 56% 515,950 Total number of trained senior managers (level E F G) LA10 56% 19,723 Total number of hours devoted to training senior managers (level E F G) LA10 56% 762,938 FRI correspondence scope (in % of the overall Group’s headcount) Value Total number of trained workers < 30 years LA11 56% 11,607 Total number of hours devoted to training < 30 years LA11 56% 557,821 Total number of trained workers 30-50 years LA11 56% 34,469 Total number of hours devoted to training 30-50 years LA11 56% 1,436,293 Total number of trained workers > 50 years LA11 56% 45,125 Total number of hours devoted to training > 50 years LA11 56% 1,305,579 130 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices A correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact CSR = 2012 CSR Report RD = 2012 Registration Document Social Audit Report = July 2013 version ISO GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 26000 No. indicator reference scope Proﬁle strategy and analysis 6.2 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionCSR p. 2 Group maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, CSR Panorama, p. 6-19 Group and opportunities. RD Chapter 4, Points 5-9; Chapter 12 organisational proﬁle 6.2 2.1 Name of the organisation. CSR last page Group RD p. 1 2.2 Primary products and/or services and France Telecom-Orange is one of the world’s leading Group corresponding brands. telecommunications operators with 43.5 billion euros of revenues in 2012 and 170,000 employees, including 105,000 in France, at year-end. The Group operates in 33 countries and counted some 231 million customers at end-2012, including 172 million mobile customers and 15 million ADSL and ﬁbre customers worldwide. Orange is one of Europe’s leading mobile operators and ADSL Internet service providers, and one of the world’s leading business telecom service providers through Orange Business Services. http://www.orange.com/en/group/activities RD Section 6.3; p. 32-115 Brands: Orange has been the France Telecom Group’s sole brand since 2006. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, RD p. 135-140 (subsidiaries) Group including main divisions, operating CSR p. 1 (map) companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. http://www.orange.com/en/group/global-footprint/globalfootprint http://www.orange.com/en/group/management/ appendices France-Telecom-Orange-Group-s-General-ManagementCommittee 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. RD p. 1 Group 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation RD p. 135-140 (subsidiaries) Group operates, and names of countries with CSR p. 1 (map) either major operations or that are http://www.orange.com/en/group/global-footprint/globalspeciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability footprint issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. RD p. 23 Group Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 131 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope 2.7 Markets served (including geographic RD p. 135-140 (subsidiaries) Group breakdown, sectors served, and types of CSR p. 1 (map) customers/beneﬁciaries). CSR Methodology Chapter, p. 110 http://www.orange.com/en/group/about/latest-key-ﬁgures2012-annual-results 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including: ■ number of employees; RD Section 17.1.1 Group CSR table of social data, p. 118-119 ■ net sales (for private sector organisations) RD p. 332-333 Group or net revenues (for public sector http://www.orange.com/en/group/about/latest-key-ﬁguresorganisations); 2012-annual-results ■ total capitalisation broken down in terms RD Chapter 20 Group of debt and equity (for private sector http://www.orange.com/en/ﬁnance/ﬁnancing organisations); ■ and the quantity of products or services RD Section 6.3, p. 32 Group provided. http://www.orange.com/en/group/about/latest-key-ﬁgures2012-annual-results 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: ■ the location of, or changes in, RD p. 34 Group operations, including facility openings, http://www.orange.com/en/group/global-footprint/globalclosings, and expansions; footprint CSR “About this report” Section, p. 110 ■ changes in the share capital RD p. 23-24 Group structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Indicated throughout the CSR Report Group Parameters of the report report proﬁle 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. ﬁscal/calendar year) CSR “About this report” Section, p. 110 Group for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). CSR “About this report” Section, p. 110 Group 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). CSR “About this report” Section, p. 110 Group 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the contact.csr@orange.com Group report or its contents. report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content, CSR “A rigorous and audited process” Section, p. 21 Group including: ■ determining materiality; CSR “A rigorous and audited process” Section, p. 21 Group ■ prioritising topics within the report; CSR “A rigorous and audited process” Section, p. 21 Group CSR Section 1.2, “An approach fuelled by dialogue”, p. 26-29 132 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope ■ and identifying stakeholders the CSR Panorama “Our vision of CSR” Section, p. 6 Group organisation expects to use the report. “An approach fuelled by dialogue” Section, p. 26 “About this report” Section, p. 110 3.6 Perimeter of the report (e.g., countries, CSR “About this report” Section Group divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or CSR “About this report” Section Group boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, CSR “About this report” Section Group subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and CSR “About this report” Section Group the bases of calculations, including Unless stated otherwise in this Section, none of the assumptions and techniques underlying information in prior reports has been reformulated. estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reCSR “About this report” Section Group statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting CSR “About this report” Section Group periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard CSR p. 132-146 Group disclosures in the report. validation by third parties 7.5.3 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to CSR “External opinion” Section, p. 114 Group seeking external assurance for the report. governance governance 6.2 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, RD Chapter 14, “Administrative and management bodies Group including committees under the highest and senior management”, p. 259 governance body responsible for speciﬁc http://www.orange.com/en/governance tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest CSR “Responsible governance” Section, p. 23 Group governance body is also an executive RD p. 285 ofﬁcer (and, if so, their function within the organisation’s management and the appendices reasons for this arrangement). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 133 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board The Board of Directors has classiﬁed seven of its fourteen Group structure, state the number of members members as independent (RD p. 261). of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and One or more shareholders owning at least the share of Group employees to provide recommendations or capital set forth in the corresponding law, and acting direction to the highest governance body. under the legally-required conditions and deadlines, can require that proposed resolutions be added to the agenda of a meeting. (Article 21.3 of the Group’s Articles of Association; http://www.orange.com/en/ﬁnance/all-theregulated-information/all-the-regulated-information). All this information is available online at http://www.orange.com/ en/ﬁnance; an employee shareholder representative sits on the Board of Directors. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for RD p. 274-278 Group members of the highest governance In 2010 the Group introduced a social performance body, senior managers, and executives composite index used in the calculation of the variable (including departure arrangements), and the compensation of 1,200 of the Group’s top managers. organisation’s performance (including social Half of this index is based on HR factors (like short-term and environmental performance). absenteeism, access to training over the past three years, the number of women in the Leaders network, the completion of performance reviews, and voluntary departures by employees who had been with the Group less than three years), and half on the results of a halfyearly employee survey carried out by independent organisation CSA among a representative sample of personnel based in France. This survey contains around 50 questions on issues like quality of life at the workplace, managerial relations, career paths, strategy & CSR, and retribution and recognition in line with the labour agreement. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest RD p. 269 Group governance body to ensure conﬂicts of Internal regulations: interest are avoided. http://www.orange.com/en/governance/documentation/ documentation 6.2 4.7 Process for determining the qualiﬁcations RD Section 14.1.3 Information on directors and corporate Group 7.4.3 and expertise of the members of the ofﬁcers, p. 262 et seq. highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 6.2 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission RD p. 286 Group or values, codes of conduct, and principles CSR Panorama, p. 6 relevant to economic, environmental, and CSR “A leading CSR player” Chapter, “A ﬁrm ambition” and social performance and the status of their “Responsible governance” Sections, p. 23 implementation. http://www.orange.com/en/responsibility/strategy/ governance 4.9 Procedures deﬁned by the Board CSR “A leading CSR player” Chapter, “Responsible Group of Directors to oversee the way the governance” Section, p. 23 organisation identiﬁes and manages RD Sections 16.2.3 to 16.2.5, p. 281-284 his economic, environmental and social performance, in particular the risks, the opportunities, as well as the respect for the international standards, the codes of manners and the principles. Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors (or similar) evaluates the Group’s CSR performance. 134 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest RD Section 16.2.5 Periodic review of the work of the Board Group governance body’s own performance, of Directors and its committees, p. 284 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. external commitments 6.2 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the RD p. 15-22 Group precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 4.12 Externally-developed economic, CSR “Key dates”, p. 25 Group environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as CSR p. 25 Group industry associations) and/or national/ ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators), international advocacy organisations in United Nations Global Compact, ORSE (Observatoire de la which the organisation: Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises), CSR Europe, IMS Entreprises, GeSI (Global eSustainability Initiative), and the ■ has positions in governance bodies; Group GMSA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content ■ participates in projects or committees; See http://www.orange.com/en/responsibility/strategy/ Group commitments ■ provides substantive funding beyond Group routine membership dues; ■ or views membership as strategic. Group stakeholder dialogue 6.2 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the CSR “An approach fuelled by dialogue” Section, p. 26 Group 5.3 organisation. 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of CSR “An approach fuelled by dialogue” Section 1.2.2, Group stakeholders with whom to engage. p. 26 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, CSR “An approach fuelled by dialogue” Section 1.2.2, Group including frequency of engagement by type p. 26 and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been CSR “An approach fuelled by dialogue” Sections 1.2.2 and Group raised through stakeholder engagement, 1.2.3, p. 26-28 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. economic economic performance 6.8 BASE EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, CSR “A fairly value sharing model” table, p. 22 Group 6.8.3 including revenues, operating costs, 6.8.7 employee compensation, donations and 6.8.9 other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 6.5.5 BASE EC2 Financial implications and other risks and CSR Panorama, “Find innovative solutions for a greener Group opportunities for the organisation’s activities world” Section, p. 17-17 appendices due to climate change. CSR “A global approach covering three complementary pillars”, p. 90 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 135 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope BASE EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned RD “Working hours organisation” Section, p. 305 Group beneﬁt plan obligations. Note 5 p. 369-370 BASE EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received. RD “Universal service” Section, p. 121, 127-128, 130; Group Section 3.2 “Other operating income” p. 364 market presence 6.4.4 SUP EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level In France, minimum wages are set by the France 6.8 wage compared to local minimum wage at telecommunications industry collective bargaining main operational sites. agreement (http://www.unetel-rst.com/theme/salairesminima/) and by agreements entered into by each Group company. Average compensation per employee category is given in Section 211bis of the Social Audit Report. The minimum wage for category B employees (there are no category A employees at France Telecom S.A.) was 18,113 euros/yr in 2012. In 2011 the average monthly compensation for category B employees at France Telecom S.A. was 2,494 euros (average compensation by employee category and gender is given on pages 32-35 of the 2011 Social Audit Report). Studies carried out by the French Internal Remuneration Survey showed consistency in the compensation practices across all Group companies, and compensation practices in line with the rest of the market. See RD p. 303 6.6.6 BASE EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of CSR “Use purchasing to drive local development”, p. 32 Group 6.8 spending on locally-based suppliers at “Create value for our stakeholders” Table, p. 22 6.8.5 signiﬁcant locations of operation. RD p. 132 6.8.7 6.8 BASE EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Orange hires employees from the local community insofar Group 6.8.5 of senior management hired from the local as possible. Excluding France and Orange Business 6.8.7 community at main operating sites. Services, expatriates comprise 0.04% of the workforce. The percentage is the same for the AMEA region. Only 14 of the managers of the Group’s 25 subsidiaries come from the parent company. indirect economic impacts 6.3.9 BASE EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure CSR “Combating the geographic digital divide” Section, Group 6.8 investments and services provided primarily p. 74-77 6.8.3 for public beneﬁt through commercial, inRD Section 8.1 Networks and service platforms, p. 142 et 6.8.4 kind, or pro bono engagement. seq. 6.8.5 BASE EC9 Understanding and description of CSR “Combating the geographic digital divide” Section, Group 6.8.6 signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts and p. 74-77 6.8.7 their magnitude. CSR Section 1.2 An approach fuelled by dialogue, 6.8.9 p. 26-29 environment materials 6.5 BASE EN1 Consumption of materials in weight or by France Telecom does not manufacture goods. However Group 6.5.4 volume. the Group’s paper consumption is discussed on p. 91 of the CSR Report. BASE EN2 Percentage of materials used that are France Telecom does not manufacture goods. However Group recycled input materials. the Group’s paper consumption is discussed on p. 91 of the CSR Report. 136 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope energy 6.5 BASE EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary CSR table of environmental data, p. 118 Group 6.5.4 energy source. BASE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary CSR table of environmental data, p. 118 Group energy source. SUP EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and CSR “An ambitious environmental policy” Section, P. 90 et Group efﬁciency improvements. seq. SUP EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient CSR “Lower energy consumption by networks” Section, Group or renewable energy based products p. 92-94 and services, and reductions in energy “Helping customers shrink their carbon footprint” Section, requirements as a result of these initiatives. p. 96-97 SUP EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy CSR “Helping customers shrink their carbon footprint” Group consumption and reductions achieved. Section, p. 96-97 water 6.5 BASE EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. CSR table of environmental data, p. 118 Group 6.5.4 Most of the Group’s water use concerns its tertiary activities. SUP EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by Not applicable. Group withdrawal of water. SUP EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Not applicable. Group recycled and reused. Biodiversity 6.5 BASE EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Not applicable – The Group’s only impact concerns the Group 6.5.6 managed in, or adjacent to, protected installation of antennas and masts, which are rarely located areas and areas of high biodiversity value in these types of protected areas. Local government outside protected areas. approval is always obtained before any equipment is installed. The same holds true for the Group’s ﬁxed infrastructure (like cables, ﬁbre, and submarine cables). BASE EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of Not applicable – The Group’s only impact concerns the Group activities, products, and services on installation of antennas and masts, which are rarely located biodiversity in protected areas and areas in these types of protected areas. Local government of high biodiversity value outside protected approval is always obtained before any equipment is areas. installed. The same holds true for the Group’s ﬁxed infrastructure (like cables, ﬁbre, and submarine cables). SUP EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable – The Group’s only impact concerns the Group installation of antennas and masts, which are rarely located in these types of protected areas. Local government approval is always obtained before any equipment is installed. The same holds true for the Group’s ﬁxed infrastructure (like cables, ﬁbre, and submarine cables). SUP EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans CSR “Protection of biodiversity” Section, P. 91 Group for managing impacts on biodiversity. SUP EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Not applicable – The Group’s only impact concerns the Group national conservation list species with installation of antennas and masts, which are rarely located habitats in areas affected by operations, by in these types of protected areas. Local government level of extinction risk. approval is always obtained before any equipment is appendices installed. The same holds true for the Group’s ﬁxed infrastructure (like cables, ﬁbre, and submarine cables). emissions, efﬂuents, and waste 6.5 BASE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas CSR table of environmental data, p. XX Group 6.5.5 emissions by weight (t. eq. CO2). BASE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not applicable. Group emissions by weight. (t. eq. CO2). Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 137 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope SUP EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas CSR “Helping to ﬁght climate change” Section, p. 92-95 Group emissions and reductions achieved. 6.5 BASE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances These consist of HCFCs used in cooling systems and Group 6.5.3 by weight. released into the atmosphere. The Group replaces HCFCs with HFCs whenever possible, and has set up systems to improve air conditioning efﬁciency and consequently reduce usage, such as through optimised ventilation and natural ventilation (free-cooling). BASE EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air Not signiﬁcant The Group’s SOx and NOx emissions are Group emissions by type and weight. essentially only those from its vehicles and FT Marine’s ships. BASE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and The Group’s only water consumption concerns its tertiary Group destination. activities, which do not generate any water discharge. BASE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal CSR table of environmental data, p. 118 Group method. BASE EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant Not applicable. Group spills. To the Group’s best knowledge, there are no spills to report. SUP EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, Not applicable. Group or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 6.5 SUP EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Not applicable. Group 6.5.4 biodiversity value of water bodies and 6.5.6 related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. products and services 6.5 BASE EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts CSR “Helping to ﬁght climate change” Section, p. 92-95 Group 6.5.4 of products and services, and extent of “Helping customers shrink their carbon footprint” Section, 6.6.6 impact mitigation. p. 96-97 6.7.5 6.5 BASE EN27 Percentage of products sold and their CSR “Increasing the collection and recycling of customers’ Group 6.5.4 packaging materials that are reclaimed by electronic equipment”, p. 99 6.7.5 category. compliance 6.5 BASE EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total The Group has not been charged with any signiﬁcant ﬁnes Group number of non-monetary sanctions for nonor sanctions. compliance with environmental laws and (see Notes 15 and 16 on p. 420-426 of the Registration regulations. Document for information about the Group’s legal and administrative proceedings; none of these are environmentrelated.) transport 6.5 SUP EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of CSR “Reducing the impact of transport” Section, p. 94-95 Group 6.5.4 transporting products and other goods 6.6.6 and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. overall SUP EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures The Group’s environmental protection expenditures are Group and investments by type. currently not broken out as such, but are included in its overall expenditures. 138 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope social performance: labour practices & decent work employment 6.4 BASE LA1 Total workforce by employment type, CSR p. 118 (by region) Group 6.4.3 employment contract, and region. RD p. 299 BASE LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover CSR “A highly dynamic employment policy” Section, p. 16; Group by age group, gender, and region. table of social data, p. 126 RD p. 340 (by age group and region) For hiring by age group in France, see Section 131bis of the Social Audit Report 6.4 SUP LA3 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees As set forth in labour agreements entered into by Group 6.4.3 that are not provided to temporary or partthe Group’s French entities, temporary and part-time 6.4.4 time employees, by major operations. employees are eligible for the same beneﬁts as full-time employees labour-management relations 6.4 BASE LA4 Percentage of employees covered by CSR “Dynamic social dialogue” Section, p. 40; tables Group 6.4.3 collective bargaining agreements. p. 126 6.4.4 RD Section 17.1.4 Social dialogue, p. 306-307 6.4.5 6.3.10 6.4 BASE LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding France: 4 weeks (legally-required minimum) France 6.4.3 signiﬁcant operational changes, including 6.4.4 whether the period is speciﬁed in collective 6.4.5 agreements. occupational health and safety 6.4 SUP LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented In France, the committees mentioned under LA4 include France 6.4.6 in formal joint management-worker health joint committees. The percentage is similar. and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. BASE LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost CSR p. 41 France days, and absenteeism, and number of RD p. 308 work-related fatalities by region. 6.4 BASE LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, In France the Group offers several options, such as: family France 6.4.6 and risk-control programmes in place to support leave (unpaid) for between three months and one 6.8 assist workforce members, their families, year; leave granted under special circumstances for family 6.8.3 or community members regarding serious reasons (e.g., ill children or parents, or the hospitalisation 6.8.4 diseases. of a relative); parental leave to take care of a child under 6.8.8 20 who is seriously ill, disabled, or the victim of a severe accident requiring heavy treatment or constant care; and family leave to take care of a parent who is seriously ill. The Group’s various subsidiaries in the AMEA region sponsor several programmes allowing employees and their families to receive vaccinations and building awareness about serious diseases like AIDS, malaria, and dengue fever (in Madagascar, Niger, Cote d’Ivoire, and Senegal). CSR “Focus” Section, p. 10 appendices 6.4 SUP LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal CSR “Greater consideration for occupational health and France 6.4.6 agreements with trade unions. safety risks” Section, p. 40-41 RD p. 308-309 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 139 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope training and education 6.4 BASE LA10 Average hours of training per year per CSR “Training for all” Section, P. 45-47 Group 6.4.7 employee by employee category. RD Section 17.1.6 Training, p. 309 For France: Breakdown by gender and socio-economic category: table of social data, p. 126; Social Audit Report, Sections 523a (by gender) and 513b (by level) 6.4 SUP LA11 Programmes for skills management and CSR Section 2.2.2 A highly dynamic employment policy, Group 6.4.7 lifelong learning that support the continued p. 46 6.8.5 employability of employees and assist them RD Section 17.1.1 Development of the Group’s business in managing career endings. lines, p. 300 RD Section 17.1.4 Collective agreements, p. 307 6.4 SUP LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular CSR tables p. 120 Group 6.4.7 performance and career development reviews. diversity and equal opportunity 6.3.7 BASE LA13 Composition of governance bodies and CSR p. 78-79; tables p. 150-151; RD Section 17.1.1, Group 6.3.10 breakdown of employees per category p. 337; RD Section 17.1.7 Promoting diversity and equal 6.4 according to gender, age group, minority opportunities, 348-349; RD Section 14.2.1, p. 260 (Board 6.4.3 group membership, and other indicators of of Directors); Section 14.1.1.4 Applying the principle diversity. of balanced representation between women and men, p. 262; Section 14.2 Executive Committee, p. 269 6.3.7 BASE LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by RD “Compensation policy” Section, p. 303 France 6.3.10 employee category. Social Audit Report, Section 211bis Gross average monthly 6.4 compensation 6.4.3 6.4.4 social performance: human rights investment and procurement practices 6.3 BASE HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant CSR “Demanding contractual requirements with regard Group 6.3.3 investment agreements that include human to human rights and protecting the environment” Section, 6.3.5 rights clauses or that have undergone p. 30; 6.6.6 human rights screening. “Careful monitoring of supplier practices” Section, p. 30-31; “Main achievements in 2012” Section, p. 34 UNI Global Union Agreement 6.3 BASE HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and CSR “Careful monitoring of supplier practices” Section, Group 6.3.3 contractors that have undergone screening p. 30-31; 6.3.5 on human rights and actions taken. “Main achievements in 2012” Section, p. 34 6.4.3 6.6.6 6.3 SUP HR3 Total hours of employee training on See LA10 – Ethics training (including business-speciﬁc Group 6.3.5 policies and procedures concerning programmes) and training on employee rights includes a aspects of human rights that are relevant section on human rights. to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 140 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope non-discrimination 6.3 BASE HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination In 2012 the French ombudsman (Défenseur des Droits) 6.3.6 and actions taken. presented the Group with a complaint from an employee 6.3.7 who claimed he was denied a promotion due to his 6.3.10 involvement in trade union activities. Orange proposed to 6.4.3 adopt a new promotion process based on an independent auditing system for senior managers involved in trade unions. The complainant was assessed through this system in early 2013. Four other employees sent informal complaints to the French ombudsman by email: three related to health issues and one to racial issues. The ombudsman dismissed one complaint and is reviewing the others. French employee discrimination hotline Allodiscrim sent four complaints from job applicants who were not selected. One complaint related to racial discrimination; another to discrimination against the disabled. The two others did not specify a type of discrimination. An investigation did not reveal any evidence that showed the applicants had been the victim of discrimination. Allodiscrim also advised one employee to ﬁle a complaint for racial discrimination. The employee was promoted and is reviewing his end-of-career options with his HR manager. Five complaints were ﬁled internally with the Human Resources Department or through employee representative committees. One of these related to race, one to health, one to education level, one to support offered during a job transfer, and one to an ofﬁcer position in a trade union. Pursuant to the race-related complaint, the Group applied disciplinary sanctions to condemn the racist remarks. The Group also brought in an independent organisation to establish the link with the employee’s supervisor and with HR, to determine whether coaching is needed for the employee who was discriminated against in his career. In response to the rising number of race-related complaints in 2012, Orange decided to carry out a survey called “Race and Stereotypes” among its managers, in association with IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité. The results of the survey (not yet available) will be used to establish a clear diagnosis of the problem and implement the necessary corrective actions. freedom of association and collective bargaining 6.3 BASE HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right RD Section 17.1.4 Social dialogue, p. 306 Group 6.3.3 to exercise freedom of association and The UNI Global Union Agreement (Group scope): 6.3.4 collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant freedom of association, representation, and trade union 6.3.5 risk, and actions taken to support these membership in accordance with the ILO Freedom of 6.3.8 rights. Association and Protection of the Right to Organise 6.3.10 Convention of 1948 (No. 87): http://www.orange.com/en/ 6.4.3 responsibility/documentation/documentation 6.4.5 child labour appendices 6.3 BASE HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant Internally: Group 6.3.3 risk for incidents of child labour, and UNI Global Union Agreement (http://www.orange.com/en/ 6.3.4 measures taken to contribute to the responsibility/documentation/documentation) 6.3.5 elimination of child labour. RD Section 17.1.8 Compliance with the core conventions 6.3.7 of the ILO, p. 349 6.3.10 Externally: CSR p. 30 JAC audits CSR p. 31 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 141 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope forced and compulsory labour 6.3 BASE HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant Internally Group 6.3.3 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory UNI Global Union Agreement (http://www.orange.com/en/ 6.3.4 labour, and measures to contribute to the responsibility/documentation/documentation) 6.3.5 elimination of forced or compulsory labour. RD Section 17.1.8 Compliance with the core conventions 6.3.7 of the ILO, p. 349 6.3.10 CSR Externally CSR p. 30 JAC audits CSR p. 31 security practices 6.3 SUP HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in Not applicable. Group 6.3.5 the organisation’s policies or procedures 6.4.3 concerning aspects of human rights that 6.6.6 are relevant to operations. indigenous rights 6.3 SUP HR9 Total number of incidents of violations Not applicable. No incidents have been reported. Group 6.3.6 involving rights of indigenous people and 6.3.7 actions taken. 6.3.8 6.6.7 social performance: society community 6.3.9 BASE SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any CSR Sections: Group 6.8 programmes and practices that assess “Our 4 commitments” and “Promote economic and social 6.8.5 and manage the impacts of operations on development in the countries where the Group operates, 6.8.7 communities, including entering, operating, through our services”, p. 9, 14-15, 74-88; 6.6.7 and exiting. “An approach fuelled by dialogue”, p. 26-29; “Supporting children and young people to ensure safe and responsible use of new technologies”, p. 13, 66-67, 72; “Responding to concerns about radio waves”, p. 13, 68-69, 72; “Ensuring accessibility by elderly, disabled, and dependent people”, p. 15, 82-83, 86. corruption 6.6 BASE SO2 Percentage and total number of business CSR “Proactive prevention of fraud and corruption” Group 6.6.3 units analyzed for risks related to Section, p. 24 corruption. RD Section 16.4.5 Corruption prevention policy http://www.orange.com/en/governance/documentation/ documentation BASE SO3 Percentage of employees trained in CSR “A founding document: the Group’s Code of Ethics” Group organisation’s anti-corruption policies and Section, p. 23 procedures. “Proactive prevention of fraud and corruption” Section, p. 24 BASE SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of CSR p. 24 Group corruption. public policy 6.6 BASE SO5 Public policy positions and participation in From p. 9 of the Group’s Code of Ethics: Group 6.6.4 public policy development and lobbying. “In no circumstances do we ﬁnance political parties or 6.8.3 organisations whose purpose is primarily political. SUP SO6 Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind Group The France Telecom Group does not tolerate corruption.” contributions to political parties, politicians, http://www.orange.com/en/responsibility/documentation/ and related institutions by country. documentation 142 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope anti-competitive behaviour 6.6 SUP SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiRD p. 477 Group 6.6.5 competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 6.6.7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. compliance with laws and regulations 6.6 BASE SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total RD p. 477 Group 6.6.7 number of non-monetary sanctions for non6.8.7 compliance with laws and regulations. social performance: product responsibility customer health and safety 6.3.9 BASE PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety CSR Sections: Group 6.6.6 impacts of products and services are “Helping customers shrink their carbon footprint”, p. 97-98; 6.7 assessed for improvement, and percentage “Communicating safely”, p. 88-90; 6.7.4 of signiﬁcant products and services “Supporting young people to ensure safe and responsible use”, 6.7.5 categories subject to such procedures. p. 91-94; “Responding to concerns about radio waves”, p. 95-97; “Optimising waste management”, p. 134-137; “Preserving biodiversity”, p. 131-133. SUP PR2 Total number of incidents of nonNone to the Group’s best knowledge. France compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. product and service labelling 6.7 BASE PR3 Type of product and service information CSR “Environmental labelling” Section, p. 96 France 6.7.3 required by procedures, and percentage of Spain 6.7.4 signiﬁcant products and services subject to Romania 6.7.5 such information requirements. 6.7.6 SUP PR4 Total number of incidents of nonMandatory inspections in France did not lead to an order France 6.7.9 compliance with regulations and voluntary forbidding the sale of the Group’s products in stores. codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. 6.7 SUP PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, CSR “Becoming the customers’ choice” Section, p. 58-63 Group 6.7.4 including results of surveys measuring 6.7.5 customer satisfaction. 6.7.6 6.7.8 6.7.9 marketing communications 6.7 BASE PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, CSR “Communicating safely” Section, p. 64-65, 70 Partial 6.7.3 standards, and voluntary codes related 6.7.6 to marketing communications, including 6.7.9 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. SUP PR7 Total number of incidents of nonMandatory inspections in France did not lead to an order France appendices compliance with regulations and forbidding the sale of the Group’s products in stores. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 143 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope customer privacy 6.7 SUP PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints The number of complaints concerning France Telecom Group 6.7.7 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Orange France that the Group’s Chief Privacy and losses of customer data. Ofﬁcer received directly or through the CNIL fell by 20% in 2012. The Group replies to every one of these types of complaints within an average of two weeks. compliance with laws and regulations 6.7 BASE PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for No issues to report (see RD p. 470-479-6, 545-549) Group 6.7.6 non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Telecommunication sector specific indicators internal operations investment IO 1 Capital investment in telecommunication 55% of the Group’s capital investments (5.8 million euros) Group network infrastructure broken down by are for the network (see p. 30 of the Group’s 2012 results country/region. presentation at http://www.orange.com/en/ﬁnance/ investors-and-analysts/all-consolidated-results) IO 2 Net costs for service providers under CSR “Extending network coverage” Section, Group the Universal Service Obligation when p. 74-77, 78-81 extending service to geographic locations RD “Universal service” Section: France (p. 121), and low-income groups, which are not Poland (p. 128), Spain (p. 130) proﬁtable. Describe relevant legislative and “Investment in networks” Section, p. 167 regulatory mechanisms. “CAPEX” Section, p. 185-186 “Investment commitments” Section, p. 473 health and safety IO 3 Practices to ensure health and safety of CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” France ﬁeld personnel involved in the installation, Section, p. 68, 72-73 operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables, and other outside installations. Related health and safety issues. IO 4 Compliance with ICNIRP (International CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Group Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Section, p. 13, 68-69 Protection) standards on exposure to http://www.orange.com/en/responsibility/ensureradiofrequency (RF) emissions from transparency-quality-and-security-for-all/radio-waves handsets. IO 5 Compliance with ICNIRP (International CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Group Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Section, p. 13, 68-69 Protection) standards on exposure to http://www.orange.com/en/responsibility/ensureradiofrequency (RF) emissions from base transparency-quality-and-security-for-all/radio-waves stations. IO 6 Policies and practices with respect CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Group to Speciﬁc Absorption Rate (SAR) of Section, p. 13, 68 handsets. infrastructure IO 7 Policies and practices on the siting of masts CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Group and transmission sites including stakeholder Section, p. 13, 68 consultation, site sharing, and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. IO 8 Number and percentage of stand-alone CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Group sites, shared sites, and sites on existing Section, p. 13, 68 structures. 144 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ISO 26000 appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A No. indicator reference scope providing access access to telecommunication products and services: bridging the digital divide PA 1 Policies and practices to enable the CSR “Extending network coverage” Section, p. 74-75 Group deployment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas. PA 2 Policies and practices to overcome barriers CSR “Ensuring accessibility by elderly, disabled, and Group for access and use of telecommunication dependent people” Section, p. 82-83; products and services including: language, “Offers for low-income people” Section, p. 78 culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. PA 3 Policies and practices to ensure availability The Group has set up a crisis management system to Group and reliability of telecommunications ensure a fast, effective response to emergency situations. products and services and quantify, where This system proved particularly effective when cyclone possible, for speciﬁed time periods and Xynthia hit western France in late February 2010, causing locations of down time. considerable damage in the Centre, Poitou-Charentes, and Pays de la Loire regions. Some 170,000 customers were without ﬁxed-line telephone or Internet service, and around 100,000 terminal lines were cut. Thanks to the mobilisation of Orange technicians and subcontractors, the network was back up and running in less than ten days. In January 2011, with riots affecting the Group’s activities in Egypt, the Group made the choice to transfer the activity of its Major Service Centre (MSC) from Cairo to its other MSCs in New Delhi, Rio, and Mauritius. This was the ﬁrst time that a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) had been activated for this length of time: two weeks. With two priorities: to ensure the safety of employees and maintain contact with customers. The commitment of Orange’s teams helped to manage the crisis with an efﬁciency that was praised by customers. PA 4 Quantify the level of availability of CSR “Combating the geographic digital divide” Section, Group telecommunications products and services p. 74-77; in areas where the organisation operates. “Supporting local development” Section, p. 78-81 PA 5 Number and types of telecommunication CSR “Offers for low-income people” Section, p. 78 Group products and services provided to and used by lowand no-income sectors of the population. PA 6 Programmes to provide and maintain CSR “Sponsorships for local communities”, p. 80 Group telecommunication products and services http://www.fondationorange.com/?lang=en in emergency situations and for disaster relief. access to content PA 7 Policies and practices to manage human CSR “A stronger commitment to respecting human rights” Group rights issues relating to access and use of Section, p. 25 telecommunications products and services. customer relations appendices PA 8 Policies and practices to publicly CSR “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Group communicate on EMF related issues. Section, p. 68-69 PA 9 Total amount invested in programmes and CSR “Clear commitments” Section, p. 68 Group activities in electromagnetic ﬁeld research. http://www.orange.com/en/responsibility/ensureInclude description of programmes transparency-quality-and-security-for-all/radio-waves currently contributed to and funded by the reporting organisation. Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 145 A appendices correspondence table: GRI, ISO 26000, and the Global Compact ISO 26000 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) No. indicator reference scope PA 10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and CSR “Simplifying the telecommunications experience” Group tariffs. Section, p. 61 PA 11 Initiatives to inform customers about CSR “Simplifying the telecommunications experience” Group product features and applications that Section, p. 61 will promote responsible, efﬁcient, cost “Communicating safely” Section, p. 64-65; effective, and environmentally preferable “Supporting children and young people to ensure safe use. and responsible use of new technologies” Section, p. 66-67 “Responding to concerns about radio waves” Section, p. 68-69 “Helping customers shrink their carbon footprint” Section, p. 96-97 Z Global Compact principle CSR Report section human rights Principle 1 support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed human rights within Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, p. 2 the Group’s sphere of inﬂuence “A stronger commitment to respecting human rights”, p. 25 Principle 2 make sure that the Group is not complicit in “Responsible purchasing principles”, p. 30 human rights abuses labour Principle 3 uphold the freedom of association and “Establishing economic performance and social performance”, p. 38-43 recognise the right to collective bargaining “Responsible purchasing principles”, p. 30 Principle 4 eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour “CSR at the heart of the Group’s strategy”, p. 25 “Promoting diversity in the workplace”, p. 48-51 Principle 5 abolish child labour “Responsible purchasing principles”, p. 30 Principle 6 eliminate all forms of discrimination environment Principle 7 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges “An ambitious environmental policy”, p. 90-91 “Helping to ﬁght climate change”, p. 92-98 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater “Optimising waste management”, p. 98-101 environmental responsibility Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion “Helping customers shrink their carbon footprint”, p. 96 of environmentally friendly technologies “Increasing the collection and recycling of customers’ electronic equipment”, p. 99-100 anti-corruption Principle 10 work against corruption in all its forms “A stronger commitment to respecting human rights”, p. 24 146 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange appendices A for more information France Telecom-Orange Group websites France Telecom-Orange Group Orange Guinea www.orange.com www.orange-guinee.com Orange Equatorial Guinea main entities www.orange.gq Orange Business Services Orange Jordan www.orange-business.com www.orange.jo Orange France Orange Kenya www.orange.fr www.orange.co.ke Orange United Kingdom Orange Mali www.orange.co.uk www.orangemali.com Orange Spain Orange Madagascar www.orange.es www.orange.mg Orange Poland Mauritius www.orange.pl www.mauritiustelecom.com www.orange.mu Europe Orange Niger www.orange.ne Mobistar (Belgium) www.mobistar.be Orange Reunion www.orange.re Orange Moldova www.orange.md Orange Central African Republic www.orange.cf Orange Romania www.orange.ro Orange Democratic Republic of Congo http://www.orange-rdc.com/ Orange Slovakia www.orange.sk Orange Senegal www.orange.sn Africa and Middle East Orange Uganda Orange Armenia www.orange.ug www.orangearmenia.am Orange Botswana Caribbean www.orange.co.bw Orange Caribbean www.orangecaraibe.com Orange Côte d’Ivoire appendices www.orange.ci Orange Dominican Republic www.orange.com.do Orange Cameroon www.orange.cm Mobinil (Egypt) www.mobinil.com Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 147 A appendices for more information other websites GeSI www.gesi.org AA1000 www.accountability21.net Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org Afom www.afom.fr GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) www.globalreporting.org ANFR www.anfr.fr GSM Association www.gsmworld.com Business for Social Responsibility www.bsr.org GSM Europe www.gsmworld.com/gsmeurope Caring for Climate www.unglobalcompact.org/Issues/Environment/ Mobile Phone Partnership Initiative (MPPI) www.basel.int/industry/mppi Climate_Change European Commission OCDE www.europa.eu.int www.oecd.org CSR Europe WHO www.csreurope.org www.who.int/fr ETNO UNEP www.etno.be www.unep.ch contacts For any questions or comments on this report, please contact: France Telecom Ofﬁce for corporate responsibility and sustainable development 78 Rue Olivier de Serres, 75015 Paris e-mail: contact.csr@orange.com www.orange.com 148 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange notes ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 149 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... 150 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange 151 ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... 152 Corporate Social Responsibility complete report 2012 / France Télécom-Orange France Telecom-Orange – Corporate Social Responsibility Department – S.A. with a capital of 10,595,541,532 euros – RCS Paris 380 129 866 – Publisher: Brigitte Dumont – Deputy Publisher: Christine Hermann – Editor in chief: Frédérique Limido-Milesi – Texts: Moringa – Photo credits: Médiathèque France Telecom – All rights reserved. Orange 78, rue Olivier de Serres 75015 Paris Tel: 33(0)1 44 44 22 22 www.orange.com
