Company profile: SFK Food A/S is a food producing and trading company situated in Denmark and has been selling primarily ingredients, utensils, packing materials to the food industry for more than 50 years. SFK Food A/S purchases products in many countries around the world and operate in accordance with International standards and relevant laws of the countries in which we operate. SFK Food A/S is committed to conducting its business in a transparent as well as socially and environmentally responsible manner. Specific policies including The Ten Principles of The United Nations Global Compact have been defined for human rights, labour rights, occupational health & safety, environment & climate and anti-corruption is defined in our Code of Conduct. CSR strategy It is the company strategy to work actively with issues related to Cooperate Social Responsibility. SFK Food A/S has joined UN Global Compact and it is our policy to encourage our business partners to act accordingly by following the Principles laid down in UN Global Compact 10 principles and carry this message on to their business partners, eventually join and support UN Global Compact. SFK Food A/S sees it important for ourselves and our clients / costumers, that the basic principles of UN Global Compact is respected throughout the supply chain in order to respect our fellow human beings and prevent bad will. In order to communicate our message, SFK Food A/S has set up a Code of Conduct for suppliers with a registration and approval. It is the company policy to immediately take appropriate action in case of non-compliance with our Code of Conduct, ultimately withdraw from the assignment. Side 2 af 4 SFK Food A/S UN Global Ten Principles. Human Rights ( Principles 1-2) Assessment, policy and goals • Human rights and workers' rights are defined as priority areas for SFK Food A/S. This relates to the fact that SFK Food A/S generally respects the principles as laid down in UN Global Compact and Danish legislation demands compliance with basic human rights. As a leading Nordic player, SFK Food A/S has therefor taken an active role in this work and compliance with human rights as described in UN Global Compact is part of company Code of Conduct. Implementation • SFK Food A/S has implemented the principles in our Code of Conduct and has developed questionnaires / self-assessment to be completed by our suppliers. Measurement of outcomes • Through our Code of Conduct system, we will are able to monitor our suppliers regarding the Human Rights area, and based on our evaluation of the response from our suppliers. We have so far found no breaches regarding the Human Rights principles. Labour Principles ( Principles 3-6) Assessment, policy and goals • Our employees are SFK Food A/S's most important resource. Therefore a good working environment is an important foundation stone in the company business strategy. Implementation • SFK Food A/S is working strict according to Danish legislation that implements all issues related to labour rights as described in UN Global Compact. SFK Food A/S is working continuously to prevent discrimination on the grounds of gender, ethnicity or disability. SFK Food A/S prioritizes the provision of equal opportunities for all employees, regardless of gender. Measurement of outcomes • SFK Food A/S has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labour rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences during the reporting period. Side 3 af 4 Furthermore, our organization has through our Code of Conduct informed our suppliers on our demands / expectations regarding labour rights. Environment ( Principles 7-9) Assessment, policy and goals • SFK Food A/S environmental policy is to follow governmental rules and monitor and look for possibilities to reduce energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse gases and other environmentally damaging substances. We work continuously at preventing and reducing the environmental effects of our own activity. Implementation • Measuring key figures in relation to energy consumption. The fusion of production facilities will result in reduction of need for transportation, resulting in less CO2 emission and fuel consumption as well as less need for energy and outlet of waste water in production. In accordance with our action plans we have carried out work on packaging, pallet utilization and cooperation with suppliers to reduce costs and emissions in connection with transport. Measurement of outcomes • The trend is in the context of targeted work to improve the utilization of load carriers in the transport system, as well as a more modern and energy-efficient building that has improved energy efficiency in production. Anti-Corruption ( Principles 10) Assessment, policy and goals • Anti-corruption is defined is defined and forbidden according to Danish law and is therefore a fully integrated part of SFK Food A/S business strategy. SFK Food A/S does not accept any use of bribery nor to participate in business transactions where bribery takes place. Implementation • Terms for anti-corruption is implemented in SFK Food A/S through Danish legislation. SFK Food A/S Code of Conduct also include the “non-acceptance” of corruption. Measurement of outcomes • There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, SFK Food A/S Code of Conduct requires us to take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. Side 4 af 4
