About this Report About This Report Assurance of Report This is the first sustainability report to be released by Korea Mine MIRECO’s sustainability report has been published in compliance with Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO, the Corporation) to document the standards of assurance provided by ISO 26000, GRI G3.1 and activities and performance that are related to sustainable AA100AS (2008) and has been confirmed by the third party assurance, management, under the criteria of business, society, ethics and conducted by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, that the level of environment. Further, to ensure reliability of this report, a third party application has reached A+. has assured all performance and activities and the result is included in the appendix. Both Korean and English editions are available for Reporting Period & Scope of Reporting download on MIRECO’s webpage. Reporting period dates from January 2011 to December of the same year and some of performance data of the first half of 2012 is included. Reporting Standards & Application Level Currency unit is based on Korean won ( ) and units such as Ton, TOE, This report has been documented in accordance with the guideline m2, m3, cm2, g, inch, nm, and MWh are used to indicate quantitative provided by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1, with the level of data. Performance of the sustainable management in this report application reaching A+. includes activities conducted by the Corporation’s headquarter and regional offices, and part of overseas business activities as well. The Corporation looks forward to actively communicate with our readers by publishing its sustainability report on a regular basis. For more information on this report, please feel free to contact. [ Request for Additional Information & Feedback] For additional inquiry for information on this report, please contact the following Coal Center, 30 Chungjin-dong Street (Susong-dong), Jongno-gu, Seoul, 110-727, Korea Application of GRI G3.1 Guideline Tel 82.2.3702.6538 Fax 82.2.3702.6549 MIRECO Sustainability Report 2012 has been published in URL www.mireco.or.kr accordance with all the criteria of A+ level of GRI G3.1 Guideline. Department of Corporate Planning and Management In addition, the level of application has been assured via the Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation process of the third party assurance. CONTENTS Introduction Introduction of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO) 8 Sustainable Business Strategy 10 MIRECO’s Performance in Sustainable Management 13 Corporate Governance 14 Materiality Test 16 Engagement of Stakeholders 18 Comprehensive Enhancement of Performance of Environment Restoration Projects 22 Mine Reclamation Improvement of Efficiency of Mine reclamation Projects 28 Projects Securing Financial Stability for Mine reclamation Projects 29 Expansion of Eco-Friendly Management Activities 30 Regional Development Research and Development Activities to Formulate Regional Projects to Assist Development Models Customized for Korean Mining Regions 34 Economic Autonomy Enhancement of Efficiency of Management of Mutual Investment Companies 36 Expansion of Scope of Engagement of Local Communities 37 Management for Stability Assistance to Ensure Stability in Coal and Briquette Business 40 of Coal Energy Supply Enhancement of Accessibility to Energy Resources for Working Classes 42 Development of Advanced Enhancement of Applicability of Five Core Technologies 46 MineReclamation Strengthening Network of Technological Cooperation in both Korea Technology and Overseas and Training Qualified Professionals 48 Cooperation for Shared Growth 51 Global Expansion Establishment of Business Models by Market Types 56 of Mine Reclamation Strengthening of Foundation for Global Business 57 Business Mine reclamation for Sustainability in Development 58 Expansion of Sustainable Expansion of Customer-centric Business Empathy Management Activities 62 Infrastructure Establishment of Open Employment and Performance-based Management Structure 64 Internalization of Ethical Management 66 Establishment of Sound Organizational Culture 68 Sustainable Labor-Management Relationship 70 Appendix GRI G3.1/ ISO260000 Index 73 UNGC Index 77 Independent Assurance Statement 78 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 80 GRI Application Level Check 82 Readers Survey 83 CEO Message “ Mine reclamation project for restoring damaged environment is about hope. Regional development to lead revitalization of local economy is about future. Coal/briquette assistance project for working class is about happiness. ” Dear stakeholders, I am very much delighted to present the first sustainability of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO, the Corporation). Established in 2006, MIRECO is a quasi-governmental agency to promote reclamation of environment damaged by mining and revival of economy of mining region after closure of mines. In the past, mineral resources including coal played pivotal role in providing stable source of energy to buttress industrialization and economic growth of Korea. However, most mining areas that have seen closure of mines began to face issues related to downturn of regional economies and environmental damages caused by mining including ground subsidence, mineral wastes and leakage of mine waste water. These days, the global society is increasingly paying attention to issues concerning “sustainable development.” MIRECO’s projects are based on pursuit of “harmony of development and preservation” and “co-existence of human and nature” and they are increasingly becoming the answers to resolve issues related to sustainable development. The Corporation believes that its projects will fulfill its social responsibility for future generations of the society and form a foundation for sustainable development; “Mine reclamation” aims to restore natural environment and revive eco-systems of regions affected by mining business, “Development of Abandoned Mine Areas” is designed to revive economy of local communities by promoting alternative industries, “Support for the Coal and Briquette Industries” intends to enhance accessibility to energy resources for working class and “Global Expansion of Mine reclamation Business” is formulated through development of mine reclamation technologies. Based on a set of ethos, MIRECO aspires to become a corporation that is receives respect from stakeholders and trust from public by making commitments to the following; 2 Mine Reclamation Corp. CEO Message First, the Corporation will operate Mine reclamation Project. As consumers are increasingly paying attention to eco-friendliness and society-friendliness and demand is increasing to comply with heightening environment standards and expectations from stakeholders, MIRECO pledges to ensure quality of performance in its environment restoration projects and create optimal natural environment. Further, for regions that have seen their projects completed, the Comprehensive Mine Damage Projects will be operated to guarantee optimal green living conditions. Second, regional development projects to secure foundation for economic autonomy will be executed. As coal mining industry is on the decline, economy of mining regions is increasingly affected by abandonment of mines. To revive the economy of these regions, MIRECO will formulate a set of regional development models that is customized to circumstance in Korea. In fact, for revival of abandoned mine areas, it is essential to focus on establishing effective grounds for economic autonomy through mid and long term strategies, rather than on short-term, visible outcomes. MIRECO is committed to make its best efforts to establish policies to revive regional economy, customized for different types of abandoned mine areas and further, to contribute to balanced regional development, shared growth and job creation by creating a unique development model for abandoned mine areas that is customized to circumstances in Korea. Third, Mireco pledges stable supply of coal energy. Every piece of briquette is a products of all efforts made by coal miners. For working classs in Korea, such briquettes make the most affordable and useful heating energy sources. To ensure stability in production and consumption of coal and briquettes, the Corporation will restore balance between supply and demand and market functions by maintaining adequate production facilities. Further, the Corporation will take proactive measures to increase accessibility to energy sources for low-income class by providing financial subsidy during winter seasons. Fourth, Mireco will develop leading mine reclamation technology. In order to claim global leadership in mine reclamation, the Corporation will make its ceaseless efforts to enhance on-site applicability of core technologies, strengthen technological cooperation in both Korea and overseas and train human resources who balance between expertise and professional knowledge and thus are able to apply mine technology in a variety of sites around the globe. Fifth, MIRECO will expand its mine reclamation business to overseas market. As the pace of resource depletion is accelerating, emerging economies are increasingly rushing in to develop mineral resources and incurs severe mine damage. Against such backdrop, the Corporation is conducting its efforts to build grounds for expansion of global mine reclamation business by conducting investigations on actual conditions of mine damage and waste water treatment in mines and mine slope stability projects in Mongolia and Vietnam. For continuity of mine reclamation to achieve sustainable development, MIRECO will secure growth momentum by proactive making its presence in global green market and in parallel, reach the goal of shared growth by promoting partnering companies in Korea in overseas expansion. In order to fulfill these commitments, I would like to seek all of stakeholders’ advice, interest and support. MIRECO will pursue to secure transparency in outcomes of commitments it makes and reflect feedbacks from active communications to achieve continuous growth and become an institution that gains trust from stakeholders. November 2012 CEO of MIRECO mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 3 MIRECO’s Core Projects Road Cement Mortar Grouting Micro Pile ● Mine Reclamation Projects Prevention of mine damage likely to be caused by operating, idle or abandoned mines and mine reclamation projects. Improvement of water quality/ improvement of & restoration of contaminated soil/ prevention of loss of mineral residues/ prevention of loss of debris/ stabilization of ground/ abolishment of abandoned facilities/ prevention of noise, dust and vibration/ development of mine reclamation technology 4 Mine Reclamation Corp. ●Assistance Projects for Coal and Briquette Industries Financial subsidies to stabilize coal price, financial subsidies to assist mines that are to be abandoned, assistance programs for low-income class to provide briquette, quality assurance tests of coal and briquette ●Regional Development Projects for Abandoned Mines Regional development projects for abandoned mines via establishment of mutually invested companies, loan assistance programs for alternative industries ●Global Partnership Projects Execution of various forms of global projects including cooperation and partnership to share relevant knowledge in mine reclamation technology, execution of mine reclamation projects and restoration projects from contamination and technological assistance programs. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 5 An institution that brings happiness to reality MIRECO aspires to make it contribution to eco-friendly growth of Korea by improving environment and promote cycling of resources. For sustainable growth and development, MIRECO makes its utmost efforts to assure happiness for public and continuance of its set of core values by establishing visions and strategies. 08_ Introduction of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO) 10_ Sustainable Business Strategy 13_ MIRECO’ s Performance in Sustainable Management 14_ Corporate Governance 16_ Materiality TestMateriality Test 18_ Engagement of Stakeholders Introduction of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO) Overview The Corporation in Brief MIRECO has been established to create pleasant living conditions in mining areas and vitalize economic activities in the region by efficiently administering and executing Mine reclamation Project, Development of Abandoned Mine and Support for the Coal and Briquette Industries. The Corporation seeks to become a future-looking public entity that earns trust from the public by prioritizing harmony of human and nature. ● Overview of the Corporation ● Major Business Activities ·Mine reclamation project for operating properties and abandoned/idle mines and restoration of damaged areas. Date of Establishment ·Improvement of quality of polluted water and restoration of polluted soil. Mine reclamation ·Establishment, operation and management of mine reclamation facilities. Project ·Investigation, research, technological development, education and partnership in both Korea and overseas for June 1, 2006 mine reclamation. Support for ·Provision of subsidies to stabilize coal price and financial support for abandoned mines. Basis for Establishment Coal and Briquette ·Provision of briquettes for low-income class. Industries ·Quality tests of coal and briquettes. Article 31, Law on Mine Reclamation and Damage Prevention Development of ·Development projects of abandoned mines by establishing companies through mutual investment. Abandoned Mine Areas ·Loan assistance for alternative industries. Type of Organization Overseas ·Technical partnership and exchange for mine reclamation. ·Overseas expansion of business in mine reclamation, purification of oil pollution, technical assistance related to Partnership Project coal and briquette. Quasi-governmental institution with function of commission-based execution of projects National Certificate ·Licensing through examination and training qualified professionals to reflect demand from fields. Examination ·Follow-up training programs for licensees. Major Activities ● MOU in Overseas Administration and execution of mine reclamation and reclamation projects. Research and development activities for mine reclamation technologies. Country Institution Date of Signing Details Investment activities to develop regions affected by abandoned mines and Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy Jan. 20, 2009 Coal/briquette business and mine reclamation revival of regional economic activities. Petroleum Authority of Mongolia April 7, 2009 Purification of oil polluted areas Projects to support coal and briquette industries. Mongolia Tuv Aimag April 9, 2009 Vegetation for mine reclamation Overseas mine reclamation business Establishment of standards for mine reclamation and National Audit Office of Mongolia May 28, 2010 quality test standards for coal and briquette Number of Employees DGMV Oct. 23, 2009 Investigation and analysis of environment in mining regions 209 Vietnam VINACOMIN Mar. 13, 2010 Mine reclamation projects and development of coal mines VINACOMIN Dec. 20, 2010 Mine reclamation projects and development of coal mines Organization in Vietnam Agreement for cooperation in mine reclamation DPIM Oct. 13, 2011 technologies and discussion on follow-up measures 3 headquarters, 8 offices , 1 team, 1 center, 1 , 1 research Thailand institution, 5 branch offices, 1 overseas branch office Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand Nov. 28, 2011 Cooperation for mine recovery of Mae Moh Cooperation in coal/briquette industries and mine Ministry of Natural Resources Aug. 3, 2009 reclamation Location of Headquarters Kyrgyzstan Ministry of Energy Sept. 6, 2010 Eco-friendly development and utilization of coal/briquettes Establishment of technical partnership for purification of Coal Center, 30 Chungjin-dong Street (Susong-dong), Jongno-gu, United States BIOGENESIS Mar.7, 2011 polluted soil and cleaning of tailing environment Seoul, 110-727, Korea Cooperation for mine reclamation for sustainable mine Laos Ministry of Energy and Mines Dec. 22, 2010 development May 31, 2005 June 1, 2006 Jan. 1, 2008 June 29, 2008 Nov. 24, 2008 Enacted law on mine Establishment of Mine Changed to Affiliated Changed the name to Designated as a national reclamation and Damage Prevention Center of Technology Korea Mine Reclamation testing orgnization prevention Organization Research Center Corporation 8 Mine Reclamation Corp. ● Organization Introduction CEO Audit Office Management Strategy Headquarters Mine Damage Business Headquarters Coal Mine District Promotion Headquarters General Administrative Mine Ecology Mountain Regional Coal Industry Overseas Cooperation & Business Center Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology Administration Support Office Reclamation Restoration Reclamation Promotion & Briquette & Planning Planning Office & Ground Office Support Office Department Stability Office Department National Regional Overseas Overseas Regional Earth Rock Water Qualification Project Cooperation Business /legal Chemistry Science Qualification & s Center Team Team Team Research Research Research Environment Team Tea Team Research Mongolia TEam Gangwon Chungcheong Youngnam Representative Branch Branch Branch Gyeongin Office Branch Honam Branch Mine Mine Area Business Mine Mine Area Mine Mine Area Damage Promotion Coordination Damage Promotion Damage Promotion Business Team Team Business Team Business Team Team Team Team Awards Consolidated Financial Statement July. 2012 Asset KRW 1.11054 trillion Awarded in the category of Global Category, Public Sector of Korea Global CEO by Forbes Korea ● Labor Productivity Liability KRW 239.833 billion Dec. 2011 Awarded Special Prize by the 6th Korea Sharing Awards Capital KRW 870.707 billion Oct. 2011 Awarded for the Best Social Contributor in Local Community Consolidated Income Statement Development by Forbes Korea Sept. 2010 Income KRW 416.099 billion Received a presidential citation in Green Productivity in National Productivity Award Expenditure KRW 340.468 billion Aug. 2010 Received a citation from the chairman of the Board of Audit and Inspection for advancement of public institution *Added Value = Income before Income Tax + Personnel Expenditure + Net Interest Expenses + Taxes & Dues + Rent Nov. 30, 2008 Aug. 11, 2009 May 27, 2010 Nov. 10, 2011 + Depreciation Expense Designated to be a Inauguration of National Opening of bureau in Relocation of Institute of special institution with Qualifications Center Mongolia Mine Reclamation specialty in soil (National Qualifications Center) Technology (Cheonan) mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 9 Sustainable Business Strategy MIRECO has reestablished its set of vision and values in 2012. In particular, to grow into the top global institution with specialty in assistance energy resource development, the Corporation has recently made clear that it aspires to become a “global mine reclamation institution with leadership in green growth.” Vision and Strategy ● Structure of MIRECO’s Strategy Global G Core Value Provision of world-class service To realize a set of visions, MIRECO proposed “business (in terms of organizational operation) management by identifying with public to create future values via responsibility r Social responsibility for public changes and innovations” as the core of its management (in terms of organizational operation) philosophy. To carry out relevant actions, five strategic tasks have eco-friendly e been set to incorporate the Corporation’s policy of sustainable Nature-friendly service (in terms of organizational operation) management as part of securing global competitive edge-those enthusiasm e include execution of comprehensive mine reclamation projects, Devotion to job performance (in terms of organizational operation) execution of regional development projects to secure foundation next generation n for economic autonomy, stabilization of supply of coal energy, Future-oriented thoughts development of leading mine reclamation technology and global expansion of mine reclamation business. The Corporation is making its company-wide efforts to transform itself into a worldclass institution with professional expertise in mine reclamation by Co-existence establishing linkage with inter-organizational performance tasks. of Human and Nature Green CEO’s Management Policy mireco Business management by identifying with public to create future Harmony values via changes and innovations is a new set of values to of Development and transform MIRECO into a global institution with expertise in mine Preservation reclamation. The Corporation, in particular, has been placing its emphasis on “innovation management” to increase productivity of its organization and strengthen its competence and Role-Orientedness organizational culture that encourage mutual respect •Environment protection & Eco-friendliness and interaction. As such, MIRECO is valuing •Customer-oriented/Pursuit of convenience for customers business management philosophy based on •Global competitiveness Pursuit of •Mutual trust Organizational comprehensive approach such as coOperation Public Interest existence of nature and harmony of •Improvement of •Devotion, challenge & innovation quality of life human and of development and •Social responsibility •Future-oriented & pursuit of best preservation, and pursuing business •Transparency & reliability performance •Creativity philosophy that all members of •Expertise & •Efficiency organization can share and agree training qualified experts CEO's Idea with. 10 Mine Reclamation Corp. Introduction Strategy Strategy for Business Sustainable Management Direction Strategy Strategy Development Mission Contribution to happiness of public and leadership in sustainable MIRECO’ s Strategic Goal growth of Korea with ecofriendly mine damage Securing Competitive Edge of Korean Mine Reclamation Model management and shared Integration of Sustainable Management and Corporation-wide Strategy Development of Global Expansion Strategic Comprehensive Regional Development Management for Advanced Mine of Mine Expansion Task Mine Reclamation Projects to Assist Stability of Coal Reclamation Reclamation of Sustainable Projects Economic Autonomy Energy Supply Technology Business Infrastructure Vision •Enhancement of efficiency •Research and development •Assistance to ensure •Enhancement of •Establishment of business •Expansion of customerof mine reclamation projects of regional development stability of coal business applicability of four core model by market types centric business activities Contribution to model customized for •Increase of accessibility to technologies •Strengthening of •Establishment of Corporation•Improvement of Korea energy resources for •Strengthening of foundation for growth of performance-oriented happiness of public and performance of •Operation of development working class technological network in global business management structure wide Tasks environment restoration projects to promote economic both Korea and overseas •Globalization of new leadership in sustainable in Detail projects autonomy of mines •Qualified professionals in •Securing stability of •Enhancement efficiency of mine reclamation technologies and comparative advantages growth of Korea with ecofinancial resource for mine mutually invested technology reclamation projects companies friendly mine damage management and shared •Expansion of nature•Increase of engagement •Cooperation for shared •Formulation of policies for •Internalization of ethics friendly mine reclamation of local communities growth mine reclamation for management Tasks for sustainable development Sustainable •Expansion of eco-friendly •Establishment of sound management organizational culture Management •Sustainable Labormanagement relationship Roadmap for Sustainable Management MIRECO has established its roadmap for sustainable management and a set of relevant tasks to become “global mine reclamation organization with leadership in green growth.” To earn respect and trust from all stakeholders, the Corporation is Business Centered on committed to report progress and performance of all related tasks. Value Business Philosophy Business Business management by Focused on Innovation identifying with public to create future values Target Big Game Change via changes and (~2015) innovations Innovation Projects (~2014) •Expansion of renewable Business Direction Quick Wins energy projects in areas Pursuing (2013) •Establishment of corporationsubject to mine reclamation Creation wide policy on environment projects •Estsablishment of structure for sustainable management •Management of key data on •Implemetation of advanced •Establishment of code of ethics for global achievement in environment system to protect personal Tasks to business •Assistance in training CSR for information of customers Perform •Introduction of insentives to acknowledge social partnering companies •Training to raise awareness Business contribution for CSR among employees •Establishment of system to Emphasizing •Emphasis on socially responsible management Communication of mutually invested companies resolve employees’ grievances •Increase of transparency of information and its activation on mine reclamation projects on websites •Enhancement of satisfaction level of employees via organizational assessment mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 11 Integration of Corporation-wide Strategy and Sustainable Management As MIRECO’s mine reclamation projects and development projects of abandoned mine areas are closely linked with sustainable development for future generations, the Corporation is fully aware that sustainable management should be integrated with corporation-wide strategy as part of setting a direction that it should be heading. To such extent, by infusing strategic tasks of sustainable management into corporation-wide strategy, the Corporation is making efforts to take more responsibility in environmentrelated projects for future generations, as well as to contribute to sustainable growth and social development with every activities conducted by employees and major decision making made at the managerial level. MIRECO makes its ceaseless efforts in order for sustainable management to secure grounds for making tangible outcomes and setting long-term direction. Corporation-wide Strategy Corporation-wide Integration Sustainable Integration Management Strategy Sustainable Management Strategy Mid & Long-term Roadmap To accomplish the long term vision of “Global No.1 Organization in Assisting Green Energy Resource Development,” MIRECO has globalized itself with its strategy of securing world-best mine reclamation technological capacity and strengthening of capacity in executing and operating global businesses. In addition, for efficiency in business activities, the Corporation has established mid and long term human resource allocation plan to secure a pool of human resource. At the same time, it is making its constant efforts to reinforce capability in execution at the organizational level. On the Next paradigm, with Enthusiastic mind, for the World best Long Term Vision : Third Wave Accomplishment of Vision 2010 (2017~2021) World-Best Mine [Phase 2] 2015 Mid Term Vision : reclamation Transformation into a Small-Yet-Strong Organization Organization [Phase 1] 2011 Creation of a New Set of Value 12 Mine Reclamation Corp. Performance Indicators on Sustainability Management of MIRECO Introduction Comprehensive Mine Damage Prevention Projects Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Quality of inlet water in comparison with outlet water(water pollution level: PI) 0.542 0.5081 0.483 Soil Contamination (Score Points) 0.239 0.100 Ecology Rate of Trees Rooted (%) 83 86 89.6 Restoration Office Reforestation Rate (%) 7.0 8.7 9.2 Mountain Reclamation Mining Damage Prevention Funds (KRW billion/collection rate) 93.8 / 39 127.4 / 42 143.8 / 89 & GroundStability Office Electricity Consumption (Mwh) 1,636 1,625 1,611 Administrative Support Office Greenhouse Gas Emission (tCO2eq) 4,070 5,065 3,984 Regional Development Projects to Assist Economic Autonomy Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Loan Assistance in Alternative Industries 148 / 28 224 / 28 Coal Mine District Promotion (KRW billion/ Number of Businesses) Headquarters Number of Jobs Created by Loans 843 255 Social Contribution Activities General Administration 470 / 98 / 3.05 609 / 103 / 45.2 (Number of Participants, Number of Activities Conducted, KRW billion) & Planning Office Management for Stability of Coal Energy Supply Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Provision of Briquette Voucher (KRW billion/ Number of Households) 54 / 35,635 142 / 88,752 151 /89,172 Demand/Supply of Anthracite Demand/Supply of Anthracite (million tons) 330 / 314 270 / 254 236 / 236 (million tons) Development of Advanced Mine Reclamation Technology Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Budget Allocated for Collaboration in R&D (KRW billion) 3,296 3,309 General Administration & Planning Office Amount of Expenditure for Purchase of Products from Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology, Mine 815 763 Small/Medium-sized Businesses (KRW billion) Reclamation Planning Department Number of Participants in Professional Expertise Training Course(people) 143 88 85 Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology Level of Technological Competence in Comparison with Advanced Overseas Cooperation & Business Center, 77.5 79.9 Countries (score points) Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology Global Expansion of Mine Reclamation Business Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Percentage of Increase ofBudget for Expansion of Global Business out 0.17% 0.17% 3.3% Overseas & New Project Office of Total Budget for Mine Reclemation Projects Expansion of Sustainable Infrastructure Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Number of Employees(Male/Female, Regular/Non-Regular) 158/43, 183/18 157/45, 175/27 162.5/ 46.5, 193/10 Turnover Rate(%) 4.23 2.92 4.23 Number of Hours Designated per Employee 36.65 35.46 16.62 Administrative Support Office Satisfaction Level of Employees Benefit Package(%) 91 94 Number of Employees Affected by Accidents/ Accident Rate(%) 0/0 4 / 2.0 0/0 Level of Customer Satisfaction (Score Points) 95.5 98.4 98.2 General Administration & Planning Office MEDEX (Score Points) 72.2 72.2 76.9 Administrative Support Office mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 13 Corporate Governance Board of Director (BoD) is the highest-ranking decision-making group consisting of four executive directors and five non-executive directors. The CEO is appointed by the Minister of Knowledge and Economy from a pool of candidates recommended by the Executive Recommendation Committee consisted of non-executive members and professional members from outside of the organization. The CEO is currently holding an additional position of the head of BoD according to the Article 6 of Regulations on Operation of Board of Directors Article 6 of Regulations on Operation of Board of Directors. Members of BoD and Operation ● Operational Structure of BoD Members of Bod Reception of Items(D-14) Notice of Meeting(D-7) Operation Explanation in Advance(D-3) Executive members and non-executive members are appointed Board Meeting(D) Feedback by the CEO of MIRECO and the Minister of Knowledge and Opinion Gathering Review on status Setting up plans Economy respectively. The positions of non-executive members Survey of operation and for operation Feedback are taken by the chief of the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy Performance identifying items of BoD for the Assessment for improvement following year who is in charge of supervising tasks related to mine damage prevention. In the process of appointing board members, the Corporation mandates to have more than two members with attendance rate of board meetings by up to 11.2%. BoD expertise in environment-related fields to fulfill its commitments organized nine board meetings and reviewed thirty-seven as a mine damage prevention organization. agendas including twenty-nine voting agendas and eight ● Members of BoD reporting agendas. Name Gender Position Hyuk-In Kwon Male CEO Operation of Subcommittee Hwang Myung-Ho Male Head of Management Strategy The Corporation operates Committee for Review on Agenda Headquarters Executive comprised of non-executive members within the BoD to Members Hyung-Ho Kwon Male Head of Mine Business Headquarters strengthen the function of evaluation of agenda and ensure Head of Coal Mine District Promotion Dong-Rae Cha Male Headquarters efficiency of decision making. Chief of Coal Industry Division of the Byung-Chan Park Male Ministry of Knowledge and Economy ● Performance of Subcommittee in 2011 Professor Laureate of College of Media & Subcommittee Performance and Achievement in 2011 Young-Sang Park Male Information, Hanyang University Meticulousness in the process of preview of agenda concerning purchase of a new office building Committeea Non-executiv Dal-Ho Son Male Chairperson of Korea Coal Association Incorporating function of essential business in individual organizations for Preview of Agendas Comprehensive review of business budget and opinions on relevant regulations Chairperson of Korea Refrigeration & Air Jae-In Lim Male Conditioning Assessment Center Deputy Head Official of Federation of ● Satisfaction Level of Operation of BoD Jong-Chan Park Male Korean Metalworkers’ Trade Unions Non-executive Deputy Spokesperson of Grand In-Bae Kim Male Auditor National Party 2010 93.1 Operation and Invigoration of BoD 2011 94.2 The Corporation is making its utmost efforts to ensure meticulous and efficient operation of BoD. In 2011, the * Satisfaction survey is conducted for non-executive members once a year. The result of the survey is reflected in the process of establishing operational plans of BoD for the Corporation started to post schedules in advance to increase following year to seek improvement and boost in activities of BoD. 14 Mine Reclamation Corp. ● Activities of BoD ● Reinforcement of Infrastructure to Assist Involvement in Business Activities Introduction System Programs Working Environment 2009 10 Number System for provision Utilization of personnel 2010 7 Office room for non-an of Meetings of information on in charge of evaluation executive auditor 2011 9 business issues of Proposals On-site board meeting and On-site Formulation of plans for Assistance for program for experiencing business providing financial subsidies legal advice 2009 28 projects for business activities Number of Agendas 2010 22 2011 29 ● Cases of Achievement after Suggestions Made by Non-executive Members Suggestions Follow-up Measures Achievement Number of 2010 1 Need for improvement and Inauguration of a task MIRECO to take responsibility for Agendas for research on Contribution force to make charging and collecting finance for Modification 2011 2 Program for Mine Areas improvement on system Contribution Program for Mine Areas Establishment of Inauguration of Coal Industry & independent support group Organizational Briquette Support Department 2009 79.6 of coal and briquette restructuring in the and division of assignments by business to ensure expertise end of 2011 business parts Participation 2010 82.5 Rate(%) 2011 93.7 Assistance in establishing Analysis and review of Disclosure of agendas on joint venture of investment business potentials as part development and supply of projects in development of of new tasks for Overseas eco-friendly coal energy resource coal energy Business Center by Korea-Mongolian Resource Cooperation Committee ● Policy Direction for Non-Executive Members Expansion of loan Securing of financial resource by Budget allocated assistance for alternative the Corporation, other than for 2012 Organization A pool of experts to be in line with business industries governmental budget Securing Expertise environment Formulation of plans for Reinforcement Promotional activities to promotion to utilize opportunities Formulation of support system to strengthen expertise Budget allocated of Expertise raise positive awareness in International Symposium on for 2012 for coal mining industries Mine Damage Prevention and Business achievement through involvement in raise positive awareness. Utilization of Expertise business activities Performance of BoD and Compensation Mechanism of Collecting Opinions from Stakeholders in BoD Compensation for executive members will be made in accordance with result of evaluation made by the Act of Management of Public The resolution on agendas are made by approval of majority of Institutions and internal regulations of the Corporations. No members present at the meetings. To ensure fairness in separate compensation will be made on activities of BoD. Nondecision-making, any members in relation with agenda, be it the executive members receive no compensations but have a certain president or board members, are not allowed to participate in amount of activity cost paid since Jan. 1, 2012. the decision-making. These non-participating members in such cases are not counted in the number of members participating, which is necessary for voting. The 46th On-Site Board Meeting On-Site Program for Experiencing Business Projects mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 15 Evaluation on Materiality According to the guidance made by ISO 26000 on “determining the relevance and significance of the core subjects to the organization,” MIRECO makes a set of evaluation on materiality to identify issues related to sustainability and listed core issues on the subject. As part of the evaluation, the Corporation interviewed employees including those at the managerial level and experts, made media analysis and benchmarked related businesses. This report is based on key issues derived from evaluation on materiality to make categories of report and all the results are to be disclosed. Identifying Social Responsibility To identify core issues related to sustainable management, which are quintessential for business activities of the Corporation, analysis is made on both internal and external environments. 01 Analysis on Related Businesses Issues relating to MIRECO are identified by analyzing sustainability reports published by five businesses that are along the line of mine reclamation and mine reclamation industries in Korea and overseas on issues related to seven core subjects of ISO 26000. 02 Media Analysis To identify public perception on MIRECO and major issues related to sustainability management, 1,387 relevant articles from the total of 3,247 articles released from 2009 to 2011 (407 in 2009/ 426 in 2010/ 554 in 2011) to analyze and identify related issues. 03 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 Based on ISO 26000 assessment tools developed by the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy, MIRECO has assessed application level of social responsibility and identified issues that need further improvement. 04 Analysis on Trend & Impact Issues are identified by surveying chiefs and employees of MIRECO under the categories of trend/impact/qualifications of organization. 05 Identification of Stakeholders and Engagement To identify stakeholders within MIRECO, categorization has been made by legal obligations, influence, dependency and accessibility and relevant issues have been identified by interviews and surveys. ● Stakeholders of MIRECO Involvement of Stakeholders Core stakeholder Employees, government, customers To categorize detailed issues related to the Corporation’s sustainable management practices, eight core stakeholder Environmental stakeholder groups are selected, and stakeholders representing each group Non-regular employees, have underwent in-depth interviews. In addition, one hundred administrative interns, academia, local governments, media, NGOs. fifty eight stakeholders from all groups of stakeholders are Strategic stakeholder surveyed to take reference in assessing significance. Customers (briquette manufacturers), mutually invested companies, local communities of abandoned mine areas, businesses with specialty in mine damage prevention, labor union, related institutions in overseas, industry experts 16 Mine Reclamation Corp. Introduction Evaluation on Materiality ● Process of Identifying Core Issues Evaluation on Materiality BenchmarkingMedia Analysis Analysis on Trend & Impact Assessment on Significance Assessment on Application Level Identification of Core Issues Assessment on Relevance (Surveying stakeholders from (Index of report) of ISO 26000 Interview with both in and out of the organization) Stakeholders Evaluation on significance has been made by assessing the first eighty-one sustainability-related issues in terms of relevance and materiality. As a result, fifteen issues under the category of “Trend” and nineteen issues under the category of “Impact” have scored above 3.8 out of 5 and been finalized as the reporting issues. ● Result of Evaluation on Materiality and Reporting Issues Materiality for Stakeholder Impact Trend Execution of mine reclamation projects with responsibility (i.e. management of mineral residue, water pollution and heavy metals) Intensifying competition for securing resources Aggravation of damage to Expansion of scope of environment environment restoration projects (i.e. resource nationalism) (e.g. pollution of air, water (including urban mines) and soil; deforestation) Engagement of local communities Utilization of sustainable resources (involvement of members of local communities and reflection of opinions in execution of mine prevention projects) Mine reclamation for sustainable development Prevention of environmental pollution (issues taken into consideration from the stages of resource development) Job creation and creating source of income for local communities Increase of demand for Depletion of natural resources (e.g. mineral resources, fossil fuel) transparency Reinforcement of environmental regulations Curbing and adaption to climate change Increase of environment-conscious customers Increase of significance of securing a pool of qualified human resources Social investment in local communities Climate change (including global warming and protection of water resource) Market, Competition and Increase of significance of timely response to legal systems globalization of supply chain Increase of accessibility to information (via Internet, SNS) Increase of significance of shared growth with partnering companies (FTA etc.) Technological development Corruption Increase of significance of shared growth with and accessibility (integrity) Environment protection and restoration of habitat partnering companies Promotion of social responsibility within the context of value chain (including expansion of customized forestation) Increase of diversified and intensified customer demand Social communication (labor-management relationship) Protection of private information Training of employees and development of competence Accessibility to essential services Wellness and safety at work places (including safety management for partnering companies) Social communication (labor-management relationship) Increase of demand for employees benefits (work-life balance) Materiality for MIRECO mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 17 Engagement of Stakeholders MIRECO aspires to become an organization that receives trust and respect by opening to active communications with stakeholders, as seeking ways for mutual cooperation and development are essential for continuous growth of the Corporation. To ensure engagement of stakeholders from both in and outside of the organization, stakeholders have been categorized by evaluating influence on the Corporation, responsibility and typicality and interviews have been conducted. A variety of sustainability-related issues have been identified from stakeholders and they have been reflected in the process of strategy formulation. MIRECO is committed to make multilateral efforts to have opinions of stakeholders widely influence across its business activities. Government _ Jin-Chul Kwak / Ministry of Knowledge Economy / Coal Industry Division / Deputy Director “Looking forward to increase of value for mine areas through mine damage restoration for sustainable development.” When the entire society was development-oriented in the past, issues related to mine damage did not receive enough attentions. However, with the launch of MIRECO, an organization with expertise in mine damage prevention, benign circle of mine development and reclamation is being established now. Because properties that causes mine damage such as mineral residues and mine water tend to give sever impacts on environment and last for long, mismanagement of will give lasting impacts in various forms. Thus meticulousness in management of mine damage restoration projects are all the more essential. In addition, by contributing to revival of economy of underdeveloped mining areas, MIRECO should secure its new growth momentum that would enhance value of mining areas and engage local communities. Owner of Business with Specialty in Mine Damage Prevention _ Joong-Yul Kim / SOAM Consultant CO., LTD / CEO “Looking forward to pave way for growth of partnering companies with global mine damage business.” Mine damage prevention business can be utilized in many fields including environment, and can prevent various forms of accidents by using various forms of mine damage prevention technologies such as detection of water leakage from dams and measurement of earthquake magnitude. I am looking forward to see MIRECO actively promote these competent technologies and become part of the global trend to secure global competitive edge in mine damage prevention. Aggressive expansion of global mine prevention business would pave the way for partnering companies to make presence in the global market. Customer (briquette manufacturer) _ Doo-Yong Kim / Samchully E&E CO., LTD / Managing Director “Coal industry should be continued to provide energy resources for low income class.” Coal is, in fact, the only natural resource that Korea has, but fossil fuels are increasingly falling out of the favor of the public these days. I would like MIRECO to advocate continuance of coal industry, an industry that provides the most affordable energy resources for low income and working classes. In addition, I am looking forward to find environment restoration projects to be better-orchestrated and more comprehensive with long-term views. In the process of reclamation, I wish the relevant projects could pass on valuable forests by diversifying species of trees that meet a variety of needs categorized by climate, soil and geographical features, instead of uniformly forming coniferous forests. 18 Mine Reclamation Corp. Introduction Local Communities _ Dae-Geun Kim / Suwon, Changhyeon High school / Teacher “MIRECO should actively promote the importance of environment restoration to future generations.” It is essential to perceive educational and educational activities for local communities, particularly environment education for future generations as part of MIRECO’s social responsibilities. Thus MIRECO should partner with educational institutions to educate future generations about significance of environmental restoration and provide opportunities in experiencing mine areas through activities such as mine tours and volunteer activities. I hope that MIRECO can make its way to make positive influence on environment education by partnering with educational institutions to develop programs with focus on subjects such as sustainable development and environment preservation. Mutually Invested Companies _ Sang-Gil Lim / Kangwon Land Foundation / Director “MIRECO should contribute to restoration of local communities with responsible efforts in mine reclamation.” Mine areas played roles in providing coal energy resources to Korea nationwide, but they are now entirely affected by the aftermath of environmental pollution. The Corporation is currently carrying out a series of purification projects financed by government budget, but mine areas still face challenges such as leakages of polluted water or withering of trees planted for environment restoration. I would like to see the Corporation be part of the local communities to fulfill their tasks and missions with responsibilities as if it its taking care of its own properties. In addition, I would like to ask the Corporation to show continuous interest and give support for development projects for local communities so that they can lead to job creation and restoration. Experts from Overseas _ Mustapha Mohd Lip / Vice Chief of Minerals and Geoscience Department Malaysia) “Strengthening network with institutions in overseas by taking full advantage of MIRECO’s expertise.” Mining industry needs to pay more efforts to sustainable mine development. The industry needs to seek to find more greenness in mine industry by economically extracting active components and minerals and conduct more research activities in generation of non-active wastes. MIRECO, in fact, is taking its leading position in mine restoration and wastewater management. Well-trained professionals will more easily resolve issues related to polluted soil and management of industrial wastewater. I am looking forward to more business opportunities in the future by building close network with overseas institutions and conducting co-research activities, based on MIRECO’s unique expertise. Labor Union _ Yong-Joon Yoon / MIRECO Labor Union / Chairman “The management should take its responsibility and make efforts to resolve issues related to labor-management relationship.” To make sustainable management possible in public sector, autonomy for an individual institution in management and bargaining rights in labor-management negotioations should be secured. Uniformly applied performance assessment and budget policy for public institutions with strict focus on profitability are infringing rights for autonomous collective bargaining and basic labor rights and thus aggravate labor-management conflicts. Furthermore, as sustainable management not only highlights internal and external growth of an organization but also a set of values other than business performance such as communication and transparency, the management of the Corporation will need to take its responsibility and make efforts to resolve issues related to labor-management relationship. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 19 Execution of Comprehensive Mine Reclamation Projects Management Principles The Corporation has been established to serve the purpose of leading sustainable growth of Korean economy by forging eco-friendly mine reclamation and promoting shared growth with local communities. To such extent, the Corporation has categorized its business activities into three, Coal Economic Policy Support, Mine Reclamation and Coal Mine District Promotion, and is making ceaseless efforts to secure eco-friendly competitive edge by executing projects related to soil remediation, improvement of water quality and prevention of ground subsidence to accomplish recovery of eco-system and sustainable growth. Progress •Achievement in research activities for development of global mine reclamation technology and increase of achievement in development of applicable technology •Systemization of execution process of water quality improvement projects and establishment of standards for quality of discharged water •Establishment of database for soil remediation and accumulation of relevant technology •Standardization of projects with focus on stabilization of structure foundation and improvement of technological competence for deployment of new technology •Formulation of ideas for efficient planning of reforestation and project execution Issues •Execution of mine reclamation with responsibility •Increase of customers paying attention to environment damage and various environmental and social issues •Expansion of scope of environment restoration projects •Prevention of environment pollution and reinforcement of environment regulations •Sustainable use of resources Performances Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Quality of inlet water in comparison with outlet water 0.542 0.5081 0.483 (water pollution level : PI) Ecology Soil Contamination (Score Points) 0.239 0.100 Restoration Office Rate of Trees Rooted (%) 83 86 89.6 Reforestation Rate (%) 7.0 8.7 9.2 Mining Damage Prevention Funds Mountain Reclamation 93.8 / 39 127.4 / 42 143.8 / 89 (KRW billion/collection rate) & GroundStability Office Electricity Consumption (Mwh) 1,636 1,625 1,611 Administrative Greenhouse Gas Emission (tCO2eq) 4,070 5,065 3,984 Support Office 22_ Enhancement of Performance of Environment Restoration Projects 28_ Improvement of Efficiency of Mine Reclamation Projects 29_ Securing Financial Stability for Mine Reclamation Projects 30_ Expansion of Eco-Friendly Management Activities Enhancement of regular basis and based on results, water quality improvement projects are consecutively executed, with severely affected areas on priority. As Performance of Environment of 2011, total of forty-four water purification facilities are operated. Restoration Projects Items Gangwon Province Chungcheong Gyeongsang Province Province Jeolla Province Total Number 29 1 9 5 44 of Facilities Amount of 31,810 410 4,160 1,069 37,449 Water Purified ※Note : he amount of water purified indicates the average of 2011. Active Communication Among Stakeholders In the process of project execution, the Corporation sufficiently Prevention of Pollution Caused by Water collects opinions from local residents and local governments by Leakage from Mines taking opportunities to introduce projects via briefing sessions for local residents and visiting individual households. Further, the Water Leakage from Mines Corporation is making its best efforts for water purification facilities to In abandoned mine areas, underground water inundates mines and be used as pleasant facilities for local residents, as well as to serve its goaf* to cause leakage of mine water* and leachate with heavy core function of purifying pollutants. In addition, the Corporation is metals dissolved and incurs soil and water pollution of local areas. As pursuing smooth project execution by establishing sound cooperative such, the Corporation is actively running water quality improvement system with local governments. projects to minimize effects of pollutions. *Goaf : part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed *Mine water : water from underground of mine generated in the process of mining ● Amount of Mine Water Generated and Processed (Unit : ㎥/d) Items GyeonggiProvince Gangwon Chungcheong Jeonlla Gyeongsang Total &IncheonArea Province Province Province Province Mine Water 17 103 52 41 99 312 Briefing session for local On-site briefing session Meeting with local Amount of Leakage residents government officials Amount Generated 312 82,130 1,824 3,190 16,712 104,168 Amount Mine Water 1 80 11 22 33 147 of Polluted Amount Generated 197 60,507 692 2,295 9,869 73,560 Improvement of Water Processing Technology Water For improvement of water processing technology, the Corporation has Systematic Project Execution constantly been conducting research activities to find solutions for In case of mines located in mountainous areas, amount and frequency reinforcing efficiency of purification facilities. In 2011, a new set of process of precipitation influence greatly on amount and quality of water was applied across all existing facilities to complement flaws and discharged from mines, and thus long-term investigation on water demonstrated its efforts in enhancement of expertise and technological quality becomes essential. The Corporation monitors amount and competence. All these series of efforts made by the Corporation are quality of water discharged from mines and makes analysis on a anticipated to be helpful in cleaning river and make healthy environment. ● Execution Process of Mine Water Purification Project Monitoring Basic & Construction Follow-up Selecting Assessment Water Pilot test Working and Management Business on Validity Quality Design Test Run Conducted 2~4 annually, Amount, level of pollution Analysis on substance of Decision on optimal Abiding by effluent quality Securing optimal Monitoring efficiency of Amount of Leakage, pH, and geographic conditions to mine water, amount to be purification method standard (legal operating condition, purification process, EC, ORP, Heavy Metals be taken into consideration process, identification of (by criteria of efficiency, regulations on normalization of maintenance in case of Areas with farmlands in vicinity and SO42and high level of pollution to be available land, proposal of economic feasibility and preservation of water operation malfunction prioritized relevant purification method stability) quality and ecosystem 22 Mine Reclamation Corp. Execution of Comprehensive Achievement in Reducing Level of Water Pollution water management, soil remediation and forestation to prevent loss MIRECO has designated responsible personnel for individual water of mineral residues and generation of leachate. Since 2007, MIRECO has invested approximately KRW 60 billion in sixteen mines and Mine Reclamation Projects purification facility to ensure integrity in management and standard of completed mineral residue prevention projects and as of 2012, the discharge for all facilities are managed in accordance with effluent Corporation is operating projects for seven mines. quality standard of so called “clean areas.” Also, facilities are constantly monitored that any facilities in deterioration or with low ●Amount of Annual Budget Allocated for Construction for Projects to Prevent Loss of Mineral Residues efficiency are subject to maintenance to ensure steadiness in functioning. Particularly, since 2011, all facilities have been 2009 KRW 14.985 billion systemized for efficient management and have closed-circuit 2010 KRW15.097 billion televisions installed to enable remote monitoring. Establishment of purification facilities and management by experts are resulting in 2011 KRW 2,035 billion improvement of quality of inlet water in comparison with outlet water. ● Business Goals The Corporation is committed to continue its efforts in constructing relevant facilities, management and development of technologies. ● Before and After Construction of Facilities Before After Ensuring Internal Stability of Prevention of Generation of Mineral Residues MIRECO makes its best efforts to formulate design and ● Quality of Inlet Water in Comparison with Outlet Water construction ideas by collecting basic information on scope Year Water Pollution Level (PI) and level of pollution for selecting optimal restoration method 2009 0.542 2010 0.508 in the process of scrutiny and review of plans for placement of 2011 0.483 constructions, economic feasibility and maintenance in the design process. In addition, the Corporation actively Prevention of Pollution Due to Mineral Residue communicates with local governments and local residents concerning approval of facility construction to set direction for Operation of Mineral Residue Prevention Project project execution and have its facilities constructed with In the process of mine development, effective minerals are collected thorough management. As such, the Corporation has through concentration and smelting and the residues generated increased customer satisfaction level. In parallel, recently mostly contain harmful heavy metals. If these residues were developed mine tailings detoxification has been applied to a mismanaged, they would cause water and soil contamination in the number of mine reclamation projects for operating neighboring areas. The Corporation conducts detailed investigation properties* to bring pollution level caused by mineral residues on amount of mineral residues, geographical condition of coal yards below the baseline. Various other forms of technical and geological structure of coal yards of mine areas that are cooperation is taken place to prevent generation of mineral affected by pollutions or deemed to be subject to pollution. For mine residues by, for instance, recycling organic metals in case they areas that are considered to be subjected to mine reclamation are extracted from heavy metals in the process. projects, project plans are set up to prevent further pollution by *Operating property : a mine that have minerals or coal mined mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 23 ● Amount of Mineral Residues Subject to Prevention Projects local communities by hosting discussions with stakeholders. *Full-time assistant supervisors : an honorary position for retirees of MIRECO to encourage 2009 2,372,320㎥ sharing of experience and knowledge and oversee mine reclamation projects. 2010 851,870㎥ Management of Source of Pollution and Eco-Diversity 2011 61,129 ㎥ The Corporation carries out careful examination on climate conditions and geographical conditions to select adequate ●Before and After the Mineral Residue Prevention Project (the 2nd Yeonhwa Mine) species of plantation and thus form foundation for new vegetation to harmonize with existing ecosystems. All projects Before After are under constant monitoring to secure eco-diversity. Improvement in Establishing Plans for Followzup Management For areas that saw completion of projects, the Corporation conducts annual inspections Enhancement of Efficiency of Project Execution more than two times The Corporation hosted and undergoes carefully a session of discussion planned maintenance Site of trees taking root with full-time assistant projects. Monitoring supervisors* in Feb. wells* are scheduled to be installed to monitor cracks in 2011,toensureefficiency liners* and leachate and follow-up monitoring will be taken in mine reclamation place to monitor how newly planted trees are taking root* and projects.Thediscussion ensure stability in growth and thus take preemptive measures Discussion with full-time assistant supervisors made grounds for in spread of pollution caused by mineral residues. The systemization of management and oversight process and efficient Corporation will continue its efforts in ensuring stable execution of mine reclamation projects by making resolution for functioning of existing facilities and creating safe living improvement of quality in construction. The Corporation will seek conditions for local residents. further to establish cooperative relationship with local *Liner: a variety of materials (including bentonite, clay and slag) to prevent flow of water (including communities and collect opinions and feedback from site and underground water, leachate and discharged water). * Monitoring well: a facility to monitor flow of underground water and measure the amount. * Monitoring trees taking root : monitoring growth of vegetation after the process of plantation onto new soil. ● Road Map for Enhancement of Efficiency in Project Execution Restoration of Polluted Soil to Improve Public Health soil contamination in Abandoned Mine Areas soil contamination in local farming areas caused by debris from Eco-Friendly n mines, mineral residues, waste water from mines with high io Project Execut acidity and leachate are increasingly becoming a social issue these days. As soil contamination in such abandoned mine areas ions n of Opin Reflectio al Residents result in imbalance of ecosystem of the area, producing harmful from Lo c agricultural products and further, will pose threat to local ia rocess v tions ation of P titu economic activities, the Corporation is making its ceaseless Simplificwith Related Ins tion Coopera efforts to improve performance of projects for restoration of polluted soil to ensure harvest of healthy agricultural products. 24 Mine Reclamation Corp. Execution of Comprehensive ● Execution Process of Soil Remediation Projects 01 02 03 Mine Reclamation Projects Detailed investigation on Establishment of plans for Compensation for idle soil contamination caused soil remediation and onland and reclamation for by mine damage and site demonstration (RI/FS) land improvement and establishment of plans for soil remediation remediation Before and After Reforestation (Boeun Cheil Mine, Chungbuk Province) with low toxicity, mobility and solubility to minimize potential risk. The Corporation selects the most effective stabilizing agents by investigating both chemical and physical properties of heavy metals Soil Remediation in soil. For application of optimal purification method, a standardized distribution diagram for various scale tests is formulated and field scale test to evaluate applicability are operated. 04 05 06 Execution of projects for Suggestion on utilization of Monitoring and follow-up land improvement and soil improved land by providing management of remediation guidelines on alternative improved/remediated Project Execution with Focus on Cultivator-friendliness crops, items that require areas attention and alternation of purpose of use and Customer Satisfaction soil contamination restoration projects are mainly focused on privately-owned farmlands and thus cultivating pattern, harvest Systematic and Efficient Soil Contamination Survey and percentage of farmlands cultivated need to be thoroughly To ensure efficiency of taken into consideration. Across the entire process of investigation, soil remediation that is design and construction, the Corporation is utilizing various forms customized for individual of communicating tools to not only restore soil contamination but region, understanding also provide optimal condition for cultivating, thereby enhancing in basic topographical cultivator friendliness and customer satisfaction level. In addition, and environmental the Corporation is assisting in carrying out diverse forms of A scene of investigating soil contamination (drilling investigation) condition is all the more restoration projects by for instance, suggesting cultivation of essential. To such extent, the Corporation investigates past history alternative crops or alteration of the purpose use. of mine development and topographical feature of mine areas and thus establishes remediation plans optimized for the area via Thoroughness in Management Before and After assessment on toxicity of soil pollutants, level of soil contamination Project Executions and calculation and analysis of amount of polluted soil. Further, the The Corporation conducts safety level of produce harvested from Corporation is taking preemptive measures to prevent any potential abandoned mine areas to measure amount of heavy metals and pollution after soil restoration by seeking ways to eradicate sources based on results, if a farmland is diagnosed to be inappropriate of pollution identified in the process of establishing restoration for cultivation, adequate amount of compensation is paid to farm plans and preventing further spread of pollutants. houses. Such measures are taken to protect farmlands as well as prevent harvest and distribution of polluted produce. At the Optimal Purification Method with Eco-friendliness same time, for five years after completion of projects, follow-up and Cost Effectiveness measures are taken to assess stability and durability of method Heavy metals make up majority of sources of soil contamination applied to farmlands. Post-execution assessment and in abandoned mine areas and because they cannot under go continuous inspection on soil and harvest will not only promote chemical break down, they are subject to eco-friendly and effective wellness of local residents and farmhouses but also promote stabilization and covering-up methods for remediation. consumption of healthy produce and further, contribute to Stabilization method transforms heavy metals in soil into a form revitalization of local economic activities. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 25 Eco-friendly Reforestation proposing plans for forestation, intervals of plantation and species to be planted in individual areas of restoration. All the process is Deforestation of Abandoned Mine Areas and Reforestation Projects carefully planned to guarantee full restoration of forests and Deforestation and removal of earth and sand are undertaken prior ecosystems. to mine development and rocks and debris are generated in the process of selecting spots to dig through and installation of facilities. Maximizing Effectiveness of Reforestation Projects When these are mismanaged, forests will be affected by damages Forests in abandoned mine area conventionally serves its function of and further, mine damage will be incurred. Deforestation causes restoring ecosystems of forest, but most are known to be less sufficient landslides, water and soil contamination by leachate, air pollution by in promoting public interest to serve recreational purpose. To make dusts, various effects caused by debris being washed away, forests better serve recreational purposes, the Corporation carries out damages on landscapes and infertility of farmlands. To such extent, reforestation projects based on restoration policies set according to the Corporation is operating a series of reforestation projects results of monitoring and investigation on mine areas with high pH level including stabilization of ground surface of abandoned mines, in soil due to debris and at the same time, to neutralize soil of forests with prevention of debris being washed away and afforesting. high pH level, adequate methods and restoration models have been developed to apply optimal reforestation models. ● Before and After Reforestation (Boeun Cheil Mine, Chungbuk Province) These series of measures has increased awareness for mine reclamation projects and reforestation projects by engaging local Before After residents in selecting species of tress to be planted to result in increase of income. As a result, customized forestation rate and percentage of trees taking root are on the constant increase to provide local residents with forests that serve recreational purposes and number of complaints have reduced by 50% from the year before. ● Number of Complaints Filed Against Reforestation Projects Investigation on Forests to Enhance Environmental Improvement Lack of preparation has led to insufficient review on geographical 6 3 and topographical conditions of mines and policy direction for restoration and thus, a limited set of species typically planted for 2010 2011 reforestation (e.g. false acacia, pinus rigida and alder tree) has been uniformly planted. As part of enhancement of capability in ● Percentage of Trees Taking Root environmental improvement and achievement of goals in ecological restoration, the Corporation began to conduct multi2009 83.0% dimensional investigation in soil, ground surface and vegetation. The investigation includes investigation on geographical and 2010 86.0% topographical conditions, faunas, use of forests and land, mine damage of mine areas and stability of ground surface of mine slopes 2011 89.6 % in mine areas. After investigation on soil characteristics in areas with ● Percentage of Customized Forestation (the project has been inaugurated since 2010) mine wastes and borrow pits and soil condition, soil profile and soil 2010 horizon of areas around abandoned mine areas, adequate borrow Actual Percentage, 7.0% pits will be proposed or guidelines are given for land improvement to 2011 enable trees take root. In parallel, proposals are made for Target, 8.7% comprehensive restoration vegetation by considering existing 2011 vegetation of area to suggest species that are feasible for plantation, Actual Percentage, 9.2 % 26 Mine Reclamation Corp. Execution of Comprehensive Thoroughness in Follow-up Management Performance of Projects After completion of reforestation projects, the Corporation Ground subsidence inspects conditions of ground surface and drains on a regular prevention projects are Mine Reclamation Projects basis until the area enters its stage of stabilization. In case any designed to execute problems are detected, measures are immediately taken to contructions to reinforce resolve. In addition, by boosting more trees to take root, the ground stability of areas Corporation is continuously making its efforts to make prone to subsidence by restored forests to be utilized for recreational purposes for Hydraulic backfill conducting investigation local residents. on for example, conditions in underground and geological structure. Seismic survey technology is used in the process to investigate Projects to Stabilize Ground to Prevent Disasters conditions of underground that are difficult to detect with human eyes and evolution of relevant technologies will ease tasks of Ground subsidence refers to the motion of a surface as it investigation and maximize effectiveness of projects. The shifts downwards relative to a datum and thus influence Corporation seeks ways to enhance capabilities of personnel in surface and cause collapse, crevice and subsidence. To charge of oversight by providing outsourced educational programs prevent any effects from such ground subsidence, the to train in geophysical survey both in theory and practice. In parallel, Corporation is actively conducting projects to stabilize ground the Corporation has conducted “topographical and geophysical via investigations on ground stability, construction to reinforce survey on three limestone mines in Chungwon area” and thus saved ground and follow-up maintenance. operational cost by KRW 115 million and saved additional KRW 198 million by readjusting costs of seismic survey and analysis by length ● Process of Project Execution and depth. Further, to enhance quality of construction, the Basic Detailed Design and Measurement and Corporation is pushing ahead to develop and apply new technologies Investigation Investigation Construction to Follow-up Safety on Ground on Ground Reinforce Ground Management to complement and reinforce effectiveness of ground reinforcement technique. To such extent, technological improvement has been made to increase efficiency of hydraulic charging by inventing highProjects to Prevent Ground Subsidence pressure hose. In parallel, the Corporation is operating its systems For effective execution of to enable timely response to emergency situations by monitoring projects, the Corporation ground motion real time and predict timing of subsidence. prioritizes areas subject to projects by preemptively Performance Evaluation reviewing candidate areas MIRECO has improved quality of construction by enhancing and in case of sudden efficiency of project execution and thus reduced operational subsidence in mine areas, costs by KRW 313 million in 2011. Efficiency index of projects to Area affected by subsidence in Euiseong, Gyeongbuk Province (Tohyeon Mine) emergency measures are prevent ground subsidence in on the constant rise as well, and considered as the top priority of the projects. For improvement the Corporation will continue its pursuit of preventing subsidence in design and resolution of issues, the Corporation hosts by project execution and development of new technologies. meetings to discuss with businesses with expertise in mine ● Efficiency Index of Projects to Prevent Ground Subsidence reclamation and thus seeks to elevate quality level across all (Calculation: expenditure for construction in comparison with estimated costs at the stage of investigation) phases of projects including design, construction and followup management. 2009 0.288 2010 0.329 2011 0.371 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 27 development projects, 70% of budget has been allocated for the first half Improvement of Efficiency of of the year. Further, the Corporation has been actively involved in Mine Reclamation Projects government-led projects to enhance its reputation. Efficient Human Resource Management The Corporation runs projects of technology development For reinforcement of technological competence through reasonable with its own budget and at the same time, it is contributing to organizational reform, the Corporation has reshuffled its Technology cost reduction benefits by completing commissioned tasks Cooperation Team and Research & Development Team into Water and operating an institution with expertise in data analysis. Quality and Environment Research Team, Bedrock Engineering and Research Team and Earth Chemistry Research Team and hired additionally to now have twenty-five staff members. In addition, human resource is allocated by taking expertise, significance and size of projects Efficient Execution of Projects into consideration and level of involvement and achievement of researchers have been improved by having Technology Cooperation Reasonable Budget Allocation Team taking charge in tasks of cooperation and utilizing analysis experts. The Corporation has managed to reduce cost by KRW 6.245 billion including via seventeen research projects such as “development of Utilization of Overseas Expansion Committee Based optimal system to reinforce efficiency of natural filtering technique” to on Partnership Between Private and Public Sectors save KRW 4.2 billion. In addition, considering the nature of technology The Corporation is efficiently executing its overseas business via a cooperative organization based on partnership between public and private sectors to ● Process of Review on Budget Allocation effectively cooperate in dealing mine damage related issues. The Corporation has built a network with KOTRA and KOICA to successfully run cooperation Presentation of proposals and review of projects in new market and operated cooperation programs and other relevant budget proposals relevant programs in six countries including Algeria and Greece to increase potentials of business contracts and increase efficiency in task performance. Review on status of budget execution during monthly review on project execution status Time Saving Additional review on budget execution after annual and final reporting process The Corporation has inaugurated a team of investigators consisting of experts in topographic research and seismic investigation from its Final review via financial audit conducted by headquarters and research institute and conducted a series of an accounting firm investigation on ground subsidence in Cheongwon Reservoir. Such activity has reduced the lead time by seventy-four days, in comparison with an ● Performance of Research Activities identical activity conducted by an individual team and ate the same time, by Soil Improvement Remediation/ Ground Technological Technological establishing remote control system of water quality analyzer, waiting time Items of Water Cooperation/ Subsidence/ Cooperation/ Assistance Total Quality Mineral Reforestation GIS in has been reduced to near-zero. The Corporation is making its constant Residues Analysis Number of 4 7 5 1 8 25 efforts in enhancing efficiency in task performance by, for instance, actively Participants Budget for using a pool of experts from both in and outside of the organization. Mine 3 4 2 1 10 reclamation Numb Internally er of Sourced 5 7 7 1 20 ●Performance of Mine Reclamation Projects via Utilization of Overseas Tasks Budget Expansion Committee Country Number of Projects Operated Total 8(1) 11(2) 9(1) 2(1) 30 Participants Strategic execution of the first cooperation program in Number of Algeria 15 the African continent (Algeria ranks the top in GDP Tasks/Number of 2.00 1.57 1.80 2.00 1.20Note (1) among African nations) Participants Six Countries Building human network in newly cooperating ※( ) : Five major technological tasks including 9 countries by operating customized programs linked Note (1) Number of tasks allocated for each of seventeen researchers, excluding eight members in Greece with international symposiums on mine reclamation charge of technological cooperation and assistance in analysis. 28 Mine Reclamation Corp. Execution of Comprehensive conversion from a mountainous district in the process of mine Securing Financial development. Guarantee Programs are to warrant fulfillment of Stability for Mine liabilities of mining rights holders in the stages of mining, and reduce Mine Reclamation Projects costs for insurance commission and miscellaneous costs they Reclamation Projects would otherwise have paid for other warranty programs. The Corporation on the other hand, is able to secure financial resource for Charges on Mining Damage Prevention Funds to maintain foundation for mining industry of Korea. Performance and Effects The Corporation has so far guaranteed 243 mining spots of 116 mines, amounting up to KRW 536.1 billion and 24.3% of operating properties Efficient Management Structure of Charges on have subscribed to Guarantee Programs offered by the Corporation. Persons Responsible for Preventing Mining Damage As of 2011, 47% of mine production and 49% of limestone production are financed by the Corporation’s Guarantee Program and mines, The Corporation is currently operating a financial program so called conversely, sees cost reduction of as much as KRW 5 billion annually “Charges on Persons Responsible for Preventing Mining Damage” to to buttress enhancement of competitive edge for Korea. secure financial resources and take preventive measures against mine damages due to mine development. The program consists Charges on Mining Damage Prevention Funds Charges on Restoration of Forests and Charges on Mining Damage Prevention Funds. Through the program, the Corporation assures ● Amount of Contribution Made (unit : KRW million, %) fulfillment of liabilities of mining right holders and promotes Imposed Collected Gap Collection Rate sustainable mine development. Cases Amount (a) Number Amount Number Amount of Cases (b) of Cases (b/a) 2011 1,4571 13,271 1,108 11,833 349 1,438 89 Fulfillment of Liabilities Through Charges on 2010 1,069 22,020 751 9,274 318 12,746 42 Restoration of Forests 2009 1,068 15,349 736 5,968 332 9,381 39 2008 613 17,407 366 10,235 247 7,172 59 2007 478 17,924 273 10,510 205 7,414 59 Contribution for Reforestation has been designed to lessen burden ※Total amount is a sum of the amount of Charges on Restoration of Forests and Charges on for mining right holders and ensure stability in mine reclamation Mining Damage Prevention Funds ※Between 2007 and 2010, payment for shares for the following year was mandated to be projects by warranting fulfillment of liabilities by mining right made before the end of the year. Throughout these years, approximately half of the payments were made late, and against such backdrop, readjustment has been made to holders, when these mining right holders make payments as much charge only for the same year and collection rate has significantly increased since 2011. as 30 ~ 60% of deposit for restoration that they are obliged to pay Charges on Mining Damage Prevention Funds is designed to local governments or Korea Forest Service to obtain approval for contribute 70% of total budget for project while a mining rights ● Process of Performing Guaranteed Liability holder pays 30% of total budget if it builds mine reclamation facilities. Mining Damage Prevention ⑨ Request for performance of guaranteed debt Fund is fully funded by mining rights holders and the fund its used in a variety of forms such as ⑩ Performance of guaranteed debt (execution by proxy) financing mine reclamation projects, Local governments MIRECO /national forest office ① Application for guarantee (guarantor) compensation for mine damage, establishment, (creditor) ⑤ Submission of letter of guarantee ③ Payment operation and maintenance of mine reclamation ⑥ Approval for alternation of purpose of use of mountains ② Issuance of bill/ facilities in idle and abandoned mine areas, management of late payment ④ Provision of guarantee investigation prior to mine reclamation projects, ⑧ Non-fulfillment of obligation of restoration research and development activities, technology Mine developer ⑦ Order for restoration of forest (land) (debtor) development, training and cooperation with businesses in both Korea and overseas. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 29 Against such backdrop, the Corporation notifies its employees the Expansion of Eco-Friendly three gas stations that offer the most affordable gas prices every Management Activities month and encourages refueling vehicles in these three locations. In addition, a guideline has been set up to obligate the employees to MIRECO is making its constant efforts to reduce greenhouse refuel their vehicles at the gas stations that offer the most affordable gas, one of the major causes of air pollution and increase energy efficiency, and realizes shared growth witha small gas prices in case of business travel to a short distance. and medium-sized enterprises by purchasing eco-friendly products. During the year 2011, the Corporation has made no ● Amount of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Vehicles (unit: tCO2eq)) violation of environment regulation. Division 2009 2010 2011 Headquarters 98 113 96 Gangwon Branch 66 56 52 Chungcheong Branch 44 32 30 Target Scheme for Greenhouse Gas and Energy Youngnam Branch 41 49 41 Gyeonggin Branch 17 18 12 Honam Branch 35 31 22 Efforts to Curb Greenhouse Gas Emission Total 301 299 253 In accordance with the Article 42 of the Basic Act on Low Carbon Green Growth, the Corporation is placing its focus on phased ● Amount of Gas Consumption reduction of greenhouse gas emission to meet the target of curbing greenhouse gas emission by 20% by 2015. The amount 2009 87Nm3 emission has marked 3,984 tCO2eq in 2011, which is a reduction of 2010 87Nm3 10% compared with the Baseline (average of 2007~2009), 4,443.33 tCO2eq. 2011 98 Nm3 ※Only headquarter vehicles have consumed LNG. ※Consumption has increased along with increase of staff members in headquarters in 2011. ● Amount of Greenhouse Gas Emission (unit: tCO2eq)) Division 2009 2010 2011 Organization Fuel Type Type of Emission Use of Energy-Efficient Products Building (Electricity) Indirect 704 654 638 Headquarters Building (LNG) Direct 195 197 221 The Corporation’s Chungcheong Vehicles Direct 98 113 77 branch is enhancing efficiency of Building (Electricity) Indirect 2,844 3,866 2,811 water purification by installing Gangwon Vehicles Direct 66 56 52 calculation device on oxidation Chungcheong Vehicles Direct 44 32 30 Youngnam Vehicles Direct 41 49 41 tank of mine water purification Gyeonggin Vehicles Direct 17 18 12 facilities and operate them with Building (Electricity) Indirec 26*1) 49 53 Honam electric power generated by solar Vehicles Direct 35 31 22 Solar Energy Module Institute of Mine Building (Electricity) Indirect 8*2) power and water fall. Such Reclamation measures are taken as part of securing stability in electricity Technology Vehicles Direct 19 Indirect 3,574 4,569 3,510 generation by converging hydroelectric power generation and solar Total Direct 496 496 474 power generation and thus improve purification capabilities and cost Total 4,070 5,065 3,984 reduction in maintenance costs. * 1) Data collected after Honam branch has begun to own its office space in 2009. 2) Data collected after Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology has begun to own its office space in 2011. ● Amount of Electricity Generated Efforts to Reduce Energy Consumption of Vehicles Division Wattage Wattage in Outlets 15W The Corporation has set up a set of guidelines for managing vehicles Dump Power of Solar Energy Module 30W to take preemptive measures against energy wastes by, for instance, Additional Construction of Solar Energy Module 600W preventing “agency problems” related to refueling from occurring. Total 645W 30 Mine Reclamation Corp. Execution of Comprehensive Managing Energy Efficiency of Buildings purchase decisions throughout their work process. The Corporation places its constant efforts on maintaining its leadership in purchase Actions to Curb Energy Consumption of Buildings volume of green products over other public agencies by raising Mine Reclamation Projects The Corporation has mandated its employees to use 90% of awareness for significance of using green products. electricity during four hours of peak time from the year before and banned the use of neon signs during afternoon peak hours (17:00 ~ Improvement of System to Promote Purchase 19:00). For summer time, the office buildings have been airFor promotion of efficient purchase of green products, MIRECO conditioned at the temperature no loess than 29 degrees Celsius hosted rounds of discussion for procurement managers from and for winter time, heated no more than 18 degrees Celsius. To headquarters and branches to seek ways to enhance efficiency in further encourage energy saving and minimize consumption of procurement process. In addition, the Corporation has added electricity, the Corporation has purchased blankets and desk lamps. information on green products in the process of tender notice and contracts to encourage contracting companies to purchase and ● Amount of Electricity Consumption (unit: Mwh) actively use green products. Additionally, the Corporation to improve relevant systems to encourage active use of green products in entire 126 115 work process by for instance, publishing a revised edition of 1,404 Total Total 106 guidebook on list of items recommended by government to reflect 1,636 1,625 revision of environment laws and list of items obligated for purchase 1,510 and creating direct link on webpage of the organization’s information 127 Total system to provide easy access to information on green products. 2009 115 2010 1,611 1,369 ※Honam branch has relocated in 2009 2011 ● Performance of Eco-friendly Management (Headquarters & Branches) Electricity Energy Consumption Water Consumption Consumption Gas Diesel Gasoline m3 Direct link to webpages that provide information on green products m3 KWh TOE TOE 22,439 7,656,780 101,409 77,762 20,539 ※Including data collected after Honam branch has begun to own its office space in 2009. Proactive Measures to Encourage Purchase The Corporation demonstrates constant rise in number of times Efforts to Promote Purchase of Green Products green products have been purchased and amount of expenditure by having all its employees take part in purchasing green products, Raising Awareness for Green Products continuously improving system and carrying out relevant actions. During the year 2011, the The Corporation’s purchase rate of green products, in particular, is Corporation had its employees leading ahead of many other public agencies. MIRECO looks take part in government-led forward to increase of green products by having its partnering awareness programs to companies follow suits. promote sales of green products ● Amount of Green Products Purchased Awareness program on green products and organized educational Division 2010 2011 MISC programs to spread ideas within the organization. Altogether eleven Number of Times Green Products Have 142 177 Increased 1.3 times educational programs have been run throughout the year and Been Purchased Amount of Expenditure on Purchase of through these programs, the Corporation has assisted its employees Green Products (KRW million) 163,640 262,741 Increased 1.6 times in considering green products on the top priority when making their Purchase Rate (%) 97 99 Increased by 2% mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 31 Regional Development Projects to Assist Economic Autonomy Management Principles MIRECO has established six mutually invested companies in Korea nationwide to promote economic revival of abandoned mine areas and improvement of quality of life for local residents. In parallel, the Corporation is making its best efforts in contributing to balanced growth across all regions by operating Loan Assistance Program for Alternative Industries to provide loan assistance for start-up businesses and enterprises that seek ways for business expansions in abandoned mine areas. The mutually invested corporations named MIRECO Members, in particular, are making their presence by reviving economic activities of abandoned mine areas and serving their pivotal roles in elevating quality of life of local residents. Progress •Establishment of strategic partnership and network with mutually invested companies •Establishment of strategic partnership with resorts in overseas •Social contribution activities under five major themes and activities customized for individual region Issues •Increase of income for local communities •Technological development and enhancement of accessibility for local communities •Social investment for local communities •Engagement of local residents and reflection of feedback in the execution process of mine reclamation projects Performances Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Loan Assistance in Alternative Industries 148 / 28 224 / 28 Coal Mine District Promotion (KRW billion/ Number of Businesses) Headquarters Number of Jobs Created by Loans(people) 843 255 Social Contribution Activities General Administration 470 / 98 / 3.05 609 / 103 / 45.2 (Number of Participants, Number of Activities Conducted, KRW billion) & Planning Office 34_ Research and Development Activities to Formulate Regional Development Models Customized for Korean Mining Regions 37_ Enhancement of Efficiency of Management of Mutual Investment Companies Expansion of Scope of Engagement of Local Communities 36_ Increase of Engagement of Local Communities Research and Development Activities to Formulate Regional Development Models Customized for Korean Mining Regions MIRECO is making contributions to economic revival of mine areas by efficiently executing mine reclamation projects and regional development projects and assisting businesses in coal industries. Regional Development Projects Customized models customized for Korean mining regions to assist formulation for Individual Regions of regional development policies customized for individual regions and further, design development models for abandoned mine areas. The Corporation has categorized regional development projects as part of its strategic projects and makes outcomes, both directly Development Model for Abandoned Mine Areas and indirectly, by attracting investment projects and contributing to In the process of establishing regional development models, the job creations. As part of the efforts, the Corporation has expanded Corporation attempts to analyze cases in overseas, identify key the scope of financial support and training programs for mutually elements in regional development and categorize regions to invested companies to secure grounds for job creations. suggest relevant policy directions. As of 2012, these development models are being formulated under collaboration with contractors Organizational Reform for Execution of Regional and in parallel, the Corporations plans to execute projects to Development Projects promote regional development by establishing relevant For efficiency in execution of regional development projects, the frameworks, deriving regional development models customized for Corporation has recently reformed Administrative Support Office and Korean mining regions and applying to other abandoned mine areas Domestic Business Development Team that had formerly taken in overseas. responsibilities. They are thus divided into Administrative Support Office, Coal Industry & Briquette Support Department and Regional Business Team to take charge of regional development. In particular, Efficiency in Loan Assistance Programs for Alternative Industries teams have been divided by function of policy formulation and project execution to strategically carry out regional development projects. Overview of Loan Assistance Programs for Furthermore, independent operation of Coal Industry & Briquette Alternative Industries Support Department has emphasized responsibility in management. Loan Assistance Programs for Alternative Industries have first been All these efforts were made to draw distinctive line among teams with designed to promote economic activities of abandoned mine areas responsibility in policy formulation and project execution and thus that are affected by decline of coal industry by providing loan gave new motivations for regional development projects. assistance at low interest rates for alternative industries. The potential beneficiary of the programs are enterprises that seek to start or expand in manufacturing business, mining businesses other Regional Development Models Customized for than coal mining industry and tourism and recreation industries in Korean Mining Regions abandoned mine areas. Funds are provided in the forms of funds for equipment (no more than KRW 5 billion) and working funds (no more Backgrounds for Establishment of Development than KRW 500 million). Model for Abandoned Mine Areas According to the Special Act on Assisting Development of ● Loan Conditions (unit : %) Abandoned Mine enacted in 1995, KRW 2 trillion has been invested Division Term of Loan Interest Rate in reviving economy of abandoned mine areas. However, the 5 years of grace period/ 5 0.25/0.75 (variable interest rate, economy of these regions has not seen any turnarounds and thus Funds for Equipment years of repayment period adjusted every quarter) calls for overhaul of development projects and shift of focus of policy. 2 years of grace period/ 3 0.25/0.75 (variable interest rate, Working Funds years of repayment period adjusted every quarter) MIRECO has thus planned establishment of regional development 34 Mine Reclamation Corp. Regional Development Projects to ● Execution Process business execution capabilities have unCity/Distr City/Distr MIRECO Deliberation MIRECO Committee Reception of Review on Assessment on Execution of dergoneimprovement. Assist Economic Autonomy Application Business Business Deliberation on Loan Programs Loan In parallel, the Corporation is making its ● Areas Subject to Loan Programs best efforts to provide loans as immediately as possible by conLoan assessment meeting currently providing funds from both Special Fund for Energy and Resource Businesses and Self-Sourced Fund. Simultaneously, constant efforts for improvement are made on system by continuously monitoring recipients of loans and collecting opinions from customers. The Corporation continues its efforts in maximizing efficiency in service by analyzing performance of loan assistance programs and establishing database of beneficiaries to provide relevant information for customers. ● Major Indicators of Loan Assistance Program (unit : %) 250.00 Percentage of operation Percentage of increase in sales Percentage of increase in employment 200.00 Performance of Special Fund for Energy and Resource Businesses and Self-Sourced Fund 150.00 The Corporation has been funding KRW 175.1 billion for 100.00 Performance of Special Fund for Energy and Resource Businesses between 1996 and the end of 2011. However, 50.00 because the budget was not found to be sufficient to meet demands from abandoned mine areas, the Corporation began 0.00 Taebaek Samcheok Jeongsun Yongwol-gun Boryung Mungyeong Hwasun-gun Total to operate its self-sourced fund using dividends from Kangwon Land since 2009 and as of the end of 2011, KRW ●Amount Assisted in Comparison with Amount Applied 42.429 billion has been funded. (Recent Three Years) Amount applied for assistance Efforts for Adequate Execution of Loans and Enhance Amount paid for assistance KRW Customer Satisfaction Level 95.279billion KRW 100,000 For efficient execution of loan programs, evaluation methods for KRW 89.822billion 90,000 83.000 billion 80,000 ●Performance of Special Fund for Energy and ●Performance of Self-Sourced Fund 70,000 Resource Business (unit: KRW billion)) (unit: KRW billion)) 60,000 Year Amount Year Amount 50,000 2007 5,000 2007 40,000 2008 5,000 2008 KRW KRW 30,000 2009 5,000 2009 14,300 19.300billion KRW 22.429billion 20,000 14.750 billion 2010 4,750 2010 10,000 10,000 2011 4,300 2011 18,129 0 Total 24,050 Total 42,429 2009 2009 2009 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 35 The mutually invested corporation consists of altogether six Enhancement of companies including Kangwon Land, Mungyung Leisure Town, Efficiency of Managing Samchek Black Valley CC, Yongwol Donggang Cistar, Boryung Daecheon Resort, and Hwasun Resort. All businesses are based Mutually Invested on close partnership and cooperation among the Corporation, Companiesa local governments and investors. Kangwon Land, in particular, has made its significant contribution to finance of central government and local governments by contributing KRW 3.43 trillion by for instance, creating Fund for Development of Abandoned Mine Areas with 20%(25% since 2012) of EBITDA. Mungyung Leisure Town and Black Valley CC are taking part in Management of Mutually Invested Companies invigorating local economic activities by profiting from their own business. Donggang Cistar and Daecheon Resort, which opened Establishment of Mutually Invested Companies in the later half of 2011, are anticipated to play their pivotal roles in As economy of abandoned mine areas are largely affected by execution making turnaround for economy of abandoned mine areas. of Rationalization of Coal Industries by government Rationalization Policy of Coal Industries (1989~1995), a Special Act on Assisting Development of Abandoned Mine areas have been enacted in Dec. 1995. According to the new legal obligation, the Corporation established Kangwon Land Co. Ltd., a business with focus on casinos for domestic customers in Jeongsun, Gangwon Province, in June 1998. Further, in accordance with “Investment Plan for Abandoned Mine Areas Phase 2” which was Casino in Kangwon Land High 1 Resort Convention Hotel established in Nov. 2002, with fund sourced from dividends from Kangwon Land, the Corporation has established additional mutually ● Financial Contribution by Kangwon Land (unit : KRW billion) invested companies in other abandoned mine areas (Samchek, 2009 2010 2011 Total Gangwon Province; Yongwol-gun; Mungyeong, North Gyeongsang Tax 148,079 155,762 137,866 441,707 Province; Hwasun-gun, South Jeolla Province) to assist balanced Central 115,611 125,116 118,090 358,817 Tourism Fund Government regional development, realize share growth and create new jobs. Subtotal 263,690 280,878 255,956 800,524 Regional Tax 17,451 18,376 16,275 52,102 ● Mutually Invested Companies Local Abandoned Mine Fund 111,452 124,603 115,654 351,709 Government Year of Percentage of Share (%) Subtotal 128,903 142,979 131,929 403,811 Organization Establis Location Kangwon Local hment Total MIRECO Others Total 392,593 423,857 387,885 1,204,335 Land Government Kangwon Land 1998 Jeongsun 100 36 15 49 Mungyung Leisure Town 2003 Mungyeong 100 36.3 27.3 27.3 9.1 Black Valley CC 2004 Samcheok 100 11 17 72 Shared Growth of Mutually Invested Companies Donggang Cistar 2006 Yongwol-gun 100 25.2 25.0 25.9 23.9 To seeks ways for shared growth of alternative industries in Daecheon Resort 2007 Boryung 100 38.1 33.3 28.6 abandoned mine areas, the Corporation has inaugurated Hwasun Resort 2012 Hwasun-gun 100 52 48 “MIRECO Members Shared Growth Council” and encourages companies to share ideas and experience among member Funding and Management of Mutually Invested Corporation companies. Further, the Corporation has established strategic The Corporation has established a corporation named “MIRECO partnership among mutually invested companies and resort Members” to place focus on promoting tourism industry, an chains in overseas to create synergies and promote balanced industry to revive economic activities of abandoned mine areas. development in abandoned mine areas. 36 Mine Reclamation Corp. Regional Development Projects to MIRECO Culture Increase of Engagement of The CorpoThe Corporation has hosted a series of cultural Local Communities events for local residents of abandoned mine areas. Starting Assist Economic Autonomy from Samcheok in 2009, cultural events including concerts The Corporation began its meticulous approach to its held at areas such as Hwasun, Youngwol and Mungyeong engagement with local communities encouraging active created a stir among local residents. involvement of volunteer groups since 2009, and the effort has continued with formulation of strategies MIRECO Eco linked with long-term vision in 2010. Since the core function of MIRECO is environment restoration, the Corporation places its focus on social contribution activities centered at volunteer activities for environment. Activities are mainly focused Policy Direction and Strategy of Social on cleaning activities in the neighborhood areas and mountains of Contribution Activities office buildings and management of profit-sharing forests (profitsharing forest) which gained approval from Korea Forest Service. MIRECO has been actively involved in social contribution activities customized to meet diversity of needs. It has MIRECO Welfare announced its new strategy for social contribution in 2011, and Sisterhood Relationship With Mining Towns The forged five major themes, under the slogan “Beautiful Corporation has first set up sisterhood with Ongjeong-ri, MIRECO People Receiving Respect from Public” and carried Hanbando-myeon, Youngwol-gun in 2007 and with six out relevant projects abiding by the guidelines provided. By additional mining towns. Through the sisterhood relationship, making constant review on its own activities and themes, the the Corporation conducts activities such as giving out helping Corporation will continue to make its contribution to society. hands for farmhouses, purchase of local produce and donation of daily necessity to community halls. ●Structure of Social Contribution Activities Briquette Sharing in Love Movement The Corporation has been providing“Briquette Vouchers”for eighty thousand lowincome households since 2007. In addition, for households that are not subject to welfare services, the Corporation operates so called Briquette Sharing in Love Movement Briquette Sharing in Love Movement to deliver free briquettes. Performance of Social Contribution Activities The Corporation has made consistent effort in making Four Major Themes and Social Contribution Activities contributions to local communities to receive rewards such as the 4th Korea Sharing Award 2010, Forbes Korea Social MIRECO Edu Contribution Award 2011 and the 6th Korea Sharing Award. Educational projects, part of MIRECO’s core social contribution activities, Rather than being complacent, the Corporation will continue are targeting school age children living in abandoned mine areas. with its social contribution activities with commitments. Assistance Program for Artistic Talents in Abandoned Mine Area (Assistance Program for Artistic Talents in Abandoned Mine Area) has ● Performance of Social Contribution Activities started in 2011 to host provide training camps for students referred by 2010 2011 Number of Increase school teachers to benefit from mentorship and lessons. Participants Number of People Participated 470 609 139 Number of Events Participated 98 103 5 have reported high level of satisfaction for the program. The Corporation Budget (KRW million) 305,925 452,684 146,759 is planning to expand its educational programs to train aspiring scientists. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 37 Management for Stability of Coal Energy Supply Management Principles MIRECO is taking various measures to carry out projects for promoting stability of coal and briquette industries in Korea. At the same time, the Corporation strives for fair distribution of high-quality coals to meet all demands by managing supply chains and quality assurance process. In addition, by providing briquette vouchers for working class, the Corporation is making its ceaseless efforts in securing stable supply of energy. Progress •Maintaining adequate production infrastructure for coal and briquette industries •Supply chain management of anthracites and quality assurance of briquettes •Projects to provide subsidies for low-income class in purchasing briquettes •Increasing accessibility to energy resources Issues •Access to essential services •Social investment in local communities Performances Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Provision of Briquette Voucher 54 / 35,635 142 / 88,752 151 /89,172 Coal Economic (KRW billion/ Number of Households) Support Office Demand/Supply of Anthracite (million tons) 330 / 314 270 / 254 236 / 236 40_ Assistance to Ensure Stability in Coal and Briquette Business 42_ Enhancement of Accessibility to Energy Resources for Working Classes Assistance to Ensure Stability in Coal and Briquette Business Maintaining Adequate Production Infrastructure Countermeasure Projects for Abandoned Mine Areas for Coal and Briquette Industries The Corporation is inducing mines that face limit in production volume due to increase of cost and low efficiency into reduction Projects to Promote Stabilization of Coal Prices of production and disuse and in parallel, promoting stability of Projects to Promote Stabilization of Coal Prices has been designed income level for workers who are subject to job changes. On and inaugurated in 1989 to stabilize consumer prices and protect receipt of application for disuse of mine, Deliberation working class from inflation by posting highest sales price for coal Committee for Mine Disuse selects mines subject to provision and briquette and compensate gas between manufacturing cost and of finance for disuse of mine by examining supply and demand sales price. Through this project, the Corporation provides subsidies status of coal and available budget. The Corporation ensures for stability of production, insurance for industrial accidents and meticulousness in execution by conducting on-site inspection school expenses for children of employees (three per employee). prior to final decision and payment of budget. Further, the Corporation is providing assistance for briquette ● Current Status of Abandoned Mine Areas manufacturers and logistics companies to ensure fair price. Number of Operating Properties Number of Mines (단위 :개) ● Ideas of Stabilize Supply of Briquettes Number of 1989~2011 Abandoned 5 Mines 1989~2011 Decreased by Consumption 340 Production Virtuous Cycle 99% Production Volume Balance between Demand and Supply Volume of Mining = Recovery of Market Function Volume of Production from Abandoned Mines Production volume of coal will be maintained to the level that enable (unit : million tons) 2,084 balance between demand and supply to ensure stability. Price of coal and briquette will be readjusted to reasonable level to promote recovery of 1989~2011 market function. end of 2011 Decreased by 89% ● Production volume of coal will be maintained to the level that enable Workers Remaining 16,927 balance between demand and supply to ensure stability. Price of coal and briquette will be readjusted to reasonable level to promote recovery of Workers who made market function. job transfer 3,173 Increase use of clean energy and use resources efficiently ● Reinforcement of market function and efficient focus on mines Number of Workers (unit : people) ● Balance of minimum production policy and demand management policy Decreased by Aiming for demand = supply 1989~2011 ● Formulation of policy to lessen financial burden for government Readjustment of price to reasonable level to reduce subsidies for price 91% end of 2011 stabilization 31,961 40 Mine Reclamation Corp. Management for Stability of Management of Supply and Demand of Anthracite the category of amount of heat generated, volatile matter, and size According to the Article 24 of Coal Industry Act, the Korean (weight, diameter, height, downfall-Strength). Other processed coal Coal Energy Supply government has designated eleven long-term operating products are examined under the categories of amount of heat properties in 1995 to determine production quotas for an generated, sulfer content, size and amount of powdered coal. All individual mine and categorize anthracite into supply for these measures are taken to encourage fair trade among all domestic use (for manufacturing briquettes) and energy businesses in the industry. generation. The difference between anthracites mine in Korea inland and imported anthracites are compensated through ● Annual Coal Inspection Data subsidies from Funds for Electric Power Industry. As a result Amount of Amount Inspected Percentage Amount Inconsistent of continuous execution of policy for rationalization of coal Division Coal of Coal of Calories Transported Inspected Inspected (Quantity industry, as of 2011, five operating properties are producing (tons) Lot Tons (%) (kcal/kg) of Heat) approximately two hundred ten thousand anthracites every 2007 2,687,097 2,745 412,531 15.35 5,027 309 year. The Corporation is making its relentless efforts to 2008 2,775,589 2,468 446,522 16.09 4,901 541 monitor supply and demand in the wake of reduction of 2009 2,590,933 1,700 421,880 16.28 4,890 329 production. 2010 2,117,726 1,704 396,810 18.74 4,750 408 2011 2,087,808 1,829 455,902 21.84 4,645 299 Quality Assurance for Coal and Briquette All process of quality control for coal and briquette are based on ● Annual Briquette Inspection Data encouraging fair trade among trading agents in the industry. All the Categories of Inspection Amount of Calories Inconsistent process related to quality assurance is undertaken and the data Division Amount Inspected (Quantity of Heat Weight Size (kcal/kg) of Heat) makes useful reference for formulating policies related to coal Generated industries. Relevant activities are conducted to prevent low-quality 2007 429 429 1,287 4,606 26 coal products and thereby ensure stable supply of high-quality coal 2008 423 423 1,269 4,531 63 2009 456 456 1,326 4,502 83 and briquette products for consumers. Five operating properties in 2010 555 555 1,665 4,480 95 Korea nationwide and fifty-one operating briquette manufacturing 2011 641 641 1,923 4,489 85 facilities are subject to the Corporation’s quality control process under ● Demand and Supply of Coal (unit : 10,000 tons) Production Release of Stock Import Civilian Demands Power Generation 1 19 17 10 54 17 196 142 136 43 84 29 123 216 289 229 277 194 252 186 208 182 209 209 Demand : 425 Supply : 412 Demand : 425 Supply : 420 Demand : 330 Supply : 314 Demand : 270 Supply : 254 Demand : 236 Supply : 236 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 41 Enhancement of Accessibility to Energy Resources for Working Classes Proactive Measures to Increase Accessibility to to approximately eighty thousand low-income households. Energy Resources The Corporation constantly seeks ways to alleviate burden of expenditure on heating for household that use briquette Subsidies of Briquette for Low-Income Class during winter season and contribute to stable supply of Because oil price has hiked and briquette price, on the other affordable energy fuel for working class. hand, has been frozen for a long time, consumption of briquette has increased to cause imbalance of supply and demand. Korean government is taking phased measures to readjust briquette prices to realistic level as it faces increase of financial burden caused by such imbalance of supply and demand. As part of readjustment of briquette prices, MIRECO has started providing vouchers for low-income class to compensate price increase. The vouchers are currently given Briquette voucher ● Target and Policy Direction of Subsidies of Briquette for Low-Income Class Target Proactive Measures to Increase Accessibility to Energy Resources for Low-Income Class Identify and provided subsidies for Briquette voucher to be provided, under Enhancement of convenience in use Policy low-income households that are using cooperation with local governments, of vouchers and increase of accessibility Direction briquette for heating led by MIRECO to relevant information Groups to Benefit from Briquette Vouchers Households Minority group receiving basic Minority group (single senior Second lowest living costs (with physical household income class from disabilities) aged over 65) government Means of Hot line to connect with briquette manufacturers to Operation of Briquette Delivery Call Center All Year Round Support ensure on-time delivery Expected Effectiveness Reducing burden of heating bills for low-income class and contribution to stabilization of living condition of working class. 42 Mine Reclamation Corp. Management for Stability of ● Number of Households Benefited from Briquette Voucher ● Provision of Briquette Voucher by Year (unit : KRW billion) Provision of Briquette Vouchers Year Coal Energy Supply Voucher Price (KRW per piece) Number of Households 151 2008 77,000 67,812 142 2009 150,000 35,635 54 53 1H of 2010 (150,000 per household) 43,907 2010 2H of 2010 (169,000 per household) 44,845 Subtotal 88,752 1H of 2011 (169,000 per household) 32,856 2011 2H of 2011 (169,000 per household) 56,316 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 Subtotal 89,172 ● Process of Using Briquette Voucher ● Current Status of Project to Increase Accessibility to Energy Resources Division Items Order for Delivery Article 2 of Law on Stabilization of Consumer Price Basis for (on setting the highest sales price) Assistance Article 29 of Coal Industry Act (assistance for stabilization of coal industry) Briquette manufacturers, Process of Using transporting companies Schedule 2008 ~ Briquette Voucher and retailers Delivery Total Expenditure Total expenditure as of 2012 : KRW 66 billion Size of Project Targeting eight hundred low-income households Target Groups Low-income households that use briquette for heating Condition for Current subsidies for private sector 100% government expenditure Assistance (provision of briquette voucher) mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 43 Development of Advanced Mine Reclamation Technology Management Principles Under the circumstances that Korean mine damage management market is facing its limit in growth and significance of securing resources from global market is increasing, MIRECO is making its ceaseless efforts for continuous growth by expanding its global business and improving its business performance. Simultaneously, the Corporation has been pursuing shared growth with small and medium-sized enterprises and other partnering entities by conducting research on demand and making relevant programs. The Corporation will continue to show its commitment to become an institution with expertise in mine damage management that can achieve shared growth with small and medium-sized enterprises. Progress •Offering training programs to nurture human resources with global mindset •Contract in industrial cooperation projects and global cooperation project •Securing experts in global business and execution of global partnership programs •Contract system to ensure fairness and transparency Issues •Expansion of global mine reclamation business •Increase of significance of shared growth with partnering companies •Promotion of social responsibility within value chain •Encouragement of sustainable management of mutually invested companies and partnering companies Performances Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Budget Allocated for Collaboration in R&D (KRW billion) 3,296 3,309 General Administration & Planning Office Amount of Expenditure for Purchase of Products from Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology, Mine 815 763 Small/Medium-sized Businesses (KRW billion) Reclamation Planning Department Number of Participants in Professional Expertise 143 88 85 Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology Training Course(people) Level of Technological Competence in Comparison with Overseas Cooperation & Business Center, 77.5 79.9 Advanced Countries (score points) Institute of Mine Reclamation Technology 46_ Enhancement of Applicability of Five Core Technologies 48_ Strengthening Network of Technological Cooperation in both Korea and Overseas and Training Qualified Professionals 51_ Cooperation for Shared Growth technology, in particular, are essential for resource Enhancement of Applicability development in overseas and making presence in developing of Five Core Technologies countries and the Corporation became aware of significance of relevant development strategies. Mine Damage Prevention Technology Project in Brief and Future Plans From 2007 to 2011, in accordance with Development Strategies for Mine Damage Prevention Technologies-Phase 1, technology development projects have been carried out for thirty five sub-tasks out of eighteen tasks in seven categories. Securing Highly Efficient Mine Reclamation Technologies The projects have made achievements in various forms such as patent application and registration, registration of new Motivation Behind Securing Mine Reclamation technologies and publication of academic articles. Technologies Technological competence has been improved that it is Since the establishment of MIRECO in 2006, competence of scoring 78% of the level of advanced countries. Five core Korean mine damage management technology reached only technologies including measurement technology of ground 63% of advanced countries. Inefficiency and malfunction of subsidence using optic fiber and technology of detoxing mine damage prevention facilities incurred costs and projects mineral residues are especially regarded to be leveling with or were at the nascent stage that they showed little difference leading over those of advanced countries. from carrying out civil engineering projects, with relevant Natural water purification technology, in particular, is an technologies imitating from those of advanced countries. The innovative technology that does not require energy Corporation faced urgent need for developing its own consumption and is currently introduced in thirty mine water technologies, by benchmarking those from advanced purification facilities to improve water quality while reducing countries. Mine prevention technology and reclamation maintenance costs of facilities. measurement technology of ● Mid and Long-term Strategy for Developmnet of Mine Reclamation Technology 2011 2016 2020 Applicability test of technology from Securing technology of controlling Advancement of technology to advanced countries and assessment pollutants and stabilization become five major countries (US, Japan, Germany, UK and Korea) Obtaining official approval and scientific proof via publication of articles Publication of Articles Enhancement of applicability and promotion of technological capabilities via presentation in conferences and symposiums and collecting feedbacks from experts Soil remediation and Development of Relevant Mine Prevention of purification/land improvement Ground Subsidence Reclamation Technology for Each Field Purification of Break-down of contaminated water Mineral Residues 46 Mine Reclamation Corp. Development of Advanced Mine Securing Public Confidence in Mine Damage Investigation and Result of Analysis Reclamation Technology Motivation Behind Securing Public Confidence The Corporation is putting its emphasis on securing public Passive treatment of Acid mine drainage confidence for results on analysis of samples collected before and after mine damage prevention projects. The Corporation has faced demand for objective evaluation results and limit in reliability after a series of evaluation on skill levels. Thus efforts are made to culminate effectiveness of project execution and improve reputation through securing public confidence. Fiber optic monitoring system Current Status and Future Plans Installation of fiber optic through the adit The Corporation was designated as a institution with expertise in soil science by the Ministry of Environment in Nov. 2007 and ground subsidence using optic fiber draws a distinct line from has maintained its status after undergoing the process of conventional technology as it has paved the way for evaluation of skill level every year. In addition, the Corporation establishment of remote monitoring system. In particular, has officially been recognized as an international testing because measurement system can be controlled by institution in Feb. 2010 and in December of the same year, it smartphone devices, the technology enables remote has received a “quality control statement” to be recognized for controlling areas facing risk of subsidence in real time. The excellence in measurement and analysis, within the Corporation has established the automated system in framework of law enforcement regulation on environment Kyungdong Mining Station for monitoring and deployed the technology development and assistance. The Corporation will system in other sites including Moolgeum Mine and Keumjwa participate in skill level evaluations certified by KOLAS, at least Mine to conduct monitoring activities. twice for every category every year and continue its efforts to The Corporation has invested KRW 32 billion for Development secure public confidence and enhance capabilities in analysis Strategies for Mine Damage Prevention Technologies-Phase 2 by actively involving in commissioned tasks from outside of the Development Strategies for Mine Damage Prevention organization. Technologies-hase 2 (2012 ~ 2016) to execute relevant technology development projects. The projects are designed for early stabilization of seven mine damage prevention technologies based on five core technologies and invest approximately 5% of budget for mine damage prevention projects in technology development and establishing infrastructures. Furthermore, the Corporation will maximize efficiency of projects by actively sharing technologies via technological transfer to businesses with Quality control statement Recognition as an international testing institution expertise in relevant areas. ● Achievement in Technology Development (unit: KRW billion) New Technology Publication of Patent Application Patent Registration Registration Articles 31 24 1 53 ※As of the end of 2011. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 47 Strengthening Network of Technological Cooperation in both Korea and Overseas and Training Qualified Professionals Most information on mines and mine damages has been kept in paper form in the past. However, MIRECO has faced increasing need for systematic management of its data due to concern for loss of information and accidents related to mismanagement of information. Establishment of GIS* and Utilization Current Status and Future Plans The Corporation has begun to establish GIS for all mines Motivation Behind Establishment of Mine GIS across Korea since 2003 and completed for all coal mines in MIRECO has faced increasing need for effective tools for 2009. Mineral and non-mineral mines have been undergoing decision-making as it faced challenges in providing relevant GIS establishment since 2010. The Corporation has scheduled information in the process of establishing plans for mine to have seven hundred mineral and non-mineral mines damage prevention projects or problems in the process of deploy GIS by 2016. Furthermore, the Corporation plans to SOC projects caused by lack of relevant information on make full use of GIS by reinforcing analysis function of GIS and potential environment damage due to mining. Against such applicability. backdrop, the Corporation has inaugurated a series of ●Deployment of Mine GIS projects to establish GIS to enhance accessibility to 2009 Deployment of GIS in all coal mines in nationwide (349 mines) information and convenience in management by systemizing Inauguration of deployment projects for 152 mines (metal and 2010 database of relevant information. non-metal) 2011 Deployment in 160 mines (metal and non-metal) *GIS : Geographic Information System Under process of deployment projects for 180 mines 2012 (metal and non-metal) ● Detailed Information on GIS Database 48 Mine Reclamation Corp. Development of Advanced Mine Analysis on sites for Establishment of Database construction of water purification facilities GIS provides basic information on mines (nationwide), underground Reclamation Technology maps, aerial photographs, geological/topographical maps, land registration maps, maps of mining areas and research materials on actual conditions of mine damage. Web GIS and Mobile GIS GIS is developed into a Utilization of GIS in SOC Projects system suitable for sites The Corporation provides relevant information and floor plans for of mine damage via SOC projects, evaluation on stability of Dong Won Corporation°Øs continuous analysis on abandoned mine tour organized by Kangwon Land and follow-up trend in GIS and IT research activities. industries and collection ●Utilization in SOC Projects of users’ opinions and Underground map Inquiries Project demand. GIS enables The Ministry of Provision of Inquiry of reference material for review space analysis and query Environment, Wonju Office underground maps of waste processing business proposal Evaluation on stability of Dong Won on information such as Chonnam Provision of Corporation’s abandoned mine tour University underground maps organized by Kangwon Land and database of mine damage, follow-up research activities underground maps, National Agricultural Provision of Request for information to link Products Quality informationon current information with abandoned metal research materials on Management Service status of mines mines actual conditions of mine Data analysis using census damage and reports on Professional Training Programs for Experts mine damage prevention in Mine Damage Prevention projects. The System has reinforced convenience in service by providing information sourced from other institutions such as census The Corporation is partand topographical information. In addition, mobile system has been nering with Gangwon developed and is undergoing pilot tests to provide instant access to National University to relevant information and thereby reinforce efficiency of on-site works. offer professional training programs for experts in Utilization of GIS in Mine Reclamation Projects mine damage prevention. The Corporation makes The Corporation reinforces Training program for experts in mine damage prevention full use of information applicability of the sourced from GIS when program at working sites by balancing theory and practice in conducting investigation reclamation technology for businesses with expertise in mine on actual conditions of damage prevention, mining rights holders, students studying mine damage and geological and resource engineering and experts in mine damage executing mine damage prevention and resource management. The Corporation continues Three dimensional underground map prevention projects. its efforts in meeting needs of participants by receiving feedbacks Furthermore, three dimensional underground map and crossafter completion of each training program. Further, the Corporation sectional diagram are actively used in ground subsidence prevention promotes networking among experts in mine damage prevention projects and topological information is used in the process of through professional training programs and thus elevates its decision-making in selecting sites for construction of water reputation as the sole institution with expertise in mine damage purification facilities. management in Korea. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 49 ● Number Participants in Professional Training Programs Symposium on Mine Reclamation in 2011, three hundred fifty participants from nineteen countries have taken part to discuss 143 mine reclamation technologies of different fields and sustainable 125 mine development. In parallel, the symposium organized a 107 88 program to visit mine reclamation project sites in Korea to 85 demonstrate potentials of Korean mine reclamation technology and provide grounds for building global network in global mine reclamation. The Corporation will show its commitment to expand the scope of assisting academia and businesses in building global network and promote Korean mine reclamation technologies. Total 548 person 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Execution of Technological Cooperation Projects on Mine Damage Prevention The Corporation is conducting a variety of cooperative projects Establishment of Network of Technological related to mine reclamation in overseas by signing MOUs with Cooperation in Korea related institutions in overseas, executing global mine reclamation projects and providing technical training programs. In particular, to Mine Reclamation Technology Forum provide assistance for developing countries to make presence in MIRECO hosts Mine Reclamation Technology Forum every year, global mine reclamation market, the Corporation has signed inviting experts from industries and academia to promote technical MOUs with DPIM in Thailand and thus secured grounds to make cooperation and networking. Institute of Mine Reclamation footage in mine reclamation market in Thailand. Additionally, the Technology discloses performance in development project of mine Corporation has signed with VINACOMIN in three mine damage prevention technology in the event, and provides grounds reclamation projects to make presence in Vietnamese market. for discussion among experts to draw ideas for advancement of mine damage prevention technologies. Agendas and items discussed during the forum are later reflected in the process of mine damage prevention technology development. As such, Mine Damage Prevention Technology Forum continuously takes its part in establishing foundation for cooperation in mine reclamation MOU with DPIM Contracts with VINACOMIN of Vietnam2 technology among experts from industries and academia. Establishment of Network of Technological Further, the Corporation is conducting a series of pilot tests for Cooperation in Overseas processing sewage from mines in Malaysia to expand its business to the country. In addition, the Corporation has been International Symposium on Mine Reclamation commissioned by KOICA to train public servants in mining industry The Corporation hosts a biannual from Algeria and seven other ASEAN member countries and international symposium since offers invitational training programs in mine reclamation 2007 to promote networking technology for employees of VINACOMIN to provide opportunities and technical cooperation among of experiencing Korean mine reclamation technology. Through experts in mine reclamation various efforts, the Corporation has secured its leading position in from around the globe to create mine reclamation and foundation for global expansion. 2011 International Symposium on Mine Reclamation market opportunities in overseasresource development and mine reclamation. In International 50 Mine Reclamation Corp. Development of Advanced Mine development tasks have been performed under collaboration Cooperation for with academia and related businesses and expenditure for Shared Growth Reclamation Technology research has amounted KRW 3.315 billion, which is 70% of total budget allocated for research. These research activities have made remarkable achievements such as publication of articles and patent registration. The Corporation is in its process of technology transfer to private enterprises to share technological achievement and promote cooperation for shared growth. Customized Education Service to Reinforce Expansion of Technical Assistance and Technological Competence Cooperation in Research Activities The Corporation offers customized education service to reinforce professional skills of engineers and thus nurture Shared Growth Made Possible by Collaborative experts that can apply their knowledge in working fields. Such Research Activities Between Academia and Industries professionals are playing their pivotal roles in numerous mine To accelerate advancement of mine reclamation technology reclamation businesses. Furthermore, the Corporation and reinforce applicability, collaborative research activities are publishes a technical journal to promote new technology and conducted among experts from academia and industries. deliver updated news on recent trend in industry and thus During the 2011 alone, thirteen out of thirty technology culminates its efforts in sharing and promoting up-to-date mine reclamation technology. ● Achievement in Collaborative Research Activities (2011) Business Assistance by Utilizing Mine Reclamation Technology ￦ MIRECO has been the only institution with expertise in mine Number of Tasks Budget for Percentage of reclamation in Korea and based on its technological for Collaborative Collaborative Research Collaborative Research capabilities, it is providing eco-friendly and sustainable Research Activities (Total Budget) (Total Number of Tasks) business assistance for mining and other related enterprises. 13 KRW 3.315 billion 70% The Corporation has recently completed formulation of mine (30) (4,730) reclamation for Sang Dong mine (Korea Zinc Company Inc., 2011) and is conducting research activities to find ideas of using coal ashes as part of mine damage prevention projects ●Patent Application/Registration (2011) (KOSPO, 2010 ~ 2013) Patent Registration Patent Application 8 ●Publication of Articles (2011) 4 Domestic 11 Overseas (SCI) 11 Total12 Total 22 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 51 Reinforcement of Capabilities of Small and Medium● Number of Mines Affected by Mine Damage (mines affected by mine damage/ mines undergoing development) Sized Enterprises in Mine Damage Prevention Mines Coal Mine Total Metal Non-metal Subtotal Overview of Businesses with Expertise in Mine Operating 26/56 208/531 234/587 6/6 240/593 Property Damage Prevention Idle Mine 7/21 36/101 43/122 0/0 43/122 The Corporation is making its relentless efforts to realize shared Abandoned Mine 1,268/2,089 1,041/2,198 2,309/4,287 279/394 2,588/4,681 growth and development, as well as reinforcing efficiency and Total 1,301/2,166 1,285/2,830 2,586/4,996 285/400 2,871/5,396 securing expertise by managing enterprises with professional ※Note : he amount of water purified indicates the average of 2011. technology and relevant experience in managing. ● Basic Plan for Mine Damage Prevention-Phase 2 (unit: KRW billion) ●Criteria for Registration of Businesses with Expertise in Mine Damage Prevention 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Types Criteria for Registration Location Budget Location Budget Location Budget Location Budget Location Budget Capital KRW 100 million in each filed of expertise Operating Property 66 195 81 188 71 180 78 181 90 186 Technological Technological capabilities in each field of expertise Abandoned Capability (six in each, nine for supervising) Metal Mine 90 475 64 487 45 421 102 402 122 501 Equipment Furnished with essential tools Abandoned Coal Mine 34 247 35 204 30 244 53 256 68 151 Registration is allowed in less than three fields Restrictions (except supervision) Abandoned 11 107 11 230 6 216 7 259 6 223 Asbestos Mine ●Number of Professional Mine Damage Prevention Business (as of Nov. 2011) Total 201 1,024 191 1,109 152 1,061 240 1,098 286 1,061 dust scattering, noise & vibration 12 Supervision 3 Shared Growth with Professional Businesses with Expertise in Mine Damage Prevention Customized Professional Training Courses for Loss of Forest (soil) restoration Professional Business Mineral Residues 26 58 To ensure competitive edge of partnering companies essential for shared-growth, Ground Total 205 the Corporation has opened subsidence ground for technical 35 corporation, training and Land improvement Improvement communication and thus of water quality 51 Customized Professional Training Courses secured foundation for 20 shared growth. In addition, by offering basic courses and advanced courses in its training programs, the Corporation’s training programs have met needs from a variety of Coherence in Establishing Foundation for Project Execution professional businesses. Based on result of research on mine damage in Korea nationwide, MIRECO has conceived Basic Plan for Mine Damage Prevention●Customized Training Courses Based on Research on Demand Phase 2 (Mining Damage Prevention Mater Plan : 2012~2016) to earn Schedule Items approval from the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy and secured Phase 1 Basic Course Basic theory and practice grounds for mine reclamation projects. In parallel, the Corporation is (July 12 ~ 13, 2011) assisting small and medium-sized partnering companies with Phase 2 Advanced course and presentation on Advanced Course (July 14 ~ 15, 2011) case studies expertise in mine damage prevention by providing relevant information essential for long-term business plans. 52 Mine Reclamation Corp. Development of Advanced Mine ●Curriculum of Customized Professional Training Courses (SMBA) to maintain procurement volume to a certain level. Curriculum Win-win Strategies for Small and Medium Reclamation Technology Review and reporting construction-related documents Enhancement of Training in calculation of construction costs Supervisory Enterprises Run by Minority Groups Technical improvement for effective ground reinforcement Capabilities Small and medium-sized enterprises run by minority groups such (Professional Understanding basics of waste processing and related legislations Training) Purification method of soil and ground water as people with severe disabilities or women face challenges, big or Practicing session to experience on-site supervision works small, maintaining business relationship with other businesses. Policy direction of Basic Plan for Mine Damage Prevention-Phase 2 Presentation Case studies on mine reclamation projects and discussion The Corporation pursues win-win strategies for these businesses (Communication) Ideas for effective mine reclamation projects and win-win strategies by encouraging them throughout all business process, offering Professional Skills Acquiring better knowledge in mine reclamation project assistance system relevant awareness programs for employees and enabling new businesses searchable in the organization’s information system. As Workshop on Shared Growth for Professional Businesses a result, the Corporation sees constant rise in number of activities The Corporation has hosted and expenditure related to cooperation with small and mediumWorkshop on Shared Growth sized businesses. The Corporation will continue to show its for Professional Businesses to commitment to be perceived as “MIRECO that pursues win-win strengthen network and with small and medium-sized enterprises.” cooperative relationship with professional businesses with ●Performance in Cooperation with Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Workshop on Shared Growth expertise in mine damage 2010 2011 MISC prevention and mining rights holders of operating properties. Number of Purchase from Businesses Run 306 323 Increased approximately 1.1 times by People with Sever Physical Disabilities The workshop held introductory sessions on mine reclamation Amount of Purchase (KRW million) 140,156 227,614 Increased approximately 1.6 times technologies, business information sessions, and presentations Number of Purchase from 69 86 Increased approximately 1.2 times Businesses Run by Women on partnership in global business and discussion with CEOs. Number of Companies 17 25 Increased approximately 1.5 times The Corporation has increased awareness for shared growth Social Enterprises 160 271 Increased approximately 1.7 times Amount of Purchase (KRW million) 174,858 210,467 Increased approximately 1.2 times and laid foundation for sustainable development. Number of Cases of Purchase Made from Veteran’s Community 4 15 Increased approximately 3.8 times Amount of Purchase (KRW million) 703 1,082 Increased approximately 1.5 times Efforts to Purchase Products from Small & Medium-Sized Enterprises ● Diagram to Increase Procurement Rate System Improvement to Promote Purchase of ase Products from Small & Medium-sized Enterprises cre ate o In R n t ent Mo nt Monitoring System otio rem Pr hly M To increase volume of purchase of products from small and mediumom cu Pr Pro oc on ure ito for Procurement me rin sized enterprises, the Corporation hosted discussions with of Products from nt g on procurement managers from the headquarters and branches to seek Small and Medium Enterprises ways to enhance efficiency in procurement process. The Corporation Ex Conv L has recently added favorable conditions for small and medium sized ce er l fo sio Sm inkag rA ni all e w na nto a it enterprises to boost sales of their products. In addition, the lys is En nd Me h Dat ter diu ab pris m ase es -Siz of Corporation ensures increase of volume of purchase from small and ed medium-sized enterprises by establishing close cooperative system among the headquarters and branches. For instance, the Corporation sets up procurement plans in the beginning of every year to purchase products from small and medium enterprises and undergoes monthly check-up by reviewing procurement records linked with database provided by Small and Medium Business Administration mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 53 Global Expansion of Mine Reclamation Business Management Principles MIRECO has sought ways to pair mine development for securing natural resources, the very foundation for industrial development, with mine reclamation to respond to resource nationalism. On the other hand, the Corporation is actively conducting activities related to sustainable development by balancing mine development and environment preservation to maximize effectiveness of resource use and minimize environmental pollution. Further, the Corporation will show its commitment to reinforce foundation for growth of global business and secure growth momentum. Progress •Inauguration of Overseas Cooperation & Business Center and reinforcement of its function •Formulation of vision and expansion strategy of global business •Unearthing high value-added businesses to invigorate global business expansion Issues •Intensified competition to secure resources (e.g. resource nationalism) •Mine damage management for sustainable development •Globalization of market, competition and supply chain Performances Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Percentage of Increase ofBudget for Overseas & Expansion of Global Business out of Total 0.17% 0.17% 3.3% New Project Office Budget for Mine Reclemation Projects 56_ Reinforcement of Foundation for Global Business 57_ Establishment of Business Models by Market Types 58_ Mine Damage Management for Sustainability in Development for global business to set policy direction and reinforce effectiveness of Reinforcement of global expansion. The foundation has been laid by refurbishing legal Foundation for Global sets, establishing new organizations and inaugurating exchange and cooperation with countries that the Corporation plans to make its Business presence in. In particular, since 2009, the Corporation has singed with thirty-three institutions and governmental agencies related to mining industry and mine reclamation from fourteen countries. To identify and create demand for mine damage prevention, the Corporation has invited two hundred public servants in related fields from twenty-seven countries to participate in twenty-two training programs (fourteen of them commissioned by KOICA and APEC). Reinforcement of Foundation for Global Businesses Academic Activities and Preparation for Operation of Purpose of Global Expansion Global Business Sustainable development has been placed at the center of attention in The Corporation has collaborated with related academic associations international society these days. Mining industry is no exception from the to host a biannual event,“International Symposium on Mine recent trend. To make sustainable development possible for mining Reclamation”and especially in 2011, the event has seen its success industry, environmental sustainability has to be ensured through having one hundred forty participants from twenty countries. The mineral production and manufacturing processed products and in participants were as diverse as scholars, lawmakers of countries the parallel, social sustainability to resolve inequality in local communities. Corporation is attempting to make presence in, ministers, deputy To such extent, MIRECO has contributed to spread of keynote for ministers, working-level officials and experts from academia and green growth by making timely response to demand from new industries. Furthermore, the Corporation began to provide consulting mine reclamation market in Asia, Latin America and Africa and service on“balancing demands from mining industry, local further, it is making its global expansion to play its part in communities and environment sector for sustainable mine enhancing competitive edge in global resource development. development”for APEC. It has recently won a contract for an ODA project to conduct investigation on actual condition of mine damage Establishment of Vision and Expansion Strategy for and establishment of database on mine damage in Mongolia from Global Business KOICA as well. As such, based on its own capabilities, the Corporation is The Corporation has recently established vision and expansion strategy preparing for global expansion and expand base of mine reclamation. ● Structure of MIRECO’ s Global Project Execution Global expansion to promote sustainability of Korean mining industry and create national wealth ·Leadership in green market based on Asia’s No.1 Consulting Group with technological competence Expert Knowledge in Mine ·Boosting shared growth by securing profits Reclamation and Environment Establishment of Foundation (~ ’ 11) Expansion & Development (’ 12 ~ ’14) 15 ~ ’ Stabilization (’ 16) Vision Execution of high value-added projects Laying foundation for project execution Securing stable source of profit based on technological competence ·Enacting legal sets and establishing ·Continuation of consulting projects ·Introduction and stabilization of legal organization ·Expansion of cooperative sets and technology related to mine Detail ·Inauguration of cooperative programs development business reclamation ·Business expansion through linkage and signing MOUs ·Securing markets of specialization of mine reclamation and resource ·Execution of pilot projects development 56 Mine Reclamation Corp. of economic freedom and level of awareness for environment. Global Expansion of Establishment of These countries are again categorized into four markets by Mine Reclamation Business Business Models by attractiveness and appropriateness. In conclusion, the Corporation has selected five countries high in both Market Types attractiveness and appropriateness, Mongolia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Myanmar and Uzbekistan. Unearthing High Value-Added Businesses for Development of New Market The Corporation has listed five core mine reclamation Listing Market to Focus and Formulation of technologies that have global competitive edge, based on Strategies survey conducted with experts from industries and academia. For success in global market, high value-added businesses For MIRECO, this year has marked the first year to start such as EIA (environment impact assessment), investigation “expansion and development”of global business, according to and design should be the subjects of pursuit, based on global expansion strategies forged by the Corporation itself. To technology-intensive and high value-added capabilities. maximize effectiveness and efficiency of global expansion, the Against such backdrop, the Corporation is actively utilizing Corporation has undergone scrutiny over overseas market “Technology of Mine GIS and DB Establishment,”one of five that it has been seeking to make its presence in. core technologies in investigating mine damage and building database system in Mongolia. Also, the Corporation is Setting Priorities in Overseas Expansion executing its projects in Kyrgyzstan and Vietnam by fully Global mine reclamation market is estimated to be KRW 9 utilizing five core technologies. The Corporation will continue trillion and KRW 536 trillion in terms of mine deposit. In order to unearth high value-added businesses. to set priorities to make footage in global mine reclamation market, the Corporation has carefully listed potential markets under the category of size of mine reclamation market, level ● MIRECO’ s Global Expansion Model by Types (Strategy) Type B Type A Type B Type A ·Top priority market/Finding profitable business through Type C Australia, Peru,Chile, assistance and reinforcement of partnership South Africa, Mexico ·Top priority market/ Forming foundation for Strategic Market to Type D Market Specialize business through assistance and investment Type D Type C Type D Type C ·Narrowing focus and concentration/ Approach to India, Ghana Myanmar Mongolia, Indonesia, Type A niche market and acquirement of knowledge Uzbekistan, the Philippines ·Narrowing focus and concentration/ Approach with Type B focus on technology and specialized market Type B Type A Type B Type A ·Narrowing focus and concentration/ Forming foundation Turkey Russia Thailand, Kazakhstan Type D for business through assistance and investment Malaysia Market to be Market to ·Focusonreinforcinginternalcompetence/Approach Managed Select Type A tonichemarketandacquirementofknowledge Type D Type C Type D Type C ·Focus on reinforcing internal competence/ Ukraine, Bolivia Vietnam, Laos, Type C Finding profitable business through assistance Kyrgyzstan and reinforcement of partnership mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 57 Mine Damage Management for Sustainability in Development Intense Competition to Secure Resources proactively materializing its ideas for sustainable development to minimize environmental pollution and maximize benefits of Developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America have effective use of resources by balancing between mine recently begun to claim sovereignty over resources produced development and environmental protection. in their own countries and expand rights for dominance. Such In fact, without consideration for mine reclamation projects phenomenon is referred as resource nationalism and it is from the stage of mining, a mining business can make profit increasing emerging as social issues. The Corporation is as it has invested relatively less but after disuse of the mine, responding to the issue by concurrently carrying out projects cash flow will drastically drop to cause more loss (Economic of mine development to secure resources and mine Benefits from Sustainable Development/Warhust, 1999). As reclamation. such, the Corporation is executing sustainable development projects to balance between two core values, resource Sustainable Development development and protection of environment and is providing assistance in various forms via numerous projects and In the wake of global warming, energy crisis and formulation systems. of “green growth” policy by the government, the Corporation is ● Economic Gains From Sustainable Development ●Sustainable Development Through Mine Development And Environment Protection Mine development without taking mine (Warhust, 1999) reclamation projects into consideration (+) Mine development taking mine reclamation projects into consideration Y cash 0 t1 t2 t3 Resource Sustainable Environment flow Development Protection Yb Development (-) Production Closing Completion of recovery 58 Mine Reclamation Corp. Mine Damage Management for Sustainable Global Expansion of Development ●Policy Direction of MIRECO’s Overseas Cooperative Projects Mine Reclamation Business The Corporation is developing cooperation projects and promoting international cooperation in mine reclamation by Cash flow introducing mine reclamation system, mine reclamation projects and case studies in Korea. MIRECO’s Direction Pre-Development Stage Proposal for customized mine reclamation projects with review on mine development plans, EIA and preemptive monitoring. Corporate Value Short-term Mid & long-term Development Stage Investigation on mine damage in operating Establishment of foundation via properties, scrutiny on environmental damage, cooperative projects establishment of plans for restoration (setting budget plans) and execution of mine reclamation projects Expansion of technology-based projects and reinforcement of profitability Post-development Stage Projects to link fostering projects with Investigation on abandoned mines and execution of mine potentials and resource development reclamation projects; follow-up maintenance; establishment Corporation-wide efforts for reinforcement of GIS, systematic mine damage management and provision of capabilities in project execution of relevant data; environmental health risk assessment; assessment of applicability of detoxing technology ●Phases Of Cooperative Projects In Overseas Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Introduction of mine Market research and Establishment of Pilot research projects reclamation system Connection development, internetwork for exchange Project Execution of resource development and governmental discussions and cooperation mine reclamation Stabilization of Korean Exchange, cooperation On-site pilot research Market research mine reclamation system and and establishment projects and transition and development partnering with domestic of network to project execution companies for global expansion ·Identifying countries heavily ·Establishment of foundation for ·Investigation on mine ·Assistance in implementing affected by mine damage or mine development and reclamation, pilot test, Korean mine reclamation countries to aim for business cooperation with environment consulting on mine system and legislation on expansion and collecting data on management institution and reclamation system, and standard mine damage following signing MOUs investment in mine resource management reclamation connected with ·Partnering with resource ·Invitational training programs for resource development development companies and ·Development and execution of high-ranking officials and mine professional mine reclamation resource and environmentreclamation technology education businesses for global related cooperative projects via for working level, international expansion official inter-governmental symposiums and workshops to channels promote exchange of information mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 59 Expansion of Sustainable Infrastructure Management Principle In order to transform MIRECO into a productive organization, an enjoyable workplace, and an entity loved by the people, MIRECO has introduced the GWP (Great Work Place) corporate culture program to realize a happy workplace through harmony and communication. MIRECO also promotes a fair HR policy by establishing HR strategies for continually developing the capacities of our employees and establishing a culture of coexistence between work and family. As a result of our efforts on customer-centric empathy management, MIRECO was selected as leading institution in customer satisfaction for four consecutive years since 2008. Going forward, we will continue to strive to improve the satisfaction of our employees and customers alike. Progress •Selection of customer satisfaction initiative leader and improvement of voice-of-customer (VOC) satisfaction •Customer satisfaction and hospitality in phone call response survey conducted by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance and MIRECO •nternal monitoring and development of MIRECO Ethics Index (MEDEX) •Reinforcement of human resource development Issues •Increase of diverse and intensified demands from customers •Protection of customers’ personal information •Increase of demand for welfare benefit and balancing of work-life balance from employees •Training and reinforcement of capacities for employees •Health and safety at workplace Performances Major Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Office in Charge Number of Employees(Male/Female, Regular/Non-Regular) 158/43, 183/18 157/45, 175/27 162.5/ 46.5, 193/10 Turnover Rate(%) 4.23 2.92 4.23 Number of Hours Designated per Employee 36.65 35.46 16.62 Administrative Support Office Satisfaction Level of Employees Benefit Package(%) 91 94 Number of Employees Affected by Accidents/ Accident Rate(%) 0/0 4 / 2.0 0/0 General Administration Level of Customer Satisfaction (Score Points) 95.5 98.4 98.2 & Planning Office MEDEX (Score Points) 72.2 72.2 76.9 Administrative Support Office 62_ Expansion of customer-centric empathy management activities 64_ Establishment of Open Employment and Performance-based Management Structure 66_ Internalization of ethical management 68_ Formulation of GWP 70_ Sustainable Labor-Management Relationship manufacturers and companies that received alternative industry Expansion of Consumer-centric loans. The survey score was derived in the form of quality index, Empathy Management Activities satisfaction index and performance index according to the answers of the survey that was conducted based on the PCSI MIRECO constantly strives to maintain our status as a leading (public service customer satisfaction index) model. As a result of customer satisfaction (CS) organization. As part of the efforts to continued efforts to improve the quality of our services, THE enhance the voice-of-customer (VOC) satisfaction, the Corporation CORPORATION has been rated as a leading customer satisfaction has designated the staff in charge of the customer contact organization for four consecutive years since 2008 and will department as the CS initiative leader. continue to be committed to customer satisfaction in the future. ●Result of Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Satisfaction Management System 2008 91.7 2009 95.5 Selection of Customer Satisfaction Initiative Leader MIRECO is working hard to improve customer management in 2010 98.4 many ways. Through CS initiative leader meetings held every quarter, the Corporation identifies and inspects the current state of customer 2011 98.2 satisfaction and shares the activities conducted by each of local branches. In order to enhance the capacities of CS initiative leader, In-house Customer Satisfaction and Corporate Image workshops are held to analyze the causes of customer churn and Survey types of complaints, and to discuss ways to resolve these issues. In addition to MOSF’s customer satisfaction survey, the Corporation also conducts an in-house customer satisfaction and Customer Satisfaction Survey Conducted by the corporate image survey of mine reclamation businesses. The Ministry of Strategy and Finance voices of customers that are collected are analyzed and Every year, the Corporation undergoes a public service customer subsequently used to manage each of the customer groups. satisfaction survey that is supervised by the Ministry of Strategy ●Result of Phone Call Response Hospitality Survey and Finance (MOSF). The survey is conducted in the form of oneon-one individual interview of adult males and females over the age of 19 who have received the services one or more times. The 2008 88.1 2011 survey polled mine workers and heads of coal briquette 2009 89.5 ●Customer Satisfaction Management Organization 2010 90.2 2011 91.2 Chairman Phone Call Response Hospitality Survey (Chief Executive Officer) The Corporation is currently striving to enhance the standards in responding to customers’ phone calls at all times by providing Vice-Chairman response education and manuals to each of our local branches. (Head of Management Strategy Headquarters) Phone call response hospitality surveys of not only customer contact departments, but also all employees are conducted every year to check the status of the Corporation’s customer response. The level of Financial Support Financial Support Financial Support Management (Coal Miners) Service Service the response hospitality has steadily been on the rise since 2008. (Alternative Industry (Coal Briquettr Team CS Implementation Loans) Manufacturers) (Head of Management Team CS Implementation CS Implementation Strategy Headquarters) (Coal MineSupport Team Team Inspection of Customer Service Charter Compliance Office) (Policy Support Office) (5 Local Branches) The Corporation has established customer service charters for 62 Mine Reclamation Corp. Expansion of all business services. The compliance of the implementation customers can easily communicate with the Corporation. The standards of core services is inspected at the end of every year. Corporation also makes sure that the disclosures are managed Sustainable Infrastructure There are four items subject to the inspection including soil efficiently by following the integrated disclosure manual of MOSF. contamination and water pollution standards within our mine damage prevention and reclamation businesses. Every year, an Customer Communication accurate diagnosis of the data and compliance is conducted. At The Corporation resolves customer inconveniences by providing a the company-wide level, implementation standards for feedback on all complaints filed on our website’s civil complaint and customer response services have been established in the people’s voice (Sinmoongo) page. The webpage also allows access efforts to best serve our customers at all times. to the visually impaired and hearing-impaired people. MIRECO is constantly striving to provide optimal services on the web by Reinforcement of Personal Information improving the fallbacks discovered through web accessibility Protection certification evaluation every year. In addition, MIRECO has also created and operate a Facebook fan page called MIRECO Story and The Corporation strictly prevents the leakage, forgery and alteration of MIRECO twitter in the efforts to expand information and customer information through various ways. In 2011, there have been communication channels on social network services. Through no instances of customer personal information protection breaches, such SNS activities, the Corporation aims to promote activities in a as well as no civil complaints and law violations related to private more friendly way and also actively induce the participation of information that have been brought against THE CORPORATION. customers through event promotions and various fun contents. ●Annual number of customer complaints filed Personal Information Protection And Management The Corporation abides by the Act on the Protection of Personal 2009 2010 2011 Information. Under user consent, the Corporation collects a minimal One-on-one inquiries 134 101 91 amount of personal information, which is then encrypted to enhance security. In addition, a separate personal information protection staff Civil 38 22 27 complaints and officer are designated to prevent hacking or personal information leakage accidents. In case of outbound services, we have People’s 6 8 6 voice incorporated the I-PIN service for active use. We are also focusing our efforts on enhancing cyber-security by quickly responding to hacking ●MIRECO Story (Facebook page) through such means as blocking harmful websites and IPs in connection with the Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s Cyber Security Center. Moreover, THE CORPORATION is constantly updating our existing user certification, network security and external device control systems, while also striving to establish an integrated management system of internal and external customer personal information. Reinforcement of Customer Communication ●Twitter account of MIRECO Going beyond the existing form of delivering information one-way, the Corporation is strengthening interactive communication through customer participation. Management Disclosures and Public Information The Corporation actively discloses management information through the homepage (www.MIRECO.or.kr) and ALIO (www.alio.go.kr), a public service management information site. The pertinent staff in-charge is indicated in all disclosure so that mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 63 Realization of Open Employment through Equal Establishment of Opportunity Recruitment Open Employment The Corporation strives to actively recruit local talents and discover outstanding engineers in order to foster a socially and Performance-based balanced workforce. In addition, the Corporation provides Management Structure equal employment opportunities regardless of academic background in our recruitments and plays a leading role in maintaining social equity by facilitating jobs for the disadvantaged and young interns. ●Number Of Local Recruits Employees 33 25 23 As of the end of 2011, there are a total of 209 employees at MIRECO 15 including 31 new employees and 4 executives. The staff is comprised of 193 regular employees, 10 non-regular employees and 6 interns. 15.6% 34.4% 26.0% 24.0% The Corporation aims to enhance work efficiencies by maintaining Gangwon Province Jeolla Province an adequate workforce. Currently, there are 107.5 employees* at Chungcheong Province Gyeongsang Province the head office, 73 employees at the 5 local branches, 26.5 ※As of the end of 2011 employees at the technology institute and 2 employees at the 96 of our employees are local talents, composing 50.7% of our Mongolia branch office. The number of female employees is 43, total workforce. 135 or 65% of our employees are science and representing 21% of our workforce. Since 2009, the average engineering majored securing technical manpower infrastructure employee turnover rate has been 3.8% over the past 3 years with for mine reclamation technology development and overseas average service period 8years and 8 months. We maintain a single expansion. Meanwhile, the Corporation has also created jobs for compensation scheme that does not discriminate against gender. * MIRECO counts a part-time employee as 0.5 according to the government’s policy. ●Number Of New Recruits In 2011 (unit : person) Currently, there are 3 part-time employees at the head office and 1 at the technology institute. Category 2009 2010 2011 Female 6.5 ●Number Of Employees (unit : person) Regular Local 15 Category 2009 2010 2011 Employees Science & Engineering 23 Executives 4 4 4 Number of High School Graduates 1 Employees Employees 189 171 189 at present Non-regular Non-regular Employees 18 27 10 Total 193 175 193 Employees Interns 6 Male Including 158 157 162.5 Gender non-regular ※ No new recruits in 2009～2010 due to public institution privatizations employees Female and interns 43 45 46.5 Regular 183 175 193 ●Expansion Of Socially Equal Employment Opportunities Employment Non-regular 18 27 10 Employment Improvement of Employment System Interns 6 Interns: 7 (26%) Domestic 122 142 140 Achieved government employment target Additional points given to the following Work Place Local Regions 79 58 67 candidates. Female Employees : 7 Overseas 2 2 Employment aid recipients including Local Employees : 15 patriots & veterans and people with Employment Period 8 years 9 years 8 years 8 months Science & Engineering Employees : 23 physical disabilities Turn Over Rate 4.23% 2.92% 4.23% Patriots & Veterans : 1 ※Number of retirees (including honorary retirement) is excluded in turnover rate. 64 Mine Reclamation Corp. Expansion of high school graduates, while completing the human resource ●Number Of Employees By Education Period and Job Position policy reform of the organization and compensation scheme. Category 2009 2010 2011 Sustainable Infrastructure Less than 1 day 25.3 14.9 7.4 Reinforcement of Human Resource 1-5 days 19.0 65.3 42.9 Development Education 1week-1month 49.4 15.3 35.7 Period 1-6 months 1.6 0.3 10.4 In order internalize the value of collective goal including vision and mission, THE CORPORATION is expanding knowledge 7-12 months 0.0 0.3 0.0 education provided to all of the employees. The Corporation 1 Year or More 4.7 3.9 3.6 has also identified the capacities required by each job and Grade 1 2.8 3.2 4.7 position in response to the changing business environment, Grade 2 7.0 7.8 9.3 and has developed and implemented an education program Job Position Grade3 18.7 27.9 18.7 for such. At the same time, the Corporation is providing Grade4 31.6 26.6 18.4 mandatory job capacity education through our in-house Grade 5 or below 39.9 34.4 48.9 training program and has institutionalized a corporate-wide education system by establishing a regular learning culture ●Increase Of Satisfaction Level In ●Increase In On-Site Applicability Training Programs through year-round outsourced external education. In 11.83.7 addition, the Corporation is fostering a talented workforce able to dynamically cope with the rapidly changing external and eas ed b y 6 % ed b y % Incr 3.7 eas Incr internal environments by enhancing the understanding of the 3.5 3.3 employees on the overall work of the company through crosscourses of business, humanities & social sciences, and technical education. ●Education And Training Hours Per Employee In 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Humanities Science & Engineering capacities. Support for self-improvement and relationship reform is also provided. THE CORPORATION has also established an 11.7 hours 4.8 hours institutional mechanism for a fair compensation scheme based on a bottom-up individual performance evaluation system and ●Annual Expenditure on Education (KRW) corporation culture centered on ability and performance by expanding performance-based salaries. In order to enhance the 2009 KRW 228million performance of each of the functional organizations, THE CORPORATION is developing capacities for achieving a balance 2010 KRW 391million performance by providing compensation for improving 2011 KRW 363 million departments, while also providing separate performance improvement programs for low performance organizations. ●Increase of Proportion of Performance-Based Salary Fairness in Performance Evaluation Deliberative Committee Supervisory Department Business Performance A fair performance evaluation can improve the motivation and Employess of Request for Explanation for Assessment Assessment Committee Decision on Reflecting collected work quality of constituents of an organization. In this respect, Raising objections acceptance/rejection(with opinions on assessment Approval and confirmation involvement of employees) & final decision on details of explanation THE CORPORATION conducts multi-dimensional evaluation of Informing reasons for acceptance/rejectio our employees to assess the current position and improve their BSC System (information to be shared among all employees) mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 65 ●3C-based Ethical Management System Internalization of Audit Division, Ethical Management Committee, Ethical Management Honorary Auditor among Citizens and Assessment Committee on impact of company regulation corruption Ethical Compliance Organization Ethical Management of MIRECO Consensus by Code of Conduct Ethic Education MIRECO is committed to realizing green growth in which our customers, stakeholders, local communities and citizens can all coexist together and future generations can enjoy a rich life by being at the forefront in creating a culture of ethical Ethics Charter, on-off ethical Code of Ethics, implementation program management, transparent management, anti-corruption & Code of Conduct for Employees culture of integrity, and practicing environment-friendly management and social contribution. Respect for Human Rights MIRECO abides by the labor regulations of the Labor ●Ethical Management Implementation Strategy Standards Act and prohibits the political activities of its employees. The Corporation also forbids any form of child or Ethical forced labor according to the UN Global Compact principles Vision Commitment to Advanced Corporation and ILO’s guidelines. Through the employee conduct code, the “Clean MIRECO” Corporation also prevents discrimination against gender, age and employment type by sharing sexual harassment prevention guidelines and non-regular worker protection Implemen -tation guidelines on a company-wide level. During 2011, the Strategy Establishment of Reinforcement of the Corporation has not been subject to any corrective measures Improvement of anti-corruption + anti-corruption + review on education & system implementation system instruction of integrity for human rights related civil complaints arising from discrimination, unfair competition or antitrust violations. Ethics Education Program Execution Plan Pursuit of execution plan establishment to strengthen ethical management system MIRECO worked to expand the corporate-wide consensus on ethical practices by holding an ethical management oath ceremony in November 2011 and conducting various education programs for the entire employees. 20 Monitoring management-level staff received a total 226 hours of antiIntegrity level MEDEX Integrity Measurement + Mileage + Assessment on corruption education in 2011, equaling to an average of 11.3 executives hours per person. 66 Mine Reclamation Corp. Expansion of ●Off-Line Ethics Education In 2011 activities. From June to July 2011, an integrity evaluation of Title of Education Session Hour(s) management-level staff was conducted in order to promote Sustainable Infrastructure Special Lecture: Ethical Management it the competitive edge 2 the actual practice. In October, a contest for best practices in Improvement of awareness for integrity among public officers 1 anti-corruption was held to share model cases of corruption Human’ s Ethical Dilemma for Righteous Society 1 prevention measures among all employees. Anti-corruption & Integrity Education 1 Integrity Education for Middle Managers 7 Ethical Management Monitoring Public Office Discipline Education 1 Internal Monitoring System ● On-Line Ethics Education In 2011 The ethical management monitoring system within MIRECO Title of Education Session Hour(s) is comprised of MIRECO Ethics Index (MEDEX) and integrity Case Studies : Code of Conduct for Public Office 8 mileage. In order to increase the in-house ethics index of Video Clip : Anti-corruption 1 MEDEX, the Corporation strived to improve the ethical Route to Ethical Management 4 management supervision and evaluation structure that was Gender equality, Sexual Harassment Prevention 1 singled out as a vulnerable area in 2010. Accordingly, MIRECO First Step to Ethical Management 20 incorporated the integrity mileage in 2011 and conducted a Ethical Decision Making for Sustainable Corporations 20 corporate-wide management and improvement of MEDEX by linking it with internal business performance evaluations. As a result, the ethics index improved by 4.71 points compared to Anti-corruption Program 2010. In April 2011, the Corporation introduced the integrity mileage ●Monitoring evaluation system program in order to institutionalize the anti-corruption ethics Category Contents Period Performance Result of 2011 culture within the organization. The program provides Once a MEDEX Ethics Index of MIRECO Once 76.9/100 substantial mileages for reporting actions that violate Year employee conduct code and various awards for integrity Mileage is given to The Best Tea Integrity each item of integrity Once a Once (Gangwon Mileage activity evaluation criteria Year Branch) for employees ● Management-Level Anti-Corruption Evaluation Results ●Increase of MEDEX 2011 93.5point Comprehensive Integrity level 2012 95.5 point 72.2point 2009 76.9point 2011 91.9point Internal Evaluation 2012 95 point 2010 2011 2011 98.1point 72.2point External Evaluation 2012 97.4 point mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 67 days, and leave-of-absence approval for all employees eligible Establishment of Sound for parental leave. Organizational Culture Operation of Help Support Channels The Corporation is committed to relieving the grievances and enhancing the satisfaction of its employees through the labormanagement consultation committee and help support committee (3 labor-management members). The corporation also operates a separate help support channels. In order to revise the rules related to the employment stabilization and compensation improvement of non-regular employees, the Efforts for a Balanced Work and Life corporation is currently in the process of establishing and improving the institutional framework upon going through the Diverse Support Programs labor-management consultation committee and discussions In order to maintain a balance between work and lives of our at the practical level. The resolved rate of grievances in 2011 employees, the Corporation strives to improve the labor was 84% with most of the unresolved grievances being issues conditions and external working environment. Accordingly, 67 related to employee job transfers. The corporation will or 35% of our employees currently utilize our flexible working continue to be committed to on listening to the voices of its program created to give time for childcare, housework and employees. self-improvement. In addition, every Wednesdays are designated as Family Fun Day for our employees to get off Employment Stabilization And Compensation work punctually to enjoy leisure time and activities. The Improvement Of Non-Regular Employees corporation also operates the Smart Working program for The Corporation has removed all discriminatory measures in enhancing productivity by designating a certain time out of the the support and benefits between regular and non-regular day as focused working time. A balance between work and life employees by establishing the HR management rules for is provided by creating and providing support for various non-regular workforce and rationalizing the compensation institutional foundations which include flexible operation of and welfare benefit program. As a result, the corporation was rest time for maternity protection, creation of baby nursing able create the basis for converting non-regular employees to time, expansion of spouse maternity leave from 3 days to 5 indefinite contract employees upon due evaluation procedures and review of the HR committee. The corporation also continued to strive to improve the compensation and ● Results Of Help Support Channel Operation In 2011 employment status of non-regular employees by reforming the related system to allow for non-regular employees to 44 receive the same welfare point and labor welfare fund benefits 37 as regular employees. The corporation further provides reemployment education to expand the employment of young interns. The corporation operates a recruitment procedure 7 established for regular and non-regular employees. 84% Education and Learning Program for Supporting Retired Employees Number of Requests Number of Grievances Unresolved Number of Grievances Resolved Resolved rate of Grievances The Corporation provides opportunities for retired employees to adapt to the society through training at private institutions or 68 Mine Reclamation Corp. Expansion of ● Employees benefit program Customized Welfare In-house Labor Child Birth Living Support Sustainable Infrastructure Benefit Program Welfare Fund /Care Support Combine all welfare cost •Group insurance subscription to •Provide child birth support fund •Housing loan, College student including medical check secure safety of employees •Spouse maternity leave (5 days) loan for employees’ children expenses and provide it as (Total Benefit : 74,552,000 KRW) •Maternity leave (90 days) •Operation of leisure facilities ‘Welfare Points’for free(2 days a year) •Support family occasions •Maternity leave program (1 year) use of beneficiaries (Marriage, Funeral and etc.) •Group activities (Learning and •Education Expenses (Fund) Hobby) (continued since 2007) •Support sports activities and others •Family allowances, Middle/High •Encouragement of use of annual school tuition fee vacation days (Additional points given in internal evaluations) special graduate schools (life-long education institutions) and MIRECO is a program in which the company contributes a domestic and overseas field tours. The corporation also certain amount of its profits for its employees. Through the provides support for lectures on health and hobbies, as well fund, the Corporation currently provides support for insurance as opportunities for personal activities such as travel, rest and coverage work-related accidents of employees (including memoir writing. The support provided by the corporation to non-regular employees), education cost for selfenhance the social adaptability of upcoming retirees is made improvement, and sports & cultural activities for family ties. for the actual costs within the limits of financial support. The program has brought about tax benefits in the form or tax reduction to the company, improved the welfare of our Maternity Leave and Reinstatement Rate employees, increased the stability of employee lives, and During the last 3 years (2009~2011), the number of women enhanced employee satisfaction. that went on maternity leave was 4. All were reinstated after the end of their leave to record a reinstatement rate of 100%. Welfare Benefit Program Reflecting Employee Needs In addition, the subscription rate of retirement pension and In order to satisfy the diverse welfare need of our employees, national pension insurance of MIRECO’s employees is 100% the Corporation has been operating a cafeteria-type welfare as of the end of 2011. benefit program since 2007 in which employees are able to select their welfare benefits within the limit of their welfare Welfare Benefit Program points. In addition, the Corporation also operates various welfare benefit programs including housing purchase and Utilization Of In-House Labor Welfare Fund rent loan program for employees who do own a home, inThe in-house labor welfare fund created since 2005 by house condominium membership program, hobby activities support and benefits expansion of non-regular employees. ● Employees benefit satisfaction Average or Average or Satisfied Satisfied 91% 94% Not Not Satisfied Satisfied 9% 6% 2010 2011 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 69 resolve major issues and obstacles. The corporation also Labor-Management listens to the difficulties encountered at the worksites, shares Relations of Coexistence the issues faced by MIRECEO and looks for ways to resolve the challenges at hand through local branch visits, Smile In order to promote coexistence and harmony between Leader meetings and generational meetings. In addition, the labor and management, the Corporation strives to corporation continuously conducts activities to facilitate the establish a culture of labor-management partnership communication between labor and management which for sustainable growth through the development of a includes encouraging the voluntary participation of employees new labor-management rationalization strategy in by sharing and spreading the business philosophy and connection with the corporation’s vision. thoughts of MIRECO’s CEO through the CEO blog. Two-way Communication New Labor-Management Rationalization The Corporation listens to the opinion of the labor union Strategy Structure through practical level discussions with the labormanagement consultation committee. The Corporation has Under the labor-management vision of “establishment of also reformed its rules and system for improving the labor partnership labor-management culture for sustainable growth,” conditions for its employees. In particular, the Corporation the Corporation utilizes performance indices and strategic tasks operates a communication channel to address major to rationalize labor-management relations. As a result, the management issues such as recruitment of new employees, corporation has been selected as a leading customer compensation improvement of non-regular employees, satisfaction organization for 4 consecutive years from 2008 to organizational restructuring to streamline core businesses, 2011. In addition, the corporation also received a grade of A in the and introduction of individual evaluation system for government’s business management evaluation in 2011. performance-based compensation. Reinforcement of Communication Between Cooperation to Promote Partnership between Labor Labor and Management and Management To promote partnership, the labor and management of the Onsite communication-oriented business management Corporation is collectively participating in various social MIRECO is strengthening its onsite communication-oriented responsibility activities. These include book donations to business management. The corporation operates the elementary schools, concerts, scholarship support and wall ‘MIRECO Performance Forum,’ a meeting for discussing and paintings in the abandoned mine regions. Volunteer labor work gathering the opinions of employees in order to review and at mining villages, tree planting, CSR activities in overseas Labor-manag ement vision Establishment of partnership labor-management culture for sustainable growth Labor-management core values mireco W.I.T.H W Work Together I Integrity T Transparent H Harmony Labor-management Education satisfaction index (points) rationalization Labor-management relation rationalization index Labor-management satisfaction index (points) performance indices / Number of conflicts occurred (occurrences) Labor-management Pre-emptive response for stabilizing laborReinforcement of communication for Reinforcement of capacities in laborrationalization strategy goal management relations establishing of organic partnership management administration Labor-management 1) Establishment of labor-management relations principles 4) Stimulation of labor-management consultation committee activities 7) Improvement of education and training rationalization 2)Creation of organized collective bargaining system 5) Improvement of help support program program on labor-management relations strategy issues 3) Promotion of GWP 6) Establishment of participatory collective programs 8) Establishment of labor-management conflict management system 70 Mine Reclamation Corp. Expansion of country of operation such are other examples of such activities. concerned and the labor union. Layoffs arising from urgent business reasons or any change in the status of union Sustainable Infrastructure Increased Cooperation Between Labor and members arising from closure, spinoff, merger, sell-off, and Management to Invigorate Corporate Culture change in main business must also be notified to the union 60 By stipulating the plans to invigorate the Corporation’s days in advance. organizational culture in the collective agreement between the labor and management (article 29), MIRECO was able to Safety & Health evaluate the organizational culture and leadership of department heads, as well as benchmarking domestic and MIRECO manages the issues related safety and health of its overseas GWP programs and model overseas laboremployees in accordance with the Occupational Safety and management culture. In addition, the labor and management Health Act and related laws. Accordingly, the Corporation collectively conducted various activities to promote the exempts all time spent for occupational safety activities from Corporation’s organizational culture which includes holding work hours. In addition, the Corporation has also specified the sporting and hiking competitions, and constantly managing provision on vocational rehabilitation training of industrial accident labor-management conflicts through the labor-management victims in articles 35~37 of the collective agreement. The laborconsultation committee. management consultation committee agreed to revise and strengthen article 35 (safety and health) of the employment rules Wages and Collective Agreement in the 2011 4Q meeting to create the institutional foundations for the safety and health of its employees. Every year, MIRECO negotiates wages and collective Collective wage bargaining agreement with the labor union. As of the end of 2011, the agreement ceremony in 2011 (December 14, 2011) unionization rate is 80%. Minimum Period for Notifying Important Issues (Collective Agreement) The agenda of the collective bargaining between the labor and management of MIRECO is notified to union members at least 7 days before the negotiation talks. Any postponement of negotiations is notified at least 3 days in advance. In the case an unjust disciplinary action occurs or is deemed to have occurred, the person concerned may request to hold a labormanagement consultation committee meeting within 7 days of the occurrence. Discharge of union members is notified 30 days prior to the employment termination to the person 한마음체육대회(2011.10.21) ● Number of Work-related Accidents by Year Number of occurrences Number of full-time employees Accident rate (%) 205 206 192 193 185 168 4 2.0 2 2 1.1 1.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 71 MIRECO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Appendix GRI G3.1/ ISO260000 Index UNGC Index Independent Assurance Statement Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 GRI Application Level Check Readers Survey GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Appendix ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Indicator Description ISO 26000 ISO 26000 key social responsibility Satisfaction Reporting no. topic and theme Section Principle of stakeholder 6.8.2 involvement Community Involvement ● 16 Border protocol 6.6.5 Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain ● About this Report Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 1.1 (e.g, CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) on the relevance of ● 2~3 sustainability to the organization and its strategy Organization governance 6.2 Organizational Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risk and opportunities ● 2~3 Organiza2.1 Name of the organization ● 8 tional Pro2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 8 file Operational structure of the organization, including main departments, 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint venture companies 6.2 Organizational Governance ● 9 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters ● About this Report Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2.5 countries with either major operation or that are specifically relevant to the ● 9 sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Properties of ownership and legal form ● 8 Markets served (including geographic division, business sector, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) ● 8~9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 8~9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 2.9 ownership ● About this Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 9 Organiza3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) ● 9 tional Gov3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● About this Report ernance 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● About this Report 3.5 Process of defining the contents in the report ● 16~17 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 3.6 facilities, joint ventures) Refer to the GRI boundary regulation for additional ● About this Report guideline. 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● About this Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect ● 8~9, 36 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the ● About this Report compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in 3.10 earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement ● About this Report Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 3.11 or measurement methods applied in the report ● About this Report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 73~77 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the 3.13 report. 7.5.3 Validation ● 78~79 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 73 ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Indicator Description ISO 26000 ISO 26000 key social responsibility Satisfaction Reporting no. topic and theme Section GoverGovernance structure of the organization, including committees under the nance, 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting 6.2 ● 14~15 Commitstrategy or organizational oversight ments & Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Engage4.2 executive officer 6.2 ● 14 ment For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and 4.3 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent 6.2 ● 14 and/or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 direction to the highest governance body 6.2 ● 63, 69~70 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the 6.2 ● 15 organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 4.6 interest are avoided 6.2 ● 14~15 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees (gender and 6.2 ● 15 other indicators of diversity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and 6.2 ● 66~67 the status of their implementation Organizational Governance Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 6.2 14 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or ● compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 6.2 14~15 4.10 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance ● Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 addressed by the organization 6.2 ● 11 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 6.2 ● 73~77, 80~81 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or 4.13 national/international advocacy organizations 6.2 ○ 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6.2 ● 16 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6.2 ● 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.16 by type and by stakeholder group 6.2 ● 16, 18~19, 63 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 15, 18~19, 63, 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and 6.2 ● concerns 69~71 Economic Economic value generated and distributed (e.g. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, Community involvement and development/ community EC1 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments) 6.8/6.8.3 /6.8.7/6.8.9 involvement/ creation of wealth and profit/ social ◐ 9 Engagement in the community and its development/engagement in the investmenta community/creation of wealth and profit/social investment EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Mitigation and adaptation of climate change 6.5.5 Mitigation and adaption of climate change ● 27, 30 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.4.4/6.8 ● 69 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ○ Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local working condition and social protection/ Community EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation Working condition and 6.4.4/6.8 involvement and development ● 64 social care/ Engagement in the community and development Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain/ significant locations of operation Promotion of social responsibility in the value EC6 chain/ Engagement in the community / job creation and function development/ 6.6.6/6.8 /6.8.5/6.8.7 Community involvement and development/ job creating ○ and functional development/ creation of wealth and profit creation of wealth and profit Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation Engagement in the Community involvement and development/ job creating EC7 community and its development/engagement in the community/creation of 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 and functional development/ creation of wealth and profit ○ wealth and profit/social investment Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3 Economic, social and cultural right/ Community primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement involvement and development/ community involvement/ EC8 Economic, social and cultural rights/ Engagement in the community and its /6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6 education and culture/ technology development and ● 23~28 development/engagement in the community/ Education and culture/ technology /6.8.7/6.8.9 approach/ creation of wealth and profit/ social investment development and approaches/ creation of wealth and profit/ social investment Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including Economic, social and cultural right/ Promotion of social the extent of impacts Economic, social and cultural rights/ Promotion of social 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7 responsibility in the value chain/ respect for right of property/ responsibility in the value chain/ Respect the property rights/ approach to vital access the required service/ / Community involvement and EC9 services/ Engagement in the community and its development/ job creation and /6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5 development/ job creating and functional development/ ● 23~28 function development/ technology development and approaches/ creation of /6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 technology development and approach/ creation of wealth wealth and profit/ social investment and profit/ social investment/ social investment 74 Mine Reclamation Corp. ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Indicator Description ISO 26000 ISO 26000 key social responsibility Satisfaction Reporting Appendix no. topic and theme Section EnvironEN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 31 mental Performance EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◇ Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ◐ 30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ◐ 31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 31 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products 6.5/6.5.4 environment/sustainable resource uses EN6 and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these ● 30~31 initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 31 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 31 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ○ Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused No use of EN10 recycled water ◇ Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ○ Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside ● 25 protected areas environment/environmental protection, restoration of EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5/6.5.6 diversity and natural habitats ◐ 25 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 biodiversity ● 25 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk ◐ 25 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 30 EN17 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5/6.5.5 Environment/ Mitigation and adaption of climate change ● 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 30 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ◇ EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ◇ EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 23~24 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5/6.5.3 Environment/pollution prevention ○ EN23 ● 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage ◇ of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and environment/sustainable resource uses/ Promotion of EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 social responsibility in the value chain/ Sustainable ◇ discharges of water and runoff consumption Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Environment/use of sustainable resource/promote social EN26 extent of impact mitigation 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 responsibility in the value chain/sustainable consumption ● 23~29 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by environment/sustainable resource uses/ Sustainable EN27 category 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 consumption ◇ Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions EN28 for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations No violations 6.5 Environment ● 30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and environment/sustainable resource uses/ Promotion of EN29 materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 social responsibility in the value chain ● 23~29 the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 Environment ● 24, 29 mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 75 ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Indicator Description ISO 26000 ISO 26000 key social responsibility topic and theme Satisfaction Reporting no. Section Social: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and LA1 region, broken down by gender ● 64 Labor Practices 6.4/6.4.3 Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships & Decent Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 64 Work Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships/ LA3 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 working condition and social protection ● 68~69 operation 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships/ Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 agreements /6.4.5/6.3.10 working condition and social protection/ social communication/ basic ● 71 principle and right of labor Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including LA5 whether it is specified in collective agreements 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships/ working condition and social protection/ social communication ● 71 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management-worker health and safety committees ◐ 71 6.4/6.4.6 Custom of labor relations/ health and safety of labor Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender ● 71 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control 6.4/6.4.6/6.8 Custom of labor relations/ health and safety of labor/ Involvement in the LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community and development/ involvement in the community/ education ● 71 community members regarding serious diseases /6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 and culture/ health Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade LA9 unions 6.4/6.4.6 Custom of labor relations/ health and safety of labor ● 71 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Custom of labor relations/ human development and training at the work LA10 employee category 6.4/6.4.7 place ● 65, 67 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Custom of labor relations/ human development and training at the work LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 place/ job creation and function development ● 65 career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Custom of labor relations/ human development and training at the work LA12 development reviews, by gender 6.4/6.4.7 place ● 65 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 6.3.7/6.3.10 discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic principle and right of labor/ LA13 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group /6.4/6.4.3 Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships/ ● 14, 64 membership, and other indicators of diversity working condition and social communication 6.3.7/6.3.10 Prohibition on discrimination for vulnerable group/ guarantee the rights Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee LA14 category, by significant locations of operation /6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 of economy, social and culture for company and members in the ● 64 community Discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic principle and right of labor/ 69 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Custom of labor relations/ Employment and employment relationships ● Human Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or 6.3/6.33/6.3.5 /6.6.6 Human rights/ actual inspection/ evasion of conspiracy/ Promotion of Rights HR1 social responsibility in the value chain ○ that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5 Human rights/ actual inspection/ evasion of conspiracy/ Employment HR2 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions /6.4.3/6.6.6 and employment relationships/ Promotion of social responsibility in the ○ taken value chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the 6.3/6.3.5 Human rights/ evasion of conspiracy ● 67 percentage of employees trained 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7 Human rights/ Ombudsman/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken HR4 No discrimination /6.3.10/6.4.3 basic principle and right of labor/ Employment and employment ● 66 relationships Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4 Human rights/ actual inspection/ human rights in danger/ citizenship HR5 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be /6.3.5/6.3.8/6.3.10 and political rights/ basic principle and right of labor/ Employment and ● 68~69 violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights /6.4.3/6.4.5 employment relationships/ social communication Human rights/ actual inspection/ human rights in danger/ evasion of Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk conspiracy/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ basic principle and HR6 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the right of labor/ Employment and employment relationships/ social ● 66 effective abolition of child laborNo risk of child labor 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4 communication Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk /6.3.5/6.3.7 /6.3.10 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute Human rights/ evasion of conspiracy/ Employment and employment HR7 to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory laborNo forced relationships/ Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain ● 66 or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Human rights/ Ombudsman/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ HR8 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3 /6.6.6 basic principle and right of labor/ Employment and employment ○ operations relationships Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7 Human rights/ Ombudsman/ discrimination and vulnerable group/ HR9 people and actions taken No violations citizenship and political rights/ Respect the property rights ◐ 66 /6.3.8/6.6.7 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to 62~63 HR10 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Actual inspection/ / human rights in danger ● Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and 67 HR11 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Ombudsman ● 76 Mine Reclamation Corp. ● Fully Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Indicator Description ISO 26000 ISO 26000 key social responsibility topic and theme Satisfaction Reporting Appendix no. Section Society 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5 Economic, social and cultural rights/ Community engagement and Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs /6.8.7/6.6.7 development/ job creation and function development/ creation and ● 34~36 wealth and profit/ respect the property right Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks SO2 related to corruption ● 67 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 6.6/6.6.3 Fair operating practices/ anti-corruption SO3 policies and procedures ● 67 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ○ Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 lobbying ● 31, 34 Fair operating practices/ Responsible political engagement/ community 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 engagement Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 politicians, and related institutions by country ◇ Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, SO7 and monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 Fair operating practices/ fair competition/ respect the property right ◇ Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fair operating practices/ respect the property right/ creation of wealth SO8 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 and profit ◇ Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 communities Community engagement and development ● 34~36 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with 34~36 S10 significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Community engagement and development ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and PR1 services are assessed for improvement and percentage of significant ● 62~63 products and services categories subject to such procedures 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7 Economic, social and cultural rights/ Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain/ consumer issue/ protection of consumer’s health and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and /6.7.4/6.7.5 safety/ sustainable consumption PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and ◇ services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures and PR3 percentage of significant products and services subject to such Consumer issue/ Fair marketing, realistic and unbiased information and ● 62~63 information requirements. 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4 fair contract practices/ protection of consumer’s health and safety/ /6.7.5 sustainable consumption/ consumer service and support; solution to the Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and /6.7.6/6.7.9 PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and complaint and dispute/ improvement of education and awareness/ ◇ labeling, by type of outcomes Product ResponsiPractices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.6 Consumer issue/ protection of consumer’s health and safety/ bility PR5 measuring customer satisfaction sustainable consumption/ consumer service and support; solution to the ● 62 /6.7.8/6.7.9 complaint and dispute/ improvement of education and awareness/ Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, ● 63 and sponsorship 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6 Consumer issue/fair marketing, realistic and non bias information and fair contract practice/consumer service, support and resolution of Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and /6.7.9 complaint and dispute/improve education and awareness PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including ● 63 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomesNo violations Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 63 PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.7/6.7.7 Consumer issue/ protection of data and privacy ● Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and consumer issue/ consumer service and support; solution to the 63 PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 6.7/6.7.6 complaint and dispute ● UN Global Compact The Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standard Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. mireco is a signatory to the Global Compact. Environment The Compact challenges business to operate Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; abiding by its ten principles covering Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and the four areas of labor standard, Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. environment and anti-corruption. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 77 Independent Assurance Statement To the Management of MIRECO The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged by MIRECO to review information specified in its 2012 Sustainability Management Report (hereafter “Report”) to provide an independent third-party assurance on the reported content. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following independent statement of assurance. ● Responsibility and Objective system/processes MIRECO is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report Review of evidentiary data supporting key economic, social, and environmental regarding the establishment of its sustainability management goals, performance performance outcomes management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its Review of the completeness and accuracy of reported information by sample assurance undertaking to the management of MIRECO. The key objective of the testing key issues assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors present in the ▶Economic performance data : B/S, P/L Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working ▶Social performance data : Financial lending project, professional training project, order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s process for current status of intra-regional new hires, receipt of customer complaints, identifying issues of material importance to sustainability management as well as current status of SME purchasing, social contribution activities, ethics training, the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can integrity survey, satisfaction levels of BOD operations, notification of key labor and help improve the quality of future reporting. management issues ▶Environmental performance data : Environmental restoration project, green ● Assurance Type and Scope procurement, power usage, GHG emissions For the purpose of this assurance, the Report was reviewed against the following reporting criteria. ● Limitations 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) 1 For the purpose of this assurance, among the range of local and global 2) GRI G3.1 Sustainability Management Reporting Guidelines2 workplaces that the Company manages, the Auditor chose to carry out an on-site Scope of Assurance Assurance Type/ Level Assurance Criteria review of the Company’s Headquarters in Seoul. The review was based on Compliance with the three core The three AA1000AS available and disclosed data for the relevant reporting period and did not include AA1000S (2008) principles of (2008) principles and online data. Financial information validated by a third party auditor and Type I/ Moderate Inclusivity, Materiality, IPS Assurance Manual and Responsiveness standards greenhouse gas-related data was not included within the scope of this assurance. Review of performance indicators IPS Performance Indicators Type II/ Moderate outlined in AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Criteria TM ● Assurance Findings GRI G3.1 Sustainability Based on the assurance scope and criteria outlined above, we provide the GRI-checked GRI Moderate level Management Reporting reporting level following conclusions. The Auditor did not find the Report to contain any material Guidelines misstatements or bias. The reported performance data was also found to be ● Work Undertaken and Scope adequately derived and reported upon without distortion based on the Company’s The Auditor was engaged to assess 1) the inclusiveness, materiality, and underlying system for data collection and reporting. The material findings from responsiveness of the reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported the Auditor are included herein, and a detailed account of the results and followperformance data; and 3) the level of compliance relative to the GRI sustainability up recommendations has been submitted to MIRECO. management reporting guideline by undertaking in the following processes. ■Inclusivity Written interviews with persons in charge of collecting the performance data Are procedures for stakeholder strategy-setting and engagement specific to each of the sustainability dimensions to review the adequacy of the adequate at MIRECO? reported information The Auditor confirmed continuous efforts by MIRECO to develop processes to better Review of MIRECO’s process for materiality testing and testing outcomes engage with its stakeholders based on the recognition that stakeholder engagement Review of MIRECO’s stakeholder engagement processes is crucial to the implementation of sustainability management. MIRECO has defined On-site audit of the HQ office to assess raw data sets for sustainability different stakeholder groups while introducing a process for stakeholders to voice management indicators, and the underlying data collection and reporting their comments in order to assess issues of key material interest to all stakeholders. 1. AA1000AS is an assurance standard for social and sustainable reporting developed by the U.K.-based Institute of Social and Ethical AccountAbility in November 1999 that promotes corporate social responsibility, business ethics and responsible business practices, aiming to improve the quality of social and ethical accounting, auditing and reporting. The 2008 amended version entered into effect as of 2010. 2. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)°Øs Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. Building on the G3 version which was launched in Oct. 2006, the newly revised G3.1 version was released in Mar. 2011 with an expanded emphasis on human rights, gender, and the local community. G4, the fourth version is set to be introduced in 2013. 78 Mine Reclamation Corp. Moreover, we affirmed proactive efforts by the Company to encourage stakeholder ■Performance Indicators Appendix participation to drive its sustainability management initiatives forward. The following Pursuant to an assessment of the validity of the reported data underlying the points were found to be particularly commendable. Report’s performance indicators, the Auditor found the data collection system to •In-depth interviews with stakeholder after defining them into key, strategic, be adequate and free of any material errors that may compromise the reliability of environmental stakeholder categories to more actively encourage stakeholder the results or otherwise bias MIRECO’s views. input while introducing a process for stakeholder participation ■Level of Application •In-depth interviews with stakeholder after defining them into key, strategic, Relative to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, the Report was found to conform to a A+ level environmental stakeholder categories to more actively encourage stakeholder of application. input while introducing a process for stakeholder participation; In-depth interviews with stakeholder after defining them into key, strategic, ● Recommendations environmental stakeholder categories to more actively encourage stakeholder The Auditor found MIRECO’s first “Sustainability Management 2012 Report”, input while introducing a process for stakeholder participation commendable on the following counts. The Report 1) reflects findings not only ■Materiality from expert interviews but interviews conducted with various stakeholders Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to MIRECO reflecting efforts to provide diverse perspectives and balanced communication stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? results; and 2) provides a full account of its activities and outcomes regarding It is the Auditor’s view that the Report neither omits nor excludes issues of issues identified via materiality testing. material importance to the stakeholders of MIRECO. We verified efforts by the For future reports, the Auditor suggests the following considerations. Company to analyze its internal and external environment via the following: a Strengthening the linkage between its management strategy and goals, key comparative peer analysis, media analysis, diagnosis of compliance levels relative issues, and performance indicators to ISO 26000, trend and impact analysis, stakeholder identification and Broadening its stakeholder engagement channels to crystalize its processes for engagement, materiality assessments etc. Based on these findings, the Company stakeholder participation was able to assess the relevance and materiality of key issues so that it could Strengthening reporting on qualitative and quantitative information regarding its provide key performance outcomes as required by its stakeholders. The following DMA goals, performance outcomes, and future plans points were found to be particularly commendable Strengthening the development and management of general-use terminology •Reporting on issues assessed to be of the highest level of importance to MIRECO used for reporting on performance outcomes in an effort to provide important performance information to all stakeholders Strengthening the comparability of performance data for better management of •Efforts to identify key material issues through materiality testing while providing readers’ level of understanding toward MIRECO a detailed account of the underlying assessment processes and outcomes Strengthening reporting on any negative issues and underperforming outcomes Going forward, the Auditor suggests developing an internal system that can support the clear identification and ongoing management of key issues for ● Independence MIRECO, to allow stakeholders to better understand the Company’s key activities Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved and future plans regarding those issues and to enable a fuller Report. Also, the in the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no commercial affiliation with Auditor recommends keeping track of all issues identified through materiality MIRECO that might compromise our independence. assessments in this year’s first Report, to see how they may vary compared to issues identified in future Reports. ● Qualifications of the Auditor Commissioned by MIRECO as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the ■Responsiveness Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was established in 1993 and has since Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business areas of interest? ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. The Auditor is composed It is the Auditor’s view that MIRECO has been working to be more responsive to of experts in business management, accounting, and environmental science the demands and interests of its stakeholders by assessing their needs and including professors at Korea’s top universities and practitioners with professional incorporating them into its Report. The following points were found to be accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management. particularly commendable. •Providing a DMA account of organizations in charge of responding to various issues to highlight efforts by the Company to provide a responsible response to reflect stakeholder views into its management activities •Providing an account of various issues identified to be of interest to stakeholders through stakeholder interviews as well as MIRECO’s relevant response and activities November 30, 2012 Going forward, the Auditor suggests enhancing the level of responsiveness further Kim, Jae-Eun by sharing MIRECO’s position and plans regarding issues and interests identified President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies to be of high importance to its stakeholders while reporting on actual case studies where MIRECO reflected these plans into its management activities. Also, it is recommended that information on any negative impacts also be provided to improve responsiveness. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 79 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 ● Assessment Standards (including seven core subjects of ISO 26000) are appropriately Korea Standards Association (KSA) created a checklist to assess applied across the entire value chain. the level of fulfilling social responsibility based on the international standards for social responsibility, ISO 26000 as a part of the Assessment Results for Seven Core Subjects of ISO 26000 service requested by the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards (KATS) of the Ministry of Knowledge and Strategy. This ● Organizational Governance report assessed social responsibility management processes and Decision making structure is required to be reorganized to have achievements of seven core subjects of MIRECO based on social responsibility issues thoroughly discussed in final assessment checklist prepared by KSA. decision making process and ideas of social responsibility incorporated across all organizational activities. ● Assessment Scope KSA assessed processes of fulfilling social responsibility and ● Human Rights relevant achievements by MIRECO including mid and longMIRECO leads its business as it establishes its relationship with term strategies & execution activities, participation of various stakeholders such as investment companies, loan shareholders and social responsibility activities. companies for alternative industry, professional mine reclamation companies and residents in abandoned mine ● Assessment Methods areas. It is advised that MIRECO conduct due diligence on KSA has conducted the followings to collect relevant documents stakeholders’ social responsibility foundation, which is based on the checklist of application level of ISO 26000. vulnerable to human rights risks. Review of mid and long-term strategies and management performance report ● Labor Practice Review of the interview of the personnel in charge of social The Corporation is executing mine reclamation projects in responsibility management of MIRECO & reporting abandoned mine areas with professional mine reclamation documents on achievement companies. Given the specific characteristic of the business Identification of recent sustainability issues on mine handling processing of mineral residues, contaminated water in development and mine reclamation shafts and soil contaminated with heavy metals, safety management can be regarded as an important social ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Assessment Results responsibility activity. Not only MIRECO but also partners are by Process advised to establish safety management system to monitor accident rate. MIRECO’s objectives of foundation, ‘Eco-friendly Mine Damage Management’ and ‘Revitalization of Abandoned Mine Areas’, are ● Environment closely related to suitability of society, the ultimate goal of MIRECO is carrying out its environment restoration projects by sustainable management. Distinct projects implemented by purifying the pollutants in abandoned mine areas. Efforts MIRECO including restoration of environment in abandoned should be made to transform abandoned mine areas into mine areas, establishing foundation for economic autonomy of healthy and pleasant areas through ‘Responsible Mine mine areas and enhancement of accessibility to energy Reclamation’, as mentioned in Materiality Assessment (중요성 resources for low-income class are evaluated as sustainable 평가). Moreover, environment-friendly activities should be business models that achieve balance between development expanded to operation of MIRECO’s own organization. and environment conservation and balanced development of the region. However, since execution of business projects does ● Practice of Fair Operation not necessarily means fulfilling all the social responsibility To enter the global mine reclamation market, strategic priority requirements of MIRECO, it is requested that MIRECO analyze lies in strengthening global competitiveness including signing and review whether social responsibility principles and subjects MOU with related agencies and institutions in resource-rich 80 Mine Reclamation Corp. ▼ Social Responsibility Process Assessment Result ▼ Social Responsibility Achievement Assessment Result Appendix Awareness for Social Responsibility Review the status of the organization based on the commitment of the CEO Activities to integrate existing system, policy and practices while Organizational Governance respecting principles of social responsibility Identification and Participation Review interests and demands of stakeholders and establish Activities to protect, respect, comply with and realize human rights of Stakeholders participation strategy Human Rights within and within the influence of the organization Analysis on Core Subjects & Issue Prepare a list of issues by reviewing issues and analyzing internal capability Policy and practices, which impact labor environment for the internal Labor Practices organization and partners Setting Priorities, Execution Set-up priority of issues, targets and execution plans to improve and Activities to access comprehensively by considering meanings of decisions and Strategy & Plan manage after considering capability of the organization Environment activities of the organization to reduce environmental impacts of the organization Follow strategies, visions, objectives and execution plans and Activities to focus on ethical behaviors on deals between the organization Execution monitor social responsibility achievements Practices of Fair Operation and external organizations such as partners, suppliers and etc. Communication Communicate with stakeholders by preparing reports Activities to protect consumer rights including consumer education, Consumer Issues fair & transparent marketing information & contracts, and Verification Activities and reports to improve credibility of achievement promotion of sustainable consumption. Engagement & Development Activities to maximize supports and opportunities while recognizing Improvement Lead to continuous improvement by reviewing achievement regularly of Local Communities and respecting the rights of the regional society. countries, particularly emerging countries. It is recommended pursuing projects which reflect the needs and characteristics of that policy development for global mine damage management the local residents. to be encouraged by settling ‘Responsible Participation in Politics’ while promoting transparency in political participation. ● Final Conclusion The value of MIRECO’s existence heavily relies on the level of its ● Consumer Issues social contribution and evaluation of its stakeholders. KSA The Corporation is executing nationwide mine reclamation hopes that MIRECO will grow into a company recognized and projects. If an opportunity is given to explain the status and trusted by all of its stakeholders by applying and integrating purpose of those on-going projects, characteristics, and ideas and principles of social responsibility into the overall expected effects to clients including the residents in mine organization so that its goal for the public benefit as a mine abandoned areas via company homepage, it can promote damage management company can steadily be realized even participation of stakeholders. more based on the ISO 26000 standards. ● Engagement and Development of Local Communities September 2012 It is advised that MIRECO establish a cooperative system to Korean Standards Association President prepare fundamentals for regional development by providing Chang Ryong Kim various communication channels for residents to actually participate in mine reclamation and development projects and Korean Standards Association (KSA), a special corporation duly organized and existing under the Industrial Standardization Laws of Korea in 1962, is knowledge service institution supplying and expanding industrial standardization, sustainable management and KS/ISO certifications to corporations. In particular, KSA is contributing to sustainable development in our society as National Secretary of ISO 26000, GRI Education Institution, AA1000 Verification Institution, Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) Operation Agency, US CDM Operation Agency and Greenhouse Gas Target Management System Verification Institution. mireco Sustainability Report 2011/2012 81 82 Mine Reclamation Corp. Reader Survey MIRECO would like to hear your valuable comments. Please complete the following page and send it to the address or fax number at the bottom. Your comments will be highly appreciated and reflected when implementing sustainability activities and making improvement on the report. Q1. Which of the following groups do you belong to? Clients Employees Shareholders Investors Partners Government & Public Officers Industrial Sector Academia Press & Media Local Residents & Local Governments Civic & Social Organizations including NGO Professional Experts in Sustainability Others Q2. Does this report help you understand the sustainable activities of MIRECO? Very Helpful Helpful Neither Unhelpful Very Unhelpful Q3. Which is/are the most interesting part(s) of this report? (You may check more than 1 answer) Introduction of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO) Comprehensive Mine Damage Prevention Projects Regional Development Projects to Assist Economic Autonomy Management for Stability of Coal Energy Supply Development of Advanced Technology of Mine Damage Management Global Expansion of Mine Damage Management Business Expansion of Sustainable Infrastructure Others Q4. Which is/are the most satisfying part(s) of this report? (You may check more than 1 answer) Introduction of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO) Comprehensive Mine Damage Prevention Projects Regional Development Projects to Assist Economic Autonomy Management for Stability of Coal Energy Supply Development of Advanced Technology of Mine Damage Management Global Expansion of Mine Damage Management Business Expansion of Sustainable Infrastructure Others Q5. How useful was the information contained in this report? Very useful Useful Neither Unuseful Very unuseful •Introduction of Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation (MIRECO) •Comprehensive Mine Damage Prevention Projects •Regional Development Projects to Assist Economic Autonomy •Management for Stability of Coal Energy Supply •Development of Advanced Technology of Mine Damage Management •Global Expansion of Mine Damage Management Business •Expansion of Sustainable Infrastructure Q6. How useful was the information contained in this report? Strongly Agree Agree Neither DisagreeStrongly Disagree •The contents are clear and easy to understand. •The contents are well organized. •The contents provide useful information on major issues. •Easy to searching for desired information •The contents are credible. •The design is good and helps understand of the contents better. Q7. Please write your comments about this Sustainability Report. Address : Coal Center, 30 Chungjin-dong Street (Susong-dong), Jongno-gu, Seoul, 110-727, Korea Department of Corporate Planning and Management Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation / Tel +82-2-3702-6538 / Fax +82-2-3702-6549 This report has been printed with soy ink on eco-friendly paper. Coal Center, 30 Chungjin-dong Street (Susong-dong), Jongno-gu, Seoul, 110-727, Korea TEL.82.2.3702.6538 FAX.82.2.3702.6549 www.mireco.or.kr
