Responsible Retailing Report 2012 Responsible retailing. + Responsible retailing at Ahold + Our priority areas  + How we manage  + Our approach to reporting + Other information responsible retailing  + Message from Dick Boer,  + Healthy living 14 + Scope of reporting 64 + Glossary 85 Ahold CEO 2 + Our governance structure 60 + Community well-being 22 + Reporting process 67 + Contact us 88 + Introduction and strategy 4 + Stakeholder engagement 61 + Responsible products 29 + CO2 conversion factors 67 + Cautionary notice 88 + Reshaping Retail at Ahold 4 + Awards and rankings 62 + Care for the environment 39 + Data revisions 67 Our  + responsible + Our people 51 + Global Reporting Initiative 68 retailing strategy 5 + Global Compact 81 + Our role in society 5 + External Assurance Report 83 + Our approach to this report 5 + Responsible retailing scorecard 6 + Company profile 9 + Financial highlights 10 + Where and how we operate 11 Go online to hear Getting more from this report: from our team and + Where you see this symbol or references to other sections to watch our success in italics, you can click through to the relevant section within this document. stories come to life… Where you see this symbol, you can click through to an external website. Where you see this symbol, you can click through to watch a video on the subject. 2012yearreview.ahold.com 1 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible Being a responsible retailer underpins retailing at our vision, values and strategy to create Ahold and accelerate growth, In this section: and deliver value to + Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO + Introduction and strategy our customers... + Reshaping Retail at Ahold + Our responsible retailing strategy + Our role in society + Our approach to this report + Responsible retailing scorecard + Company profile + Financial highlights + Where and how we operate 2 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO We have the Dear stakeholder, As a retailer working at the heart of society, our everyday contact opportunity to make with customers, employees and communities gives us the opportunity to make a real difference – to improve the lives of the people our business touches and to protect the environment we have an impact a real difference – on. To make this happen, we focus on the areas where we can have the greatest positive impact – from making healthy living choices easy and contributing to the well-being of communities, to sourcing to improve the lives responsible products and caring for the environment. At Ahold, our vision is to offer better choice, better value, and a better life, every day. We want to provide the right choices and great of the people our value that support a better life not only for our customers but also for our other stakeholders. In 2012, we introduced our promises to be a better place to shop business touches for our customers, a better place to work for our employees, and a better neighbor for the communities we serve. Responsible retailing runs through all three promises, because without it we cannot and to protect the achieve our ambition to get better every day. Since we put our 2011–2015 targets for responsible retailing in place, environment we we have made good progress in all our priority areas: healthy living, community well-being, responsible products, care for the environment and our people. You can read more about these in our Responsible have an impact on. retailing scorecard. I’m proud of what we’ve done, and of the 225,000 employees who have made it possible for us to come this far. I’d like to highlight some of Ahold’s key achievements during 2012. Watch Dick Boer’s video online 3 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO (continued) Healthy living Responsible products Across Ahold, we work hard to meet our responsible retailing targets, As a food retailer, we want to play a role in helping our customers It’s our goal to make sure that our own-brand products are sourced but we cannot work alone. We partner with others in the retail and to live healthy lives, and we have taken an active role in addressing with respect for people, animals and the environment. In 2012, we food sectors, governments and NGOs to raise the bar across the important wellness issues – including childhood obesity in particular. continued to improve the sustainability of many of our products and industry. We also work closely with international organizations such We believe that educating children in healthy living is a crucial part their packaging, and also developed a set of global packaging as the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF). As co-chair of the CGF of this commitment, and during 2012, we made a difference guidelines. In addition, we took significant steps to increase the Safety & Health pillar, we have supported the development of three in the lives of over half a million children in the U.S. and Europe. transparency of our supply chain, although its complexity and resolutions to encourage customers to eat and live more healthily, One example is the re-launch of Albert’s “Healthy 5” program in seasonality has proven to make this a very challenging endeavor. and we are currently in the process of putting these resolutions the Czech Republic. Based on Albert Heijn’s popular and successful We have made good progress so far, but have not yet completed into action. We also remain committed to the principles of the “Ik eet het beter” (I eat better) model in the Netherlands, Healthy 5 our 2012 target for all production sites in high-risk countries to be UN Global Compact, and this report includes an update of our is a fun, educational program about how to maintain a healthy diet. included in a social audit program. performance against these principles. Last but by no means least, I would like to thank all the employees Community well-being Care for the environment at Ahold, whose hard work and commitment are what make Being closely connected to our local communities and being a good Reduction of the environmental footprint of our operations continues responsible retailing possible. Without them, we would not be able neighbor is extremely important to Ahold, and never was this more to be an important area of focus, and we believe that we have to reach our ambitions to provide great customer service, make evident than during and after Hurricane Sandy in the fall. Not only a responsibility to lead by example. In recognition of our efforts, healthy choices easy, contribute to the well-being of our communities, did our employees in affected areas put in an enormous effort to Ahold Transport was awarded Connekt’s “Lean and Green” source responsible products, and care for the environment. They are keep the majority of the Ahold USA divisions’ stores open for their certificate for its work to reduce CO2 emissions through our the people who are making Ahold better – every day. communities, but the divisions collectively donated $2.5 million to the transport in the Netherlands, while Ahold USA was ranked in the American Red Cross to support relief efforts. What’s more, another U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Top 20 Retail list of green half a million dollars was donated by Ahold USA to a fund to assist power purchasers. employees who were also badly affected by the storm. Our people Retail is an industry centered around people. The relationships our employees build with our customers and communities are what make Dick Boer us who we are. Our employees are passionate about the business Chief Executive Officer and deeply committed to serving our customers and our communities. February 27, 2013 Their enthusiasm drives us to be a better place to work, every day. Our employees are We are deeply committed to providing all our employees with good passionate about the working conditions, competitive wages and benefits, fair treatment business and deeply and respect, and opportunities for professional growth. We work committed to serving to foster a positive work environment and an engaged team of our customers and our employees whose ideas, knowledge and skills are valued and communities. Their recognized. enthusiasm drives us to be a better place to work, every day. 4 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Introduction and strategy Reshaping Retail at Ahold Our ambition Our promises Our vision Driving performance Better choice Going for growth Better value Better life Every day Better place to shop Our business model Our strategic pillars Better every day 1. Increasing customer loyalty Creating growth TAL Better Better API H TE C ROWT LOW E place to work neighbor A G 2. Broadening our offering AL W BASE TO LOC NE OST RC 3. Expanding geographic reach EN Our values 4. Simplicity Enabling growth E ID RO D RIV LE S G T N AN GO Putting the customer first SA W T IC A L TR DS 5. Responsible retailing D S BR H B U IL ME R Doing what’s right C ON SU Loving what we do 6. People performance Making ideas happen Getting better every day Our strategy to reshape retail is helping us to meet the changing One of the six pillars of our strategy is “responsible retailing.” In 2012, we introduced the final element of our Reshaping Retail demands of consumers, and accelerate the growth of our company. Being a responsible retailer underpins our vision, values and strategy framework: our promises to be a better place to shop, a better place Our Reshaping Retail framework defines our strategic ambitions, to create and accelerate growth, and deliver value to our customers. to work and a better neighbor everywhere we operate. These promises how we operate and what we want to be as a company. We have Because of this, we decided to change our terminology from define how we will get better every day for our customers, our employees a successful business model, strong brands, and a clear ambition corporate responsibility (CR) to responsible retailing (RR) in 2012. and our communities. All three promises are interlinked – we need to grow. We have a vision for the future and a common set of values This progression encompasses how we run our businesses, live our satisfied employees and a connection with the wider world our business across all our businesses. values, and do what’s right. As a result, we have renamed this report impacts in order to build strong relationships with our customers. the Responsible Retailing Report. Responsible retailing runs through all three promises, because without it we cannot achieve our ambition to get better every day. 5 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Introduction and strategy (continued) Our responsible retailing strategy + 1 Healthy living choices made easy Our role in society Being responsible is central to our business. We support the health The food retail industry is at the center of society – we play a daily and well-being of our customers, employees and communities; role in the lives of millions of people. In the United States, we serve we source our products responsibly and care about the environment. + 2 Contribution to community well-being a trading area of 38 million people; in Europe, we serve a trading Employees – throughout our businesses – are engaged in putting area of more than 40 million people in five countries. Altogether, responsible retailing into practice, every day. The five priority areas we operate 3,074 stores in different communities on two continents, of our strategy therefore focus on the following material issues. and employ approximately 225,000 people. + 3 Responsibly sourced products At the same time, there is increasing recognition of the impact of diet and lifestyle on health, climate change remains a concern, there is rising awareness of the social and environmental impact of consumer + 4 Care for the environment products, and the population in many developed countries is aging. Because of our position in society, we have an opportunity to respond to these trends. We want to create a healthier, more + 5 Our people sustainable future for all our stakeholders, including customers, employees, communities, suppliers and shareholders. We therefore work on these issues ourselves as well as joining forces with others In 2010, we set a series of clear, measurable targets to 2015 for in the retail and food sectors, governments and NGOs to raise these priority areas, which we have now been reporting on for two standards across our industry. years. We will continue to report on these, and have set various new targets where the initial ones have been reached. You can see an overview of these in our Responsible retailing scorecard. Our approach to this report Our ambitions represent our high-level approach to each of our priority areas. For each, we have defined our approach and related targets. Our targets are Group-wide, but are executed locally by each of our operating companies. In some cases, they also set additional local targets. In this report, we set out our targets for each priority area at the start of each section. We then go on to report on our progress in 2012 against each target, and the data that supports this. Detailed case studies are provided throughout the report to give further information on how we put responsible retailing into practice. 6 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible retailing scorecard Our five priority areas are material to Healthy living Community our business, relevant to our stakeholders, well-being and offer opportunities for the biggest positive Ambition: Ambition: impact. This overview of our responsible Make healthy living choices easy Contribute to the well-being of retailing strategy shows our status our communities against our Group-wide targets. Target Progress Status Target Progress Status For more details on our 2012 progress, see the data sections for each priority area. Increase the sale of 24.3% Ensure that each 100% healthy products to at least healthy products operating company of our operating 25% of total food sales by has a community companies have Key: 2015 across the Group engagement program programs in place in place by 2012 completed Ensure that each 100% 3 operating company has a of our operating global metrics identified on track comprehensive healthycompanies have for measuring future living program in place by programs in place progress behind the end of 2011, aiming to be a leading healthy retailer Report on customers’ 67% perception of Ahold’s of our operating operating companies as companies are perceived leading healthy retailers to be the first or second healthy retailer in their region, benchmarked against market share 7 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible retailing scorecard (continued) Responsible Care for the Our people products environment Ambition: Ambition: Ambition: Source responsible products and reduce Reduce our environmental footprint Provide a better place to work, and encourage the impact of our packaging employees to live healthy and sustainable lives Target Progress Status Target Progress Status Target Progress Status Ensure that 80% of our Ahold Europe: Reduce CO2 per square 15% Ensure that each 100% own-brand food suppliers 84% suppliers certified meter of sales area by reduction operating company has a of our operating are certified against 20% in our operations by CR employee program in companies have Ahold USA: 2015 against our 2008 Global Food Safety place by 2012 programs in place 70% sales certified baseline Initiative (GFSI) recognized standards by 2012 Develop a Group metric Food waste metric 3 Ensure that 100% of Ahold Europe: to measure food waste developed global metrics identified own-brand suppliers in 48% suppliers audited by 2012 for measuring future Our food waste in 2012 progress high-risk countries are was between 1 and 2% Ahold USA: audited on social of total food sales 22% suppliers audited compliance by 20121 Eliminate free disposable Ahold Europe: bags at the checkout 0 free bags at Source 100% of the six Coffee: 83% in our supermarkets checkout critical commodities for Tea: 82% in Europe by 2012, own-brand products in Cocoa: 32% Ahold USA: and reduce the amount accordance with industry Palm oil: 100% launched bag of disposable bags at the certification standards Soy: 0% reduction program checkout in the United by 2015 Seafood: 14% States by one billion bags Map the environmental Ahold developed a by 2015 footprint of 50% of global risk assessment to Eliminate landfill as a The Netherlands: 0% landfill own-brand suppliers and identify the most significant disposal method by 2020 Other Europe: 32% landfill their supply chains by 2015 impacts of own-brand Ahold USA: 24% landfill products throughout their supply chains Ensure that all In progress operating companies Develop a global 100% have implemented a approach with guidelines of our operating communication policy for sustainable own-brand companies have to encourage customers to packaging, which includes programs in place reduce, re-use and recycle a packaging improvement by 2013 program for each operating company, by 2012 1 When taking into account social standards other than BSCI, equivalent or recently expired programs, the percentage of suppliers that have been audited rises to 61% for both Ahold USA and Ahold Europe. 8 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Albert Heijn “does more” to communicate with customers In October, Albert Heijn launched its new responsible retailing campaign, known as “Meer Doen” www.ah.nl/meerdoen (or “Do More”), on Facebook. Albert Heijn stores across the Netherlands started communicating about their health and sustainability activities to customers, in order to raise awareness about how small steps can add up to a big impact. The concept is based on the products speaking for themselves – literally. The in-store signage features items such as a chocolate bar, banana or carton of milk, which act as mouthpieces for sustainability messages. For example, where fridges or freezers have been covered with doors to conserve energy, a milk carton tells people that the door is saving 25% of the energy needed to keep it cool. Meanwhile, a selection of products in a shopping bag tells people that they can re-use that durable bag; by eliminating plastic bags at the checkout, customers are collectively saving around 600 kg plastic every day. Labels on trash cans tell customers how we keep the areas around our stores clean and safe. The elements of the campaign are visible in the places where sustainability activities are being put into practice. In the first weeks of the campaign, the Facebook page www.facebook.com/albertheijn featured a video of a “battle” between two products, inviting customers to vote on which product they think is the most sustainable; over 32,000 votes were received. The product that “won” (chocolate) was sold at a 50% discount in stores the following week. The Facebook page also features news items, games and tips for living more sustainably – all to keep the message fresh and engaging for customers. 9 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Company profile We are Ahold… We are an international retailing group based in the Netherlands, with strong local consumer brands in Europe and the United States. Our foundation is selling great food – and supermarkets are our core business. We also operate other formats and channels so that our customers can shop whenever and wherever is most convenient for them. We provide our customers with the best possible value, assortment and shopping experience. We are able to do this because we have great employees who love what they do and are good at it. The relationships they build with our customers are an important part of why they keep coming back to shop with us. 225,000 Employees (2011: 218,000) 3,074 Stores (2011: 3,008) Serving a trade area of around 80 million people 10 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Financial highlights delivering strong financial performance… 4.3% Underlying operating margin (2011: 4.5%) €32.8bn Net sales (€ million) €1.4bn Underlying operating income (€ million) 2008 25,648 2008 1,204 2009 27,925 2009 1,351 2010 29,530 2010 1,373 2011 30,271 2011 1,375 2012 32,841 2012 1,414 €0.80 Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) €1.2bn Free cash flow (€ million) €0.44 Dividend per common share (2012 includes proposed dividend) (€) (2011: €0.93) 2008 638 2008 0.18 As part of our dividend policy we adjust income from continuing operations for significant non-recurring items. Adjusted income from 2009 948 2009 0.23 continuing operations per share was €1.00 in 2012 (2011: €0.91). 2010 1,112 2010 0.29 2011 965 2011 0.40 2012 1,188 2012 0.44 11 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Where and how we operate and serving The Netherlands customers through The Belgium Germany our market-leading Netherlands Our brands Our online brands brands. We operate strong local brands in Europe and the United States that are well-known and popular with customers – and many of Key facts: which are leaders in their markets. 1,996 stores 93,000 employees €11,054 million net sales Europe United States In Europe we serve a trading area of more than 40 million people in In the United States, we serve a trading area of 38 million people. five countries, with the greater part of our business in the Netherlands Though the grocery channel still represents nearly two-thirds of the and the Czech Republic. The food sector in the Netherlands showed food market in the United States, food is being sold in an increasing Contribution Contribution limited growth in 2012, but also significant consolidation in the range of retail formats as more and more U.S. retailers use it to drive to underlying to net sales supermarket industry. Despite strong competition, Albert Heijn has traffic. For this reason, we measure our businesses in the United States operating income continued to gain market share over 20121. In the Czech Republic the against the performance of not only the supermarket channel but the 43.0% 33.7% food market is divided into several different channels: small traditional all-outlets channel, which includes other retailers who also sell food. trade stores and hypermarkets, which are declining; and discount, Our U.S. businesses were able to gain market share – both in the compact hypermarkets and supermarkets, all of which are growing. supermarket channel but also in the all-outlets channel – over the We operate supermarkets and compact hypers in the Czech Republic. past year, despite tough competition2. The competitive environment in the country remained intense in 2012. Our Czech business succeeded in maintaining a share comparable to last year in this competitive market1. 1 Based on Nielsen Scanning data 2 Based on Nielsen ScanTrack 12 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Where and how we operate (continued) Other Europe USA Joint ventures Key facts: 60% stake Czech Republic Slovakia USA €11,125 million net sales Our brands Our brands Our online brands Ahold owns a 60% stake in ICA AB, which owns the ICA Group. The other 40% is owned by Swedish firm Hakon Invest AB. Ahold and Hakon Invest AB share equal voting power in ICA AB. On February 11, 2013, Ahold announced that it reached an agreement with Hakon Invest of Sweden to sell our 60% stake. Key facts: Key facts: The transaction, subject to regulatory approvals as well as approval by the ICA's Retailers 306 stores 772 stores Association (ICA Forbundet) for the financing of the transaction, is expected to be completed in 11,000 employees 121,000 employees the middle of 2013. €1,675 million net sales €20,112 million net sales Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Key facts: Contribution to underlying Contribution Contribution to underlying Contribution 49% stake to net sales to net sales operating income operating income €3,295 million net sales 1.4% 5.1% 55.6% 61.2% Ahold holds 49% of the shares in the joint venture JMR, and shares equal voting power on JMR’s board of directors with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. Portugal 13 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our priority areas In this section: Our five priority areas are material to our business, relevant to our stakeholders, and offer opportunities for the biggest positive impact. In this section, you can read about our ambitions, progress on our targets, and actions and achievements during the reporting year for each of our priority areas below. + Healthy living + Community well-being + Responsible products + Care for the environment + Our people 14 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living 1 2 3 4 5 Healthy living choices made easy We recognize the increasing awareness of the impacts diet and lifestyle have on health. Within our markets, (childhood) obesity, as well as malnutrition due to a lack of healthy nutritious foods, are ongoing challenges. Our ambitions are to make healthy living choices easy, and to be recognized as a leading healthy retailer in all our markets. We aim to achieve our ambitions by making it simpler for our customers to choose healthy products, and by providing information to customers and employees on how to live a healthier lifestyle. We therefore have healthy living programs in place across all our businesses. These focus on making it easy to identify healthy products through logos and labeling on product packaging, making existing products healthier, educating children and improving the in-store experience. 15 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) Our progress on our targets 1. Increase the sale of healthy products (as defined by 2. Ensure that each operating company has a criteria from leading health authorities) to at least 25% comprehensive healthy living program in place by the In 2010, we set two targets in our strategy to 2015 for healthy living, of total food sales by 2015 across the Group. end of 2011, aiming to be a leading healthy retailer. one of which was met in 2011. We have therefore updated our targets. In 2012, 24.3% of our total food sales were identified as meeting these At the end of 2011, all our operating companies had a comprehensive healthy criteria. This is an increase of 2.0% compared to 2011. healthy living program in place. We have therefore made a new commitment: Sales of healthy products percentage of total sales Report on customers’ perception of Ahold’s operating companies as leading healthy retailers. 25 24.3% In 2012, Albert Heijn was perceived by consumers in the Netherlands 20 as the number three healthy retailer, measured against national 15 supermarket chains; Albert Heijn XL scored number one. Albert was perceived by customers in the Czech Republic as the tied number four 10 in the market. In the United States, the Giant Carlisle division held the 5 number one position, the Giant Landover division the number one 0 position, the Stop & Shop New England division the number two 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 position, and the Stop & Shop New York Metro division the number two position. Customer perception scores are based on research by Total sales of independent market research agencies that conduct surveys of both healthy products our brands and our main competitors in the regions in which we € million operate. In the Netherlands and Belgium, this is GfK Panel Services Benelux; in the Czech Republic, this is g82; and in the United States, this is SIRS, Inc. 24.3% 6,210 5,326 Customer perception as a leading healthy retailer Of total food sales Position1 1 2 3 4 5 identified as Albert Heijn Number 3 meeting healthy criteria 2011 2012 Albert Tied number 4 Giant Carlisle Number 1 Giant Landover Number 1 Stop & Shop Number 2 New England Stop & Shop Number 2 New York Metro 1 The research is conducted by market research group GfK Panel Services Benelux in the Netherlands, by g82 in Czech Republic, and by SIRS, Inc. in the United States. 16 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) Albert re-launches Healthy 5 program in Czech Republic In October 2012, Albert in the Czech Republic re-launched its Healthy 5 educational program for the new school year at a press conference in a cooking studio in Prague. The launch event was an informal meeting of journalists and employees of the Albert Charity Foundation, who are responsible for the Healthy 5 project, as well as representatives of Albert, dietary experts, and children from a primary school in Prague. Inspired by Albert Heijn’s “Ik eet het beter” (I eat better) educational program for children in the Netherlands about healthy eating, the Healthy 5 program centers around the idea of eating five portions of fruit and vegetables per day. Children can get involved in the classroom and learn the basic principles of healthy eating via fun, interactive activities. The Healthy 5 program has been proving that healthy food can be fun to children since the project began in 2004. During 2012, 96,588 children got involved; the program is being expanded to students in higher grades of primary schools. 96,588 Children involved in the Healthy 5 program in 2012 17 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) Actions and achievements in 2012 Providing healthy choice logos All our operating companies provide logos to help customers easily We offer a wide range of healthy products at all our operating identify healthy products, and encourage them to make healthy choices. companies. Healthy food criteria are defined by leading national health authorities, such as the Netherlands Nutrition Center and the The Netherlands: U.S. Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration. ••In 2012, a new national logo program on healthy choices was We make it easier for customers to choose healthier products by clearly launched across the Netherlands, and new, industry-wide, governmentidentifying them with the relevant logos, making products healthier, and agreed health criteria were applied at the same time. Together with informing people of calorie counts using labels. We also help educate other retailers, the food sector and consumer goods companies, Albert children in leading a healthy lifestyle, improve the in-store experience, Heijn introduced two new nationwide healthy food logos. During 2012, and encourage our employees to live more healthily. over 1,200 labels on own-brand product packaging were replaced; this process will be finalized by March 2013. More products now carry CGF: health and wellness resolutions the green (healthy choice) logo and the blue (conscious choice) logo; We work with the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) to lead the industry coupled with the growth of healthy, fresh food sales at Albert Heijn, this Making products healthier together with the forum’s other members. As co-chair of the CGF meant that in 2012, 1,381 products or 26.3% of sales met the health We recognize the importance of making our own-brand products Safety & Health pillar, Ahold was instrumental in developing a set of criteria (2011: 1,301 products). healthier; we have developed a strategy to do this first in the three health and wellness resolutions: Netherlands. ••We will offer consumers and shoppers a range of products and Other Europe: Albert Heijn has developed a new Health Policy for 2013–2015, which services that supports the goals of healthier diets and lifestyles. applies to all own-brand products. The target / ambition set for the ••In 2012, Albert introduced the industry-wide “I know what I eat” ••We will provide transparent, fact-based information that helps logos in stores to help customers choose healthy products. These are end of 2015 is to reduce salt in products by an average of 25%, consumers and shoppers make informed product choices and usages. replacing Albert’s previous healthy choice logos. Product packaging to reduce saturated fat in target product groups (cookies, ice cream ••We will use communication and educational programs to help raise modifications include the redesign of the complete fruit and and ready-meals) by an average of 20%, and to remove trans-fat from consumer awareness on health & wellness and energy balance to vegetable product range, where the “I know what I eat” logos have all products. inspire healthier diets and lifestyles. been placed on the front of the packaging. The number of products carrying these healthy logos at Albert / Hypernova decreased to 698 Total number of In 2012, Ahold continued to execute on these. To support the second in 2012 from 710 in 2011. healthy products resolution, we will be increasing the number of own-brand products that provide energy information on the front of the packaging. 9,205 Ahold USA: 9,019 CGF: looking forward to an aging population ••Since 2008, Ahold USA divisions’ stores have used the Healthy Ideas In 1998, the number of people older than 60 overtook those younger logo and shelf tags to inform customers about healthy own-brand than 15 in the G7 countries (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and national-brand products. During 2012, the process for identifying the United Kingdom and the United States). This will have a huge healthy products was further improved. This resulted in an increased impact on the health and wellness of society. Together with the volume of national brands that were identified as meeting the criteria Consumer Goods Forum, Ahold created a report: “Understanding for the Healthy Ideas logo. The number of healthy products has 2011 2012 the Needs and Consequences of the Aging Consumer.” The report therefore increased to 7,126 in 2012 from 7,008 in 2011. recognized that as the populations where we operate age, the needs of our customers and our employees will change. This impacts how ••Ahold USA also launched a gluten-free shelf tag program, making it we hire and train staff to ensure that older workers are able to remain easier for customers to recognize items that qualify as gluten free. productive, and to be able to offer the products and services required For more information, read the case study. by aging populations. The consumer goods industry has a unique role to play by better serving this growing consumer, shopper and employee group, and by addressing related societal challenges. 18 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) Ahold USA divisions introduce gluten-free labeling It’s estimated that three million Americans have celiac disease, an immune disorder in which gluten damages the lining of the small intestine, therefore necessitating a gluten-free diet. Many more Americans choose to follow a gluten-free diet for other personal or health reasons. Gluten is a protein found in grains, including wheat, barley and rye, so any products containing these ingredients, including pasta, cookies and bread, are hazardous to a person’s health if they have celiac disease. Gluten can sometimes also be found in items such as licorice, soy sauce and even some vitamin pills and medications that use additives, flavorings, fillers and binders made from glutencontaining grains. For those who have celiac disease, the only treatment is a life-long gluten-free diet. The Ahold USA divisions have therefore made it easier for shoppers who follow gluten-free diets to choose the right foods. They have launched easy-to-spot shelf labels on gluten-free items in all stores. The labels have a blue and green icon and can be found directly below gluten-free foods. Over 4,800 products available at the U.S. divisions have been identified as gluten-free based on a commitment from the manufacturer. “While many stores have a gluten-free section, there are gluten-free products throughout the store and the shelf tag helps customers spot those products quickly. They no longer have to check ingredients on every item they buy. The gluten-free tags are just another way that “This will really help we make shopping convenient for our customers.” our friends and family Lisa Coleman, Nutritionist at Martin's store, Eldersburg, Maryland who want to cook gluten-free for my daughter and me!” Lyn N, customer 19 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) Educating children in healthy lifestyles Other Europe: Improving the in-store experience We want to do our part to address the issue of childhood obesity; all All our operating companies provide tools to make healthy ••In October 2012, Albert in the Czech Republic re-launched its our operating companies therefore have programs in place to educate living choices easier for customers, including in-store and Healthy 5 educational program for the new school year. In 2012, children about healthy eating and how to lead a healthy lifestyle. online communications. 96,588 children were educated through the Healthy 5 program. The Netherlands: For more information, read the case study. The Netherlands: ••Albert Heijn continued its “Ik eet het beter” (I eat better) educational ••Albert Heijn communicated the new healthy logos to customers Ahold USA: program to encourage children to lead healthy lives through various via an in-store brochure, on the corporate website, in customer classroom and store-based activities. With major campaigns in ••All four Ahold USA divisions have programs to educate children in a magazine Allerhande, and in the weekly Bonus flyers. The “Meer spring and autumn, Albert Heijn’s program expanded in terms of healthier lifestyle. In 2012, over 56,562 children participated in the Doen” (“Do More”) campaign informs customers about healthy both the number of schools and the number of children reached. various programs – an increase of 27,025 compared to 2011. living and other sustainability initiatives. For more information, In 2012, 374,283 children participated in the various programs – read the case study. ••The Kid Healthy Ideas store tours are in-store field trips which an increase of 23% compared to 305,139 children in 2011. In the reinforce the nutrition and health curriculum taught in schools. reporting year, the program was expanded with a “healthy snack Other Europe: These tours are organized in partnership with The Field Trip Factory. week.” For more information, read the case study. ••Albert launched a special section dedicated to healthy eating in its ••Ahold USA won the 2012 Food Marketing Institute (FMI) Community ••In July 2012, the Dutch Soccer Association (KNVB) and Albert Heijn customer magazine; in 2012, this was used to introduce customers Outreach Award in the Neighborhood Health Improvement entered into a partnership involving the School Soccer program, to the “I know what I eat” initiative. category for large-format retailers for its Healthy Kids Summits, known as “AH Schoolvoetbal,” which encourages children to which engage families with nutrition and exercise information. take exercise. Ahold USA: Number of children ••Ahold USA launched a children’s version of the Healthy Ideas educated in healthy living magazine – over three million copies were printed during 2012. An iPad version of the Healthy Ideas magazine with bonus 527,433 content and videos has also been launched to expand the reach of the publication. ••Six in-store nutritionists in our U.S. stores raise awareness and advise customers about healthy living: five at Giant Carlisle and one at Stop 389,460 & Shop New England. We did not expand the program further in 2012, but will introduce five nutritionists at Giant Landover in 2013. 2011 2012 Encouraging healthy employees We encourage our employees to eat a balanced diet and take exercise, in order to contribute to a healthy lifestyle. Read more about this in the Our people section. 20 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) Albert Heijn promotes healthy snacks at school In October 2012, Albert Heijn introduced a week-long classroom initiative known as “Pauzehap Week” to teach elementary school children about healthy snacks. This free classroom initiative was part of “Ik eet het beter” (I eat better): an umbrella educational program from Albert Heijn which focuses on children aged 8–12 in the Netherlands, and aims to bring healthy eating habits to their attention. During 2012, 374,283 children participated in the overall program. Every weekday was dedicated to healthy snacks: fun and informative learning and exercise assignments took place, and educational video clips were shown on the digital blackboard in class. The schools participating in the program received a teaching package from Albert Heijn made up of a poster of the five principle food groups, a teachers’ manual, and samples of apples, grapes and other healthy snacks. The goal of the week was to encourage elementary school students throughout the Netherlands to discover how much fun and how delicious it can be to choose healthy snacks; 194,044 children took part. 374,283 Children participated in the Ik eet het beter program in 2012 21 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Healthy living (continued) The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of Ahold USA1 7,126 7,008 NR NR NR healthy products The Netherlands2 1,381 1,301 1,214 800 1,243 Other Europe3 698 710 535 6 0 Total 9,205 9,019 NR NR NR 186 1 2008–2010 data for Ahold USA has not been reported due to duplication of products among the different divisions. 2 The number of healthy products decreased between 2008 and 2009 due to stricter criteria. Healthy products added 3 The number of products for Other Europe contains double-counts between Czech Republic and Slovakia. to assortment in 2012 The data percentage of total food sales1,2 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Sales of Ahold USA 24.5 24.1 22.3 17.3 1.8 healthy products The Netherlands 26.3 21.5 20.5 23.0 26.0 Other Europe 9.4 8.9 2.2 0.0 0.0 Total 24.3 22.3 20.4 18.2 10.2 2.0% 1 Sales of healthy products at Ahold USA include the sale of labeled national brands. The sales data for the Netherlands and Other Europe does not include national brands, as there was no uniform national labeling system. Increase in sales 2 2008 and 2009 data has not been audited. of healthy products compared to 2011 The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of Ahold USA 56,562 29,537 31,871 30,157 23,184 children educated The Netherlands 374,283 305,139 297,306 200,000 137,895 in healthy living1 Other Europe 96,588 54,784 8,000 3,353 2,691 Total 527,433 389,460 337,177 233,510 163,770 1 All operating companies have web-based programs that include estimates of the number of children educated based on the number of downloads of the program. 22 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being 1 2 3 4 5 Contribution to community well-being As a food retailer, we operate at the heart of society, serving millions of people every day, and have an impact on thousands of communities. We want to be a better neighbor for the customers, employees and communities we touch. Our ambition is to contribute to the well-being of our communities. We aim to achieve our ambition by providing community-friendly stores, donating food and financial help to the communities in which we operate, supporting local and diverse employment, and connecting people in our communities. We therefore have community programs in place at all of our operating companies, which focus on these four areas and which are tailored to meet local needs. 23 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being (continued) Our progress on our targets Contributions and donations In 2010, we set one Group-wide target in our strategy to 2015 € thousand 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 for community engagement, which has now been met. Ahold USA 52,181 37,098 36,283 30,961 27,469 1. Ensure that each operating company has a The Netherlands 3,262 3,085 2,089 1,890 1,952 community engagement program in place by 2012. Other Europe 781 826 974 469 474 As the needs of a community are highly dependent on culture, Total 56,224 41,009 39,346 33,320 29,895 location and customer base, and as the opportunities we have differ per store format, each community needs a unique course of Contributions action. We therefore use a local approach when implementing our and donations community engagement programs. € thousand We now have such programs in place across all our businesses. During 2012, we put together a community engagement strategy, 56,224 and have made a new commitment: 41,009 Measure and report on our progress in community engagement using the following metrics: 2011 2012 – donations including food donations to food banks – number of children educated as part of our healthy living programs – number of stores involved in community engagement events Total donations of over €56 million made across Ahold's operating companies in 2012 24 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being (continued) Helping communities following Hurricane Sandy In fall 2012, Hurricane Sandy affected hundreds of thousands of people along the U.S. East Coast and in the communities served by Ahold USA and its divisions. The vast majority of stores remained open, many operating under generator power, to act as crucial anchors in their communities. In response, Ahold USA announced donations totaling $2.5 million to the American Red Cross from its divisions. The donations were made to support disaster recovery and cleanup efforts, with an emphasis on the hardest hit areas in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut. Many employees were themselves impacted by the storm; Ahold USA provided an additional $500,000 company donation to help those employees whose lives were disrupted during Hurricane Sandy. All Ahold USA divisions also partnered with the American Red Cross to provide a trusted way for employees, customers and suppliers to make a donation to local Red Cross disaster relief efforts. With millions impacted by Hurricane Sandy, regional food banks and pantries are crucial to the communities they serve. Stores across the divisions collected cash donations at the checkout to assist regional food banks and pantries in their efforts to support communities. Stop & Shop stores in New York and New Jersey also served as drop-off points for canned and packaged food. “I want to thank you on behalf of the almost 9,000 people who stayed $2.5m in 95 shelters last night. As the American Red Cross partnering with your local banners, we know that your position as the neighborhood grocery store means a lot to the victims of Hurricane Sandy. We are so Donated to the honored to have Our Family Foundation and Ahold USA lead the American Red Cross disaster response efforts from the food retailing industry.” from the Ahold USA Jill Troutman, Regional Chief Development Officer, divisions American Red Cross. 25 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being (continued) Actions and achievements in 2012 Supporting the well-being of our communities Ahold USA: We support the well-being of the communities in which we operate in During the reporting year, we further defined our strategy to contribute ••Ahold’s USA donations focus on helping children, fighting hunger a range of ways, including financial donations and contributions of to community well-being according to four focus areas: providing and building healthy communities. Ahold USA created “Our Family food and other products. community-friendly stores, donating food and financial help to the Foundation” in 2012 to support important local causes that communities in which we operate, supporting local and diverse Donations strengthen the fabric of its communities. As a result, more than employment, and connecting people in our communities. $11.6 million was donated to local charities, including: $5.5 million The Netherlands: from the Stop & Shop and Giant Landover divisions to fund pediatric ••Albert Heijn has supported several initiatives and foundations to cancer research via the Triple Winner Game; $3.1 million from Making our stores community friendly contribute to the well-being of communities. This included programs Giant Carlisle to support the Children’s Miracle Network hospitals; In order to have a positive impact on the neighborhood, we focus not to educate children on healthy living (see Healthy living choices made $2.5 million to the American Red Cross to support disaster relief only on our stores themselves, but also on the areas surrounding them, easy section) and to encourage social cohesion through two following Hurricane Sandy (see case study); $569,000 from the including external paved areas, street lighting and even other foundations: “Stichting Jarige Job” (Birthday Foundation – see case Stop & Shop and Giant Landover divisions towards grassroots buildings. This is a prerequisite for each store – only by keeping our study) and “Stichting Nederland in Dialoog” (Foundation programs that support children’s health, nutrition and the fight stores and the areas around them clean, safe and well-maintained are Netherlands in Dialogue). against childhood hunger; and $500,000 from the Giant Carlisle we able to offer community-based activities. division to the Jake Gittlen Cancer Research Foundation. ••In 2012, Albert Heijn made donations of €3,262,000 – an increase The Netherlands: of €177,000 compared to 2011. ••In 2012, Ahold USA and its suppliers and customers collectively ••Albert Heijn stores’ surroundings are cleaned on a daily basis, made donations of $66,919,000 – an increase of $15,538,000 agreements with local police and municipalities concerning safety Other Europe: compared to 2011. are made, and premises are kept tidy and well-maintained. ••Through fundraising by the Albert Charity Foundation, Albert ••On March 10, “Landelijke Opschoondag” (National Cleanup Day), customers contributed almost €113,000 to several projects for over 160 Albert Heijn stores took a leading role in cleaning up children. Sales of plastic bags also raised €546,000 for the the area around the stores, together with employees, neighbors Foundation. Plus, for every CZK 100 (€3.92) spent, customers and customers. receive a Bertik coin (worth CZK 0.50 or €0.02) which they can donate to support projects aimed at long-term training and ••In an internal risk assessment, 96 Albert Heijn stores were identified development for children from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. as being located in high-risk areas (up from 72 in 2011). These stores collaborate with local parties to achieve a certification of safe business. ••During 2012, operating companies in the Czech Republic and In 2012, 49% of these stores were in the process of setting up the Slovakia made donations of €781,000 – a decrease of €45,000 certification, and 35% of the stores had the certification in place. compared to 2011. $67m Ahold USA: Donated across Ahold ••Ahold USA connected people through community rooms in USA's divisions to 12 stores in 2012. These rooms, arranged for large and small charities during 2012 groups and equipped with state-of-the-art audio visual capabilities, can be used for free by charitable groups. 26 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being (continued) 4,700 Children took part in the Albert Triathlon Tour in 2012 Albert Charity Foundation supports communities in Czech Republic The Albert Charity Foundation – set up by Albert in the Czech Republic to support families, promote health, and help individuals in need – ran a number of initiatives during the reporting year that contributed to community well-being, including events supporting healthy living and community well-being. The Albert Triathlon Tour is a nationwide series of triathlon events for children in orphanages and for the general public that took place between May and September 2012 in 13 towns across the Czech Republic. The project is supported by customers of Albert stores who donate money to the Foundation through their shopping. In 2012, €53,000 was raised in this way. A total of 4,700 children from children’s homes, as well as customers’ and employees’ children, took part in the Triathlon Tour in 2012. 27 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being (continued) Food banks Connecting people in our communities Other Europe: The Netherlands: All our operating companies aim to connect people within their ••Albert organizes social events for local communities in cooperation communities through organizing relevant local activities. ••Albert Heijn continued its partnership with food banks in the with children homes and Albert employees. Netherlands, focused on donating food from distribution centers The Netherlands: ••Albert trained young adults from children’s homes in how to directly to the food banks. In 2012, Albert Heijn donated almost ••Throughout the year, Albert Heijn supported several nationwide calculate the cost of goods, how to behave to customers, and so on. €1.8 million worth of products – over 280,000 products, an initiatives to connect people in their communities. 2012 was a They applied what they learned at Christmas fairs in November and increase of 17% compared to 2011. special year because Albert Heijn celebrated its 125th anniversary December. The project was piloted in 2012 with over 1,200 people across stores. Employees, customers and neighbors were welcomed from children’s homes participating. Other Europe: to the stores during one week in September, when the peak of the ••Albert signed a contract with food “We hope that celebrations took place. For more information, read the case study. Ahold USA: banks in the Czech Republic and in 2013 we can again ••“Buren Dag” (Neighbor Day) and “Dag van de Dialoog” (Day of ••The Ahold USA divisions run the Cash for Causes program, has rolled out food bank donations extend our partnership the Dialogue) are other important initiatives to connect people in which provides a fundraising tool to non-profit groups throughout from 19 hypermarkets. In 2012, to another five the community. Neighbor Day is a large annual initiative which the year. Cash for Causes gift cards can be purchased by Albert donated €72,000 worth hypermarkets.” aims to increase contact between neighbors and encourage social community organizations at a 5% discount and sold to their of products to food banks. Irena Mrázková, cohesion. Examples of activities include planting flowers and trees, members at face value to fund worthy projects in their area. Potravinová Banka painting fences and fixing pavements. This year, Albert Heijn stores Cash for Causes donations totaled over $6 million across the Ahold USA: (food bank) Ostrava distributed over 17,000 party boxes to support Neighbor Day. divisions in 2012. ••Ahold USA’s divisions set up a The Day of the Dialogue encourages mutual understanding and ••As part of its leadership in the fight against childhood obesity, Consumable Food Taskforce to interaction in the community on topics concerning the neighborhood the Ahold USA divisions have hosted 11 free Healthy Kids Summits redirect unsold, safe, consumable food to regional food bank and society. since 2011. The focus of these events is to get children active and partners to help fight hunger. The taskforce has identified a ••Albert Heijn is also very active in local activities organized at local healthy as they grow both physically and mentally. Each summit number of opportunities to increase food donations to support store level. Examples include Wednesday afternoon activities for features an interactive panel discussion led by local community local communities. As a result of efforts so far, including better children, carnivals and local fairs. leaders and health experts, including pediatricians, school lunch tracking and reporting, our product donations to regional food administrators, local officials, health / youth non-profits, banks totaled over $25 million – an increase of 50% compared athletes and in-store nutritionists. Ahold USA’s health and to 2011. For more information on how we manage (food) waste, wellness and marketing teams support the summits by offering read the case study. informational materials and driving community awareness for each event. Several of the summits have incorporated hands-on activities and exercise to get kids involved on the spot. 28 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Community well-being (continued) 175 Farmers and suppliers took part in the Albert Heijn celebrates 125th Open Days, with anniversary with communities 85,000 visitors In 2012, Albert Heijn reached its 125th anniversary. Celebrations happened across all stores, distribution centers and offices in the Netherlands throughout the year, involving customers, employees, suppliers and communities. These are a few of the highlights: Over two weekends in August, customers and employees were invited to visit participating farms and suppliers to find out more about where certain fresh products originate and how they are produced. In total, 175 suppliers and farmers, and 85,000 visitors took part. During one week in September, all stores held celebrations simultaneously – tailored to their individual local communities. The Rotterdam stores, for instance, linked up with neighborhood associations to celebrate local residents’ birthdays, while the Schagen store went back in time: some of its employees donned old-fashioned greengrocers’ aprons and served their customers in a store decorated in the style of olden times. “I think that a good relationship with my customers, but also with my neighbors, is very important,” said Bas Kaper, Store Manager, Albert Heijn Schagen. “The week in 2012 during which we celebrated Albert Heijn’s 125th anniversary was the highlight: our ‘back in time’ theme surprised customers, and brought them together with activities in and around the store.” Albert Heijn also cooperated with the “Stichting Jarige Job” (Birthday Foundation), which aims to bring happiness to children aged 4-12 who are unable to celebrate their birthdays due to lack of money in their families. The Foundation surprised 10,000 families in 2012 with a birthday box, and 91 food banks in the Netherlands registered to participate in this initiative; Albert Heijn donated approximately 94,000 items. During the special anniversary week, Albert Heijn donated 25 cents to the foundation from each jubilee pear tart sold at stores throughout the country, and sales from a single by the winner of an Albert Heijn employee singing contest. 29 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products 1 2 3 4 5 Responsibly sourced products We sell millions of products under our own brands every day, and we recognize that they can have an impact on people, animals and the environment. Potential impacts of the production, consumption and disposal of such products include deforestation, water usage, animal welfare and social issues. Our ambitions are to source responsible products, and to reduce the impact of our packaging. We aim to achieve our ambitions by making sure that our products meet international standards for food and non-food safety, and continuing to implement our social compliance program for our ownbrand suppliers. We are also increasing the sustainability of our ownbrand products, including packaging, with a focus on six critical commodities (coffee, tea, cocoa, soy, palm oil and seafood) that have potentially significant negative social and environmental impacts. 30 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Our progress on our targets 2. Ensure that 100% of own-brand suppliers in high-risk See Our approach to reporting section for details of the products countries are audited on social compliance by 2012. included, and how the percentage of each critical commodity that is In 2010, Ahold set four global targets for its own-brand products sustainably sourced is calculated. relating to food safety, working conditions in the supply chain, We have not yet met this target. 48% of production sites in high-risk sustainably sourced critical commodities, and the impact of own-brand countries that supply our European banners, and 22% that supply our Sustainable sourcing of critical commodities products across their supply chains. In 2011, Ahold developed a waste U.S. divisions, had been audited against Business Social Compliance percentage of products with certified commodity management strategy, including a target to develop a global approach Initiative (BSCI) or an equivalent program at the end of 2012. 100% with guidelines for sustainable own-brand packaging, which includes a 83% 82% packaging improvement program for each banner, by 2012. 22% In order to meet our responsible products targets, we need to 32% understand our supply chain. During 2012, we made good progress 0% 0% 14% on understanding where our own-brand products are produced. Ahold Europe Ahold USA Coffee Tea Cocoa Certified Segregated Soy Seafood Although we have not yet completed the process, we estimate that we 48% palm oil palm oil have mapped approximately 80% of our last-stage production sites. 61% 61% We will continue our efforts to map the remaining sites in 2013. 4. Map the environmental footprint of 50% of own-brand The data provided below are all against sites currently mapped. suppliers and their supply chains by 2015. 1. Ensure that 80% of our own-brand food suppliers are In 2012, we further developed the approach to implement this target. certified against Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) When this target was set, we were looking at ways to map the footprint Percentage of suppliers in 48% Percentage of suppliers in 22% recognized standards by 2012. high-risk countries audited high-risk countries audited of our suppliers in detail. We have recognized that we can have a on social compliance on social compliance greater impact if we focus on the so-called “hotspots” linked not only In 2012, food safety certificates were collected for 84% of the currently to environmental but also to social and animal welfare issues in our mapped last-stage production sites. For the other 16%, the collection When taking into account social standards other than BSCI, equivalent own-brand product supply chain. We have therefore developed a process is ongoing. In the United States, 70% of our own-brand sales or recently expired programs, the percentage of suppliers that have global risk analysis to identify the most significant impacts of our were certified against GFSI-recognized standards at the end of the been audited rises to 61% for both Ahold USA and Ahold Europe. own-brand products on social-, environmentaland animal welfarereporting year. Suppliers who adhere to these (lower) standards are required to related issues throughout their supply chains in order to source them comply with the BSCI or equivalent standard over time. We use this more responsibly. stepping-stone approach in order to focus on production sites in This approach has been in place in Europe since 2009, which supports high-risk countries in which a social audit has never been performed Albert Heijn’s local target to increase the sustainability of all its own-brand before. This way, we prioritize production sites where the risk of products. We will implement the approach in the U.S. in 2013. unsatisfactory working conditions is highest. Ahold Europe Ahold USA 5. Develop a global approach with guidelines for 3. Source 100% of the six critical commodities for ownsustainable own-brand packaging, which includes a brand products in accordance with industry certification packaging improvement program for each operating standards by 2015. company, by 2012. At the end of 2012, 83% of coffee, 82% of tea, 32% of cocoa, 0% of In 2012, we met our target to develop a global packaging approach soy and 14% of seafood used in our own-brand products were including a packaging improvement program for each operating Percentage of own-brand 84% Percentage of own-brand 70% sourced according to accepted industry certification standards for company. The approach includes a set of Group-wide guidelines for suppliers GFSI certified sales GFSI certified sustainable production. We cannot compare these to 2011 data as we sustainable packaging. Starting in 2013, new and updated own-brand have moved from reporting on the number of products to the amount products will be reviewed against our “4R” packaging guidelines of sales. We have offset 100% of our estimated palm oil usage (reduce, re-use, recycle and renew), and progress on packaging through purchasing GreenPalm certificates; our target is to move to sustainability will be reported. 100% segregated certified sustainable palm oil by 2015. 31 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Fostering food safety with local produce suppliers Ahold USA has long-standing partnerships with local produce suppliers in the communities they serve. Beginning in February 2012 and continuing into the summer, Ahold USA conducted a series of meetings with 93 local produce suppliers in an effort to promote continuous awareness, and to reinforce our expectation, of compliance with ever-improving food safety standards and the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). Ahold USA’s food safety, buying and merchandising teams partnered with universities, academic members and U.S. Department of Agriculture food safety resources in these meetings. Ahold USA has worked cooperatively with produce industry members in the United Fresh Produce Association along with Federal and State Departments of Agriculture officials, retail and food service industry food safety experts, and third-party audit representatives, in developing and implementing Harmonized Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) Standards. The Harmonized GAP Standards initiative involved a review of over 25 independent standards now in existence. Best practices were extracted into a third-party audit standard that can be more uniformly recognized. The result of over two years of hard work to collaboratively bring the key players together was to bring forward a tool that minimizes “audit fatigue” and audit redundancy, while bringing improved food safety practices. This standard has subsequently been adopted by the Department of Agriculture and other credible auditing entities. This adoption has made the food 93 safety verification and certification process much more reachable and practical for smaller local produce suppliers. The Harmonized GAP approach is a step towards certification against GFSIrecognized standards. Local produce suppliers in food safety dialogue with Ahold USA 32 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Actions and achievements in 2012 •• All Albert Heijn suppliers must demonstrate that their production Ahold Europe: locations are certified against GFSI-recognized standards. In the ••By the end of 2012, 61% of production sites in high-risk countries Czech Republic, Albert has further strengthened its GFSI program Supplier mapping that supply our European banners have been audited (BSCI and has now made it a requirement for all suppliers to be GFSI In order to meet our targets for responsibly sourced products, we or equivalent, other social compliance standards and recently certified. Albert is working with suppliers that are not yet certified to are increasing our insight into our supply chains and are therefore expired programs). support them in this process. mapping the last-stage production sites for our products. ••Our banners in the Netherlands have focused on training buyers Understanding our supply chain is a complex task, as we sell a wide Ahold USA: and quality managers on our social compliance program. range of own-brand products in which thousands of suppliers and Albert in the Czech Republic has focused on training commercial ••In 2012, 70% of sales of own-brand food products at the Ahold USA production sites are involved. In 2011, we implemented a supplier departments and suppliers on our social compliance program. divisions were GFSI certified, compared to 49% in 2011. information management system to support our supply chain mapping process. Even though good progress was made in 2012, the mapping ••The U.S. divisions have made significant progress in 2012, focusing Ahold USA process turned out to be more time-consuming and cumbersome than on mapping the supply chain and working with the suppliers of fresh ••By the end of 2012, 61% of production sites in high-risk countries expected due to the complexity of our supply chains. We estimate that produce. that supply our U.S. divisions have been audited (BSCI or equivalent, we have mapped 80% of our last-stage production sites, and will other social compliance standards and recently expired programs). continue our efforts and aim to complete the mapping process in 2013. Non-food safety ••Our U.S. divisions have focused on increasing insight into our As Ahold’s non-food assortment is growing, we have developed fresh supply chain and working with our suppliers on our social Meeting product safety standards a global non-food safety approach for our own-brand products. compliance program. Product safety is critically important to Ahold. We require our suppliers This includes a risk assessment of the non-food assortment for each to follow strict product safety procedures and policies, which meet operating company. Based on the outcomes of these risk assessments, international standards. For our own-brand products, we predominately mitigating controls such as third-party audits and certification for The Albert Heijn Foundation aims to improve the livelihoods of, and use third-party auditing and certification of our suppliers. high-risk products are put in place. In 2012, we strengthened our relationships with, Albert Heijn’s African fruit and vegetable suppliers, Group-wide compliance program to support the implementation of their families and communities. As part of Albert Heijn’s 125th Food safety this approach. anniversary, in 2012 the AH Foundation set several growth targets for Since 2000, in addition to meeting international safety standards, Ahold 2015: to work with over 25 suppliers, be active in over 10 countries, has been working with the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), an Improving social compliance and cover 100% of products sourced from Africa. In 2012, the international food-safety benchmark framework founded by Ahold in To ensure that our products are produced with respect for people, AH Foundation exchange program also took place, allowing partnership with other retailers. In 2012, GFSI re-benchmarked all food we have a social compliance program for all our own-brand suppliers African suppliers and Albert Heijn employees to share knowledge safety standards against its improved requirements as laid down in a new in high-risk countries1. This program calls for the production sites of and improve business effectiveness. version of the GFSI Guidance Document. Ahold contributed significantly these suppliers to undergo a social audit according to the BSCI or an to this process. For all food-related last-stage production sites, we require equivalent standard. The BSCI standard – developed on the basis of a certificate of compliance with GFSI-recognized food safety standards. Improving sustainability of critical commodities International Labor Organization conventions – includes requirements In improving the sustainability of our own-brand products, we pay Ahold Europe: relating to child labor, forced labor, discrimination, compensation, particular attention to six “critical commodities”, namely: tea, coffee, working hours and other labor conditions. ••Ahold Europe is in process of mapping last-stage production sites for cocoa, palm oil, soy and seafood. These are basic ingredients or its own-brand food products, and collecting food safety certificates. Although we have not yet met our target, we made significant progress generic products that potentially have an adverse impact on several Of the currently mapped sites, in 2012 food safety certificates were on it in 2012 and are working with our suppliers to ensure that they are sustainability issues at the beginning of the supply chain. collected for 84% of these production sites. For the other 16%, the in a social audit program. The percentage of each commodity in our own-brand products that collection process is ongoing. In 2011, based on a sample of our is sustainably sourced is based on the key product categories for which supplier base, we estimated that 90% of production sites were these commodities are relevant. certified against GFSI or equivalent standards. In 2013, we expect to finalize the mapping and collection process for the remaining part of 1 The classification of a high-risk country is based on the Human Development Index of the our own-brand production sites. United Nations and the Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International. 33 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Tea Coffee and cocoa Ahold USA: We are working to improve social and critical environmental issues We aim to reduce the potential adverse impacts caused by coffee ••Before 2012, five Fairtrade coffee products were on sale. For all associated with the production of tea, such as agro-chemical use, and cocoa production – including the loss of natural habitats, soil remaining coffee, Ahold USA has identified the availability of deforestation, soil erosion and labor conditions. Certification programs degradation, degradation of water quality and poor labor conditions. certified coffee products, and will begin the transition to them in we currently accept include UTZ CERTIFIED, Fairtrade, Rainforest Certification programs we currently accept include UTZ CERTIFIED, 2013. Specifically, Ahold USA plans to introduce additional UTZ Alliance and equivalent. Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance and equivalent. CERTIFIED coffee products. The Netherlands: The Netherlands: ••In 2012, Ahold USA identified over 1,200 own-brand products that ••Albert Heijn’s branded tea assortments (including black tea, green ••Albert Heijn has expanded its range of sustainably sourced coffee contain cocoa. A plan to move to certified cocoa in these products is tea, and red bush tea) are all UTZ CERTIFIED, with 30% of the tea and cocoa products. in development. used in these own-brand products being certified. In 2012, 95% of ••The sustainable coffee assortment contains coffee beans and Albert Heijn’s tea sales were certified. ground coffee. In 2012, 100% of Albert Heijn’s own-brand coffee Palm oil sales were certified against our standards. Other Europe: Palm oil is used in several categories, including cookies, shampoo ••The cocoa assortment contains chocolate bars, candies and and oil for deep-fat frying. The production of palm oil potentially ••Of Albert’s own-brand tea products, 22 are sourced centrally at seasonal chocolate products. In 2012, 93% of Albert Heijn’s causes deforestation, which in turn releases greenhouse gases and European level; the remaining six products are sourced locally. own-brand cocoa sales were certified against our standards. endangers wildlife habitats. Ahold is a member of the Roundtable for Albert’s tea has no certification yet. Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). 100% of our estimated palm oil use Other Europe: (in 2012, 8,000 tons) is currently offset using GreenPalm certificates Ahold USA: ( www.greenpalm.org). ••Albert’s coffee is centrally sourced at European level, meaning that ••In 2012, Ahold USA identified suppliers of certified tea products, and 100% of Albert’s coffee sales were also certified. In 2012, Albert Heijn and the Dutch branch of the World Wildlife will begin the transition to certified tea in 2013. Fund (WNF) signed an agreement on the ambition to reach 100% ••Albert’s chocolate products are centrally sourced at European level, segregated palm oil by 2013. This will send a signal to the market that except for chocolate used in locally baked products. will encourage other retailers and manufacturers to strive for the same ••Cocoa is used in 31 of Albert’s bakery products, which are sourced ambition – thereby increasing the use of segregated certified palm oil from local suppliers with insufficient resources to gain certification. across the board. Soy Although little soy is used directly in our products, it is used extensively in animal feed. As Ahold sources meat and other animal-derived products, we are committed to promoting more sustainable soy production. The environmental problems associated with soy production include the loss of natural habitats, deforestation, soil erosion and the use of pesticides. Tea Coffee Cocoa Ahold is a member of the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS), which supports the responsible production and trade of soy. RTRS is considered to be a credible step towards improving the mainstream soy trade in a significant way. In working with RTRS, we are hoping to improve the criteria set for soy. This year again, Ahold signed the renewal of the Amazon moratorium, preventing deforestation in the Amazon through soy production. Percentage of own-brand sales 82% Percentage of own-brand sales 83% Percentage of own-brand sales 32% with certified commodity with certified commodity with certified commodity 34 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Albert partners with regional bakers in Czech Republic Local products are increasingly popular with Czech customers. To increase the range of locally sourced products, Albert’s partnerships with regional bakeries significantly expanded in 2012 to enable the company to buy more local products. Until recently, regional bakers supplied Albert stores mainly with regional specialties and an additional assortment that expanded the standard offering of the largest bakeries. In 2010, Albert launched a project in which they looked for favorite bakery products in the different regions they serve and offered the bakers the opportunity to sell them in Albert stores under the “Pride of Local Bakers” label. Eight suppliers made it through the selection process, and they now deliver their products to Albert stores near their operations. At the beginning of 2012, the pilot project was evaluated to be successful. The process was therefore extended to other regions of the Czech Republic. Since October 2012, around 40 regional bakers exclusively supply some of the most popular fresh baked goods in all 282 Albert stores in the 13 regions of the Czech Republic. 40 Regional bakers exclusively supply some of the most popular fresh baked goods in our Albert stores 35 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Seafood Other Europe: Caring for animal welfare Marine ecosystems are under pressure due to overfishing, leading to a As part of our ambition, we source our own-brand products with ••Albert is working to make its seafood assortment more sustainable, decrease in various species of aquatic organisms, as well as disruptions respect for animals; until now, our operating companies have applied and started in 2012 with two seafood products now being certified to marine ecosystems partly due to by-catch of other species. In the past a local approach to animal welfare. In 2012, we began to review our according to sustainable seafood practices. few years, aquaculture (farming of seafood species) has been practiced animal welfare practices across the company; in 2013, we will develop at a steadily growing rate, leading to potential contamination of, and a Group-wide approach that will include the most important animal Ahold USA: damage to, vulnerable waters and associated habitats. welfare issues across different species groups (beef, dairy, pork and ••Ahold USA and the New England Aquarium have been working poultry) while taking into account applicable laws and regulations. During 2012, Ahold was instrumental in the development of an together on sustainable seafood since 2000. Ahold USA’s target is to industry-wide approach to benchmarking seafood sustainability Ahold does not support the testing of cosmetic products (including ensure the entire seafood assortment is certified according to MSC certification programs. This initiative, the Global Seafood Sustainability personal care products) and their ingredients on animals, nor do we and ASC standards (or equivalent) by 2015. In 2012, ASC-certified Initiative (GSSI), aims to increase transparency among the variety of ask our suppliers to conduct animal testing on our behalf, unless we tilapia first became available to customers. Where ASC products are seafood certification schemes for wild and farmed seafood products. have a legal obligation to do so. We believe that every effort must be not yet available, Ahold USA works with suppliers and the Aquarium It is anticipated that GSSI will be fully implemented towards the end made to avoid the use of animals in testing cosmetic products and to implement practices to improve the environmental impact of the of 2014. Ahold intends to use the output of GSSI as guidance for their ingredients. species and / or farms. This could include sourcing products that seafood sourcing in order to increase the availability of responsibly carry other certifications. For example, all of our own-brand farmed The Netherlands: produced seafood. shrimp sourced from Asia comes from Best Aquaculture Practices ••Since 2011, the range of pork sold at Albert Heijn is produced in a The Netherlands: (BAP) certified farms. more animal-friendly way. Almost all pork products hold a minimum ••In 2012, Albert Heijn continued to add products with Marine ••In 2012, 12% of Ahold USA’s seafood sales were certified. of one “Beter Leven” (better life) star out of a possible three, from the Stewardship Council (MSC) and Aquaculture Stewardship Council Dierenbescherming (Dutch animal welfare society). Albert Heijn’s (ASC) certification to its assortment. Albert Heijn partners with the “AH puur&eerlijk” (organic range) pork and its “scharrelvlees” WNF to further improve its seafood assortment. An example of a (free-range) pork already held three and two stars, respectively. product which has gained ASC certification in 2012 is tilapia. ••In 2012, Albert Heijn made chicken with one, two and three Beter ••In 2012, 18% of Albert Heijn's seafood sales were certified. Leven stars available in all its stores, and currently sells over 75% of “From the beginning, Albert Heijn all free-range and organic chicken sold in the Netherlands. In 2012, has been engaged in working stakeholders raised concerns with supermarkets about the way regular towards our ‘Beter Leven’ label – chicken is produced in the Netherlands. In 2012, Albert Heijn worked as the first supermarket in the with other retailers and the chicken industry to increase the sustainability Netherlands to switch over to pork of the industry while balancing animal welfare, environmental concerns “Ahold continues to with at least one Beter Leven star. and customer demand. make exciting progress Albert Heijn is a front runner in our with their sustainable efforts to offer more animalOther Europe: seafood commitments, friendly meat to customers.” contributing to Frank Dales, General Manager ••Albert follows EU legislation and does not have specific animal healthy oceans Dierenbescherming (animal welfare) welfare policies in addition to this legislation. Seafood around the world.” New England Aquarium Ahold USA: ••Ahold USA has a long-standing animal welfare program for shell egg suppliers under the United Egg Producers (UEP) standard. Collaborative efforts for beef and pork production have also been initiated in conjunction with industry organizations, academia and Percentage of own-brand sales 14% third-party experts. with certified commodity 36 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Reducing the impact of our products Making product packaging more sustainable Our operating companies in Europe have already started putting Ahold supports the Consumer Goods Forum’s resolution on Packaging is a key component of our own-brand products and fulfills our packaging guidelines into practice. Albert Heijn reduced or deforestation: the members pledged to mobilize their collective several functions, one of which is to deliver the product in optimal improved the packaging of several of its own-brand products in 2012. resources to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020. condition to our customers, while reducing waste in the supply The packaging used for green beans, sugar snap peas and mange chain and improving shelf-life. Our aim is therefore to minimize the tout has been reduced by 75%, saving 31,000 kg in materials per Since joining the Sustainability Consortium in 2010, Ahold has been environmental impact of our own-brand packaging throughout its year; the shelf-life of the product has also been improved and the working with partners in the Consortium to gain better insight into the entire lifecycle – from raw material to disposal – without harming the packaging is now made of a single material, which makes it easier environmental and social issues in our supply chain, in order to identify protective function of the packaging. to recycle. Plastic wrapping has been removed from cucumbers where our products have adverse impacts. The output from the (in summer months) and Fairtrade bananas. Olive oil is now sold in Sustainability Consortium is used as input for our product risk In 2012, we developed a global packaging approach including a set plastic bottles instead of glass bottles; these are lighter and therefore assessments. of Group-wide guidelines for sustainable packaging. Starting in 2013, require less energy in production and transportation. Both Albert Heijn new and updated own-brand products will be reviewed against Albert Heijn's sustainable own-brand product range, “AH in the Netherlands and Albert in the Czech Republic help customers our “4R” packaging guidelines: reduce, re-use, recycle and renew. puur&eerlijk,” covers five areas of sustainability: organic, Fairtrade, to separate their packaging waste by placing recycling logos on These guidelines will serve as tool for decision makers in the packaging sustainably caught (seafood), free-range and ecological. The number packaging. Albert’s tea assortment was expanded with Albert Excellent development process. of organic products (the largest category in the range) increased tea, which has no paper sachets to reduce packaging. by 101 products in 2012 bringing the total number to 391. ••Reduce: our first priority is to see whether we can reduce the weight The production of organic products is less harmful to the environment and volume of packaging without negatively affecting the quality since no pesticides or insecticides are used. of the product. “Reduce” therefore also entails reducing food waste, by developing packaging that increases shelf-life and avoids losses As a retailer, we are also part of the lifecycle of our products. Read during transport. more about what we do to reduce the environmental impact of our own operations in the Care for the environment section. ••Re-use: our second priority is to look for ways to make our packaging re-usable, refillable, or re-closable to reduce food waste. Updating our Standards of Engagement ••Recycle: our third priority is to use recycled material in packaging Ahold has revised its Standards of Engagement to make the as much as possible, as well as to increase the recyclability of our language of the contracts clearer to suppliers. We also performed packaging. This includes using single-material packaging instead a review of countries we identify as being high risk, which now include of multiple materials, or ensuring that materials are easy to separate. Argentina. The new version of the Standards of Engagement, ••Renew: finally, we use renewable and certified-sustainable materials applicable to all suppliers, is effective from January 1, 2013 and will where possible when recycled material is not feasible / available, be implemented gradually as supplier contracts are renewed. such as by using Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper Our Standards of Engagement document is publicly available for packaging. on our website. www.ahold.com 37 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) Wood and pulp-based products at Ahold Europe As part of our ambition to increase the sustainability of our ownbrand products, Albert Heijn and Etos are jointly sourcing wood and pulp-based products, such as toilet paper, while aiming to support responsible forest management. In 2012, Albert Heijn signed an agreement with the Dutch branch of the World Wildlife Fund (WNF) stating that Albert Heijn will only use wood and pulp from a responsibly managed origin in all own-brand products containing these commodities by the end of 2015. For instance, tissue paper and office products will be made of Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certified or recycled pulp in the course of 2013. The FSC logo is already recognized by customers, which helps promote these sustainable products. Albert Heijn will also look into upgrading the percentage of recycled materials used in its own-brand products. “We work together with Albert Heijn to make the supply chains of several commodities (palm oil, soy, wood, paper and seafood) more sustainable. Through setting ambitious targets, we also want to inspire others in the sector. Only together can we really make things more sustainable.” Johan van de Gronden, CEO WNF WNF PARTNERS IN MAKING THE COMMODITY SUPPLY Agreement signed with CHAIN MORE SUSTAINABLE Albert Heijn on palm oil, soy, wood, paper and seafood 38 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Responsible products (continued) The data percentage of own-brand food suppliers GFSI certified 2012 The data percentage of products certified against Sales: Products: Food safety Ahold USA 1 70 Critical industry standards1 Coffee 2012 83 2011 48 (GFSI) Ahold Europe 2,3 84 commodities Tea 82 78 1 For Ahold USA, the percentage is calculated as a percentage of sales. 2 For Ahold Europe, the percentage is calculated as a percentage of suppliers. Cocoa 32 82 3 Ahold Europe comprises the Netherlands and Other Europe. Palm oil 0 0 Soy 0 0 The data percentage of suppliers in high-risk countries audited Social on social compliance 2012 Seafood 14 15 1 Ahold USA 22 compliance Ahold Europe 2 48 1 The percentage of each critical commodity that is sustainably sourced is the percentage of sales that have been certified based on key products within selected categories at Ahold Europe (comprising the Netherlands and Other Europe) and Ahold USA. In 2011, we used the percentage of products to calculate this. See Our approach to reporting for the 1 When taking into account social standards other than BSCI, equivalent or recently list of key products and associated categories. expired programs, the percentage of suppliers that have been audited rises to 61% for both Ahold USA and Ahold Europe. 2 Ahold Europe comprises the Netherlands and Other Europe. The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of Ahold USA 1 251 160 NR NR NR Fairtrade-certified The Netherlands 127 2 141 96 67 68 products Other Europe 4 0 1 19 19 at year-end Total 382 301 NR NR NR 1 2008–2010 data for Ahold USA has not been reported due to duplication of products among the different divisions. 2 Due to the removal of duplicates, the number of Fairtrade products is lower in 2012 than 2011. The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of Ahold USA1 3,821 2,916 NR NR NR certified organic The Netherlands 526 447 407 304 290 products Other Europe 449 498 570 721 529 at year-end Total 4,796 3,861 NR NR NR 1 2008–2010 data for Ahold USA has not been reported due to duplication of products among the different divisions. 39 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment 1 2 3 4 5 Care for the environment We recognize that climate change is an important global issue, and that we have a role to play as an international food retailer both to reduce the impact of our own operations and to support our suppliers and customers to do the same. We also recognize that waste is becoming an ever more significant topic in business and society; considerable natural resources are wasted and unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions are being generated. We care about the environment, and our ambition is to reduce our environmental footprint. We aim to achieve our ambition by reducing the environmental impact of our operations; managing our waste by reducing, re-using and recycling where possible; and helping our customers, suppliers and employees to reduce their environmental impact. To reduce the environmental impact of our own operations, we have programs in place across our businesses to use less electricity, gas and refrigerants in stores, and to improve the efficiency of our transportation. Our waste management strategy focuses on food and packaging waste, shopping bags used by customers, and eliminating landfill as a disposal method. 40 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Our progress on our targets 2. Develop a Group metric to measure food waste by 2012. 3. Develop a global approach with guidelines for sustainable own-brand packaging, which includes a In 2010, we set two Group-wide targets in our strategy to 2015 for the In 2012, we developed a metric to measure food waste. We took our packaging improvement program for each operating impact of our own operations on the environment. We met our second existing metric for shrink, and removed theft, food bank donations, company by 2012. target to have a comprehensive waste management strategy in place cash shortages and other sales losses, and added warehouse losses. by 2011, and set five additional waste targets. Based on this metric, our food waste in 2012 was between 1 and 2% This target relates to our own-brand products, and has therefore of total food sales, where fresh food waste is between 2 and 3% and been moved to the Responsibly sourced products section. 1. Reduce CO2 per square meter of sales area by 20% dry food waste between 0 and 1%. In 2013, we will continue to in our operations by 2015 against our 2008 baseline. improve the accuracy of this measurement. 4. Eliminate free disposable bags at the checkout in our supermarkets in Europe by 2012, and reduce In 2012, our CO2 emissions per square meter of sales area were Waste production the amount of disposable bags at the checkout in 471 kg, down 15% against our 2008 baseline of 555 kg. kg per sq.m. of sales area the United States by one billion bags by 2015. Total CO2 emissions In 2012, Albert Heijn stopped giving away free disposable plastic kg per sq.m. of sales area bags at the checkout. In the Czech Republic, Albert continued its 137 program to charge customers for plastic bags; the funds raised are 133 555 549 128 129 131 donated to help children in need. Ahold USA’s divisions launched 529 a bag-reduction program. 497 5. Eliminate landfill as a disposal method by 2020. 471 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, none of our waste in the Netherlands went to landfill; in Other Europe, 32% went to landfill, down 2% on 2011. In the United States, 24% of our waste went to landfill – an increase of 12% compared to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011. In the same period, incinerated waste reduced from 29% to 16%. During 2012, Ahold USA implemented new waste reduction programs that provided increased insights in the landfill and incineration practices. Our target to reach zero landfill1 by 2020 includes both the landfill and incineration, and remains the same. In 2012, the total landfill and incineration at Ahold USA reduced by 1% Total CO2 Total CO2 compared to 2011. emissions emissions by area by source 6. Ensure that all operating companies have implemented a communication policy to encourage customers to reduce, re-use and recycle by 2013. In 2012, customer communication focused on the steps we are taking to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. Ahold USA 75% Electricity 54% In 2013, customer communication will be expanded to include waste. The Netherlands 14% Refrigerant leakage 26% Other Europe 11% Fuel 10% Gas 9% District heating 1% 1 Ahold USA has a “zero waste” ambition, meaning that no more than 10% of waste will be incinerated or disposed of in landfills. See Glossary for definition of landfill and zero waste. 41 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Stop & Shop opens energy-efficient store in Massachusetts In November 2012, the Stop & Shop New England division opened a new energy-efficient store in Wayland, Massachusetts. The new 45,000 square-foot store will be Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified. Its energy-efficient features include 627 roof-top solar panels which are expected to supply about 11% of the store’s overall energy needs. LED parking lot lights will reduce energy consumption by 50% vs. traditional lighting, and will save about 1.4% of the store’s annual electricity requirements. Stop & Shop also introduced complementary electric car-charging stations at the new store, providing nine parking spots for electric cars. Additional energy-saving features include: a white roof to reflect sunlight and reduce heat gains in the store so that less energy is required for space cooling; skylights to harvest daylight and dim energy-efficient fluorescent lights to reduce the electricity consumption during peak daylight hours; LED lighting in overhead track lights; spotlights on specialty areas and displays, exterior store signs and in the frozen food cases; low air return in frozen aisles which makes the store environment more comfortable for shoppers; ECM (electronically commutated motor) fans in the refrigerated fixtures and walk-in coolers that deliver uniform airflow while using 41% less electricity; occupancy sensors in the storage areas and offices; and an energy management system to monitor the 627 performance of the lighting, refrigeration, and HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) systems. In addition, low flow fixtures in bathrooms and prep areas contribute to the reduction of water consumption, as does drought-resistant roof-top solar panels landscaping. supplying around 11% of store’s energy needs 42 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Actions and achievements in 2012 1. Transport network: Reducing the emissions of our transport Reducing and generating electricity in cooling, heating and network by using clean, low-energy, silent trucks with full loads. lighting stores: Our environmental efforts are being recognized: in 2012, Ahold USA The Netherlands: was ranked seventh on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 2. Recycling: Recycling cardboard and plastic, and helping our Top 20 Retail list and number 30 on the National Top 50 list of green customers to do the same. ••In 584 Albert Heijn stores, refrigeration units are covered with doors, power purchasers. In Europe, Ahold Transport received Connekt’s leading to savings in electricity consumption of up to 25%. By 2015, 3. Heating and cooling: Using more efficient heating and cooling “Lean and Green” certificate for its plans to reduce CO2 emissions all stores will be equipped with covered refrigeration units. systems, reducing refrigerant leakage, and using alternative through the ways in which it transports products to Albert Heijn, Etos (less harmful) refrigerant substances to keep our products cool. and Gall & Gall stores, and between its six distribution centers. Other Europe: 4. Renewable energy: Using renewable energy, such as solar energy ••Albert stores have implemented several initiatives to reduce energy. via panels on the roofs of stores. Reducing our carbon dioxide emissions Examples are new lighting plans and use of low-energy eco-lamps 5. Fridges and freezers: Fitting doors on wall fridges, covering freezer and lighting control, LED lighting, and regulation of ventilation Our own operations aisles, and integrating energy-efficient LED lighting and through temperature and air quality. Albert ran two pilot projects: We are working to reduce our CO2 emissions – both through the Electronically Commutated Motor (ECM) fans into fridges. one on LED lighting in refrigeration units, and one on doors on those design and operations of our (new and existing) stores, and through units. These pilots were both successful and will be rolled out further the way we transport products to stores. When we design a new store, 6. Harvesting daylight: Harvesting daylight via skylight windows in in 2013. Albert’s distribution center for fresh produce was upgraded we look at how to reduce its total environmental footprint, considering the roof, to help reduce electricity usage by dimming the lighting. with LED lighting. heating, lighting and refrigeration requirements. 7. Store design: Designing and constructing new stores more efficiently, and retrofitting existing stores with climate-saving features. Ahold USA: 8. Product assortment: Reducing the carbon footprint of our product ••At the end of 2012, 30 Ahold USA stores were equipped with solar 1 assortment, by sourcing own-brand products more sustainably. panels on their roofs. This is an increase of six stores compared to 2011. Stores are also being upgraded with LED lighting, and in 2012, 9. Lighting: Using more energy-efficient LED lighting. 179 stores had their existing lighting upgraded with LED fixtures. 10. Shopping bags: Reducing the number of shopping bags used 2 by customers, by no longer making them freely available at the checkout. 3 4 5 6 Electricity efficiency 8 kWh per sq.m. of sales area 9 800 700 600 10 7 500 400 2009 2010 2011 2012 Average Ahold USA The Netherlands Other Europe 43 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Reducing gas usage in stores: Increasing fuel efficiency: Our supply chain The Netherlands: The Netherlands: To find out how we support and encourage our suppliers to reduce their environmental footprint, read the Responsibly sourced products ••New and remodeled Albert Heijn stores are fitted with an integrated ••Albert Heijn is increasing the amount of load carriers per truck section. cooling, freezing and heating system, which means that no gas is (helping to raise fill rate), reducing the use of fuel, and developing needed in these stores at all. The system uses waste heat produced and implementing new truck fleet features. For more information, Our customers during the refrigeration cycle to heat the store. In 2012, the system read the case study. The Netherlands: was in place at 222 stores. ••The load factor of Albert Heijn’s trucks was 79% in 2012 – ••In 2012, Albert Heijn launched its new responsible retailing an increase of 3% compared to 2011. The fuel usage per kilometer campaign, known as “Meer Doen” (or “Do More”). Albert Heijn Reducing refrigerant leakage and impact: in 2012 was down 3% on 2011. stores across the Netherlands started communicating about Ahold is a signatory of the Consumer Goods Forum resolution to sustainability – including energy-saving and recycling activities – begin phasing out harmful refrigerants by 2015, and to replace them Other Europe: to customers. For more information, read the case study. with natural alternative refrigerants. ••The load factor of Albert’s trucks was over 85% in 2012. The Netherlands: Other Europe: Ahold USA: ••Since 2010, new and remodeled stores are equipped with a system ••Communications to Albert’s customers about reducing their carbon that uses 100% CO2 for freezing, and a refrigerant whose global ••The Stop & Shop New England and Giant Landover distribution footprint will be introduced in 2013. warming potential (GWP) is three times lower than the refrigerant centers joined the Smartway Transport Partnership in 2008, which used until 2009 for cooling. Albert Heijn is currently piloting is a collaboration with the federal government. Initiatives such as Ahold USA: refrigeration installations at three stores, which use 100% natural reducing engine idle time, improving fuel economy, developing ••Ahold USA’s stores with solar panel systems on their rooftops feature refrigerants (CO2). more efficient truck routes, increasing trailer utilization, and making LCD screens mounted at the front of the stores to display, in real capital investments with new trucks and longer trailers, helped time, the amount of electricity generated by the solar panels. Other Europe: achieve fuel savings of 321,166 gallons of diesel fuel in 2012. These screens also show the volume of CO2 offset by this renewable ••In 2012, seven Albert stores were using CO2 as a refrigerant ••The Ahold USA distribution centers made significant capital source of energy. substance for freezing. investments in energy-efficient vehicles by purchasing new energyefficient trucks and longer trailers. The overall average trailer load Ahold USA: factor (cube per load) for all Ahold USA’s trucks increased 4.7% compared to 2011. ••Ahold USA uses monitoring systems to detect leakage in refrigerant systems early. At the end of 2012, these monitoring systems were installed in 441 stores. They are also piloting hybrid systems that use carbon dioxide for freezing. Gas consumption Refrigerant leakage Fuel consumption cubic meters per sq.m. of sales area percentage liters per 1,000 products sold 23.1 21.7 12.6 11.2 4.9 4.7 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 44 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Ahold Europe improves truck fleet for sustainable transport For more information In November 2012, Ahold Transport received the “Lean and Green” on this topic, watch a certificate for its efforts to transport products between stores and video case study distribution centers more sustainably. To achieve this, they needed to minimize the number of miles trucks were driving empty, maximize the fill rate of the trucks, and use innovative technologies and smart planning. The new truck fleet includes a range of features such as hybrid fuel tanks for lower CO2 emissions, silent engines for night-time deliveries and detachable containers for city driving. First, Ahold monitored third-party transport companies to stimulate best practices in food retail distribution. They also introduced a driver performance program to coach them in low fuel usage and the best driving techniques. The truck fleet technologies were upgraded to make transportation as efficient as possible: all trucks use Euro 5 energy-efficient engines; all trailers are PIEK-certified; and 40 trucks have aerodynamic skirts. The 25 Eco-combi trucks save 33% in mileage and 17% in CO2 emissions against regular trucks. This means that larger trucks with higher capacity are used up until the last mile of the journey to the store when a single trailer is de-coupled for delivery purposes. At the end of 2012, 24 trucks were using liquefied natural gas as an alternative fuel, while 18 were using liquefied bio methane, which save 9% and 84% CO2 respectively compared to traditional fuels. Being piloted is a hybrid diesel-electric truck, which saves 20% in fuel and enables maximum sound reduction for the last mile when it runs electric-only. Albert Heijn’s online delivery service is also piloting a fully electric truck. “Together with over 300 companies and governments in the Lean and Green Connekt program, Ahold is proving that financial gains and environmental benefits go hand in hand, thanks to the optimization of the supply chain. [...] That is the value of Lean and Green for logistics and transport in the Netherlands; that is the value that Ahold, as a responsible retailer, adds within the Lean and Green network. Because we all care about the future.” Nico Anten, managing director Connekt 45 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Managing our waste Our own operations Reducing our environmental footprint and improving our waste management is not only good for the environment; it is also good for business. It can save costs and – through recycling initiatives – generate revenue. There are several elements to waste management, including reduce, re-use and recycle. Managing food waste: In 2012, we developed a metric to measure food waste. Despite this, we have not been able to further reduce food waste in 2012. In our strategy to manage food waste, our first step is to reduce it as much as possible through focusing on shelf-life and expiry date extension, supply chain and order unit optimization, and mark-down policy. Our second is to re-use leftover, safe, consumable food by donating it to food banks. Our third step is to recycle, process and dispose of waste appropriately, including via fermentation in the Netherlands and composting in the United States. For more information, read the case study. Total waste by type percentage of total waste 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Organic Metal Cardboard Plastic Wood Other 46 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) “We are very happy to Managing packaging waste: Our supply chain have Ahold as a partner Reducing shopping bag usage: Our packaging target relates to our own-brand products, and has We work together with in the FUSIONS project, The Netherlands: therefore been moved to the Responsibly sourced products section. partners in the supply working both on long••In January 2012, Albert Heijn stopped distributing free plastic chain to reduce overall term business-driven bags at the checkout, saving 600 kg plastic per day. Eliminating landfill as a disposal method: waste production, and strategies to improve food The Netherlands: to dispose of it in the chain sustainability, and Other Europe: best way possible. on short-term action••Our operations in the Netherlands do not result in any waste being We continue to work driven pilot studies to ••At Albert, customers have to pay for plastic bags; the money sent to landfill. with the Consumer develop best practices.” raised is donated to the Albert Charity Foundation. Goods Forum and Toine Timmermans, WUR Other Europe: the Sustainability Ahold USA: ••Albert tested a central waste disposal management system in the Consortium to support ••Ahold USA has developed a comprehensive plan and tracking Czech Republic during fall 2012 in six stores. sustainable food and metric to meet the target to reduce bag use by a billion bags by packaging initiatives. Ahold also supports the European food waste 2015. Initial results have been positive and we are developing a Ahold USA: consortium FUSIONS (Food Use for Social Innovations by Optimising tracking process to be able to report progress from 2013 onwards. waste preventioN Strategies) to develop innovative solutions to prevent ••Ahold USA is striving to reduce the amount of waste going to landfill Further plans include working on operational efficiencies for and reduce food waste throughout the value chain. and incineration through the expansion of its organic recycling increasing items per bag, education and communication for both program (focusing on increasing composting and livestock feed) and employees and consumers, and marketing programs. Our customers increasing consumable food donations to food banks. In addition, In October 2012, 17 retail companies, including Ahold, presented Ahold USA is reviewing opportunities to increase rigid plastic their plans to cut back on food waste and make the waste stream recycling, expanded single-stream recycling, and wax cardboard Managing our water consumption more sustainable to the European Commissioner for the Environment recycling. during the annual Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme (REAP) Our own operations ••Organic recycling was up 37% at end of 2012 compared to 2011, event. The retailers committed to organizing two awareness-raising Water consumption is a global challenge. Although we do not with total of 509 stores participating compared to 224 at the end campaigns on waste reduction on a global and / or national level currently operate in water-stressed areas, we report on our own of 2011. by June 2014. water usage and design our stores to use less water where possible. Communicating with customers: Our supply chain The Netherlands: Water scarcity is an issue for some of our suppliers whose products we sell, and is part of our responsible products program. We work Total waste by disposal method ••In 2012, customer communication focused on the steps we are with the Sustainability Consortium to understand the water footprint percentage of total waste taking to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. of our products better. In 2013, customer communication will be expanded to include waste. Other Europe: ••Communications to Albert’s customers about waste will be introduced in 2013. Ahold USA: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ••Since mid-2012, all stores in Ahold USA’s divisions have a so-called Re-used, recycled or recovered waste Incinerated waste “Green Captain” to champion and drive responsible retailing targets Fermented waste Landfill waste and programs at store level, including bag reduction, food donation Compost waste and waste reduction. For more information, read the case study. 47 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) Fighting hunger and composting waste at Ahold USA Ahold USA’s divisions wanted to do more to redirect safe, consumable food from the waste stream to regional food bank partners, so they set up a Consumable Food Taskforce. The goals of this multi-disciplinary committee were to identify and establish standardized food donation procedures from stores across the divisions. To do this, they had to overcome several challenges. The first challenge was to review current product donation practices, and identify and replicate best practices. As a result, for instance, Giant Carlisle changed its day-old bakery policy. The second was to ensure that charitable product donations are properly tracked from stores to food banks. The third challenge was to understand food banks’ capacity to accept more donations. The team identified major regional food banks by division and surveyed their needs, which revealed that they could help most in the donation of frozen meat. An initial pilot is currently being expanded to support more food banks with high-quality protein – what they need the most. As a result of both the efforts of the taskforce and better tracking and reporting of donations, our 2012 donations to food banks increased by 50% – a welcome contribution to local communities in times of crisis. Any food that cannot be donated is diverted from landfill by being re-used, either as livestock feed or for composting. In 2012, a composting program was rolled out to 285 more U.S. stores, bringing the total to 509. Composting facilities vary by supplier and location, but in general these facilities can convert organic waste to compost for use as a nutrient-rich soil additive in as few as 120 days in state-of-the-art facilities. Each pound of organic waste diverted for composting directly reduces our contribution to landfill. “I cannot emphasize enough how important the frozen meat donation program is to enriching the array of nutritious food we provide to our For more information community partners serving food-insecure Central Pennsylvanians. on this topic, watch a The program has been a game changer for people in need... and video case study everyone involved is doubly thankful that this wonderful food is being shared at dinner tables rather than going to waste.” Joe Arthur, Executive Director Central Pennsylvania Food Bank 48 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) The data Volume Efficiency CO2 emissions 1,2,3 2012 2011 2010 (thousands of metric tons) 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 (kg per sq.m. of sales area) 20094 2008 Ahold USA 1,584 1,653 1,708 1,682 1,661 540 577 610 620 635 The Netherlands 287 294 316 391 356 269 283 311 384 383 Other Europe 5 226 219 233 252 243 498 484 512 496 457 15.1% Total Group 2,097 2,166 2,257 2,325 2,260 471 497 529 549 555 Reduction in 1 CO2 emissions comprise electricity, leakage of refrigerant substances, gas, fuel and district heating. Given the limited impact of district heating, we do not report on this separately. CO2 compared 2 Since the consumption of all elements is not measured in CO2 kilograms, conversion factors are used. Historical data are corrected for the 2011 conversion factor. See CO2 conversion factors section for more details on the methodology applied. to 2008 3 380 GWh of the electricity consumed have a zero conversion factor, as green energy certificates were purchased in 2012 for this quantity. 4 The 2009 efficiency measures are adjusted to a 52-week period in order to be consistent with 2008, 2010, 2011 and 2012. This applies to all tables with an efficiency per square meter of sales area. 5 The Other Europe data exclude the district heating consumption for Slovakia in 2008. The data Volume Efficiency Electricity 2012 2011 2010 2009 (millions of kWh) 2008 2012 2011 2010 (kWh per sq.m. of sales area) 2009 2008 consumption Ahold USA 2,110 2,109 2,128 2,083 2,133 719 736 761 768 816 The Netherlands 551 553 544 552 500 517 534 535 544 539 8.8% Other Europe 264 273 266 304 302 583 603 585 598 567 Total Group 2,925 2,935 2,938 2,939 2,935 657 674 688 694 720 More efficient in electricity usage compared to 2008 The data Volume Efficiency Leakage of 2012 2011 2010 2009 (metric tons) 2008 2012 2011 2010 (as percentage of total refrigerants) 2009 2008 refrigerant Ahold USA 161 181 204 179 171 12.2 14.2 16.0 14.7 14.3 substances1 The Netherlands 28 26 28 27 22 6.6 6.9 8.3 9.0 7.7 Other Europe 17 13 15 16 14 14.2 11.8 13.6 14.0 11.4 Total Group 206 220 247 222 207 11.2 12.6 14.4 13.6 13.1 1 Refrigerants measured include CFCs, HCFCs and HFCs. 49 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) The data Volume Efficiency Fuel consumption 2012 2011 2010 2009 (thousands of liters) 2008 2012 2011 2010 (liters per 1,000 products sold) 2009 2008 Ahold USA 49,350 51,024 49,588 46,368 45,242 6.2 6.4 6.5 6.2 6.5 4.1% The Netherlands 24,620 26,019 27,266 25,799 24,186 3.6 3.9 4.1 4.0 4.1 More efficient in Other Europe 6,720 7,081 7,029 6,806 6,789 2.9 3.0 3.0 2.8 3.0 fuel usage Total Group 80,690 84,124 83,883 78,972 76,216 4.7 4.9 5.1 4.8 5.0 compared to 2011 The data Volume Efficiency Natural gas 2012 2011 2010 (thousands of cubic meters) 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 (cubic meters per sq.m. of sales area) 2009 2008 consumption Ahold USA 70,446 73,790 69,963 71,552 65,420 24.0 25.7 25.0 26.4 25.0 The Netherlands 20,403 20,903 24,220 23,809 24,129 19.1 20.2 23.8 23.4 26.0 Other Europe 5,878 6,099 6,651 7,975 7,705 13.0 13.5 14.6 15.7 14.5 Total Group 96,727 100,792 100,833 103,336 97,254 21.7 23.1 23.6 24.4 23.9 The data Volume Efficiency Waste production 2012 2011 2010 2009 (millions of kg) 2008 2012 2011 2010 (kg per sq.m. of sales area) 2009 2008 Ahold USA 430 420 428 390 380 146 147 153 144 145 The Netherlands 118 118 118 117 107 110 114 117 115 115 Other Europe 1 37 39 39 40 37 82 86 85 79 69 Total Group 585 577 585 546 523 131 133 137 129 128 1 Other Europe excludes Slovakia for 2008. 50 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Care for the environment (continued) The data Ahold USA The Netherlands Other Europe Total Waste by type percentage of waste 2012 2011 2010 2009 20081 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 20082 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Organic 9 7 6 5 3 27 27 27 28 29 18 20 20 20 12 13 12 11 11 9 Cardboard 44 45 44 47 45 56 55 55 54 54 43 41 41 40 37 46 47 47 49 47 Wood 6 6 5 6 5 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 5 4 4 4 4 Metal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Plastic 1 1 1 1 1 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 Other 40 41 44 41 46 14 15 15 15 14 35 35 35 36 47 34 35 37 35 39 Total waste 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 1 Meat rendering was not available in 2008. 2 Slovakia data was not available in 2008. The data Ahold USA The Netherlands Other Europe Total Waste by percentage of waste 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 1 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 disposal Re-used, recycled or recovered waste 56 57 54 58 55 60 61 58 57 57 47 44 44 43 41 57 57 54 57 54 method Fermented waste 0 0 0 0 0 27 27 27 28 29 3 3 3 0 0 6 6 6 6 6 Compost waste 4 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 8 7 9 4 3 2 2 1 1 Incinerated waste 16 29 29 32 34 13 12 15 15 14 11 11 11 11 16 15 24 25 27 29 Landfill waste 24 12 15 9 11 0 0 0 0 0 32 34 35 37 39 19 11 13 9 11 Total waste 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 1 Meat rendering was not available in 2008. 2 Slovakia data was not available in 2008. The data Volume Efficiency Water 2012 2011 2010 2009 (millions of liters) 2008 2012 2011 2010 (liters per sq.m. of sales area) 2009 2008 consumption1 Ahold USA 3,459 3,139 3,252 3,363 3,209 1,179 1,095 1,163 1,240 1,227 The Netherlands 442 465 456 483 NR 415 448 449 476 NR 1 Other Europe data is excluded due to limited reliability of the consumption data. 51 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people 1 2 3 4 5 Our people With nearly 225,000 employees on two continents, Ahold is privileged to have teams of great people who excel at what they do, and we are committed to their success. Our ambitions are to provide a better place to work, with opportunities for growth and advancement, and to support our employees in living healthy lives and driving sustainability. In every community in which Ahold companies operate, we strive to create workplaces built on fairness and mutual respect. We provide competitive pay and benefits, foster working environments that are safe and secure, and seek input from our employees to keep getting better every day. Driving stable employment and strong job opportunities remain at the core of everything we do. Employment levels at Ahold companies have expanded as a result of our continued growth. 52 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) Our progress on our targets In 2010, we set one Group-wide target in our strategy to 2015 for our people, which has now been met. 1. Ensure that each operating company has a CR employee program in place by 2012. All of our operating companies have put in place employee responsible retailing programs. These include health and wellness programs for employees in many of our locations, and programs to increase the sustainability of our work environments. During 2012, we therefore made a new commitment: Report on our progress on our responsible retailing employee programs from 2013 onwards, using the following metrics: – employee engagement – employee participation in healthy living programs – rollout of sustainability programs Albert holds activity day for Czech and Slovakian employees In May 2012, Albert hosted its first “Prima Day” (fun day out) for During the day, Albert employees and their children also played employees and their families. The aim was to support employee games and competitions, in which they could win prizes, many of engagement by getting involved in fun, energetic, healthy activities which focused on eating a healthier diet. The children were inspired with colleagues, including a football tournament, children’s games, by cookbooks from Albert’s Healthy 5 project (a campaign to theater plays, body painting, jazz music, barbecue and tombola. educate children in eating five portions of fruit and vegetables a day Albert’s suppliers provided food and drinks. – see case study), as well as board games and books. A theater performance entitled “Fruits and vegetables fight off illnesses” The ALBERT CUP football tournament was the highlight of the day, inspired not just children but their parents too. with 16 teams taking part. The tournament encouraged employees to take physical exercise as part of leading a healthier lifestyle. 53 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) Actions and achievements in 2012 Ahold Europe: Ahold USA: As employers of nearly 225,000 people, we are constantly striving to ••Ahold Europe developed health regulations and activities to improve ••In 2012, Ahold USA trained over 200 top leaders in the area of be a better place to work – this is the foundation of our commitment the effectiveness of health and safety measures at work. This resulted “Managing Inclusion.” This program focused on giving leaders the to our people. As part of our focus on being a better place to work, in a new tool to monitor risks in stores: the “WinkelVeiligheidsScan” skills to develop diverse, inclusive teams where all employees can we strive to create workplaces built on fairness, respect and safety. (store safety scan) to review all safety aspects of a store. A safety at contribute and realize their potential. Furthermore, we value diversity and inclusion at all levels of the work training program (including First Aid) was also developed for ••Ahold USA has “Associate Resource groups” in three of its four organization. We support our employees in living healthy lives, and store managers and other leaders to prevent incidents and train their divisions, with plans to implement across all divisions in 2013. encourage them to drive sustainability. Finally, we seek out and value teams in how to respond to such incidents. These groups bring networks of women and multicultural employees feedback from employees and use this input to make improvements together to make connections, discuss the issues facing our business throughout our operations. Ahold USA: with division executives, and provide leadership opportunities. Across the Group, our operating companies received a number of ••All stores and distribution centers have an established safety Last year, the divisions ran three Women’s Conferences focusing awards and rankings relating to their credentials as an employer – see committee and a safety promoter. This team and leader are on leadership development for female leaders. Awards and rankings during 2012. responsible for ensuring that hazards are identified and eliminated ••18 female employees of Ahold USA and its divisions were and that safety programs are executed effectively. honored as Progressive Grocer’s 2012 “Top Women in Grocery” Respecting each other ••Programs that have been successful in reducing the frequency and for helping to initiate change within the industry, contributing to Ahold’s global Code of Conduct reflects our commitment to severity of employee injuries include slip-resistant footwear (resulting their communities, mentoring other employees and leading workplaces characterized by mutual respect, equal opportunities and in 40% fewer “slip and fall” incidents in fresh departments), nurse important initiatives. freedom from discrimination and harassment. We respect employees’ assistance in case of accident, modified work for employees with legal rights, including the rights of employees to bargain collectively, physical restrictions, annual assessments to determine personal Measuring and acting on employee feedback as well as the standards regarding freedom of association outlined in protective equipment needs, and safety specialists in stores. We seek out and value feedback from employees. In 2012, all of the United Nations Global Compact. Local toll-free ethics helplines our operating companies conducted surveys to measure employee are available for employees to report any concerns about possible satisfaction, engagement and ways we can be more effective. This violations of the Code of Conduct or improper behavior, and Ahold Fostering inclusion has been an annual process in Ahold Europe since 2007 and was companies commit to investigating all such reports and taking A diverse workforce is important for Ahold companies to create implemented in Ahold USA this year, with plans to make it annual appropriate action. successful teams, and we implement programs that support inclusion. going forward. Nearly 140,000 employees in our companies around We work hard to foster a working environment where all employees In our Ahold Europe and Ahold USA businesses, we have employees the world participated in these surveys. can demonstrate their abilities, skills and experiences. represented by unions. We strive to have positive and cooperative Overall, the most favorably rated survey dimension is “customer focus,” relationships with the unions that represent those employees. The Netherlands: rated positively by employees within Ahold USA and Ahold Europe. ••At the end of 2012, Albert Heijn was employing 568 “Wajongers” Across our companies, employees feel encouraged to go out of their Providing good working conditions (young disabled people) in its stores. way to satisfy customers, act quickly to resolve customer concerns and We invest in and focus on programs that keep employees safe in view customer orientation as a top priority. Other favorably rated our stores, offices and distribution centers. We believe that ensuring Other Europe: dimensions include supervision and teamwork. our employees’ work safety is a fundamental responsibility of our ••In 2012 Albert executed a pilot, “Find a job with Albert,” aimed at As with every survey, the findings also highlighted areas that we’d like organization. We have many programs and initiatives focused on helping young adults from children’s homes to find a job at Albert. to improve. Examples include increasing development opportunities providing the information, education and tools necessary to work In total four stores and five children’s homes participated. Albert and improving company communications to all employees. without incident or injury. helped these young adults write résumés and covering letters. We are in the process of sharing survey findings with employees and acting on these to make concrete improvements to the way we operate. Detailed action plans – reflecting the findings from the surveys – are currently being developed in each area of the company and all stores, and are due to be completed by March 2013. 54 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) Albert Heijn’s ambition to be the best vocational learning company 1,400 Employee engagement leads to better retention, customer satisfaction Vocational learning and business performance. Albert Heijn’s ambition is therefore to be students per year gain a better place to work, also for our part-time employees, by offering experience in Albert the best combination of education and work. Many young people Heijn stores in the Netherlands have their first job at Albert Heijn: each year, the company employs around 53,000 young people (under 19). This includes over 1,400 vocational learning students (some of whom are recruited from local colleges), who gain experience in stores. Participants in a special vocational learning program for the unemployed were recruited in cooperation with the municipality of Amsterdam. This program focuses on integrating the unemployed into the community, and therefore also fulfils our ambition to contribute to community well-being. From the group of 44 previously unemployed who started in this group in 2010, 34 no longer register for unemployment benefit. The program stimulates students to graduate and finish school, and offers them opportunities to develop professionally. In Amsterdam in 2012, 13 students graduated after two years of vocational learning and working at Albert Heijn. In Utrecht, nine candidates are working towards graduation in 2013. In October 2012, a teachers’ conference took place involving 75 teachers from 30 vocational colleges. Albert Heijn created a LinkedIn group for teachers to keep in touch, and will roll out an online vocational learning platform in mid-2013. 55 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) Supporting our employees in healthy living Ahold USA: Ahold USA: As part of our employee responsible retailing plans, we have ••Ahold USA helps employees to lead healthier lives by offering ••Since mid-2012, all stores in Ahold USA’s divisions have a “Green implemented health and well-being programs at all our operating voluntary fitness courses, support groups for chronic disease states, Captain” to champion and drive responsible retailing targets and companies. smoking cessation programs, walking programs and weight-loss programs at store level. For more information, read the case study. The Netherlands: programs. While these are being piloted in corporate office locations, the plan is to expand these offerings into the retail divisions ••Ahold provides opportunities for employees in the Netherlands to within the next one to three years. Engaging employees in our strategy lead healthier lives, including a well-being program, which consists In 2012, we introduced the final element of our Reshaping Retail of four elements: mindset, nutrition, movement and recovery. ••Annual health fairs, which include interactive demos, screenings and framework: our promises to be a better place to shop, a better This program includes fun team activities, advice on how to avoid massage therapy are held at all corporate locations. place to work and a better neighbor. These promises define how mental and physical illness, health management policies, collective ••Ahold USA communicates regularly via the “Healthy Ideas for we will get better every day for our customers, our employees and discounts on health insurances, regular free fruit and eat fit clinics, Associates” program, which includes themed desk drops, posters our communities. Responsible retailing runs through all three and sports activities such as running, soccer and cycling. and highlights in divisional newsletters. promises, because without it we cannot achieve our ambition to ••Ahold’s “Fit & Fun” program continued to generate strong get better every day. participation during the reporting year. In 2012, 3,300 employees Supporting our employees in driving sustainability Employees are the key to putting this strategy into practice and participated in 290 events (up from 2011 in which 3,100 employees As part of our employee responsible retailing programs, we have bringing it to life. In 2012, we kicked off a program to engage participated in 280 events). The annual soccer tournament in May launched programs to help employees drive sustainability in our offices colleagues at all our operating companies on our promises. The was attended by over 1,750 participants. The 10-mile “Dam to and stores. roll out program began with the top leadership team in September, Dam” run was finished by 2,400 employees, and the walking tour and is continuing to cascade through the organization to the stores by 380 employees. Other initiatives included a 12-week training / The Netherlands: and distribution centers in 2013. healthy-eating program, quit-smoking program, bike discount plan ••In 2012, Albert Heijn launched its new responsible retailing and free health checks. campaign, known as “Meer Doen” (or “Do More”) in stores and In 2012, we ••Albert Heijn communicates about healthy living to its employees via offices. For more information, read the case study. Office initiatives introduced the final its internal magazine Ahá. included encouraging the re-use of cups. element of our ••A proactive mailbox program to reduce the quantity of mail that is Reshaping Retail Other Europe: framework: our immediately thrown away began in June 2012 and resulted in ••In 2012, Albert organized the “Prima Day” (fun day out) for savings of 21,463 kg paper in 2012, 1,164 pieces of mail per day, promises to be a better employees and their families to engage in fun, energetic, healthy and 1,433 subscriptions to trade literature during the year. place to shop, a better activities, including a football tournament. For more information, place to work and a ••Ahold Europe has contracted a new cleaning company in the better neighbor read the case study. Netherlands, based on three criteria: price, quality and sustainability. ••Albert also provides “Multisport” gym membership cards for The contract includes the obligation to use environmentally friendly employees, which enables them to use local gyms to participate in cleaning products that comply with ISO 9001 and 14001 standards, different sports or relax by having a steam bath or massage. and for individuals with disabilities to comprise at least 5% of the company’s employees. New cleaning machines will also be ••In Albert’s distribution centers, new-format canteens serve a new operated which use less water. assortment of salads, fruit and vegetables at affordable prices. ••In total, 475 employees participated in Albert’s healthy living activities Other Europe: during the reporting year. ••Training has been introduced for employees on how to separate waste at work and at home. 56 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) Green Captains promote For more information responsible retailing in U.S. stores on this topic, watch a video case study Since mid-2012, all stores in Ahold USA’s divisions have a “Green Captain” to champion and drive responsible retailing targets and programs at store level. With the help of their “Green Team” (consisting of one employee from each department) they ensure that store employees are educated and trained on the processes around recycling cardboard, paper, plastic and organic waste. The Green Captains and their teams also track results and share feedback from employees and customers on progress on our responsible retailing strategy. In some areas, stores have implemented an energy and water savings program, as well as a program to recycle “rigid” plastic buckets and pails. Ahold USA’s billion bag reduction target is another focus area: a large promotional launch took place in October 2012, with ongoing communication programs to promote re-usable bags and to engage employees and customers through in-store messaging on the impacts of plastic bags on the environment and communities. All stores have a “Green Board” on which employees can learn who their Green Captain is and who their Green Team members are, and read about the highlights of the program, as well as current successes and opportunities. All Green Captains and Green Team members wear specific tags on their name badges to identify them as being part of this team to their colleagues and customers. 57 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) The data thousands 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Number of Ahold USA 1 121 117 116 113 112 employees The Netherlands 2 93 89 84 80 76 Other Europe 11 12 12 13 14 Total 225 218 213 206 202 1 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 2 Includes Etos, Gall & Gall, Ahold Coffee Company. The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Percentage of Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time workforce by Ahold USA 2 28 72 29 71 30 70 30 70 30 70 contract type1 The Netherlands 3 13 87 14 86 14 86 16 84 18 82 Other Europe 68 32 67 33 74 26 73 27 86 14 1 Contract type based on local definition. 2 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 3 Includes Etos, Gall & Gall, Ahold Coffee Company. The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 Percentage Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male of workforce Ahold USA 1 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 by gender The Netherlands2 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 Other Europe 81 19 80 20 80 20 80 20 1 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 2 Includes Etos, Gall & Gall, Ahold Coffee Company. 58 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our people (continued) The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 Percentage <19 20>29 30>39 40>49 50+ <19 20>29 30>39 40>49 50+ <19 20>29 30>39 40>49 50+ <19 20>29 30>39 40>49 50+ of workforce Ahold USA 1 16 28 13 16 27 14 28 13 17 28 16 26 13 18 27 17 25 14 18 26 by age The Netherlands2 57 22 7 8 6 57 21 8 8 6 58 20 8 8 6 58 19 8 9 6 Other Europe 7 28 25 21 19 1 23 30 24 22 1 23 30 24 22 1 23 29 24 23 1 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 2 Includes Etos, Gall & Gall, Ahold Coffee Company. The data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Composition Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male of the Ahold Corporate Executive Board 0 4 0 4 1 4 1 4 1 4 Boards Supervisory Board 2 6 2 6 3 5 3 5 3 4 Total 2 10 2 10 4 9 4 9 4 8 59 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information How we Responsible retailing at Ahold is managed manage at all levels of the organization... responsible retailing In this section: + Our governance structure + Stakeholder engagement + Awards and rankings in 2012 60 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our governance structure Supervisory Board The governance of Ahold’s responsible retailing (RR) activities applies to all Ahold’s financially consolidated operations in both Europe and the United States, as defined in our Scope of reporting. RR at Ahold is managed at all levels of the organization, from a designated Corporate Executive Board Corporate Executive Board (CEB) member to individual leads for each priority area at each of our operating companies. Dick Boer Jeff Carr Lodewijk Hijmans James McCann Within the CEB, Chief Corporate Governance Counsel (CCGC) President and Executive Vice President van den Bergh Executive Vice President Lodewijk Hijmans van den Bergh is responsible for RR, including Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President and Chief Operating its strategy, ambitions and targets. The Vice President Responsible and Chief Corporate Officer Ahold USA Retailing (VP RR) oversees Ahold’s Group-wide RR strategy, which is Governance Counsel implemented at operating company level. While the reporting process is managed by our finance function, the VP RR is responsible for reporting on progress against Ahold’s RR strategy internally and externally, for engaging external stakeholders on Ahold’s RR strategy and for monitoring RR-related trends and managing RR-related issues and risks. The Vice President Product Integrity (VP PI) is responsible for product safety and our product responsibility standards. At continental level, the Chief Operating Officers are accountable for meeting RR targets, and the Chief Financial Officers are accountable for reporting. General Managers in Ahold Europe, Division Presidents at Ahold USA, and Executive and Senior Vice Presidents responsible Responsible Retailing Steering Committee for continental functions, are accountable for meeting the targets at continental and brand level. Chief Corporate Vice President Continental and Ahold USA commercial Ahold Europe Each continent and operating company has an employee with Governance Counsel – Responsible Retailing operating company representative commercial overall responsibility for RR and an employee responsible for each chair responsible retailing leads representative priority area. Ahold governs RR at a Group level via its RR Steering Committee. This committee meets twice yearly to review progress against the targets, to review any proposed revisions to the strategy, including new or modified targets, and to provide recommendations to the CEB. It is chaired by the CCGC, and includes the VP RR, continental and operating company leads, and Ahold USA and Ahold Europe commercial representatives. In addition, in 2013 Ahold has strengthened its governance of product safety and responsibility by introducing a Product Integrity Steering Committee chaired by the CCGC. 61 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Stakeholder engagement As an organization, we identified five main stakeholder groups, and the ways in which we engage with them: As an international food retailer operating businesses that are Customers We regularly ask our customers what they think of our stores, assortment and service, including their deeply rooted in their local communities, we have a wide range of perception of Ahold as a healthy retailer. We receive feedback via third-party surveys, proprietary tracking stakeholders who impact, or are impacted by, our business in various studies and consumer panels, as well as directly from customers in stores. You can find out how our customers perceived us as a leading healthy retailer in the Healthy living choices made easy section. ways. Our stakeholders include our customers, employees, suppliers, You can also read about Albert Heijn’s customer-focused responsible retailing campaign, “Meer Doen,” the communities where we operate, governments, NGOs, academic in the case study. and research institutes, industry bodies and our shareholders. We engage with our stakeholders in order both to gain insight into Employees We have an open and honest company culture, and carry out regular employee satisfaction surveys. In 2012, their expectations, and to share our progress with them. This enables we carried out employee satisfaction surveys in all our operating companies. You can find out more about us to better meet stakeholder needs over time. the results of these in the Our people section. Ahold’s Corporate Communications department manages the company’s activities in government relations, regulatory public affairs, Suppliers Our suppliers are very important to us, and with many we have long-term relationships. We therefore held and participation in industry bodies and related organizations. It is an supplier events in both Europe and the United States to discuss various important topics, including company important part of our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders about strategy, sustainability, supplier diversity and food safety, with them. We also work through the Albert Heijn Foundation in Africa to improve the quality of life for our suppliers and their communities, as well as to secure RR-related issues. On our website, www.ahold.com, you can find a our long-term supply chain. list of global, European and U.S. partner associations with whom we engage on RR matters. Communities and NGOs Our companies are committed to being active and participating members of their communities. We do this through initiatives, events and charitable contributions that help to improve the communities and Balancing different stakeholder needs neighborhoods in which we operate. We recognize that our stakeholders have different and sometimes conflicting expectations. We therefore try to be transparent in our Shareholders We meet with investors on a regular basis, including socially responsible investment (SRI) analysts, and work decision-making process and have an open dialogue with to broaden the investment community’s understanding of our company by providing accurate and timely stakeholders to explain the issues we face in this process. information on Ahold’s performance and prospects. Annual stakeholder meetings Since 2011, we have been holding annual stakeholder meetings with our NGO community and other organizational stakeholders at Group level, to provide an update on our responsible retailing strategy and an opportunity for stakeholders to ask questions. At our 2012 event, representatives came from international NGOs such as Oxfam Novib, World Wildlife Fund, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and Greenpeace, as well as local Dutch organizations Dierenbescherming (animal welfare), ICCO, FairMatch Support, Fair & Sustainable, IDH Sustainable Trade initiative and Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development (VBDO). The Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Land Use and Innovation was also represented. Topics discussed included putting our strategy into practice in stores, the levels of our targets, how we set sustainability standards, ways to improve reporting, and working with partners. Ahold representatives, including Chief Corporate Governance Counsel Lodewijk Hijmans van den Bergh, VP Responsible Retailing and VP Product Integrity, were on hand to answer questions and discuss issues. 62 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Awards and rankings during 2012 ••A survey commissioned by Natuur & Milieu (Dutch organization for ••Ahold USA was ranked seventh on the U.S. Environmental Protection the protection of nature and the environment) concluded that people Agency’s Top 20 Retail list and number 30 on the National Top 50 Ahold and its operating companies received a number of awards in the Netherlands rate Ahold first among AEX companies in terms list of green power purchasers. during the reporting year. Those relating to responsible retailing were of their contribution to sustainability. as follows. ••Ahold USA won the 2012 Food Marketing Institute (FMI) Community ••For the fourth year in a row, Ahold kept its spot in the Dow Jones Outreach Award in the Neighborhood Health Improvement Sustainability Index (DJSI) World list, which scores international category for large-format retailers for its Healthy Kids Summits, which companies on their economic, environmental and social engage families with nutrition and exercise information. performance. In 2012, for the first time, Ahold was added as a ••Ahold USA was presented with the 2012 Champion award from the member of the DJSI Europe list. Produce for Better Health (PBH) Foundation in recognition of work ••InCompany’s 2012 employee satisfaction survey ranked Ahold done to increase fruit and vegetable consumption to improve number 25, and Albert Heijn number 34, out of the biggest 200 customers’ health. companies in the Netherlands. ••For the second year running, Ahold USA has been named to ••Intelligence Group ranked Albert Heijn number 14 in its most DiversityBusiness.com’s “Top 50 Organizations for Multicultural favorite employer list in the first half of 2012 (2011: number 66). Business Opportunities,” moving up five spots from 2011 to rank 42nd in the United States. ••Intermediar 2012 image survey ranked Ahold number six (2011: number 10). ••18 female employees of Ahold USA and its divisions were honored as Progressive Grocer’s 2012 “Top Women in Grocery” for ••Effectory employer of choice 2012 ranked Ahold Europe number helping to initiate change within the industry, contributing to their seven (2011: number seven). communities, mentoring other employees and leading important ••Ahold Transport received Connekt’s “Lean and Green” certificate initiatives. for its plans to reduce CO2 emissions through the ways in which it ••Giant Carlisle was selected to receive the Corporate Community transports products to Albert Heijn, Etos and Gall & Gall stores, and Service Award from the American Red Cross of the Susquehanna between its six distribution centers. Valley in Pennsylvania for its service to the community during the ••Albert Heijn won San accent Dutch advertisers award for “Onze series of natural disasters. Albert Heijn” campaign. ••Albert in the Czech Republic ranked seventh in the Biggest Corporate Donor category and sixth in the Most Generous Corporate Donor category in the 2012 Top Responsible Company Competition. 63 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Our This 2012 report covers Ahold’s approach responsible retailing strategy, practices to reporting and performance during the period from January 2, In this section: + Scope of reporting + + Reporting process CO2 conversion factors 2012 to December + + Data revisions Global Reporting Initiative 30, 2012. + Global Compact + External Assurance Report 64 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Ahold reports progress on the targets it has set for each of its five RR Information relating to our RR strategy and our progress against its priority areas: healthy living choices made easy, contribution to community targets is reviewed for significance and materiality from an economic, well-being, responsibly sourced products, care for the environment and environmental, and social perspective. The report features information our people. The standards that are used follow the Global Reporting that is material in relation to our total revenue, environmental footprint, Initiative (GRI G3.0) protocol, and Ahold qualifies for application level B+ and in terms of social impact and sustainability issues. When reporting according to GRI indicators. Ahold has been publishing RR Reports since on our targets, the inclusion (or exclusion) of specific operating 1998, and has been doing so annually since 2007. companies is based on a materiality assessment of the companies per Healthy living priority area, with all excluded operating companies (per reported account) producing less than 2% of Ahold’s total sales or emissions. Scope of reporting Ensure that The RR reporting structure follows the segment consolidation that is each operating The scope of the 2012 report has been determined based on also applied in the annual report. The reported segments are Ahold company has a Report on Ahold’s RR priority areas and the principles of materiality and USA (Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and comprehensive customers’ Increase the healthy living perception completeness. Our priority areas were selected on the basis of their Stop & Shop New York Metro) and Ahold Europe, which is broken sale of healthy program in of Ahold’s relevance to Ahold’s business model, to its stakeholders, and to down into the Netherlands (Albert Heijn, Etos, Gall & Gall, albert.nl, products to at place by the operating those areas where Ahold can make a meaningful difference. bol.com and Ahold Coffee Company) and Other Europe (Albert and least 25% of end of 2011, companies as total food sales aiming to be leading The sustainability issues that are covered are based on ongoing Hypernova). by 2015 across a leading healthy interaction with our businesses, stakeholders, and involvement in the Group healthy retailer retailers international associations and roundtables. From an operational scope perspective, the RR Report includes the following parts of the business: Ahold USA The RR reporting scope excludes results from the joint ventures with (excluding ICA and JMR. For both joint ventures, the shareholders’ agreement ••All stores, irrespective of whether the stores are owned by Ahold Peapod) is that Ahold does not have unilateral decision-making authority or franchised. Peapod over its partners, including decisions on the strategic, financial and ••Ahold-owned distribution centers; all transportation from distribution operational direction of the companies. Both ICA and JMR deliver centers to stores, irrespective of whether they are owned by Ahold their own reports, including references to their corporate and Albert Heijn or outsourced. social responsibility strategies and policies. From an operational management perspective, Ahold and ICA have chosen to continue The scope of this RR Report excludes: Etos their close collaboration on RR and sustainability topics. Best practices and knowledge are shared across the groups and ICA is a member ••Direct store deliveries, business travel and offices, due to their limited materiality to our overall performance in our care for the Gall & Gall of the Ahold RR Steering Committee. environment priority area. ICA has three focus areas in their approach: transparency, credibility albert.nl and traceability. ••Outsourced distribution centers, which do not qualify for inclusion according to the GRI criteria of control, influence and impact. ••Transparency – ICA wants to be open about its sustainability work. bol.com ••Credibility – ICA wants to reflect on its responsibility, and to be willing In 2012, we reviewed the materiality and relevance of each of our to discuss its strengths and weaknesses. priority areas for each of our operating companies (see tables Ahold Coffee following). The scope of reporting follows this assessment. Company ••Traceability – ICA wants to know where its products come from and under what conditions its suppliers operate. Albert, Czech Republic See ICA’s sustainability report for more information. Included in reporting Albert / Excluded due to non-materiality Hypernova, Slovakia Excluded due to accurate or complete data not being available 65 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Scope of reporting (continued) Included in reporting Excluded due to non-materiality Excluded due to accurate or complete data not being available Community Responsible products well-being Develop a global approach with guidelines Source 100% for sustainable Ensure Ensure that 80% of of the six critical own-brand that each our own-brand Ensure that 100% commodities for Map the packaging, which operating food suppliers are of own-brand own-brand environmental includes company has certified against suppliers in products in footprint of 50% of a packaging a community Global Food Safety high-risk countries accordance with own-brand improvement engagement Initiative (GFSI) are audited on industry suppliers and their program for each program in recognized social compliance certification supply chains by operating place by 2012 standards by 2012 by 2012 standards by 2015 2015 company, by 2012 Ahold USA Ahold USA (excluding Peapod) (excluding Peapod) Peapod Peapod Albert Heijn Albert Heijn Etos Etos Gall & Gall Gall & Gall albert.nl albert.nl bol.com bol.com Ahold Coffee Company Ahold Coffee Company Albert, Czech Republic Albert, Czech Republic Albert / Hypernova, Albert / Hypernova, Slovakia Slovakia 66 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Scope of reporting (continued) Included in reporting Excluded due to non-materiality Excluded due to accurate or complete data not being available Care for the environment Our people Eliminate free disposable bags at the checkout in our Ensure that all supermarkets in operating Europe by 2012, companies have and reduce implemented a Ensure that Reduce CO2 per the amount communications each operating square meter of of disposable bags Eliminate policy to company has sales area by 20% Develop a at the checkout in landfill as encourage a CR employee in our operations Group metric to the United States a disposal customers to program by 2015 against measure food by one billion method reduce, re-use and in place our 2008 baseline waste by 2012 bags by 2015 by 2020 recycle by 2013 by 2012 Ahold USA Ahold USA (excluding Peapod) (excluding Peapod) Peapod Peapod Albert Heijn Albert Heijn Etos Etos Gall & Gall Gall & Gall albert.nl albert.nl bol.com bol.com Ahold Coffee Company Ahold Coffee Company Albert, Czech Republic Albert, Czech Republic Albert / Hypernova, Albert / Hypernova, Slovakia Slovakia For the data tables in Our people, all operating companies are included in reporting except for bol.com. 67 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Reporting process Responsible products CO2 conversion factors The exercise of mapping our suppliers is ongoing; we estimate that it is Ahold’s RR data and related data gathering and reporting processes 80% complete. All data provided is for production sites that have been The total CO2 emission calculation is the sum of the CO2 emissions are subject to reviews by its internal audit department. Ahold’s RR mapped. GFSI percentages are reported as a percentage of sales for of fuel, electricity, district heating, gas and leakage of refrigerant Reports have been reviewed by its external auditor Deloitte Ahold USA, and as a percentage of suppliers for Ahold Europe. For all substances. Since the consumption of those elements is not measured Accountants B.V. since 2009. No external review was performed own-brand products, 100% completeness and accuracy cannot be in CO2 kilograms, conversion factors from other units of measurement of Ahold’s 2008 Report. guaranteed due to the manual data gathering process. are applied. The following conditions per priority area apply to the data in In critical commodities, the percentage of sales of each commodity For electricity, each country has its own conversion factor, which is this report. in our own-brand products that is sustainably sourced is based on updated each year. The sources of the electricity conversion factors are the key product categories for which these commodities are relevant. the International Energy Agency for Europe and the Environmental Other Europe data only includes locally sourced products from the Protection Agency for the United States. Each year, the 2008 baseline Healthy living Czech Republic. year is re-calculated using the latest electricity CO2 conversion factors. Ahold measures sales of healthy products as a percentage of the total Sources for conversion factors are from the 2011 Defra report. food sales. The decision to exclude non-food sales was taken to avoid The product categories included are: Changes between the Defra 2011 and 2012 reports were reviewed distortion from category changes that have no influence on Ahold’s ••coffee: all coffee and are not material. performance as a healthy retailer. For the healthy sales data, 100% completeness and accuracy cannot be guaranteed due to the manual ••tea: black tea, green tea and red bush tea ••Sources for converting fuel and gas: August 2011 Guidelines for data gathering process. The percentage of healthy sales in 2008 and Defra Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2009 has not been reviewed by our external auditors. ••cocoa: and Handboek CO2 prestatieladder 2.0. ––chocolate bars, tablets and candies ••Sources for converting electricity: International Energy Agency (IEA), Community well-being ––seasonal products: Easter, Christmas and Sinterklaas 2009, and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) eGrid2010, 100% completeness on the contributions and donations cannot be version 1.0. guaranteed due to the manual data gathering process. ––bakery: chocolate muffins ••Source for converting refrigerant substances: Climate Change 2007 ••seafood: fresh and frozen seafood – The Physical Science Basis, Contribution of Working Group I to the ••palm oil and soy: reporting on segregated palm oil and soy is Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel Climate excluded from the baseline review, as these commodities cannot Change (IPCC). be directly linked to products with 100% completeness. The approach for palm oil and soy is explained in the Responsibly sourced products section. Data revisions There are no revisions of previous years’ data in this report. Care for the environment In relation to our CO2 reduction target, the majority of the data reflect actual consumption. Where possible, this is an automated process, but in some cases, such as gas, fuel, district heating, electricity and water consumption, they are a combination of actual consumption and extrapolation based on sample stores. In other cases, where actuals and extrapolations could not be applied, best estimates were used. To report on leakage of refrigerant substances, waste types and waste disposal methods, data has been provided by third-party service providers, which was only partly audited. Food waste data includes extrapolations from one division to the total Ahold USA data. 68 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative material to our priority areas, and therefore to our business and stakeholders. We have also benchmarked these indicators against our peers and competitors. Every year, we review the indicators selected, and we The GRI is a global, multi-stakeholder network of business professionals, representatives from labor are continually working to improve our data collection processes. organizations, investors, accountants and others, who work together to develop an internationally accepted standard for sustainability reporting. Ahold has been reporting according to GRI guidelines since 2006, The GRI framework outlines several levels of reporting compliance, depending on a company’s capabilities because they are recognized as the most representative reporting standard for sustainability issues. and ambitions. A summary of our compliance is included in the GRI cross-reference table. In 2012, we reported according to the GRI G3.0 Guidelines, complying with level B. Our RR Report 2012 has been The guidelines recognize issues relating to environmental and social priorities, the running of the business reviewed by Ahold’s external auditor, Deloitte Accountants B.V., which has provided limited assurance. and the products sold. Ahold’s RR Report includes a selection of indicators that are the most relevant and This has enabled us to achieve application level B+ again this year. 1. Strategy and analysis GRI indicator Where to look Included 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes to the organization and its strategy. Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO Introduction and strategy AR: Our strategy, Governance: How we manage risk 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Title page Yes Other information: Contact us 2.2 Primary brands, products, and / or services. Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes Where and how we operate 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes and joint ventures. Company profile, Where and how we operate AR: Ahold at a glance 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Other information: Yes Contact us 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Where and how we operate AR: Ahold at glance 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR: Financials: Share capital, Shares and shareholders’ rights Yes 69 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Where to look Included 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers / Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes beneficiaries). Company profile, Where and how we operate AR: Ahold at a Glance: Group highlights 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Our priority areas: Our people: Yes The data AR: Ahold at a Glance, Our performance, Financials: Consolidated balance sheet, Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. AR: Financials: Share capital, Notes to the consolidated financial statements Yes 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. How we manage responsible retailing: Yes Awards and rankings during 2012 3. Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period. Our approach to reporting Yes 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Our approach to reporting Yes www.ahold.com/CR-Reports 3.3 Reporting cycle. Our approach to reporting Yes 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Other information: Yes Contact us Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes Introduction and strategy How we manage responsible retailing: Stakeholder engagement Our approach to reporting: Scope of reporting Reporting process 3.6 Boundary of the report. Our approach to reporting: Yes Scope of reporting Reporting process 70 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Where to look Included 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Our approach to reporting: Yes Scope of reporting Reporting process 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Our approach to reporting: Yes entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organizations. Scope of reporting Reporting process 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques Our approach to reporting: Yes underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Reporting process CO2 conversion factors 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Our approach to reporting: Yes for such re-statement. Reporting process CO2 conversion factors Data revisions 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Our approach to reporting: Yes applied in the report. Scope of reporting Reporting process CO2 conversion factors Data revisions GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Our approach to reporting: Yes Global Reporting Initiative Global Compact Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Our approach to reporting: Yes Reporting process CO2 conversion factors Global Reporting Initiative Global Compact External assurance report 71 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Governance GRI indicator Where to look Included 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body AR: Governance: Our leadership, Corporate governance Yes responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their AR: Governance: Our leadership, Corporate governance, Supervisory Yes function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Board report 4. 3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest Ahold does not have a unitary board. It is governed based on a twoYes governance body that are independent and / or non-executive members. tier model. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Other information: Yes governance body. Contact us AR: Governance: Corporate governance – Shares and shareholders’ rights, Contact information www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and AR: Governance: Corporate governance, Remuneration Yes executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. AR: Governance: Corporate governance Yes 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body AR: Governance: Our leadership, Corporate governance Yes for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to AR: Governance: How we manage risk Yes economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation. www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and How we manage responsible retailing: Yes management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and Our governance structure opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct AR: Governance: Corporate governance, How we manage risk, and principles. Supervisory Board report 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to AR: Governance: Remuneration Yes economic, environmental, and social performance. 72 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Commitments to external initiatives GRI indicator Where to look Included 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the AR: Governance: How we manage risk Yes organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which How we manage responsible retailing: Yes the organization subscribes or endorses. Stakeholder engagement 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international How we manage responsible retailing: Yes advocacy organizations. Stakeholder engagement Our priority areas: Responsible products: Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. How we manage responsible retailing: Yes Stakeholder engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. How we manage responsible retailing: Yes Stakeholder engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by How we manage responsible retailing: Yes stakeholder group. Stakeholder engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO Introduction and strategy How we manage responsible retailing: Stakeholder engagement 73 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Economic performance indicators GRI indicator Where to look Included Management approach to economic responsibility Our priority areas: Community well-being: Yes Our ambitions Our progress on our targets How we manage responsible retailing: Our governance structure AR: Ahold at a glance: Group highlights Our strategy: Governance: How we manage risk Financials: Financial Statements, Notes to the consolidated financial statements Aspect: Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Our priority areas: Community well-being: Yes compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Our progress on our targets – Contributions and donations (table) providers and governments. AR: Financials: Financial Statements EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes climate change. Actions and achievements in 2012 AR: Governance: How we manage risk EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR: Note 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits Yes EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. No significant financial assistance received from government. Yes Aspect: Market presence EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Partially of operation. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Our priority areas: Community well-being: Yes Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Responsible products: Actions and achievements in 2012 74 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Environmental performance indicators GRI indicator Where to look Included Management approach on environmental responsibility Responsible retailing at Ahold: Yes Introduction and strategy Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Our people: Our ambitions Our progress on our targets How we manage responsible retailing: Our governance structure Our approach to reporting: External assurance report www.ahold.com/Care-environment Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes The data – Fuel consumption (table), Natural gas consumption (table) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes The data – Electricity consumption (table) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes Actions and achievements in 2012 The data – Electricity consumption (table), Fuel consumption (table), Natural gas consumption (table) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Actions and achievements in 2012 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Partially Actions and achievements in 2012 75 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Aspect: Water GRI indicator Where to look Included EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes The data – Water consumption (table) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. We do not currently operate in water-stressed areas. Yes Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes The data – CO2 emissions (table) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes Actions and achievements in 2012 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Partially The data – Leakage of refrigerant substances (table) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Yes The data – Waste production (table), Waste by type (table), Percentage of waste by disposal method (table) Aspect: Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Partially Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Responsible products: Our progress on our targets Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Partially organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Actions and achievements in 2012 The data – Fuel consumption (table) 76 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Social performance indicators: Labor practices and decent work GRI indicator Where to look Included Management approach on labor and work responsibility Our priority areas: Our people: Yes Actions and achievements in 2012 AR: Governance: How we manage risk www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. Our priority areas: Our people: Yes The data – Number of employees (table), Percentage of workforce by contract type (table) Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, Our priority areas: Our people: Yes age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. The data – Percentage of workforce by gender (table), Percentage of workforce by age (table), Composition of the Ahold Boards (table) AR: Governance: Our leadership 77 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Social performance indicators: Human rights GRI indicator Where to look Included Management approach on human rights responsibility Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 How we manage responsible retailing: Our governance structure www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Aspect: Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or Our priority areas: Responsible products: Partially that have undergone human rights screening. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and Our priority areas: Responsible products: Partially actions taken. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 The data Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 AR: Governance: How we manage risk www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Aspect: Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes contribute to the elimination of child labor. Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 AR: Governance: How we manage risk www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation 78 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Aspect: Forced and compulsory labor GRI indicator Where to look Included HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 AR: Governance: How we manage risk www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Social performance indicators: Society Management approach on societal responsibility Our priority areas: Healthy living: Yes Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Our priority areas: Community well-being: Our ambitions Our progress on our targets How we manage responsible retailing: Our governance structure AR: Governance: How we manage risk, Notes to the consolidated financial statements www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Aspect: Community FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer Our priority areas: Healthy living: Yes initiatives, knowledge transfer, partnerships and product development) that promote access to healthy Our progress on our targets lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and Actions and achievements in 2012 improved welfare for communities in need. The data – Number of healthy products (table), Sales of healthy products, Number of children educated in healthy living (table). Our priority areas: Community well-being: Actions and achievements in 2012 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Partially SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Our priority areas: Healthy living: Yes Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Responsible products: Actions and achievements in 2012 How we manage responsible retailing: Stakeholder engagement 79 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) Social performance indicators: Product responsibility GRI indicator Where to look Included Management approach on product responsibility Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 How we manage responsible retailing: Our governance structure www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Privacy-policy Aspect: Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Actions and achievements in 2012 FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes to internationally recognized food safety system standards. Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in Our priority areas: Healthy living: Partially saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugar. Actions and achievements in 2012 The data – Number of healthy products (table), Sales of healthy products FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased Our priority areas: Healthy living: Partially nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. Actions and achievements in 2012 The data – Number of healthy products (table), Sales of healthy products Aspect: Product and service labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products Our priority areas: Responsible products: Partially and services subject to such information requirements. Actions and achievements in 2012 The data – Number of certified organic products at year end (table), Number of Fairtrade-certified products (table) Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Actions and achievements in 2012 How we manage responsible retailing: Stakeholder engagement 80 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Where to look Included FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information Our priority areas: Healthy living: Partially beyond legal requirements. Actions and achievements in 2012 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Our priority areas: Healthy living: Yes Actions and achievements in 2012 Aspect: Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Our priority areas: Healthy living: Partially including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 How we manage responsible retailing: Stakeholder engagement www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Sourcing performance indicators Management approach on sourcing Our priority areas: Responsible products: Yes Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Responsible-products Aspect: Across all aspects of sourcing FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Our priority areas: Responsible products: Partially Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Responsible-products FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally Our priority areas: Responsible products: Partially recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard. Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 The data – Number of Fairtrade-certified products (table) 81 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Ahold’s own principles align with those of the Global Compact, and we have been striving for high standards against these principles for some time. We signed the Global Compact in 2010, and continue to report on our operations and strategies in relation to these principles annually. Global Compact principles Issue areas Global Compact principles References Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of Our priority areas: Responsible products: internationally proclaimed human rights. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Our people: Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Our priority areas: Responsible products: in human abuses. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Our people: Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Our priority areas: Responsible products: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Our people: Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Our priority areas: Responsible products: compulsory labor. Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Our people: Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders 82 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Global Compact (continued) Issue areas Global Compact principles Labor (continued) Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Our priority areas: Responsible products: Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Our priority areas: Our people: of employment and occupation. Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our priority areas: Care for the environment: environmental challenges. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Our priority areas: Responsible products: environmental responsibility. Our ambitions Actions and achievements in 2012 Our priority areas: Care for the environment: Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Our priority areas: Care for the environment: environmentally friendly technologies. Our ambitions Our progress on our targets Actions and achievements in 2012 Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation extortion and bribery. 83 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information External Assurance Report A limited assurance engagement with respect to a sustainability report Conclusion involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the On the basis of the procedures we have performed nothing has come information disclosed in the Responsible Retailing Report. The to our attention that causes us to believe the Responsible Retailing Independent limited assurance report on Ahold’s procedures performed depend on the practitioner’s judgment, but Report for the year 2012 is not prepared, in all material respects, in Responsible Retailing Report their nature is different from, and their extent is substantially less than, a accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.0) of the To: Shareholders, Supervisory Board and Corporate Executive Board reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently they do not Global Reporting Initiative. and other stakeholders of Koninklijke Ahold N.V. enable us to obtain the assurance necessary to become aware of all We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance Comparative information Responsible Retailing Report for the year 2012 of Koninklijke Ahold engagement. We did not perform any assurance procedures on the Responsible N.V. (“Ahold” or “the company”), Zaandam. Our procedures on this engagement included: Retailing Report for the year 2008 and on the Sales of healthy products data for the year 2009. Consequently, we draw no ••Reviewing the processes and systems for data gathering, including Management’s responsibility conclusion on the 2008 and the Sales of healthy products 2009 the aggregation of the data as included in the Responsible Retailing Management is responsible for the preparation of the Responsible comparative information. Report Retailing Report in conformity with the Sustainability Reporting Amsterdam, February 27, 2013 Guidelines (G3.0) of the Global Reporting Initiative. This responsibility ••Assessing the suitability of the reporting policies used by includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control management and the consistent application of such policies, Deloitte Accountants B.V. relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the Responsible including assessing the suitability of the reporting criteria, the P.J.M.A. van de Goor Retailing Report that are free from material misstatement, whether due inclusiveness of the responses on the stakeholder dialogue and the to fraud or error, selecting and applying appropriate criteria and overall presentation in the Responsible Retailing Report making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. The scope ••Conducting interviews with senior management responsible for of the 2012 Responsible Retailing Report and the information included Responsible Retailing at Ahold therein depends on the company’s corporate responsibility priority areas as well as the reporting policies applied which are set out under ••Performing analytical review procedures Scope of reporting, Reporting process, CO2 conversion factors, Data ••Inspecting internal and external documentation and verifying to what revisions, Global Reporting Initiative and Global Compact in this report. extent these documents and data support the information included in the Responsible Retailing Report Auditor’s responsibility ••Evaluating whether the information presented in the Responsible Our responsibility is to draw a limited assurance conclusion on the Retailing Report is in line with our overall knowledge of Responsible Responsible Retailing Report based on our engagement. We Retailing at Ahold conducted our engagement in accordance with Dutch law, including Standard 3410N “Assurance engagement relating to Sustainability ••Assessing the company’s stated application level according to GRI’s Reports.” This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and guidelines plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Responsible Retailing Report is free from material This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including misstatement. assurance and sustainability expertise. We did not perform any assurance procedures on the forward-looking We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statements, such as targets, expectations and ambitions, disclosed in appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. the Responsible Retailing Report. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on these statements. 84 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Other information In this section: + Glossary + Contact us + Cautionary notice 85 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Glossary ASC Aquaculture Stewardship Council. A certification program with a consumer label for sustainable aquaculture. Audit program A program to evaluate supplier compliance against a set of a specific requirements (a standard). Biodiversity The diversity of plant and animal life in a particular habitat, or in the world in general. BSCI Business Social Compliance Initiative. A non-profit organization, supporting more than 1,000 international companies in the process of monitoring and improving working conditions in the global supply chain through its own auditing program. Carbon footprint The total set of greenhouse gas emissions caused directly and indirectly by an individual, organization, event or product. A carbon footprint is measured by undertaking a greenhouse gas emissions assessment. CFC Chlorofluorocarbon. A powerful greenhouse gas that has an ozone-depleting effect; may be used as cooling element in refrigerants. CGF Consumer Goods Forum. An independent, global, parity-based platform focused on improving non-competitive collaboration. It brings together the CEOs and senior management of over 400 retailers, manufacturers, service providers and other stakeholders from the consumer goods sector across 70 countries. CO2 Carbon dioxide. A greenhouse gas. Composting A process in which organic waste – including food waste – decomposes naturally, resulting in a product rich in minerals that can be used for gardening and farming as a soil conditioner. CR Corporate responsibility. District heating Centrally generated heat distributed for residential and commercial heating requirements such as water heating and space heating. EPA Environmental Protection Agency. The agency that coordinates U.S. programs aimed at reducing pollution and protecting the environment. Fairtrade A certification program with a consumer label that contributes to sustainable development by offering better trading conditions to disadvantaged producers (often in countries in developing nations), and by protecting their rights. FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Responsible for overseeing and enforcing regulatory requirements for consumer health and safety (among other areas). Fermentation A process in which organic waste is converted into bio-gas. Leftovers can be recovered as fertilizer. FMI Food Marketing Institute. The trade association for the U.S. retail industry. Food waste The food component of shrink (stores and warehouses), which is discarded, as a percentage of total sales. In contrast to shrink, this food waste percentage excludes theft, food bank donations, cash shortages and other product losses. FSC Forest Stewardship Council. FSC is an independent, non-governmental, non-profit organization established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests. FUSIONS Food Use for Social Innovations by Optimising waste preventioN Strategies. An initiative by Wageningen UR to reduce food waste, by stimulating social innovations in feasibility studies, assessing monitoring methodologies, and developing policy guidelines for national and EU governments. GAP Good Agricultural Practices. GFSI Global Food Safety Initiative. A CGF activity that enables continuous improvement of food safety management across the supply chain, through benchmarking, collaboration and harmonization of food safety certification programs. Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Greenhouse gases Gases such as carbon dioxide or methane, which potentially contribute to climate change. GreenPalm certificates Certificates purchased by manufacturers and retailers to support RSPO-certified palm oil producers. 86 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Glossary (continued) GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An international, multi-stakeholder initiative that provides a standard for environmental and social sustainability reporting. Group All brands that are in scope of this report as defined in Our approach to reporting. GSSI Global Seafood Sustainability Initiative. A global initiative that aims to assess the compliance of seafood sustainability programs against internationally accepted Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Guidelines for Seafood Eco-labeling. GWP Global-warming potential. A measure of how much a given mass of greenhouse gas is estimated to contribute to global warming. It is a relative scale which compares the gas in question to that of the same mass of carbon dioxide (whose GWP is by convention equal to 1). HCFC Hydrochlorofluorocarbon. A powerful greenhouse gas that has an ozone-depleting effect; may be used as cooling element in refrigerants. HFC Hydrofluorocarbon. A greenhouse gas that may be used as a cooling element in refrigerants. IEA International Energy Agency. An intergovernmental organization that acts as energy policy advisor to 28 member countries in their effort to ensure reliable, affordable, and clean energy. Incineration The burning of trash and garbage. kWh Kilowatt hour. This is a unit of energy. Energy delivered by electric utilities is expressed and charged for in kWh. Kilowatt hour is the product of power in kilowatts multiplied by time in hours. Landfill Final placement of waste in or on the land in a controlled way according to sanitary, environmental protection and other safety requirements. Last stage of production The stage in our supply chain where our products are manufactured or produced. LED Light-emitting diode. LEDs produce more light per watt than incandescent bulbs. LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. LEED consists of a suite of rating systems for the design, construction and operation of high-performance green buildings, homes and neighborhoods. MSC Marine Stewardship Council. A certification program with a consumer label for well managed, sustainable fishing. MWh Megawatt hour. This is a unit of energy. National brand The brand name of a product that is distributed nationally under a brand name owned by the producer or distributor. Netherlands Nutrition Center The authority providing Dutch consumers with evidence-based and independent information about choosing healthy, safe and more sustainable food. NGO Non-governmental organization. NR Not reported. Operating company For a list of Ahold’s operating companies, see Where and how we operate section of this report. Organic product Agricultural product produced by organic farming methods and certified as such by an independent organization. Own brand Own-brand products include store brands, exclusive brands and non-branded products, including fruit and vegetables, meat, seafood and dairy. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. PEFC is an international, non-profit, non-governmental organization which promotes sustainable forest management through independent third-party certification. Rainforest Alliance A certification program with a consumer label that aims to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable livelihoods by transforming land-use practices, business practices and consumer behavior. REAP Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme. REAP is part of EuroCommerce and provides a basis for the retail sector to stimulate innovation and environmental action across the European Union. 87 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Glossary (continued) RR Responsible retailing. A pillar of the Reshaping Retail at Ahold strategy. RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. A global, multi-stakeholder initiative concerned with the production of sustainable palm oil via its certification program. RTRS Round Table on Responsible Soy. A global, multi-stakeholder initiative concerned with the production of responsible soy via its certification program. Shrink All product losses in our stores as a percentage of total sales. This includes all forms of losses such as theft, food bank donations, stock differences, expired products, markdowns, unsalable discontinued items, damages and cash shortages. Stakeholders All the groups that participate in the economic life of the company (employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders), who monitor the company (unions and NGOs) or who are more or less directly influenced by it (society, local government and others). Sustainable development “Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” Bruntland Commission, Our Common Future, 1987. TSC The Sustainability Consortium. A global platform that drives scientific research and collaboration to develop global science-based measurement and reporting systems and standards for more sustainable products and processes. USDA United States Department of Agriculture. UTZ CERTIFIED A certification program with a consumer label for responsibly produced and sourced coffee, tea and cocoa, which aims to achieve sustainable agricultural supply chains. WNF The Dutch branch of the World Wildlife Fund. An independent conservation organization, whose mission is to stop the degradation of the earth’s natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature. Zero waste Zero waste means designing and managing products and processes to systematically avoid and eliminate the volume and toxicity of waste and materials, conserve and recover all resources, and not burn or bury them. Implementing zero waste will eliminate all discharges to land, water or air that are a threat to planetary, human, animal or plant health. Business and communities that achieve over 90% diversion of waste from landfills and incinerators are considered to be successful in achieving zero waste. 88 Responsible How we manage Our approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2012 retailing at Ahold Our priority areas responsible retailing to reporting Other information Contact us Cautionary notice We welcome your feedback on this Responsible Retailing Report. This Responsible Retailing Report contains forward-looking statements, Accordingly, this RR Report is subject to this notice and the How we Please contact: which do not refer to historical facts but refer to expectations based manage responsible retailing and Our approach to reporting sections on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known in this RR Report and qualified by the assumptions, qualifications and and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, the risk factors detailed in Ahold’s public filings and other disclosures. Responsible Retailing team performance or events to differ materially from those included in Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forwardAhold such statements. looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this RR Report. P.O. Box 985 Ahold does not assume any obligation to update any public 1000 AZ Amsterdam Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond information or forward-looking statement in this RR Report to reflect The Netherlands Ahold’s ability to control or estimate precisely, including but not limited events or circumstances after the date of this RR Report, except as may to, Ahold’s ability to successfully implement and complete its plans and Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 be required by applicable laws. Outside the Netherlands, Ahold strategies and to meet its targets, the benefits from Ahold’s plans and Email: responsible.retailing@ahold.com presents itself under the name of “Royal Ahold” or simply “Ahold.” strategies being less than anticipated, the effect of general economic www.ahold.com or political conditions, the actions of competitors and other third For the reader’s convenience, “Ahold” or “the company” is also parties, increases or changes in competition, Ahold’s ability to retain used throughout this RR Report. The company’s registered name is and attract employees who are integral to the success of the business, “Koninklijke Ahold N.V.” The main responsible retailing principles and risks related to large strategic projects, collective bargaining, and commitments as discussed in this RR Report imply obligations information security, business and IT continuity, food and non-food to perform to the best of one’s ability and do not imply obligations safety, social compliance, responsible retailing, social media, insurance to guarantee a certain result. programs, Ahold’s liquidity needs exceeding expected levels (including Certain products and services named in this report feature trademarks but not limited to healthcare and pension funding requirements), owned by Koninklijke Ahold N.V., its subsidiaries, joint ventures or unforeseen tax liabilities and legislative and regulatory environment associates. Copyright © 2013 Koninklijke Ahold N.V. and litigation risks, and other factors discussed in Ahold’s Annual Report 2012 paragraphs Risk management and internal control, All rights reserved. Risk factors and in Ahold’s other public filings and disclosures.
