2013 Communication on Progress March 2013 To our stakeholders STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The Erinys Holdings Board of Directors wishes to re-affirm its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption . Erinys' commitment has been woven into all aspects of the Company's daily operations, culture and strategy and further enshrined in our Code of Conduct, which explicitly includes the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. The Code of Conduct provides detailed guidance to both Erinys' management and personnel working under their direction. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. JONATHAN GARRATT Chief Executive Officer Erinys Holdings Limited HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Erinys recognises that the demand for and delivery of security and support services must be combined with a respect for internationally recognised humanitarian and human rights principles and generally accepted commercial practices. This applies to both business and individual behaviour. We are firmly committed to upholding human rights in all aspects of our business and believe in the value of all individuals and their right to respect and all other basic human rights contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Erinys exercises a zero tolerance policy in any activities that contravene its Code of Conduct. All business activities are monitored by the Erinys Management Board to ensure they fully comply with the demands of the Erinys Code of Conduct. In many instances, Erinys also has to comply with stringent Human Rights policy demands of its clients. Erinys will not engage in any business dealings with organisations, entities or individuals who have been found in breach of international human rights or humanitarian law. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Erinys respects and protects human rights in its daily operations. Policies on upholding Human Rights are set out in detail in the Company's Code of Conduct. In this document, the Legal Framework is described as follows: ‘As a supporter of the United Nations Global Compact and as an International Code of Conduct (ICoC) Signatory Company, Erinys operates in accordance with the provisions of the following:  The International Code of Conduct for Private Security Services Providers  The Ten principles of the UN Global Compact As a signatory of The International Code of Conduct for Private Security Services Providers, Erinys undertakes that we have the responsibility to respect the human rights of personnel, clients, suppliers and the population of the area in which services are provided. Company policy requires that all employees are given Code of Conduct induction training on joining Erinys and are asked to sign their confirmation to uphold the Code. In addition, Erinys maintains a policy whereby employees are provided with six monthly refresher training to re-affirm their intent to uphold the code by signing the acknowledgement. Human Rights is further addressed under the Universal Prohibitions section of the Code of Conduct, wherein it specifies the referral of transgressors to the relevant international Competent Authorities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Code of Conduct training covering all aspects of the Ten Principles is recorded on personnel records and employees are required to acknowledge understanding and acceptance thereof . As a signatory company of The International Code of Conduct for Private Security Services Providers (ICoC), the reporting of Abuses by Third Parties is a requirement. Erinys has not received any complaint from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the company involved in any human rights incidents during the reporting period. We therefore regard the Company’s performance in the area of Human Right’s as satisfactory. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. All Erinys employees have their rights and contractual obligations clearly explained to them and detailed in their contract of employment. This includes, discrimination and equal opportunities, conditions of employment and work (remuneration, benefits, working hours, leave, benefits etc). Erinys’ commitment to equal opportunities is further highlighted on the Company’s website. It is the Company's policy to ensure that all employment has legally compliant contractual underpinning. The Company’s Health & Safety policy was revised and distributed in August 2012. The policy outlines the company’s commitment toprovide and maintain a safe and healthy working environment, comply with applicable laws in the countries of operation and exercising personal responsibility by all employees. Implementation Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Management at all levels is responsible to the Erinys Board of Management for implementing the Company's labour and related policies. Health and Safety support managers have been appointed in each country in which Erinys operates. Support Managers are required to ensure the Health & Safety policy statement is displayed in a prominent position at every site and that emergency contact details are kept updated and current. All employees are subject to regular Health and Safety training and briefings, and compliance is entered on individual training records. The Company’s Health & Safety Policy clearly outlines responsibilities, accountabilities and procedures to ensure the health and safety of employees. Erinys has a well established Redress of Grievance policy and mechanism. Erinys values good labour relations and ensures that continuous communication is maintained with employee representatives. Quarterly meetings with labourelected representatives are held to address any employment or social issues. The Code of Conduct clearly outlines the prohibition and seriousness of – Sexual Exploitation, Human Trafficking & Forced Labour and Child Labour. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The Health & Safety Policy outlines the process of audits and reporting to Senior Management. Immediate reporting is required in the event of fatal accidents, accidents resulting in hospitalisation, serious injury, significant employee exposure to a health and safety risks. It is the duty of management to investigate breaches against the Company's labour policies, and if necessary refer these to the relevant external agencies. The Erinys Management Board is updated monthly on labour related disputes and Health & Safety incidents as well as their management and resolution. Erinys has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles, in this reporting period. Minor injuries reported were dealt with fully and satisfactorily, in accordance with Erinys’ Health & Safety policy and the Company’s Code of Conduct. We regard the area of Labour as satisfactory performance for the reporting period. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Erinys policy and commitment to the protection of the environment is set out in the Company's Policy on the Environment. The Environmental Statement outlines the company’s commitment to:  comply with regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate  continually improve and monitor environmental performance  continually reduce environmental impacts  incorporate environmental factors into business decisions and increase employee awareness and training. In addition, the company’s revised Procurement Policy recognises that sustainable purchasing is a critical component of preserving our natural resources and minimizing waste. Erinys promotes business with suppliers that demonstrate sustainable and socially conscious business practices. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Environmental Awareness training is included as part of regular Health & Safety at work training and is incorporated into the Company's management procedures. Given the inherent risks of operating in complex environments, Erinys takes its environmental health and safety responsibilities very seriously. The precautions and procedures are well documented in both the Code of Conduct and the Health Safety & Environmental Policy. Erinys in addition adheres and is committed to usually very demanding client HSE requirements particularly on project sites. The Supplier Verification Checklist identifies a suppliers’ environmental performance and business units are encouraged to promote businesses that are environment conscious. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Bi-Annual reporting is conducted by the respective country management and evaluated by Senior Management. It is the duty of management to investigate breaches against the Company's Health Safety & Environmental Policy, and if necessary refer these to the relevant external agencies. No complaints or adverse reports were received during this reporting period and we therefore regard our environmental performance as satisfactory. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Erinys abides by the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act9 and the UK Bribery Act 201010 and holds their provisions to be binding on all subsidiaries regardless of location. Erinys' Code of Conduct expressly forbids the giving and taking of bribes and any form of conflict of interest, extortion or corruption. ‘Bribery ‘is clearly specified as one of the Company’s universal prohibitions and we exercise a zero tolerance approach to corruption at any level. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Erinys' anti-corruption policies are regularly briefed as part of our employee induction process, and periodic Code of Conduct training sessions as set out in Company's policy. A dedicated Email address has been implemented to provide employees with the means of reporting any breaches and alternative reporting methods outlined for nonEmail users. The recently implemented ‘Gift Register’ and ‘Supplier Verification Checklist’ further ensure that all elements of trade are completely transparent within the organisation. Erinys only accepts assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. Should a client requirement not be consistent with our vision and mission, discussions are held with the client, and if necessary, Erinys will decline the request/assignment. It remains line management's duty to investigate and report all incidents of alleged corruption, reporting these up the management chain as required. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Erinys has stringent internal management and accounting controls, in line with the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK), to ensure that the Company meets relevant UK and international legal, financial and reporting obligations. This would identify any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. Erinys has a well established procedure for investigating corruption allegations, which provides for external audit agencies to become involved as required. There have been no reported corruption incidents during this reporting period. Erinys’ performance in the area of anti-corruption is therefore satisfactory.
