1 | EPL Communication on Progress About this document 2 Contact 3 CEO Statement of continued support 5-6 English Press at a glance 7-8 English Press reporting to United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights 9-14 Labour Rights 15-20 Environment 21-24 Anti-corruption 25-28 Overall Outlook 29-30 Feedback 31 EPL Communication on Progress | 2 Period covered by our communication on progress April 2012 to April 2013 In April 2012 English Press Limited committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually with its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. English Press Limited (EPL) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact‟s 10 principles by transforming renewable resources into innovative product solutions that meet customer needs in a responsible, cost effective and sustainable means by linking business development with Corporate Social Responsibility. English Press Limited COP 2012 will be available on our website 3 | EPL Communication on Progress Company Name : English Press Limited Sector : Manufacturing – Printing Number of : 500 employees UN GC signatory : 2012/4/4 since Contact Persons : Shreeti Patel Veronica Mwanzia Address : P.O. Box 30127-00100 Nairobi, Kenya Email : shreeti@englishpress.com qmr@englishpress.com Website : www.englishpress.com Phone : +254 20552266/7 +254 206536914/5 Cell : +254 722509838 +254 735339002 Fax : +2542065537141 5 | EPL Communication on Progress Dear readers, I am pleased to affirm that English Press supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact all of which are in tune with our company values and policies. English Press is committed to continue and advance those principles within its sphere of influence by incorporating the UN Global Compact principles within our strategy, culture and day to day operations. EPL Communication on Progress | 6 The principles of the capitalize on our success Global Compact (UNGC) United Nations Global in helping achieve the and emphasizes on the Compact stand for principles of the UN importance of corporate socially and ecological Global Compact (UNGC) social responsibility . sustainable business in by developing programs Finally, I would like to a globalised world. and partnerships that take this opportunity to Therefore, at English support the UN‟s mission express my appreciation Press it‟s a matter of and objectives. to the EPL family who acknowledging and has worked tirelessly to supporting these In addition, while we are make a sustainable and principles. extremely proud of our valuable difference in the accomplishments, we world around us. English Press recognizes believe that the true that organizations have measure of our success a key role to play, and will be in seeing that expectations are arising. many of our business New partnerships with partners take on a more mutual accountability central role in will shape the innovative responding to the solutions that define world‟s most pressing success. The ingredients challenges. must be robust match of responsibility and Our first progress report profitability, with view of highlights the key long-term prosperity. measures and success of our commitment to Mr. Kalpan Patel Moving forward, we will upholding the ten Chief Executive Officer consistently and steadily principles of the UN English Press Limited At A Glance EPL Communication on Progress | 8 English Press Limited is your one stop print company, providing customers with high quality products and services including pre-press, printing, finishing, packaging and logistics solutions. Founded 80 years ago, we have grown to be the largest ISO certified offset print house in the continent. Located in Nairobi, and built on a strong foundation of consistent quality and service, our values have enabled us to compete in the regional and international print market. Experienced technicians in production, maintenance, IT and quality assurance ensure that English Press is setting the benchmark in the industry with state-ofthe-art equipment and technique for offset and digital printing. Our purchasing department handles all sourcing of local and imported consumables, offering competitive solutions to the market. At EPL, we firmly believe that by applying our skills, expertise and resources to different causes, we can not only make a difference in the world around us, but also catalyze other businesses to follow our lead. It is a goal that we strive for through our business strategy, our values and our every-day activities. 9 | EPL Communication on Progress Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses EPL Communication on Progress | 10 English Press respects the each other. protection of human rights and makes sure that it is not complicit Some of the core values are: in human rights abuses. We are committed to respecting the  Respect: We honor the human principles of the internationally rights and beliefs of our recognized standards contained in stakeholders. We treat others the UN Global Compact, the with the highest degree of International Labor Organization dignity, equality and trust. (ILO) Conventions and the UN Universal Declaration of Human  Integrity: We employ the Rights. These voluntary highest ethical standards by commitments underpin our demonstrating honesty, activities in conjunction with the transparency and fairness in relevant national legislation and it every action that we take. is an integral part of our business Being ethically unyielding, code of conduct. honest and inspiring trust by saying what we mean, EPL favors an open and trustful matching our behaviors to our environment between the top words and taking responsibility management and employees. It is for our actions. our belief that personal growth and hence growth of our company EPL will not tolerate harassment has been enhanced by an open or intimidation of our employees and trustful environment. on any basis prohibited by law, including race, colour, Gender, English Press core values are the age, religion, nationality, basic stepping stones and guiding handicap, disability or marital principles on how we conduct our status. business and how we relate to 11 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 EPL has established various human resource policies that enable the organization reduce human rights risks and respond to human rights violations. Some of the policies include: Recruitment policy EPL is committed to recruiting, developing and retaining staff of the highest caliber. Selection will be on the basis of merit and principles of equal opportunities will apply. Performance evaluation policy This policy ensures that equal pay for equal work is catered by EPL. Disciplinary policy The policy promotes that employees should be motivated by their sense of responsibility and involvement rather than by fear of disciplinary action. Employee grievance policy EPL is committed to ensuring that employees have access to an established administrative conflict resolution procedure within the workplace. Training policy EPL is committed to ensuring that there is adequate and relevant training and development provided for all employees. EPL Communication on Progress | 12 The human rights principle is part of the initial induction to all employees; to ensure that an ethical and complaint conduct is embodied in the way business is done by EPL and addressing issues of open communication and non retaliation. EPL conducts monthly meetings with the shop stewards who are the union representative in addressing grievances. EPL as an employer has promoted the birth and growth of the SACCO that was initiated by employees to help them save; borrow for their own self development. EPL does a check off system and also offer financial advisory services to the SACCO. EPL management has displayed all the contact numbers of its directors on the notice board so that anybody who feels harassed or has a concern has direct access to the directors. This has really enhanced transparency and respect for one another in the work place. Signing of the peace policy with employees English Press is committed to the pursuit of peace through peaceful means and promotion of nonviolent conflict resolution. We believe in the power of personal transformation, dialogue and effective governance for peace. 13 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 EPL has earned itself goodwill in the community through the respect of human rights Good management, ethical operations and high integrity has seen EPL attract international and regional business relationships There is also increased staff morale hence increased productivity due to the fact that employees feel that they matter, they belong and they are secure within the family of EPL Customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction, supplier satisfaction has been greatly achieved due to the fact that we respect their human rights through our transparent operations. EPL Communication on Progress | 14 We attract and retain employees  90% of EPL employees have been with the company for more than 10 years  We offer opportunity for career growth  We focus both on life skills and practical skills when hiring people  We do not discriminate  We instill our core operating values in every single employee  We do not govern according to the old fashioned command and rule approach but through empowerment by meeting the three basic human needs of belonging, mattering and security. 15 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation EPL Communication on Progress | 16 EPL has a workforce of about 500 collective bargaining is upheld. people and is committed to respect both the national and international Employees are free to join a union labour standards. EPL strongly that represents them during believes that in respecting labour collective agreement negotiations rights is an important factor in the and we ensure those employees are workplace to reduce sickness, not subject to discrimination due to absence and increase effectiveness their association. and profitability. EPL prohibits forced and compulsory EPL will provide attractive, engaging labour, all EPL employees have and effective workplace for all our employment contracts and job employees by creating a diverse and descriptions that are based on inclusive workplace providing equal voluntary employments. opportunities for all and by offering a workplace that supports a healthy life A zero tolerance policy with respect style. to any kind of discrimination: clear procedures and sanctions, including The culture and values of English dismissal are clearly defined. press are based on respect for the individual and also this implies EPL will comply with all relevant and acceptance and tolerance of diversity applicable local and international among colleagues and customers. laws in relation to the protection of We are open minded organization children. EPL doesn‟t support or that appreciates employees and endorse any form of child labour in business partners with different its operations. As a good corporate cultural, political and religious citizen EPL is committed to the backgrounds. principles of protecting children from child labour exploitation. EPL will not English press strives to ensure accept goods from suppliers who freedom of association and right to utilize in any manner child labour. p 17 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 In English press we provide a healthy and safe working environment by operating in accordance with high occupational health standards and EHS policy slogan “Safety comes first”. The EHS department motivates and educates our employees to be accountable for their actions in all matters regarding occupational health and safety. We conduct health, safety and risk management self audits at the workplace as required by OSHA 2007. We have put in place a number of good practices that are geared towards the safe and efficient running of the factory and we comply with relevant HSE legislations. We subject potentially exposed employees to an annual medical examination as per legal notice No.24 of the factory and other place of work (2005), incurring the cost of the examination and ensuring that there is no loss of earning for the employees. EPL Communication on Progress | 18 |11 EPL has actively participated in the negotiations of the CBA constantly dialoged with the UNION which has created good relationships with the employees and UNION. The child labour policy guides EPL in ensuring that recruitment strict adherence of employing persons over 18 years of age is observed. None of the employees in the organization is even considered for an interview without a national identification card. Waiting cards are not considered. Equitable process for recruitment, promotion and remuneration are in place, which ensures employment and promotion on basis of job requirement and merit. This supports the establishment of a diverse workforce. We are an equal opportunity employer and hence discrimination during employment is well catered for by strict adherence to the recruitment policy. We provide opportunity to people who are not skilled, but have fundamental life skills that are needed to advance in life. English Press provides comprehensive medical to its employees. 19 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 Three meetings have been held with the Shop steward to address the employee grievances and concerns. This has greatly enhanced communication of the employer and employee and developed a positive employeeemployer relationship. EPL has recorded 0 % strikes due to adherence of the labour standards for the last 5 years. Ever reducing number of reported accidents. EPL had better industrial relations with unions, labour offices. Signing of the contract for collective bargaining Conducting health and safety self audits where no major reportable incidents were recorded. The periodic medical examinations conducted on 2012 found all examined employee without any occupational diseases. EPL Communication on Progress | 20 |11 21 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology EPL Communication on Progress | 22 |11 The EPL environmental health and environment in which it operates safety policy states: and sees sustainable development “English Press limited is as a key element of its role as a committed to conducting its responsible business. EPL will business operations in a manner continue to reduce its impact on that protects the environment and the environment, focusing on the health and safety of its minimizing waste, reducing employees, customers, suppliers, energy usage and minimizing contractors, members of the demands for water consumption. general public. We combine ISO and Kaizen We recognize that protection of approach, synergized it with our the environment is an integral own business knowledge and part of our business and are created for us a system that is committed to undertake works in personalized and simplifies the an environmentally responsible workflow on the floor, prioritizes manner. We will comply with the health and safety of the legislation and other requirements people and the all around that apply to our activities and protection of the environment. services. We are in the process of We are committed to preventing subscribing to be a member of pollution and aim to minimize the FSC Certification [Forest environmental impact of our Stewardship Council] which activities. Furthermore we proves that the paper we get from encourage our business partners our suppliers come from to be active in protection of the rehabilitated forests and also environment. working on our ISO 14001:2008 certification [Environment EPL strives to protect the natural Management System]. m 23 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 EPL has not experienced any reportable environmental incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or persecution. In order to remain fully compliant the EHS department has an up to date legal register. In accordance to the legal notice we have installed a dilution chamber for pretreatment of waste water prior to discharge in to the public sewer and we conduct quarterly effluent analysis are done to ensure the water waste discharged is compliant to the fifth schedule of EMCA (water quality) and doesn‟t harm the environment. In accordance to the legal notice No.61 (noise prevention and controls) we conduct noise surveys to ensure that the noise emitted by our factory doesn‟t exit exposure levels. This has culminated in development of an effective noise prevention program at the factory. EPL Communication on Progress | 24 |11 Conducted the environment self audit Taken measures towards minimizing energy consumption by: Use of power saving bulbs Switching off lights in the offices and maximum utilization of light through translucent sheets during the day Regular maintenance of electrical equipment The installation of cyclones at the factory Planting 2500 seedlings of acacia tree species by EPL employees for the Nairobi green line project where we will be able to protect one of our most treasured heritage and natural resource ”the Nairobi National Park” 2012 we generated 900 tonnes of waste paper and was recycled by our contracted waste collector turning it to tissue paper and other forms of recyclable paper. 25 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery EPL Communication on Progress | 26 |11 Integrity and responsible behavior our business or by those we in our dealings with business do business with. partners and our own employees are fundamental values that  To acting fairly, honestly underpin everything we do as a and in an ethical manner in company. English press has a all our business dealings and policy in anti-bribery and relationships. corruption that clearly states:  In upholding all applicable „English Press Limited will not national and international condone bribery and corruption of laws and regulations any form and we are committed relevant to countering to doing our business lawfully, bribery and corruption. ethically and with integrity. The fundamental standards of EPL has signed to commit itself to integrity under which we operate code of ethics for business in do not vary on who we are Kenya with Kenya association for dealing with and it‟s the manufacturers to promote and responsibility of each of us in EPL enhance the ethics of business to ensure that we comply.‟ conduct in Kenya in line with the UN Global compact principles. EPL is committed to: English Press is committed in  To zero tolerance approach playing a proactive role in building to bribery and corruption, a globally competitive we will not tolerate them in environment. 27 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 English Press complies with all legislation and regulations related to ethics, Corporate Governance and anti-corruption. The Business Code of Conduct document provides employees and other stakeholders with accurate guidelines regarding these issues. Training courses are being planned for 2013 and will address managers as a first step. EPL employees are able seek further advice should they have concerns regarding sensitive situations. The HR department is responsible for answering, analyzing and recording requests for advice and reports of grievances and concerns. EPL Communication on Progress | 28 |11 English Press has not been involved in any legal proceedings, ruling or other event related to corruption or bribery. English Press has not made any political contributions. Outlook EPL Communication on Progress | 30 |11 English Press will continue to significant progress has been develop the initiatives it has made in terms of optimizing launched and to introduce new processes across the company. measures in the next reporting period. We will also move forward We also intend to engage more implementation of our CSR intensively with energy strategy and embedding of the consumption issues in the future principles of the Global Compact and look for alternative energy throughout the company. source that have less impact on our environment. With its core action areas of the environment, health and safety, In this respect, we also plan to employees, customers and align our measures more closely community CSR is one of pillars of with the expectations of our our activities. We are undertaking external stakeholders. As key further activities as we continue components of our business, to advance towards our objective sustainability and social of a sustainable corporate. With responsibility will continue to regard to the environment, shape everything we do. 31 | EPL Communication on Progress |11 Let us know what you think As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a socially responsible corporate. If you would like to send us any feedback please write to us at qmr@englishpress.com. Bringing print to life www.englishpress.com
