a world full of energy Annual Report 2012 index message from the Chairman 6 interview with the ceo 8 our company 11 our footprint and history 12 our business 14 highlights of 2012 16 our performance 18 our market 20 our strategy 21 our targets 22 our industry 25 why renewables are the future 26 renewable energy trends 28 our performance 33 operational performance 34 operational excellence 39 strong know how and a world class team 41 positive impact on the environment and society 44 financial performance 48 risk management 56 our future 59 our growth options 60 a team that prospers in a challenging environment 62 doing more for the environment and the community 64 our future financial performance 66 gri information 69 corporate governance 91 financial statements 137 Margonin (Poland, Lubin region) The 120 MW Margonin wind farm is 120 MW 190 MW one of EDPR’s biggest projects in Europe. EDPR first identified the potential of the Polish market back in 2007, now it has grown into one of installed Capacity installed capacity in Poland the main growth drivers of our global portfolio. Currently EDPR has 130 60 Remuneration: MW under construction in Poland and Pool + GCs a total pipeline of 1.2 GW in various stages of development. turbines about this report This is the fifth year EDP Renováveis (GRI) for Sustainability Reporting. A full Annual Report (hereinafter “EDPR”) publishes an GRI index for the report can be found in the Magazine integrated report describing the company’s ‘GRI evaluation’ chapter. performance, with respect to the three For the first time, the 2012 Annual Report pillars of sustainability: economic, SCOPE OF THIS REPORT is also available in magazine format. The environmental and social. magazine presents the most relevant This report relates to the 2012 fiscal year, information and events from 2012 in a EDPR is focused on continuously beginning January 1st, 2012 and ending summarized and more visual version. improving its performance in sustainability, December 31st, 2012, and also includes and this is highlighted in its Vision and some key events from the first months of Mission, as a way to create value for our 2013. It contains information from EDP shareholders and for society. As a leader Renováveis, S.A., as well as all subsidiaries in the renewable energy sector, EDPR in the reporting period. plays a key role in EDP Group’s leadership in sustainability. In an effort to adapt our future reporting to our stakeholders needs, a feedback EDPR is committed to follow the G3.1 survey is available on our website: guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative www.edpr.com. ONLINE EDPR´s 2012 Annual Report Tablets and Smartphones Visit EDPR’s Website at www.edpr.com is available online at for the latest news and updates, 2012annualreport.edprenovaveis.pt. EDPR´s 2012 Annual Report includes including: an adapted version for mobile phones The interactive online version includes and tablets, where it is completely • Latest quarterly results handouts and user friendly navigation, animated accessible at any time. presentations. graphics and other attractive features such as EDPR’s institutional video. • Investor calendar. The online Annual Report includes: • Press releases and media reports. • Operational and financial • Updates on corporate governance performance review. and strategy. • Social and environmental review. • Corporate Governance report. • GRI evaluation. • Annual Report Magazine. 4 A World Full Of Energy : message from the Chairman : statement from the Chairman Dear Shareholder, The year of 2012 was a landmark year for EDP Renováveis. outstanding metrics of operational and financial efficiency. It was a year in which despite substantial headwinds we The partnership with CTG was deployed quickly and the were able to persevere and deliver high quality value to our first transaction, involving wind farm assets in Portugal, shareholders. Above all, it was a year when EDPR further finalized just 7 months after CTG entered EDP’s shareholder strengthened its long-term commitment to the development structure. This performance is all the more remarkable in of renewable energy, through the decisive implementation of light of the near-term difficulties the company has had to new strategic initiatives. These changes will be fundamental tackle in its core markets either by a demand slowdown, in driving growth in a new challenging energy playing field, regulatory changes or public misperception regarding the cost ensuring value creation for the foreseeable future. of renewables. EDPR recorded yet another solid performance in 2012, Now more than ever, we are strongly committed to the delivering on the high expectations of its Board of Directors vision we defined when we first identified the potential of and on the commitments made to its shareholders. The renewables. We believed that these technologies, that were company continues to show significant growth, with the then in their infancy, would quickly develop to become renewable energy portfolio reaching 8.0 GW, coupled with cost competitive and command a large share of the world’s generation mix. This vision is now a reality. Not only do renewables account for half of all the power generation additions worldwide but they have also become increasingly cost competitive. Wind onshore is now broadly competitive with conventional generation sources such as coal, nuclear or CCGT, and technologies like solar PV and wind offshore are quickly catching up. Our long-term vision remains unchanged, however recent changes in the industry are opening up a number of opportunities for EDPR’s future. The emergence of new renewable markets, around the world, and the growing share of new renewable technologies entering the energy mix are both trends that we have identified early and look to capitalize on. In this dynamic environment we have been able to stay ahead of the curve and implement new strategic initiatives that will continue to drive long-term value creation. Importantly this strategy focuses on growth in our markets of Romania, Poland and Brazil, while at the same time looking for selective investment opportunities in new geographies and technologies. The earlier than planned investment in solar PV, is just one example of the effective implementation of these initiatives and one that I take with personal satisfaction. As a firm advocate of the benefits of renewable technologies I see great potential in solar PV. This technology is quickly becoming cost competitive to a level that warrants large scale investment. This will naturally generate growth opportunities for EDPR, as well as the creation of vast knowhow and economic value for our industry and its communities. The partnership with CTG will certainly play a strong role in the execution of the new objectives we have set. I’m sure that in 2013 we will see further progress in this respect, in areas apart from asset rotation. 6 A World Full Of Energy : message from the Chairman : I would like to highlight the Board’s unanimous and Now more than ever, we are enthusiastic support of these new initiatives. In this strongly committed to the ever-changing industry, complacency and inaction is not a vision we defined when we luxury that we can afford. It is our stern belief that these first identified the potential are the correct steps for ensuring continued leadership in of renewables. We believed this industry. On this topic, I would like to highlight the high that these technologies, level of involvement of the entire Board in the discussion that were then in their of the new business plan. It is our duty to ensure that the infancy, would quickly interests of all investors are taken into consideration when deciding on issues of this magnitude. This has always been develop to become cost EDPR’s stance and it attests to the quality of our corporate competitive and command a governance structure. large share of the world’s generation mix. This vision is I am pleased to report that we have become signatories of now a reality. the United Nations Global Compact and we have committed ourselves to support and put into practice the 10 principals of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The way the Company executes its strategy, developing and operating a world-wide fleet generating clean and CO 2 -free electricity, respecting biodiversity and supporting the society, are decisive contributors for a leadership position in the global sustainability arena. On behalf of my colleagues of the Board, I would like to extend my sincerest thank you to our employees. It has been their effort and dedication than has allowed us to achieve our challenging goals over the years. Once again we will call on their expertise and enthusiasm to rise-up to the difficult challenges to come. It is the company’s commitment to foster an environment that is conductive of growth and development. We actively pursue the highest standards of health and safety, ethics and diversity, while proving challenging career opportunities for our employees. We have performed strongly throughout 2012 and have been actively implementing a strategy that will provide continued value throughout the next decade. We count on your continued support in the pursuit of these challenging goals. Sincerely, António Mexia Chairman of the Board of Directors EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 7 : interview with the CEO : interview with the CEO João Manso Neto | Chief Executive Officer João Manso Neto knew he would face challenges when he became CEO of EDPR at the beginning of 2012. The renewable energy industry is going through major changes. Here João discusses how EDPR maintained its strong position during the past year despite setbacks in the industry, and his vision and strategies for the future. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND PERFORMANCE Despite these issues some governments have shown vision. João, could you give an overview of the main I would highlight the PTC extension in the US and the important challenges EDPR faced last year and how things look agreement reached in Portugal, during September that respects going forward? the legal stability of the current contracts. The renewable landscape, in which we have thrived, has been In this changing environment it is important to pre-empt changes shifting over the last couple of years. and take decisive action. I believe that this is the biggest challenge we face. But I also believe that we are well prepared to succeed. Energy demand has slowed down in our core markets, as a result We already expect most of our growth to come from countries of the broader economic crisis. This slowdown has challenged outside our core markets of Iberia where we have developed a the role of renewable energy and increased the misconception of robust pipeline, and we are looking into new countries that show renewables as a costly energy source. Now more than ever, it is potential. Our recent investment in solar PV also allows us to important to step-up and clarify public opinion with regards to the benefit from the opportunities of this increasingly competitive benefits of renewables and manage the regulatory agenda. technology that has shown global growth potential. Finally, we have been quick to adapt to a landscape of scarcer capital, focusing on our operating cash-flow to fund capex, and a balanced combination of sale of minority stakes and quality project financing. How was EDPR´s performance during this challenging year? In 2012 the company delivered quality growth. We met our growth targets with the addition of 504 MW to our portfolio that reached 8.0 GW. Production followed suit with 18.4 GWh, whilst revenues hit the 1.3 billion euro mark. During the year, we were able to swiftly execute our projects in Spain and the US before critical deadlines, commissioned the first wind farms in Italy and made strong progress in our expansion in Eastern Europe as well as in solar PV. We were also the first consortium from the UK offshore Round 3 to apply for consenting for approximately 1 GW. The first prospecting stages in new markets were launched and we are keen to capitalize on these initiatives in the short-term. At the same time, we were able to successfully execute our strategic agenda and ended the year on an exciting note. We started with our asset rotation strategy and reached attractive agreements on two very important transactions to sell noncontrolling interests in operating wind farms, in the US and in Portugal. The strong performance throughout the year naturally produced solid financial performance by year-end. Our EBITDA was up 17% year over year, our Net Profit increased 43% and for the first time we were cash-flow positive. In line with our commitment, EDPR management has proposed for the first time a dividend payment. EDPR IN THE LONG-TERM Lately, there has been some renewed debate about the role of renewables. What message would you send to stakeholders, governments and consumers? My main message is clear and simple. Renewable or cost effective energy is not a trade-off that consumers and their governments have to make. They can have both. Wind energy is at a stage where it is clearly cost competitive with conventional generation sources, while solar PV’s competitiveness is increasing year after year. I’m clearly aware that there is a public misconception that renewables are expensive and that governments and tax payers 8 A World Full Of Energy : interview with the CEO : have to pay extra if they want the benefits of CO2-free generation gaining an in-depth knowledge of the company, and then, sources. I believe it is our duty to clarify and inform the public progressively implement the changes I believe will extract the with regards to this issue. most from the teams and the business. For new investments, if we look at the many energy generation Although it did not come as a surprise to me, I have to say I found sources, renewable and conventional, over their entire useful a company with an outstanding team, a robust cash flow-stream life considering initial investment, fuel, O&M and CO2 costs. and a noteworthy drive to find suitable options for growth. That We conclude that the average cost of one MWh produced by an being said, there were naturally some tweaks, enhancements and onshore wind farm is cheaper than that produced in a coal or gas improvement initiatives that I personally drove as priorities during fired power plant, whilst for solar plant it is quickly approaching my first 365 days as CEO. this level. Importantly, I implemented changes focused on promoting our Given the current and growing competitiveness of renewables, operational excellence, prospecting new countries and executing I am certain they will play a critical role in our energy future. As our asset rotation program. On a higher level, I have stressed the endogenous and CO2-free generation sources, renewable are need for quick decision making and implementation, since one vital for ensuring energy security and combating climate change. day of delay may causes a hit to the bottom-line. Additionally, they have a strong impact on the economy through Managing a multinational company spread across 11 countries has job creation, economic development, know-how and innovation. also been a challenge. I believe it is very important to be close to In May EDPR presented its business plan for 2012-15. our business and our employees, understanding the problems on Could you guide us through the key topics? the ground. This has led me to visit most of our geographies more The starting point for the business plan is our existing portfolio of than once. assets. Our young asset base, which has shown strong efficiency What is EDPR doing to prepare its employees for the metrics will provide a stable and recurrent cash-flow stream. changes in the industry? This cash-flow ensures high value creation for our shareholders We are fortunate to have an extremely valuable team of young and and will be critical to support growth. dynamic employees. They have been the driving force behind our Quality growth is the second point in our plan. In the next three current performance and will continue to be in the future. years we expect to gain a strong foothold in new growth markets In the future we continue to count on their willingness to change such as Poland, Romania and Brazil. These markets constitute the and drive to improve. In the coming years, growth will come from main drivers of EDPR’s growth. Additionally, in light of the recent different geographies as well as new technologies. Mobility and PTC extension in the US new growth opportunities are now being cross technology training will be increasingly important for EDPR considered. We also expect to diversify our growth options by and our employees are prepared for this challenge. investing in new markets and/or new technologies in coming years. It is important to point out that, we expect that these new The company will continue to invest strongly in training to fit our projects to be added in the following years will have profitability future needs, building on the know-how and qualifications that metrics above our current average. This demonstrates the we currently possess. intrinsic quality of these growth opportunities. How is EDPR’s relationship with CTG? Finally, our asset rotation strategy will be a critical pillar to The relationship and communication with CTG has been positive accelerate the value creation to our shareholders. It will lock and fluid. I have personally visited Beijing a number of times for in future cash-flows and allow for reinvestment in value productive meetings and negotiations. added projects. Both companies’ expertise and portfolio’s are complementary How does asset rotation tie into EDPR’s strategy? and this provides a solid base to move forward. We are constantly Asset rotation consists of the sale of minority stakes in operating looking for new areas to share knowledge and study investment wind farms. The main advantage of this new strategy is that it opportunities. In 2012 this partnership has already been fruitful allows us to realize the value created during the development. with the completion of the first asset rotation transaction. In 2013, in addition to the continuation of the planed financial During the initial phases of project development in which the transactions, we see further development in other areas namely risks are higher, we leverage our expertise to deliver the projects joint investment. I think we are currently only seeing the tip of the to completion. Once the project is operational and the risks are iceberg when it comes to this partnership. The partnership has significantly reduced, we consider selling minority stakes to huge potential in many strategic areas other than asset rotation. investors. I must say that we have been positively surprised by the interest shown by many investors. Would you like to leave a final message? The partnership with CTG is clearly at the centre stage of this To conclude I would like to say to our shareholders that: strategy. There is a commitment from CTG to invest 2 billion We are on the right side of the energy industry and in the euro up to 2015 in minority stakes. Up to now we have already best position to take advantage of future profitable growth closed one transaction for Portuguese assets amounting to opportunities. 359 million euro. We will continue to strive and excel, ensuring and maximizing MANAGING A GLOBAL COMPANY value creation, both through our existing assets and via selective, What reflections do you have on your first year as low risk and profitable accretive growth. CEO of EDPR? Finally, I would like to thank you personally, along with all of our I believe that making revolutionary changes cannot be the stakeholders for the confidence and commitment you´ve put obsession of a new CEO. My chosen approach is to focus on into EDPR. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 9 our company our footprint and history 12 our business 14 highlights of 2012 16 our performance 18 our market 20 our strategy 21 our targets 22 Romania solar PV plants (Romania, Oltenia region) These projects mark the entry of EDPR 39 MW 350 MW into the solar PV technology, and the early execution of one of its strategic objectives for the 2014-2015 period. Commissioned in 4Q2012 the four solar installed capacity installed capacity in Romania PV plants benefit from a supportive remuneration scheme, quality 4 Remuneration: irradiance and the potential of the Pool + GCs Romanian market. The swift execution of this opportunity is testament to EDPR know-how enhanced by the projects relationship with its local partner. : our company : our footprint and history our global presence EDPR is a leading renewable energy company, an expert in the development, construction and operation of wind farms. Incorporated in 2007 with the clear objective of supplying a growing number of geographies with CO2 free and renewable energy, EDPR has quickly grown to become a global company and a front-runner in this market. With an installed capacity of 8.0 GW and 18.4 GWh generated in 2012, EDPR is the third largest producer of wind energy in the world. north america Installed capacity MW EDPR’s business is organized in three platforms (Europe, North America and Brazil) and is present in 11 countries. US East 1,784 These platforms are complemented by a net of country and regional offices that provide “on the ground” expertise US Central 1,452 and proximity to local stakeholders. This provides a perfect balance between the global view necessary to US West 401 further develop its leadership in global renewable energy, and the local approach that is critical for the successful development of our wind farms and solar plants. The close Canada First 30 MW under development relationship with landowners, municipalities, regulators and other key stakeholders is crucial and a cornerstone of EDPR’s success. brazil Installed capacity MW Brazil 84 our growth story Installed capacity MW Revenues (€m) 725 581 5,575 4,400 2,900 319 2007 2008 2009 6 geographies, 2.9 GW Brazil, Romania and the 5.6 GW installed with strong installed largest IPO in Western Europe growth In the first months of 2007 EDPR, already In 2008, EDPR entered the Brazilian and In 2009, EDPR saw strong growth counted with Portugal, Spain, France and Romanian markets through the acquisition throughout its portfolio, with 1.2 GW added Belgium as part of its growing portfolio, and of local wind developers. These acquisition during the period. A milestone was reached would shortly after add 2 more. In March, set the base for strong future growth in both in Poland with the completion of one of the EDP acquired Horizon Wind Energy a leading geographies. In July, EDPR held the largest country’s largest wind farms (120 MW). US wind developer with 559 gross operating IPO in Western Europe in that year, raising Financial performance followed suit with MW and a sizable pipeline of projects. Later 1.6 billion euros and providing the required Revenues breaking the 700 million euro in the year Poland would be added to the list proceeds to execute its ambitious growth mark for the first time. through the acquisition of a quality pipeline. strategy. 12 A World Full Of Energy : our company : Europe Installed capacity MW Spain 2,310 Portugal 1,005 Romania 350 France 314 Poland 190 Belgium 57 Italy 40 UK Two offshore wind projects under development (1.5 GW net) 1,285 1,069 948 7,987 7,483 6,676 2010 2011 2012 United Kingdom, Italy Revenues of 1 billion euros Solar and execution of asset and Canada and the CTG Partnership rotation In 2010, EDPR saw strong growth in its global As a result of EDPR’s strong growth and top In May, EDPR presented its new strategy through portfolio having added 1.1 GW throughout level efficiency, revenues reached the landmark 2015. Entering the solar PV market, a goal set the year. Additionally, EDPR was awarded figure of 1 billion euros in 2011. EDPR’s major for 2014-15, was achieved early through the 1.3 GW of offshore wind capacity in the UK, shareholder (EDP) also established a strategic completion of the 1st solar PV projects (39 marking its entry into this new market and partnership with China Three Gorges, including MW) in Romania during the 4th quarter of 2013. challenging technology. Entry into the Italian renewable energy generation initiatives to The completion of the Borealis (US) and CTG and Canadian markets were also important be carried out by EDPR. This partnership set (Portugal) asset rotation transactions provide milestones for the company during this year. out the ground rules for the sale of minority further evidence of EDPR’s capacity to execute stakes in EDPR’s wind farms, joint development its strategic agenda, regarding self-financing and of renewable projects and knowledge asset rotation. sharing initiatives. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 13 : our company : OUR BUSINESS EDPR’s business consists of developing, building and operating of measuring the renewable resource begins. This process of data top quality wind farms and solar plants throughout the world. The collection and analysis can take several years. If the site continues key knowledge acquired in these three critical phases of project to show promise, further studies are conducted and permits are development, coupled with a drive for continued improvement are secured until an investment decision is made. crucial for maximizing the value creation of our assets. CONSTRUCTION PHASE DEVELOPMENT PHASE EDPR’s goal is to set the industry standard for building the most Our sustainable future growth is dependent on solid development cost competitive, safe and efficient wind farms and solar plants. efforts. Our Procurement, Engineering and Construction teams are well EDPR’s teams of highly experienced and qualified developers equipped to select the most suitable wind turbines and solar panel start by locating a site with quality renewable resource, either systems based on each project’s specifics. We also use in-house wind or solar, with nearby electricity transmission lines. After expertise to design the most adequate site layout and assure toppartnering with landowners and municipalities, the critical process class engineering and construction standards. Wind farm and solar plant lifecycle site identification landowner agreement Search for sites with top-class wind conditions Contact local landowners and negotiate leasing or irradiance resource and analyse grid agreement. connection feasibility. layout design and construction opening ceremony wind and solar plant operation Optimise wind or solar farm layout and select Share results and benefits of renewable energy Complete grid connection and start to generate the best fit wind turbine or solar panel. Build with local inhabitants, business community, renewable electricity. access roads, prepare foundations, erect authorities and other stakeholders. towers, assemble wind turbine generators/solar panels, and construct substation. 14 A World Full Of Energy : our company : Construction of a wind farm typically lasts six months to one OPERATIONS PHASE year depending on the size of the project. We work to minimize disturbances to the environment and return the land to its As owner and operator, EDPR is committed to maintaining long initial integrity. In most cases, wind turbines and access roads term operations of our projects for the benefit of our stakeholders occupy less than one percent of the entire project area, and while always keeping our environmental impact to a minimum. the remaining land is still available for agricultural activities or other. Our wind farms have a projected life span of at least 25 years, thus it is critical to our longevity that we focus on maintaining the highest During 2012, EDPR added over 500 MW of high quality assets, levels of availability, through regularly scheduled maintenance mainly wind farms, securing its position as a leading player in programs and performance improvement initiatives, while minimizing the wind energy industry. Additionally, in this period, the first the associated costs through our robust O&M strategy. solar MW were installed (39 MW) marking the entry of EDPR into this new technology and providing a new growth avenue for EDPR leverages its experience of operating 8.0 GW of the company. installed capacity to ensure continuous improvement and the implementation of best practices. renewable resource analysis obtain consents and permits market analysis Install meteorological equipment to collect and Engage with local and public authorities Study market dynamics in terms of electricity study wind profile and solar irradiance. to secure environmental administrative, prices, regulation and financing to support the construction and other licenses. “go ahead” decision. data analysis ongoing maintenance service delivery of secure, reliable and CO2Monitor real-time operational data, analyse Keep availability figures at the highest level free energy to the population performance and identify opportunities for possible and minimise failure rates. A better energy, a better future, a better world. improvement. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 15 : our company : HIGHLIGHTS OF 2012 Q1 Q2 STRATEGIC plan through 2015 On May 22nd, EDPR held in Oporto its Investor Day. This event is the chosen venue to present to shareholders, financial analysts and potential investors EDPR’s Business Plan. EDPR’s strategy for geographical, technological diversification, as well as financial targets for the upcoming years were some of the key topics presented in this event. New CEO On February 29th, Mr. João Manso Neto took over as Chief Executive Officer of EDPR. Member of EDPR’s Board of Directors and Executive Committee since 2008, the CEO has also held numerous Management positions within the EDP group since joining in 2003. In an interview Mr. João Manso Neto commented: “I see my appointment as CEO of EDP Renováveis as an important personal and professional challenge. Intrinsically, renewable energy is the largest area of growth for the coming years, an area to which our shareholders are especially committed to.” Awards received in 2012: Best Sustainability Deal at the annual EMEA Project Finance Awards. Project finance in Spain Best Investor Relations Alternative Energy, by IR Magazine On March 5th, EDPR executed a project finance structure and International Investor. agreement with a consortium of European banks for 125 MW relating to three wind farms in the Spanish region of Top Place to work in both Spain and Houston, by Great Place Catalonia. The 177 million euros long-term contracted debt to Work® and the Houston Chronicle respectively. facility is evidence of EDPR’s top quality projects and its “Best in Show” award by the International Academy of Visual strategy to diversify funding sources at a competitive cost. Arts and a SAPO award, for the Online version of EDPR’s 2011 Annual Report. 16 A World Full Of Energy : our company : Q3 Q4 Kick-off of asset rotation strategy On November 6th, EDPR agreed to sell a minority stake in wind farms totalling 599 MW, for a total consideration of 230 million dollars. This deal marked the beginning of the announced asset rotation strategy. EDPR considered this strategy to be key for the execution of its medium/long-term goals, as it allows for the proceeds to be re-invested in the development of value accretive projects. First transaction with CTG On December 20th, EDPR agreed to sell a minority stake First Solar PV project in Portuguese wind farms relating to 615 MW (plus 29 MW In the third quarter, EDPR started construction of its ready-to-build), for a total consideration of 359 million first solar photovoltaic (solar PV) projects in Romania. euros. This is the first transaction with CTG under its These projects mark the entry of EDPR into the solar PV strategic partnership with EDP and provides continuity to technology, delivering on one of its short-term strategic the execution of EDPR’s asset rotation strategy. This deal objectives. The 39 MW projects, that were commissioned highlights the quality of EDPR’s assets and their low risk the forth quarter, combine a supportive remuneration cash-flow profile. scheme and a quality irradiance resource. Managing regulatory risk On September 3rd, the Portuguese wind sector and the Portuguese government reached an agreement that adds visibility to the remuneration of EDPR wind farms under the “old tariff regime”. The agreement broadly extends the remunerations scheme from 15 to 22 years, in return for a per MW investment. Creating jobs Building top wind farms In the third quarter of 2012 EDPR reached a total of 850 In the forth quarter EDPR accomplished two significant employees spread across its 3 main platforms. This highly landmarks. The commissioning of the first wind farms in skilled and diverse workforce is the key of EDPR’s success Italy and the completion of its biggest single-stage wind since its inception. Despite the unfavourable economic farm to date, the 215 MW, Marble River wind farm in the environment, EDPR has been able to convert its growth and state of New York. These projects are part of the 504 MW success into opportunities for the community. added to EDPR’s portfolio throughout the year. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 17 : our company : OUR PERFORMANCE OPERATIONAL INSTALLED CAPACITY new CAPACITY 2012 generation 2012 7,987 2012 18,445 2011 7,483 7% + 504 MW 2011 16,800 10% MW 84 MW GWh 231 4,266 8,277 289 3,637 215 9,937 EU NA BR EU NA EU NA BR Profit and loss revenues ebitda net income (1) 2012 1,285 2012 938 2012 126 2011 1,069 20% 2011 801 17% 2011 89 42% €m €m €m 1,285 938 1,069 801 126 948 713 89 80 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 FINANCIAL POSITION TOTAL ASSETS net debt/ebitda OPERATING CASH-FLOW 2012 13.3 2012 3.6x 2012 666 2011 13.0 2% 2011 4.2x 15% 2011 643 4% 13.3 €bn 3.6X 666 €m 18 A World Full Of Energy : our company : economic VALUE GENERATED 2012 1,457 2011 1,265 15% €m 584 872 Ec. value distributed Ec. value retained ENVIRONMENTAL CO 2 eq AVOIDED (2) MW CERTIFIED ISO14001 (3) 2012 14,521 2012 3,664 2011 12,093 20% 2011 2,193 46% k tons MW 14,521 12,093 3,664 9,612 2 ,193 1 Net income attributable to equity holders of EDPR. 2 Greenhouse gases avoided, converted to CO2 equivalent emissions. 958 3 Environmental Certification (see page 44). 4 Training attendances per employee. 5 Health and Safety Certification (see page 43). 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 social HEADCOUNT TRAINING attendances(4) MW CERTIFIED OHSAS 18001 (5) 2012 861 2012 2.93x 2012 2,707 2011 796 8% 2011 2.81x 4% 2011 2,194 23% 861 2,93x 2,707 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 19 : our company : OUR MARKET Driven by the many benefits that this type of generation source trends that provide both opportunities and challenges for brings to society, the global renewable energy landscape has EDPR. These trends impact all aspects of EDPR’s business experienced continuous growth over the past decade. In the and their timely identification has been a critical factor for context of this growing industry, there are a number of critical our success. Growth shifting towards emerging wind Onshore wind capacity by market (GW, %) markets 277 341 42% 70% The development of renewable energy generation sources, once limited to a select number of developed countries has now grown into a global trend. Motivated by the clear benefits of these technologies, more and more countries are experiencing a large 58% growth in renewables. In 2005, only 11 countries had more than 1 GW of installed wind capacity, by 2012 this number had more than doubled to 24. As a result of this growing trend, in the period 30% Europe + United States from 2013-2020 it is expected that 70% of the onshore wind energy added will come from geographies other than the original Rest of the world markets of the European Union and the United States. Source: Emerging Energy Research 2012 2013-2020 E New Onshore wind capacity technologies by market increase (GW,weight their %) in Renewable market evolution (GW, %) the energy mix 32% 15% A major trend that is shaping the renewable energy industry 17% and the energy landscape as whole, is the steady increase in new alternative technologies to onshore wind. This increase 5% 7% is being driven by the higher competitiveness of other energy 1% 60% 63% sources that due to the technological advancements of the Onshore wind last years are now gaining traction in the industry. Out of Offshore wind the technologies that will make a mark in this industry in the upcoming years are solar and offshore wind. It is expected that Solar both these technologies will significantly increase their share Other of the global renewable energy mix, with solar being the most Source: Emerging Energy Research promising given its increased competitiveness. 2008 2020 E Challenging Renewable market debt evolution markets(GW, %) CDS spread Southern European utilities (bps) The evolution of debt markets since the start of the global 349 financial crisis in 2008 has had a significant impact on the European utilities sector. This impact has been felt through the tightening of credit markets and the increase in the cost of 252 borrowing. This trend is especially acute in on those companies that have exposure to countries that have experienced fiscal stress. For these companies the widening of the sovereign 159 158 yields has had a knock-on effect on their cost of capital and their 113 ability to tap global debt markets. This is patent in the cost that investors have to pay to insure corporate debt, the Credit Default 27 Swap (CDS) spread. From 2008 to 2012 the 5 year CDS spread for Southern European utilities more than doubled. This trend 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 has softened slightly following announcements by the European Note: Bloomberg. 5Y spread, (includes EDP, Iberdrola, Gas Natural, Endesa, Enel) Central Bank in the second half of 2012. 20 A World Full Of Energy : our company : OUR STRATEGY EDPR’s core strategy is based on three main pillars: on benefiting from important market trends affecting the focused growth, controlled risk and superior profitability. renewables market. The swift execution of these strategic In addition to this broad guiding strategy, EDPR has initiates is vital for maintaining EDPR front-runner status and engaged in a number of strategic initiatives that focus shaping EDPR’s tomorrow. Securing visible cash-flow from the Capacity breakdown by remuneration (%, GW) installed asset base 10% <10% Ensuring that EDPR’s current portfolio generates stable cash90% >90% flow throughout its lifetime is critical for the sustainability of our business model. Achieving this objective involves ensuring a low risk approach to market exposure, with assets under longterm regulatory frameworks or PPAs. In addition we target the highest standards in operational efficiency, maximizing output, with top-class availability and a continued improvement in Opex metrics. Achieving these goals is a cornerstone for EDPR’s Regulated & PPA/LT Hedges success. Spot 2012 2015 E Capacity Shifting breakdown growth into remuneration byemerging wind GW) (%, markets EDPR growth breakdown (%, GW) and new technologies 22% 12% As an early entrant in many of its 11 current geographies EDPR 60% has developed core competences that allow it to successfully 78% enter other promising wind markets. The entry into some of its current growth markets such as Poland and Romania is testament of this capacity. EDPR’s objective is to extend this process with entry into new emerging wind markets that are expected to fuel Core Markets its future growth. 28% Creating Options The development of new technologies to further diversify EDPR’s Current Growth Platforms portfolio and provide additional growth avenues is a key objective New Markets and Techs of the company. EDPR focuses on investing in mature competitive 2008-2012 2013-2015 renewable technologies with high growth potential. The first steps of this strategy have been achieved with its first solar PV projects, in Romania. EDPRrotation Asset growth breakdown (%, GW) Cost of capital through the life cycle EDPR has implemented a new asset rotation strategy aimed at of a wind farm (WACC; %) crystallizing the value generated through the de-risking of the project and recycling cash. This strategy consists of selling minority stakes of operating assets to interested investors. In the process EDPR is able to realize the value created during the, riskier, development and construction phases of the project. The proceeds generated from the sales can then be used to reinvest in new projects or other value accretive uses. During 2012, EDPR has already been able to successfully complete two assets rotation transaction involving US and Portuguese assets. High Risk Risk Reduction Low Risk Development Construction Operation EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 21 : our company : OUR TARGETS EDPR’s 2015 financial targets were presented to the market during its May 2012 Investor Day. The execution of these targets ensures value creation for our shareholders. IMPROVE portfolio profitability metrics +25% EDPR’s strict investment strategy for the 2012-2015 period will lead to a continued increase in EDPR’s key value metrics. Our objective is to invest in new projects with superior wind resource, located in geographies that have above portfolio average selling price, and a continuous focus on improving Opex metrics. The execution of these goals will be the main drivers increase in EBITDA for achieving our EBITDA average MW metric. per average MW in operation by 2015 STRONG Cash-Flow generation EDPR’s continued focus on operational efficiency coupled with 1.35-1.50 its selective investment strategy result in a top-quality portfolio with high cash-flow generation capacity. Our target is for EDPR’s EBITDA to rise steadily clearly exceeding the 1.35 billion euros mark by 2015. During the 2012-15 period EDPR’s operating cash-flow will also significantly exceed Capex. billion euros of EBITDA by 2015 Significantly increase bottom-line profitability >3x Generating sustained return on investment for our shareholders is the main goal of EDPR. Our target is to more than triple 2011 Net Income over the next 4 years. increase in Net Income vs. 2011 figures 22 A World Full Of Energy our industry why renewables are the future 26 combat climate change 26 job creation 26 contribution to gdp growth 26 reduction in wholesale prices 27 increasing competitiveness with conventional generation 27 improve energy security 27 renewable energy trends 28 global renewable energy macrotrends 28 regional trends impacting edpr geographies 31 Las Monjas (Spain, Andalucía region) The Las Monjas project, located in the 34 MW 2,310 MW South of Spain, is part of a series of wind farms built under the pre-assignation registry system. EDPR has been able to successfully complete all of the capacity installed Capacity installed capacity in Spain assigned under this system, ensuring that these projects fall under the Spanish 18 renewable energy remuneration scheme. Remuneration: As is the case for all of EDPR’s portfolio, Feed-in tariff Las Monjas has a strong wind resource contributing to further sustain the turbines Company’s net capacity factor premium over the Spanish industry average. : our industry : WHY RENEWABLES (which corresponds to one full time equivalent job during one ARE THE FUTURE year) of employment is created through manufacturing, component supply, wind farm development, construction, transportation, etc. Renewable power triggers high returns for the domestic In Europe, according to the Ernst & Young report “Analysis of the economy by generating local added value and job creation, while value creation potential of wind energy policies” conducted for contributing to mitigate climate change effects. The benefits Acciona and EDPR, published in August 2012, wind energy sector for the energy system are also notorious as select renewable creates 21 jobs/year per million euros invested, compared to 13 for technologies provide high competitiveness, while reducing a Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (“CCGT”). expensive fuel imports, improving energy security and reducing wholesale prices. According to the “EWEA” (European Wind Energy Association), the European wind sector employment amounted to 238,155 jobs in 2010, both directly and indirectly and this figure is expected to more than double by 2020, which illustrates the enormous jobTHE MAIN BENEFITS OF RENEWABLE ENERGY creation potential of the industry. According to the “AWEA” (American Wind Energy Association), the BENEFITING THE BENEFITING THE ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY SYSTEM wind industries accounts for 75,000 jobs (both direct and indirect) THE ECONOMY in the US. Renewable energy industry jobs created in Europe (#) Reduction in Combat Climate Change Wholesale Prices 794,079 Job Creation Competitive Technologies 520,659 Contribution Energy Security to GDP Growth 238,155 COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE 2010 2020 2030 A United Nations report on rising greenhouse gas emissions Direct jobs Indirect jobs reminded world governments last December that their efforts to Source: EWEA fight climate change are far from enough to meet their stated goal of limiting global warming to 2°C above 1990 levels. In order to CONTRIBUTION TO GDP GROWTH ensure the latter, at least these two conditions must be met: global greenhouse gas emissions must peak below 50 Gton/year before The large deployment of renewables worldwide has been 2020 and emissions must reach half the 1990 levels by 2050. possible thanks to the development of the renewable industry, which consequently, represents an increasing share of the global The power sector is responsible for more than 40% of all CO2 economy. emissions from burning fossil fuels and about 25% of the total greenhouse gas emissions. Promoting a shift from conventional Wind industry development is, today, a key contributor to the GDP fossil fuels to renewable energy is one of the most effective and of many economies worldwide. According to a study conducted by feasible near-term ways of mitigating climate change. Renewables the EWEA “The impact of wind energy on jobs and the economy” sources are not only carbon free but also don´t emit harmful published in April 2012, the direct contribution of the wind energy SOx, NOx, or mercury pollution, protecting valuable air and water sector in the EU’s GDP was 17.6 billion euros in 2010, which resources. corresponds to 0.26% of the European GDP. The same year, the industry’s net exports were worth 5.7 billion euros and it´s worth Wind power alone has reduced emissions by about 400 million CO2 noting that only 9.9% of the wind energy inputs were imported, tons in 2012. which illustrates the European wind industry’s competitiveness. Furthermore, the growth of the wind industry’s contribution of the EU’s GDP is greater over the 2007-2010 period, than the overall JOB CREATION growth of the EU’s GDP during this same period, thus the wind sector remains strong in periods of recession. As governments struggle with high unemployment rates in many countries, the renewable industry’s potential for employment In the US, according to the AWEA data, wind bolsters America’s becomes increasingly important. Focusing on wind, according economy through a supply chain of nearly 500 manufacturing to the Global Wind Energy Council (“GWEC”), for every new MW plants and over 2,500 companies investing in all stages of of capacity installed in a country in a given year, 14 person/year American wind power. 26 A World Full Of Energy : our industry : REDUCTION IN WHOLESALE PRICES A more accurate indicator to compare technologies is the levelised cost of energy (LCoE) which is the constant price per unit of energy Renewable generation bid their output in wholesale markets at zero that causes the investment to break even, and enables to compare, cost as wind energy has no marginal cost. As power prices are accordingly the cost of generating electricity with different sources. determined by the intersection of power supply and demand, bids at zero displace more expensive technologies shifting, consequently, According to this criterion, some renewable technologies such as the supply curve. For a same level of demand, when wind production wind onshore are already competitive with conventional generation is available, the market price goes down. sources. While others, like solar PV and wind offshore are quickly emerging and becoming more competitive. There is a third set of This effect is not a negligible effect. In Spain, the reduction of market renewable technologies like solar CSP and ocean that are still in price due to wind energy ranges between 4€/MWh and 8€/MWh, an early stage of development and are not attractive for large scale which materialises in energy savings of around 1,000 million euros investment, without supportive frameworks. per year. Technology total cost (LCoE*€/MWh) Wholesale energy market illustrative 0 100 200 300 Natural Gas (CCGT) Wholesale market Coal price Nuclear Hydro Wind Onshore Price Biomass without wind Solar PV Price with wind Wind Offshore Solar CSP Ocean Energy With wind energy EDPR Technologies Without wind energy *Levelised cost of energy INCREASINg COMPETITIVENESS VS Source: Internal analysis CONVENTIONAL GENERATION IMPROVE ENERGY SECURITY The sharp reduction of investment costs per MWh of new renewable installed capacity has led to the increasing competitiveness of By investing in renewable energy, countries reduce their energy renewable technologies, mainly driven by technological progress and dependency by enhancing their security of energy supply and economies of scale. minimizing their exposure to potential increases in fuel prices. This happens because wind, solar and hydro technologies use Onshore wind with robust load factors (>2.500-3.000 hours) is endogenous resources. Conversely, fuel resources are scarce and already competitive with new full-cost CCGT technology, even in concentrated in some geographies which explains its high and the US. volatile price. Renewable energy is perceived as being expensive because the total The EU imports up to 50% of the energy it uses and the European cost of renewable energy is implicitly compared to wholesale prices Commission has predicted that with “business as usual” the EU’s of existing power plants. energy import dependence will jump to 65%. Reliance on gas imports is expected to increase from 57% to 84% by 2030, of oil from 82% to However, this is an unfair and inaccurate comparison as: 93%. However, in the US energy dependence is not such a pressing issue as the country only imports around 20% of its energy needs. • Wholesale prices do not account for the initial capital investment of the facility, as the investment has already been partially or fully Energy dependence, 2010 (%) amortized. 84% 73% 76% • Some conventional technologies are not covering their total non-variable costs with wholesale price and therefore are not 48% 51% sustainable in the long run. 34% 22% 22% • In some cases, conventional technologies receive additional 7% revenue besides wholesale price, including capacity payments and na da az il an ia US nd la an ce EU n ai ug al ly Ita Sp payment for ancillary grid-support services. Ca Br m Po Fr rt Ro Po • Renewables actually contribute to lowering wholesale prices, -58% creating a benefit for the system that is not attributed to them. Note: Energy dependence is defined as imports/total energy consumption Source: World Bank EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 27 : our industry : RENEWABLE ENERGY TRENDS GLOBAL RENEWABLE ENERGY MACROTRENDS Continued increase in global capacity Emergence of new markets Rising fuel costs Shift to low carbon economies Increased competitiveness of new technologies Increasing global demand, volatility in commodity prices RENEWABLES ACCOUNT FOR HALF OF and security of supply are the main drivers behind the large WORLDWIDE ADDITIONS deployment of renewables, in line with more pressing climate Renewable power generation technologies account for around change concerns. This expansion is enabling a rapid reduction half of all new power generation capacity additions worldwide. of some renewable technologies’ costs, namely solar PV and In 2011 additions included 41 GW of new wind power capacity, onshore wind. 30 GW of solar PV, 25 GW of hydropower, 6 GW of biomass, 0.5 GW of CPS and 0.1 GW of geothermal, according to “IRENA”(International Renewable Energy). CONTINUED INCREASE IN GLOBAL CAPACITY Demand for energy is strongly correlated to economic growth. Electrical capacity worldwide (GW) Globally, demand for electricity is set to continue to grow faster than any other final form of energy. According to the “IEA” 9,345 (International Energy Agency), demand will expand by over 70% 8,588 between 2010 and 2035. Over 80% of the growth comes from 7,861 non-OECD countries, over half in China (38%) and India (13%) 7,162 alone. China overtook the United States in 2011 to become the 6,347 world’s largest electricity consumer. 5,183 This future economic growth, coupled with an increase of 1.7 billion in the world´s population by 2035, is expected to increase the world´s energy needs. According to IEA, the World’s primary energy demand will increase by 35% between 2010 and 2035. 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 Despite this trend, fossil fuels are expected to remain the Source: IEA “New Policies Scenario” (2012) largest contributors to meet the world’s energy needs in 2035 (75%, excluding nuclear), non-hydro renewables will show an EMERGENCE OF NEW MARKETS unparalleled growth as their demand is expected to increase by a factor of six from 2010 to 2035. Wind and solar energy are now mainstream, consolidated electricity generation sources and have a central role in an The world economy must install new electricity generation increasing number of countries. capacity to fuel its growth (mainly in developing countries) and to replace old fossil fuel fired plants that are subject to retirement The most notable trend, apart from the enormous growth of these (in both developing and developed countries). Renewable energy industries, has been their geographical expansion. The wind is an environmentally-friendly and competitive option for new industry started as a very euro-centric industry but experienced capacity investments. Moreover, renewable energy plants usually the large development of the US in the last decade, and more have a relatively short construction time and have therefore, the recently, massive growth in other markets. advantage of fast deployment. A 10 MW wind farm can easily be built in two months, while a larger 50 MW wind farm can be built in six months. 28 A World Full Of Energy : our industry : The most striking example is China. While its total wind capacity The sustained increase in fossil fuel prices is a key driver for the only counted 568 MW in 2002, ten years later China reached the growth of renewables. Technologies such as wind and solar that astonishing figure of 75 GW. China surpassed US as the largest rely on free endogenous resources to produce energy become wind market in 2010. In 2012, China accounted for 30% of the new increasingly competitive as the cost of fuel used in conventional wind installations. generation sources increases. World renewable generation over total electricity REDUCTION OF RENEWABLE generation (%, GW) TECHNOLOGIES COSTS 2010 73% The Levelised Cost of Energy (LCoE) of more mature technologies 2035 67% such as wind, solar PV, CSP and some biomass technologies is sharply declining. This is driven by the fact that renewable technologies are today the most economic solution for new capacity in an increasing number of countries and regions. 44% 36% An Ernst & Young report “Analysis of the value creation potential of wind energy policies” conducted for Acciona and EDPR, 28% 23% 24% published in August 2012, confirmed the lower net cost of wind 21% 18% compared to the CCGT technology for most European nations and 16% 12% at the European level. According to this study, renewable energy 10% 10% technologies such as wind power generation present, in most 2% cases, a higher cost than fossil fuel base generation technologies. US EU OECD China Middle Africa Latin AsiaEast America However, wind also generates returns for the domestic economy Oceania by generating local added value and job creation, which leads, Note: IEA New Policies Scenarios. New policies scenario is the central scenario and takes into account existing policy ultimately, to a lower net cost of wind. Alternatively, natural gas commitments and assumes that those recently announced are implemented, albeit in a cautious manner. is largely imported, but these expenditures generate very limited benefits to the domestic economy. India has also become a leading wind market and is today the 5th largest wind market worldwide with 18 GW of wind installed Solar PV is also already becoming cost-competitive in many capacity. regions as its costs continue to drop fast. Other markets have emerged with force in the last years, such as Evolution of investment cost of PV technology Brazil, Mexico, Canada, South Africa, Poland and Turkey among (Capex/MW, €m) others. -40% Solar PV technology has evolved in a similar way. While in 2008 only three countries, Germany, Spain and Japan had surpassed the 1 GW of installed capacity landmark, today other countries have surged with force, most notably, US, China, Italy, France and the Czech Republic, among others. According to IEA projections, all regions (except Latin America that already has a large share of renewables) are expected to increase 2010 2011 2013 their share. As demand in these countries increases and energy security is a priority, governments are turning to renewables to fill Source: Internal analysis the gap. RISING FUEL COSTS EVIDENCE OF DECLINE IN SOLAR PV COST Crystalline silicon PV module price is another good example Past and current sharp increases in oil prices have seriously of costs reduction. According to a study (1) conducted by the hit the economic performances of many countries of the world. International Renewable Energy Agency (“IRENA”), average Brent crude oil prices increasing from 20$ barrel in 2004 to more prices for Chinese modules have fallen by more than 65% than 120$ barrel in 2012 has led to an increasing vulnerability over the last two years to below 0,75 US$/wat in September of many oil importing countries. As oil reserves are scarce and 2012. The increasing size of global renewable markets and the concentrated in a few countries, prices are expected to continue diversity of suppliers have resulted in more competitive markets growing and remain very volatile. for renewable technologies. 1 “Renewable Power Generation Costs in 2012” Gas prices worldwide tend to increase in parallel with crude. This relationship is strong in both Europe and Asia where gas prices closely track the price of crude oil. However, in the US, the recent development of shale gas has significantly loosened this relationship, with gas prices decreasing and decoupling from the traded price of crude oil. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 29 : our industry : SHIFT TO LOW CARBON ECONOMIES Change Conference held in Doha (Qatar) concluded with an extension of the Kyoto Protocol (set to expire in 2012) until 2020 Governments promote low carbon economies in order to mitigate with 37 countries (representing ~15% of worldwide emissions) climate change effects. Low carbon economies translate into agreeing to binding greenhouses gases reduction targets. In 2015 societies where the agriculture, manufacturing, transportation and a new treaty with binding obligations for all parties should be power generation, among others sectors, seek to minimise their ready so it can be operational by 2020. Negotiations will proceed carbon emissions. in order to reach a comprehensive and binding treaty for a larger number of countries, including, hopefully, the United States (that More stringent carbon policies, particularly in Europe, are driving never ratified the Kyoto Protocol) and Developing countries such changes in this direction. For the short term, the EU has put in as China, India and Brazil. place legislation to reduce its emissions to 20% below 1990 levels by 2020, and the data shows it is well on track to reach this target. In the European Union, Member States are subject to Directive Europe is also offering to step up this cut to 30% if other major 2009/28/EC on renewable energy, implemented by Member States economies agree to do their fair share of a global reduction effort. by December 2010 which sets ambitious targets for all Member States, such that the EU will reach a 20% share of energy from The power sector has the biggest potential for cutting emissions. renewable sources by 2020. These targets provide clarity and For example, according to the “2050 European Energy roadmap”, confidence to the industry and investors for making long-term a document in which the European Commission explores the investments. challenges of European decarbonisation, the power sector could reduce its CO2 emissions from 93% to 99% in 2050. For this to Each Member State has committed to a “National Renewable happen, the strengthening of the EU emission Trading System and Energy Action Plan” which is a document that sets the path considerable investment in smart grids are required. towards meeting its individual target. To ensure that the targets are met, each country is required to prepare an action plan and provide New commitments include renewable energy and energy regular progress reports. efficiency targets and national targets to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions communicated under the “UNFCCC” (United Nations Since 2009 progress has been varied but the overall capacity Framework Convention on Climate Change), among others. shows that Europe is half way to comply. At the end of 2012 Europe had installed 98 GW of wind (both onshore and offshore), In terms of International commitments related to reducing nearly half of its 209 GW 2020 overall target. Overall, Member greenhouse gas emissions, the 2012 United Nations Climate States are lagging behind in their targets. MW to reach Target MW installed target 2012 2012 GW 4.5 4.6 27.9 6.9 6.7 % to add to reach 2020 targets 4.3 45.8 Sweden 18% Germany 32% Portugal 34% 25.0 4.0 Italy 36% Spain 40% Romania 52% 12.7 Poland 62% 6.9 38.0 Irland 63% Netherlands 65% Belgium 68% 7.5 UK 70% France 71% Greece 77% Note: Includes countries with 2020 target over 4 GW 30 A World Full Of Energy : our industry : REGIONAL CHALLENGES IMPACTING FISCAL TIGHTENING IN SOUTHERN EUROPE EDPR GEOGRAPHIES Over the last two years, the Eurozone crisis and the threat of debt contagion is having its sharpest impact in countries such as Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain. Since spring 2010, three Eurozone countries, Greece, Ireland and Portugal have been driven Shale price by sovereign debt crises into unprecedented EU-IMF programmes. pressure in the US These programmes include measures to provide financial aid in return for cutting high levels of public debt, with the objective of Fiscal tightening in balancing public finances and setting these economies back on Southern Europe the path to growth. Low increase of energy in The adjustment in public finances has resulted in tax increases in some developed countries many of these countries. Spain and France introduced new taxes at a regional and state level, respectively. Additionally, limits to the deductibility of financing costs were implemented in Portugal, Spain and France. SHALE GAS PRICE PRESSURE IN THE US LOW DEMAND INCREASE IN SOME The boom in shale gas production in the US since the mid-2000s DEVELOPED COUNTRIES has boosted overall gas supplies driving prices down. For this reason and due to exporting constraints, gas prices in the US As power demand is highly correlated with GDP growth and market have moved in a different rhythm than in the rest of the growing energy efficiency, many European countries are expected world. According to IEA, in June 2012 spot gas was trading at to witness in the next years lower electricity demand figures. as little as $0.10/M Btu per million British thermal units (M Btu) According to IHS forecasts, Belgium, Greece, Spain, Portugal and at Henry Hub (the most important US trading hub) compared the UK, among other countries, will even experience a decrease in with $9.9 in the United Kingdom, $12/M Btu for spot LNG in the power demand from 2012 to 2015. Mediterranean and $17.40/M Btu for spot LNG in northeast Asia. This forecast decrease in demand has forced Spain and Portugal However, current low gas prices in the US are not sustainable in to announce moratoria on new renewable-energy projects. Other the medium to long term and are expected to increase in the future countries have also implemented less favourable regimes for wind (IEA. World Economic Outlook 2012). It is also worth noting that operators or new taxes on renewable energy operators, as the onshore wind with robust load factors is still competitive with decrease in demand impacted the sustainability of the previous shale gas-fired CCGT. remuneration schemes. Moreover, fears about its risks to human health could dent larger However, large new investment in the power sector will be development. The root of the problem lies on the fact that the needed, as more than half of current installed fossil generation drilling technique that is being used to release shale gas “hydraulic capacity in the EU will reach the end of its lifetime within the next fracturing” or “fracking”, shoots water, sand and toxic chemicals twenty years and must be replaced. In this context, renewables are into the ground to break up rock and release the gas. Although expected to help fill this gap. the Environmental Protection Agency has declared the process to be safe, water contamination has been reported in more than a thousand places where drilling is happening, raising growing concerns about its safety. SHALE GAS IN EUROPE Currently shale gas is not having the same impact in European markets. Environmental concerns, outright bans on fracking, uncertainty about the reserves and lack of infrastructure, are currently deterring shale gas development. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 31 our performance operational performance 34 capacity 34 production 36 selling price 37 operational excellence 39 strong know how and a world class team 41 human capital snapshot 41 employee satisfaction 41 compensation policy and other benefits 42 work life balance 42 volunteering 42 guaranteeing health and safety 43 positive impact on the environment and society 44 environmental strategy during operations phase 44 benefits for society 46 financial performance 48 income statement 49 balance-sheet 50 cash-flow statement 51 financial debt 52 europe 53 north america 54 brazil 55 risk management 56 Marble River (United States of America, New York State) The largest single phased wind farm in 215 MW 3,637 MW EDPR’s fleet, Marble River is a utility scale wind farm capable of generating renewable energy to power more than 60,000 US households. This wind installed capacity installed capacity in the US farm, commissioned in 2012, benefits from a long-term REC contract and 70 cash grant, making it is a valuable Remuneration: addition to EDPR’s portfolio. LT REC contract + Cash Grant turbines : our performance : OPERATIONAL In France, EDPR completed the extension of the Prouville wind PERFORMANCE farm by adding 8 MW. EDPR completed 110 MW in Spain, achieving a total installed EDPR has a strong track record and proven capability to execute capacity in Spain of over 2.3 GW while consolidating its projects and deliver on targets. EDPR manages a global portfolio market leader position in Catalonia, with the addition of 48 present in eleven countries spanning over three continents. MW and surpassing 300 MW in total installed capacity in this autonomous region. December 31st 2012 marked the end CAPACITY date for the completion of awarded capacity under the preassignation registry. EDPR was able to successfully complete 8.0 GW installed 100% of its projects in time, ensuring that they benefit from the current remuneration scheme. Since 2008, EDPR has increased its installed capacity by 3.586 MW, resulting in a total installed capacity of 7.987 MW. Through ENEOP in Portugal, a consortium to develop 1.2 GW in As of year-end 2012, EDPR has installed 4,266 MW in Europe, which EDPR holds a 40% stake, 64 MW were added in 2012 to 3,637 MW in North America, and 84 MW in Brazil. the total 390 MW attributable to EDPR at year-end. Moreover, EDPR increased the capacity via overpowering of an existing +504 MW added in 2012 wind farm by 2 MW. During 2012 EDPR added 504 MW to its installed capacity, of which EDPR completed the installation of 215 MW in 289 MW were in Europe and 215 MW in the US. the state of New York Important landmarks were achieved in In North America, EDPR reached a total installed capacity Europe with the first wind farms in Italy of 3,637 MW, representing a 17% average annual growth and the first Solar PV projects since 2008. In Europe, EDPR added 289 MW to its consolidated wind installed During the year, EDPR completed the Marble River wind farm capacity to reach 4,266 MW. in the north-eastern area of the New York state with a total capacity of 215 MW. 2012 marked two major milestones in EDPR’s history with the completion of its first wind farms in Italy and the addition of its The project has a 10-year Renewable Energy Credits (REC) first ever solar photovoltaic plants. contract with NYSERDA, which provides visibility to the sale of its renewable energy. Furthermore, it was awarded by the US Portfolio growth in Europe came largely from outside Iberia, with Treasury, a Cash Grant, for an amount of 122 million US dollars 113 MW (22%). (received in the first weeks of January). Romania saw growth in both wind and solar installations, with 26 First full year of operation for Tramandaí MW added in wind and 39 MW in solar PV. With this achievement EDPR consolidated its top tier position in the Romanian renewable In Brazil, EDPR currently runs three operating wind farms energy market. totaling 84 MW, fully under renewables energy incentive programs. In 2012, the 70 MW Tramandaí wind farm, in the state EDPR commissioned its first wind farm in Italy during fourth quarter of of Rio Grande do Sul, had its first complete operational year, 2012. The 20 MW wind farm is located in the town of Villa Castelli, in the delivering more than 200 GWh in total production. Tramandaí Apulia region. In the same quarter, EDPR completed its second wind has a 20-year PPA, under the PROINFRA program, with farm, Pietragalla, located in the Basilicata region, for another 20 MW. Eletrobrás, the State owned electricity holding. 84 Total installed capacity (GW) 8.0 7.5 6.7 5.6 INSTALLED 3,637 CAPACITY BY 4.4 REGION (MW) 4,266 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Note: Includes ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal consortium Europe North America Brazil 34 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : CAPACITY DETAIL & 2012 LANDMARK PROJECTS Romania Solar PV Project Specs: Region: Oltenia Size: 39 MW (4 Projects) MW Installed Poland 190 Remuneration Scheme: Pool + Green Certificates Belgium 57 Romania This project marks the entry of EDPR 350 into the solar PV technology. The project France 314 combines an supportive remuneration scheme, quality irradiance and the potential of the Romanian market. The swift execution Italy of this opportunity is testament to EDPR 40 know-how enhanced by the relationship with Portugal* its local partner. 1,005 Spain 2,310 Villa Castelli Project Specs: *includes ENEOP – Eólicas de Portugal consortium Region: Apulia Size: 20 MW Remuneration Scheme: Pool + Green Certificates This project is EDPR first commissioned Washington New York 101 Minnesota 101 388 wind farm in Italy, benefiting in full from the previous remuneration scheme. This Iowa project marks an important step in EDPR’s 401 development in Europe that is expected to Oregon 300 Ohio produce stable pipeline of opportunities in Kansas 99 201 the years to come. Illinois 797 Indiana 501 Coll de Moro Oklahoma 349 Project Specs: Region: Catalonia Texas 400 Size: 48 MW MW Installed Remuneration Scheme: Feed-in tariff An important project in Spain, ensuring leadership in the region of Catalonia. This 48 MW wind farm included in the preassignation registry will still benefit from the Brazil 84 current remuneration scheme. Marble River Project Specs: Region: New York State Size: 215 MW Remuneration Scheme: MW Installed LT REC contract + Cash Grant The largest single phased wind farm in EDPR’s fleet, Marble River is a utility scale wind farm capable of generating renewable energy to power more than 60,000 US households. This wind farm, commissioned in 2012, benefits from a long-term REC contract and cash grant, making it is a valuable addition to EDPR’s portfolio. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 35 : our performance : PRODUCTION 2011 and an exceptional wind year for the company as it reached its second highest net capacity factor ever recorded. Generation EDPR’s electricity production totaled 18,4 TWh, increasing by has grown at an average annual growth rate of 26% since 2008, 1,6 TWh versus 2011, a 24% average annual growth since 2008, outpacing capacity growth. clearly outpacing capacity growth. GENERATION AND NCF DETAIL 2012 EDPR continues to achieve high net capacity factors, ending the GWh ∆ YoY % NCF (%) ∆ YoY % year with a 29% net capacity factor. EDPR 18,445 +10% 29% +0 pp Europe 8,277 +13% 26% +1 pp EDPR leverages on its core competencies to maximize wind farm output and relies on its diversified portfolio to mitigate the Spain 5,106 +11% 27% +2 pp wind volatility risk. This is best evidenced by EDPR’s continued Portugal 1,444 +4% 27% +0 pp achievement of one of the highest net capacity factors in the wind France 693 +18% 24% +1 pp sector, which provides sound proof of the quality of our assets. Belgium 123 +5% 24% +1 pp EDPR achieved a stellar 97% availability, further demonstrating Poland 435 +16% 26% (1 pp) the high quality of its assets and the execution of its operations Romania 476 +95% 21% +5 pp management. USA 9,937 +6% 33% +0 pp Europe achieves East 4,243 +6% 30% (0 pp) significant recovery of wind resource Central 4,774 +11% 37% +1 pp West 919 (9%) 26% (3 pp) In Europe EDPR produced 8,277 GWh, a year over year increase of 13% on the back of the new capacity installed and a 21% average Brazil 231 +36% 31% (4 pp) annual growth since 2008, outpacing capacity growth. The net capacity factor of 33% was stable in 2012 compared to the The largest growth driver in generation is due to 522 GWh previous year. increase in Spain mainly as a result of the recovery in the wind resource resulting in a +2pp increase in the net capacity Lower curtailment at the Pioneer Prairie projects (300 MW in factor from 25% to 27%. Moreover, EDPR maintained its Iowa) and Prairie Star (101 MW farm in Minnesota) also contributed competitive advantage in Spain as it outperformed the rest of the to stronger availability. Spanish market. Tramandaí completes All geographies, except Poland, posted higher year over year net its first full year of operation capacity factors, resulting in an increase of the overall net capacity factor from 25% to 26% in Europe. Despite the year on year With the completion of the Tramandaí wind farm, production decrease, Poland registered a 26% net capacity factor, in line with increased nearly 36% over the prior year in Brazil to reach 231 the average for Europe. GWh. This is primarily a result of the new Tramandaí wind farm, which accounts for over 85% of Brazil’s total production. Record year in North America as it achieves its second highest net capacity factor Despite the significant increase in generation, the net capacity factor of 31% is +3.5pp lower than prior year, which is mainly In North America EDPR produced 9,937 GWh, a year over year attributed to a seasonal effect due to the start of contribution from increase of 6% mainly as a result of the new capacity added during Tramandaí in the mid of the prior year. EDPR vs Spanish Market Production (TWh) annual net capacity factors (%) 27% 27% 26% 25% 25% 18.4 16.8 14.4 25% 25% 25% 10.9 24% 23% 7.8 EDRP Spanish Marquet average Source: Spanish Market Average based on REE data 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 36 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : SELLING PRICE REVENUE LEVER EXPLAINED The levers that year after year affect EDPR’s revenues clearly Over 90% of the total installed capacity is under regulated demonstrate our approach to minimize price risk. In 2012 remuneration schemes, have long term power purchase only 10% of revenues were subject to changes in power price agreements, or have their merchant production hedged. This markets. The remaining 90% are either fixed, subject to inflation enables EDPR to minimize risk related to merchant prices. or escalators, or shielding our balance sheet from undesired volatility. Coupled with our fixed cost financing strategy, those The average selling price increased to €63.5/MWh (+€5.8/MWh approaches ensure the long-term profitability of our projects by or +10% YoY) as a result of: i) higher selling prices in Europe locking-in the spread IRR/WACC. (+€2.7/MWh); ii) favourable evolution in the €/$ forex (+€1.5/MWh); iii) the production mix change following higher production in Europe (+€0.7/MWh); iv) US average price improvement (+€0.6/MWh), and; v) higher selling price and output in Brazil (+€0.3/MWh). 30% Price improvements and increased weight from Romania leads to strong increase of REVENUE LEVERS 2012 (€M) 7% in Europe’s average price 49% EDPR’s average selling price in Europe reached ¤94/MWh, increasing ¤6/MWh, or 7%, above 2011. 11% All countries posted positive year over year evolutions except for Poland, mainly due to lower electricity prices on the spot market. 10% Fixed Escalator Pool Inflation Several factors contributed to the positive price evolution in Iberia along with a greater weight of production from Central and Eastern European geographies with above average prices. The average selling price achieved in Portugal in 2012 increased Average selling price registered in Spain for 2012 increased 3% to ¤102/MWh, mainly reflecting the CPI indexation update and 6% YoY to ¤88/MWh, benefiting from an increase in pool price extra remuneration for the prevention of voltage dips. and the tactical decision by EDPR to shift more MWs to the more favourable tariff option within the RD661/2007 regime. The ¤137/MWh average selling price performance (+54% YoY) In the period, 88% of the output was sold with no exposure to in Romania follows the full implementation of the two green market prices and the remaining 12% sold at market prices plus certificates scheme per each MWh produced, reinforcing ¤38.3/ MWh premium. Romania’s attractiveness for wind energy development. In detail, the year-on-year price performance is explained by: In Poland, the average realized price was ¤102/MWh under i) better hedging prices (¤52/MWh vs. ¤44/MWh, +18% YoY); attractive long-term contract structures. The negative year over ii) the strategic decision to elect the tariff option under the RD year evolution is mainly due to the historically low electricity 661/2007 which currently implies a realized price above the fixed prices realized on the spot market. floor mechanism; iii) the CPI-x update of all the regulated prices under the RD 661/2007 and iv) lower production sold at market In France, the wind selling price improved 2% year-on-year prices (-26% YoY). to ¤89/MWh, while in Belgium the selling price was stable at ¤112/MWh as per the long-term contracts in place. Capacity breakdown by remuneration (%, GW) Average selling price (€/MWh) 11% 10% 63.5 89% 90% 57.7 Regulated/PPA Spot 2011 2012 2011 2012 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 37 : our performance : 675 MW OF NEW PPAs KICK-IN IN THE US, In order to improve certainty for the merchant revenue, a total DURING 2012 of 615 TWh (24% of merchant revenue) was hedged in 2012 by entering into power futures contracts, securing a fixed price for Average selling price at the wind farms under PPAs increased 2% the stated volume. These hedges provided price stability and during 2012, as a result of price escalators, while selling prices effectively reduced the cash-flow volatility due in market-driven at the merchant wind farms increased 3% associated with a electricity prices. recovery in gas prices from last year. Brazil prices increase in line with escalators In addition to the 215 MW Marble River Wind Farm, which already has a long-term contract, c. 460 MW of previously installed In 2012, the average selling price of EDPR in Brazil increased 3% capacity started to benefit from PPAs signed in prior periods. to $R285/MWh following the escalator update. 2012 Selling Price COUNTRY REMUNERATION SCHEME FOR OPERATIONAL ASSETS % EBITDA MW ∆YoY Feed-in tariff ¤81.2/MWh for 2013 and updated with inflation-related ¤87.7/MWh Spain 30% +6% index the following years. Feed-in tariff “Old Regime” – Tariff is calculated according to a formula ¤101.8/MWh Portugal that takes into account the load factor, installed capacity, among other 8% +3% parameters. Feed-in tariff stable for 15 years. First 10 years: receive approximately ¤88.8/MWh France ¤82/MWh; inflation type indexation and with an “x” factor only until the 4% +2% start of operation. Market price plus green certificates – Separate GC prices with cap and ¤112.0/MWh Belgium floor for Wallonia (¤65/MWh 100/MWh) and Flanders (¤80/MWh ¤125/ 1% 0% MWh). Option to negotiate PPAs. Market price plus green certificates Option to choose a regulated electricity price (PLN198.9/MWh for 2012). DisCos have a substitute fee ¤102.2/MWh Poland 3% (6%) for non compliance with GC obligation, which in 2012 is PLN286.7/MWh. Option to negotiate PPAs. Market price plus green certificates. Wind generators receive 2 GC for ¤137.1/MWh Romania each MWh produced until 2017. The trading value of GCs for 2012 has a 5% +54% floor of ¤28.2 and a cap of ¤57.4. Italy Market price plus green certificates (old regime). 1% Electricity price – market price or long-term PPA plus renewable energy certificates (RECs). In addition, a number of tax/governmental $47.1/MWh United States 48% +3% incentive schemes may apply, such as Production Tax Credits (PTCs), Cash Grants (CGs) and MACRs. R$286.4/MWh Brazil Feed-in tariff – PROINFA. 1% +3% 38 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE KEY AREAS OF EXCELLENCE – 2012 ACHIEVEMENTS ENERGY ASSESSMENT ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE Positive evolution of EBITDA average MW in Industry leading net capacity factors Constructed first ever solar PV plants operation 131 thousand euros (+9% YoY) Accurate energy portfolio energy forecasting + 504 MW built on-time, meeting targets High levels of availability, increasing to 97.5% In-depth analysis of 14 new countries EDPR is consistently achieving above market net capacity factors It is also worth mentioning that during 2012, our teams and operational metrics in all geographies. This is the result of studied new projects in 14 countries and performed efficiency high performing and experienced teams that have developed solid follow-up initiatives on more than 5,100 operating WTGs (Wind processes to optimize performance. Turbine Generator). Operational excellence is at the core of EDPR, all technical areas are continuously improving our operations with one clear ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION objective: optimizing performance throughout project life-cycle. Minimizing capex and life-cycle costs is a key priority for EDPR and a key focus area for the Engineering and Construction teams ENERGY ASSESSMENT in our platforms. Energy assessment is one of the most critical activities in the Project Engineering is essential to design cost-effective wind wind industry and a major source of concern for many players power plants. EDPR has developed clear engineering standards that have seen their wind power plants yielding lower production based on our teams’ extensive experience that guide the design than planned. of new power plants. At completion, lessons learned are captured and incorporated to continuously improve our engineering EDPR has one of the most experienced teams in the industry, standards and execution of construction. Specific efforts focus including experts with more than 10 years of experience. We on critical elements to continuously optimize future plant designs. conduct our own wind assessment, covering the whole process Finally, our teams apply their experience to supervise engineering. from supervising met masts installation and maintenance to data filtering, analysis, modelling, evaluation and wind power Construction projects are awarded through competitive processes plant layout. Our experience shows better reliability in actual to achieve lowest possible costs, awarding civil and electrical production than industry figures and independent service engineering, and turbine erection to the best bidders. Our providers. Additionally, we interact with the energy markets construction managers supervise execution, in-process inspections group to assure the most accurate forecasting in order to reduce to assure quality assurance/control (QA/QC) and coordinate project deviation costs. planning to ensure on-time and on-budget project completion. The stability of EDPR’s net capacity factor, over the long term, as As new challenges arise EDPR has been quick to develop well as the above market average figures (+175bps premium in specialized teams to best tackle these projects. This has been the 2012, in Spain) achieved provide clear evidence of the excellence case with our new solar PV projects, as well as our ongoing wind of our energy assessment capabilities. offshore ventures. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 39 : our performance : OPERATION & MAINTENANCE by monitoring for potential serial defects, conducting QA/QC reviews of preventive maintenance, and running thorough EDPR has achieved one of the highest levels of performance end-of-warranty inspections. Predictive maintenance tools and in wind power plant operations in the industry, with availability our internal maintenance management system (CMMS) allow figures well above 97%, even in older wind power plants or in sites the reduction of downtime by better planning field activities and with tougher wind conditions. reducing damage, while our own logistics, direct sourcing and certified repair shops facilitate keeping costs under control. The onsite activity is maintained throughout the life of the project Failure rates of more sensitive components such as gearboxes and by the internal O&M team, in the first phase (warranty period) by generators remain on average below 2% per year even in older accompanying the technology supplier of the turbines or solar wind power plants (5-12 years old). panels, and then managing the activity of specialized contractors covering different working areas. Both systems, together with other management applications, are supported by a communications network that combines the O&M cost evolution is also a key area of focus for EDPR, especially different technologies available, covering the whole project with when initial warranty periods expire. EDPR’s O&M practice the redundancy needed to ensure their exploitation. keeps control of high value-added activities such as maintenance planning, logistics and remote control operations while LEAN OPERATIONS AND CONTINUOUS outsourcing under direct supervision people-intensive ones such IMPROVEMENT as field work. Service contracts are awarded through competitive EDPR decided to launch in 2011 an internal Lean Program, processes where the O&M model is defined case by case through aiming at optimizing processes across the company’s a risk-return analysis. Our experience shows this strategy will departments and geographies using a lean-six sigma allow EDPR to reduce O&M costs at post-warranty wind power methodology. plants by as much as 15%. The Lean Program’s objective is to improve business processes The O&M operational activity is supported by two main in order to optimize the company’s revenues and costs, but also systems: wind energy management system (WEMS), operational to improve safety, environmental impact, as well as internal and performance management system (OPMS) and our internal external coordination. computerized maintenance management system (CMMS). Lean encourages the generation of improvement initiatives in the organization using a bottom-up approach. Front-line personnel EDPR has developed a state of the art remote control work in multifunctional teams (the so called “lean teams”) to infrastructure, the WEMS system. Our supervisors at 3 remote analyze current business processes with a structured, endcontrol centres (Oporto, Oviedo and Houston) have direct access to-end perspective. They focus on identifying inefficiencies or to more than 5,600 turbines from 13 manufacturers and 200 so-called “waste” leveraging well-proven lean tools. They are substations. They have the capability to monitor and control each then encouraged to propose solutions that are tested before asset in real-time in order to remotely reset turbines, notify issues being fully implemented. to local teams and respond to the most demanding grid operator requirements. More than 2 million data points are stored every There are 6 lean teams currently working on key business day in a central historical database that is the core of our OPMS processes in North America and Europe including energy sales, system. OPMS will soon drive our performance analysis activities on-the-field activities, or BOP costs. More than 30 specific and field operations to the next level of performance. initiatives have already been launched, which are expected to deliver significant and tangible improvements from 2013 Since large component failures are a major driver of future costs, onwards. The end-goal of the program is to reinforce a mindset special attention is paid to optimizing maintenance and the cost and of continuous improvement in our daily work aross the company. time of replacements. The process starts before end-of-warranty, 40 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : STRONG KNOW HOW Throughout the year, 145 new employees joined EDPR while 80 AND A WORLD CLASS are no longer with the company, resulting in a turnover ratio of 13%, which is lower than the previous year. TEAM 2% 9% One of the main competitive advantages that leads EDPR to deliver, year after year, exceptional operational results is the 28% company’s human capital. A young world class team with excellent qualifications and an extensive local knowledge. EDPR’s capacity to attract and retain this qualified workforce has been 16% of vital importance to develop and retain a strong know-how BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE essential to deliver on its strategy. BY AGE (%) HUMAN CAPITAL SNAPSHOT In 2012, EDPR employed 861 people, 23% working at EDPR Holding, 46% in the European Platform, 29% in the North 45% American Platform and 2% in Brazil. Of our employees, 99% have 20-30 years old 41-50 years old >60 years old an indefinite contract, with just 8 cases of temporary employment. 31-40 years old 51-60 years old Headcount (#) EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION +65 861 796 2% 2% 23% The satisfaction of our employees has been one of the key drivers 16% to retain our highly qualified workforce. Providing one of the best 33% workplaces in the regions where we are present increases our 29% employees’ pride and ownership feeling for the company. It is also a great communication channel to transmit our values to potential new hires. Therefore, at EDPR we pursue and have obtained 49% 46% different certifications that confirm our distinction as one of the best places to work. Great Place to Work 2011 2012 In 2012, EDPR was included in the Great Place to Work® (GPTW) Europe North America Corporate Brazil ranking in Spain. This was achieved following a survey sent to the Note 1: Figures do not include members of the Board of Directors except three members of the Executive Committee company’s employees, by an independent body, asking for their Note 2: In 2012, 40 EDPR Corporate employees were based in North America. opinion on many factors of company life. We have a qualified and diverse team aligned with our business Despite being the first time we applied to be included in this strategy, 81% of which hold university degrees and 71% are less ranking, EDPR ranked among the top six best companies to work than 40 years old. This deep pool of highly qualified talent has in Spain, in the 250 to 500 employees’ category. supported EDPR’s exponential growth and provides the optimal base to face future opportunities and challenges. Additionally, our In addition, EDPR was one of the top three in the hiring category, people strongly reflect EDPR’s energy and enthusiasm. which evaluates those companies most concerned with the quality of its hiring process. 19% During 2012, we developed an action plan based on GPTW evaluation, as we plan to renew our presence in 2013 GPTW ranking, in Spain, and in addition, we initiated our participation in the UK and Polish GPTW Rankings. BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY QUALIFICATION (%) 81% EDPR in 2012 was voted a top workplace in the US for the third year in a row. More than 72,500 Houston-area employees University Degree Vocational Training / other weighed in with opinions for this year’s Houston Chronicle’s Top EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 41 : our performance : Workplaces section – rating their companies in such areas as opportunities for advancement, the value of their pay and benefits and their bosses’ communication and management skills. COMPENSATION POLICY AND OTHER BENEFITS We are committed to offer a competitive compensation and benefits package to recognize the work and talent of our employees, with no distinctions between full time and part time employees. EDPR Story, booklet illustrating wind energy distributed to employees’ children Our compensation policy addresses the needs of every local market, with enough flexibility to adapt to the specifics of each VOLUNTEERING region. It is based on a fixed base, complemented by a variable component that depends on a performance evaluation measured As a sustainable company that is proud of being an active member against company performance, area and individual KPIs. of our many communities, our employees are encouraged to actively participate in their communities and to be responsive and We support our remunerations package with multiple benefits and aware of emerging needs through many volunteering initiatives. a Flexible Remuneration Package, which allows our employees to benefit from tax incentives according to local legislation. In Moreover, our volunteering practices create an environment addition, we reached agreements with local partners, to offer our both within the company and in the communities where we do employees discounts on specific products. business that is more open to new ideas, supportive of individual differences, and embodies what is best in volunteerism. WORK LIFE BALANCE To engage in our volunteering programs, employees can participate in several campaigns, by donating or by engaging in One of our main focuses continues to be the promotion and several activities, during working hours or during the weekends. encouragement of work-life balance of our employees. This In the US, there is a Volunteering Committee that plans periodic pursuit increases our employees’ satisfaction, while boosting their activities aimed at generating a positive impact in society. productivity, commitment and accountability. Most relevant volunteer activities EDPR implemented work-life balance programs throughout its geographies and aims constantly at improving and providing • Children at risk and elderly people: During 2012, we participated additional benefits. in many activities targeted at people at risk of social exclusion who are struggling with economic and social difficulties. Our Benefits in the work-life balance program are specific and volunteers participated in, among others: include, among others, depending on the geographies, subsidies for employees’ children to perform summer activities, additional • Training activities in Spain for women and youth with paid leave to extend parental leave or to celebrate the birthday difficulties for re-employment; and others. • Fundraising in France for an NGO dedicated to children FAMILY RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER diagnosed with serious diseases; In 2011, EDPR has been recognized with the Family-Responsible Employer Certification (Empresa Familiarmente Responsable), for • After school activities in Poland with children at risk; its work-life balance practices in Spain. • Providing first and social aid to disadvantaged and elderly During 2012, our practices have been audited, as part of the people in Italy; certification renewal process performed every two years. The results of the audit process confirmed the excellence of the • Organizing a School Supply Drive where employees current management model, as well as the compliance with brought school supplies for students with difficulties in the the certification standards. There was a special mention in the Houston area. audit outcome to the efforts of continuous improvement of the company’s practices, which should be positively reflected in • It’s up to us: is an EDP group wide environmental volunteering future evaluations. initiative. Many employees together with their families spent one day in a historical site near one of our wind farms in Spain to Ensuring employees’ conciliation between work and family is help clean up the site, plant trees, and construct a pond. fundamental for a healthy work-life balance. During 2012, we hosted activities for employees’ children, in order to get them to • Christmas campaign: EDPR employees from all locations donated a know our offices in Europe and in the US. We wanted them to see total of 8,582 euros and 810 toys to low income families who have where their parents work and what they do. been severely affected by the current crisis. EDPR complemented employees donation with 28 euros for each employee increasing the total donation to a total of 18,158 euros. 42 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : GUARANTEEING HEALTH We are equally concerned with the health and safety standard AND SAFETY of our contractors. To this extent our contractors are subject to a health and safety screening when they bid to work for our Guaranteeing a healthy and safe work environment is fundamental company. Once the contractor is selected, they are required to to safeguard our team. EDPR Health and Safety policy, available at present proof of having provided the required training. our website, reflects the company’s commitment to prevention of occupational risks associated with our activities as a key priority EMERGENCY PLANS AND SAFETY DRILLS of the company’s management. Each one of our offices and wind farms in Europe and the US has its own emergency plan with contact details and A significant part of our organization plays a fundamental role in instructions to follow in case of an emergency. In 2012, we the implementation of our health and safety policy. The company continued performing drills to be prepared for emergency created health and safety committees that collect information from situations. different operational levels and involve employees in the definition and communication of a preventive plan. During 2012, EDPR conducted 76 drills in our wind farms and also performed emergency drills in our offices. During 2012, 3% of our employees attended health and safety committee meetings, in representation of 68% of our workforce. In addition, a new committee has been created in the UK to complement those already active in Spain, France and in the US. Health & Safety Management System To support our strategy on health and safety, we have implemented proper management systems. These systems are adapted to each specific geography, with specific standards and procedures based on country regulation and industry best practices. 2,707 MW CERTIFIED OHSAS 18001 In Europe, the Management System is certified OHSAS 18001:2007. The certification was renewed during 2012 and has also been extended to Poland. By the end of 2012, 2,707 MW Health and Safety Performance were OHSAS 18001:2007 certified, representing a 34% of EDPR Indicator H&S 2012 2011 (%) installed capacity. Company + Contractors personnel OHSAS 18001 Certified (MW) Number of industrial accidents 22 21 +5% Number of industrial fatal 0 0 2,707 accidents Working days lost by accidents 717 621 +15% caused 2,194 Injury Rate (IR) 1 4.21 4.42 (5%) Lost work day rate (LDR)2 137 131 +5% 1,647 1 Injury Rate calculated as [# of accidents/Hours worked * 1,000,000] 2 Lost Work Day Rate calculated as [# of working days lost/Hours worked * 1,000,000] 848 2009 2010 2011 2012 Risk assessment and training As an integral part of our health & safety strategy, we conduct several training courses and risk assessment activities according to the potential risks identified for each job within the company. During 2012, more than 189 training activities have been performed, to address the hazards associated with their job responsibilities, representing over 4,313 hours of training. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 43 : our performance : POSITIVE IMPACT ON ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM THE ENVIRONMENT The operation stage of wind farms, with a useful life of 25 years, AND SOCIETY stands as the core of our business. According to this, we are really conscious of the importance of proper management of environmental matters in our facilities in operation, which is Renewable energies have a strong influence in the local assured through the Environmental Management System (EMS). communities where they are located. Facilities are usually constructed in remote locations, bringing a sustainable EDPR´s primary objective in implementing EMS is to improve development to the local communities, which benefit from its overall business. The system ensures compliance with legal positive economic and social impacts that the generation of this requirements and focus on relevant environmental aspects, while CO2-free electricity creates, while contributing to the world fight setting environmental objectives and targets to improve our against climate change. environmental performance at country and platform levels. Our 8.0 GW of installed capacity harnesses the power of wind to ISO 14001:2004 CERTIFICATION produce energy, substituting power which would otherwise be EDPR has accomplished its target to have its EMS certified produced by burning fossil fuels. In 2012, we produced 18.4 TWh ISO14001 in all its Wind Farms in Europe*. More specifically, the that is estimated to avoid the emission of 14,521 thousand tons of company has 3,664 MW, a 46% of all EDPR installed capacity, CO2 eq. covered by an ISO14001-certified EMS. CO2 eq avoided (thousand tons)1 *European wind farms that have been in service before 2Q2012 and are operated by EDPR 14,521 12,093 9,612 7,241 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 Estimated as: [production x country thermal emission factors] Refer to the GRI information chapter for additional information In the US, EDPR is currently undertaking an effort to unify its policies and procedures into a single EMS for all operations in ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY this country. We intend to create a holistic view of its impacts and DURING OPERATIONS PHASE current procedures, to ensure that the roles and responsibilities for the avoidance, minimization, and mitigation of environmental EDPR is strongly committed to contribute to the protection of the impacts are clearly defined and connected. environment and biodiversity through a proactive environmental management of its wind farms in operation, as is stated in our MONITORING IMPACTS Environmental and Biodiversity policies (detailed information available at www.edpr.com). Our internal procedures guarantee that environmental aspects like consumptions, waste, noise, or even environmental emergencies, Our environmental strategy focuses on three core aspects: legal are under control. compliance, management of environmental risks and continuous improvement. Numerous environmental appraisal and monitoring Generation of waste is one of the main environmental impacts of procedures are incorporated in all phases of business processes wind farms in operation. Thus, in order to improve our operating ensuring that these central pillars are enforced. In 2012, eco-efficiency, we have worked to analyze the types of waste 8.25 million euros were invested and expended in environmental generation in our operations and the treatment method given by related activities. the authorized waste haulers. All this is sustained by a qualified team aligned with the The following table summarizes the amount of waste generated environmental strategy of the company. Both, our environment per GWh in our wind farms in operation. specialists and the network of external partners working with us, stand out for their extensive professional experience and Waste generated in wind farms1 knowledge of the environmental field. 2012 2011 (%) Total waste (kg/GWh) 60.5 42.1 44% Total hazardous waste (kg/GWh) 30.2 23.4 29% 1 Brazil not included 44 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : Although the total amount of waste generated onsite has increased In 2012 we had 1 significant spill with a total volume of 0.27 m3 year over year, we consider it to be consequence of a series of equivalent to 1.3 barrels. Although these environmental aspects not comparable with the same period of previous years. emergencies are not common due to the nature of our facilities and the business itself, we have performed environmental drills Hazardous waste is highly correlated with the periodic in all countries in Europe to guarantee that our personnel has maintenance cycles of the EDPR’s installed capacity. As capacity received the appropriate training to adequately overcome potential grows, the amount of oil-related wastes generated during its accidents such as spillages of hazardous substances. maintenance milestones (84% of total hazardous waste) will continue to increase simply as a function of scale. RESPECTING THE ECOSYSTEM Non-hazardous waste increases mainly due to an increase Biodiversity loss is expected to continue throughout this century, in metals and septic tank sludge waste, as a result of turbine with the number of species facing extinction growing day by replacements and the drainage of many septic tanks installed in day. EDPR is committed to promote biodiversity conservation 2010 and that can storage more than 1-year waste. and aspires to have an active role in contributing to the world’s objective of reducing biodiversity loss. However, during 2012 we have improved waste treatment. We worked with our waste haulers to prioritize waste recovery. Thus To do so, we take biodiversity into consideration in all our business we increased the ratio of waste recovered from 62% in 2011 to 81% activities, seeking an overall positive balance. We define specific in 2012. In 2013, waste management will also be strengthened measures to monitor and promote the local fauna conservation. through specific training sessions. In the small number of sites located inside or close to protected areas, we intensify our efforts with specific monitoring Waste treatment in wind farms (%) procedures, as defined in our Environmental Management System. (A full disclosure on EDPR wind farms inside or close to protected areas is available at www.edpr.com) 38% 19% 81% BIODIVERSITY INTEGRATION IN PROJECTS During development and construction stages of the Coll de Moro 62% wind farm (Spain), GPS monitoring of a specimen of Bonelli´s eagle (Aquila fasciatus) was carried out to understand the eagles’ actual use of the area. Additionally, an ambitious program of reinforcement of prey species was promoted to improve the eagle’s food supply close to its breeding area. This was achieved through the habitat 2011 2012 improvement of eagle’s prey species, mainly rabbits. Waste recycled/ recovered Waste disposed Improving the availability of food lowers energy expenditure in foraging and therefore, increases the possibilities of reproduction. This significantly increases the chances of the species conservation. Even though the main impact of our wind farms is waste, we also monitor other consumptions in our wind farms. Our turbines require a small amount of electricity to operate. This energy consumption is generally satisfied by the wind farm’s own generation, but in specific cases it is necessary to use energy from the grid, to power turbines. In order to have a comprehensive view of our indirect impacts, we monitor and calculate our indirect emissions from wind farms electricity consumption. Wind farms indirect emissions 2012 2011 Energy consumption (GWh) 51.2 51.0 Thousand tons CO2 21.7 21.0 Bonelli’s eagle (Aquila fasciatus) specimen EMERGENCY SITUATIONS In an effort to seek a positive balance in biodiversity, numerous projects were performed during 2012. Through these activities, EDPR has implemented processes to cope with environmental we focus on mitigating of the potential impacts on biodiversity emergencies and also procedures to identify near-miss situations. identified. To do so, we usually partner with well know institutions The early identification of these situations is crucial to prevent in this field, as well as regional associations that provide us with a future incidents that might have an environmental impact. strong knowledge of the local fauna. (For more information about some projects performed along 2012, please visit www.edpr.com) EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 45 : our performance : CARBON FOOTPRINT FROM BENEFITS FOR SOCIETY ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES Wind energy creates a direct positive impact for society. This Our work requires us to travel, consume resources in our offices, impact is not limited to the supply of clean electricity. The nature and dispose or recycle the waste generated. of our business creates additional long-lasting positive impacts to the rural municipalities where our wind farms are located. These Our indirect emissions represent just a 0.2%, when compared to benefits include, but are not limited to, infrastructure investments, the total amount of emissions avoided and approximately 75% of tax payments, landowners’ royalty payments, job creation and them are wind farms electricity consumption, necessary to feed direct contributions to community projects. our wind farms that produce green electricity. The economic contributions to neighbouring municipalities, CO2 eq emitted (kt) through land leases and taxes, are a large contribution to the yearly budget of those administrations and are complemented 29.3 with the participation in different local projects. As a result, the 4% 26.6 2% 13% construction of a wind farm becomes an economic development 8% 4% driver for the municipalities where we are present. In 2012 alone, 6% 5% 4% we contributed to these communities with 48.8 million euros in 75% 79% taxes and payments to the administrations and we invested 1.4 million euros in projects to support local education, culture and Wind Farms Energy Consumption other local associations. Offices Energy Consumption Company Vehicle Fleet Our focus in our work with the community is based on Business Travel three pillars: broadcast our knowledge, support local capital development and involve in the community. Employee Commuting 2011 2012 BROADENING KNOWLEDGE Note 1: Transport emissions were calculated according to the DEFRA standard in 2012 and GHG Protocol in 2011. Note 2: Business travel emissions increased as a result of the change of methodology. Emissions increased a 94%, while travelled distance decreased a 3%. Note 3: Employee communing emissions calculated from data collected in a survey to all employees, During 2012 we contributed to broadening knowledge through and just in 2012 includes public transportation. the participation and sponsorship of several conferences and workshops. We have contributed by sharing our knowledge in At EDPR, we believe that it is important to promote a culture of order to improve biodiversity protection, the adoption of socially rational use of resources. Even though only 25% of our emissions responsible practices and the promotion of renewable energy. are caused by administrative activities and its impact is more than offset by our generation activity, we believe that it is part of our During 2012, EDPR also sponsored the 7th annual Social culture to try to minimize this impact. As a result, during 2012, we Responsibility Forum, participating in the session “How to make launched an eco-efficiency campaign called “because we care” that renewables work”, organized by the prestigious IE Business School. focuses on fostering environmental best practices in our offices. First scientific technical meeting on wind SUSTAINABILITY-POWERED SOCIAL ROOM energy and biodiversity conservation As a measure to foster networking opportunities and EDPR took part in the First scientific-technical meeting on brainstorming at EDPR in North America, we have created wind energy and biodiversity conservation held in Extremadura a social room at our Houston Office. This social space is (Spain). This conference brought together leading specialists to being built by our employees, thanks to the adoption of present results from the most advanced scientific studies on the environmentally responsible practices in day-to-day activities. effect of wind farms on wildlife, sharing best practices on how to minimize impacts and agree a response to new challenges. With the main goal of promoting sustainable practices, employees can furnish the social room by adding items purchased at the sustainability marketplace. These items can be purchased using credits that are awarded to those department teams that adopt sustainable practices. First scientifictechnical meeting on wind energy and biodiversity conservation in Extremadura. 46 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : SUPPORTING EDUCATION EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN POLAND In Poland a wide range of educational activities are conducted Supporting local inhabitants of our communities, particularly those every year. Over 2,000 pupils from all over Poland have struggling to access quality education, has a strong impact on the participated in an event initiated in 2011 to explain how wind society in the short term. Additionally these efforts will, in the long power works and the impacts on the society through theatre term, benefit the company as we will find a more skilled workforce performances. These activities are complemented with to potentially hire or establish partnerships with. ecology workshops for children to transmit our commitment to the environment and to shape their awareness about Green Education grants renewable energy. EDPR continued with the second edition of the Green Education In the areas where our wind farms are located, we gave specific program that awards grants to promote education among Spanish safety workshops to raise awareness of the importance of students whose families have financial difficulties. The grants following safety behaviours to avoid potential dangers of the were awarded to children from EDPR’s communities based on construction works carried out in the area. In addition, more academic performance and the income of the family. The total than 40,000 bulletins were distributed to the inhabitants of the value of the grants reached 12,500 euros. neighbouring areas. EDP University Challenge Under the title “EDP and renewable energies: facing the future side by side”, the company organized the EDP University Challenge. From 30 projects coming from 25 different universities, three projects were awarded with educational grants for a total of 16,500 euros. As an example, in June 2012 EDPR inaugurated two wind farms located in the towns of Marcellois and Massingy-lès-Vitteaux in France’s Burgundy region. Global wind day In June 2012, EDPR participated in the Global Wind Day, an EDPR University Challenge awards initiative that promotes awareness for wind energy worldwide and creates opportunities for every citizen to discover the benefits of Sharing benefits of wind wind energy. In an effort to spread the benefits of wind energy, we have Several wind farms in Europe hosted open houses with promoted educational activities and visits to our wind farms. Our information sessions and other recreational activities for our wind farms host visits from a wide range of visitors: children, students, local residents and the general public. Communication students, professionals, authorities and the public in general. campaigns are also reinforced around this special day. BECOMING PART OF THE COMMUNITY Sponsoring local activities Our wind farms are long term partnerships with the communities EDPR sponsored different local events, important for the local where we are present. As a result, we want to become an integral communities where we are present, such as the Movie & Music part of them. To do so, we want to host our stakeholders in our festival Wiatrakalia, the main summer event near the Margonin facilities during special events, as well as participate in special wind farm in Poland, or the KiteSurf Pro Cascais 2012 in Portugal. events of our neighbouring communities. In North America, the initiative of an employee led to organize Opening ceremonies a charity run for Jog the Journey, a non-profit organization co-founded by the employee. EDPR employees supported this Opening wind farms ceremonies not only provide great exposure initiative with over 200 runners and more than 6,000 dollars to our business but they are also good opportunities to share funds raised. the results with the community. Local inhabitants, industrials, authorities and the general public have the opportunity to celebrate the accomplishment with EDPR and its employees. Opportunities like these deepen the roots of cooperation between the company and its local stakeholders. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 47 : our performance : FINANCIAL FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (€m) PERFORMANCE INCOME STATEMENT 2012 2011 ∆%/€ 1.3 billion euros net Revenues Revenues 1,285 1,069 +20% EBITDA 938 801 +17% In 2012, EDPR recorded yet another strong performance, having Net Profit1 126 89 +43% reached 1,285 million euros in Revenues. This 20% year-on-year CASH-FLOW increase was driven by rising output and higher selling prices. Output increased 10% as a result of the capacity brought into Operating Cash-Flow 666 643 +4% operation along with the recurrent top-quality load factor. The Capex 612 829 (26%) company’s average selling price grew 10%, reflecting the ongoing BALANCE SHEET positive price performance in all of EDPR’s regions and a stronger Assets 13,302 13,045 +257 US Dollar. Equity 5,749 5,454 +295 EBITDA up to 938 million euros Liabilities 7,553 7,591 (38) LIABILITIES EBITDA totalled 938 million euros, registering a 17% increase year-on-year, with a 73% EBITDA margin. Excluding non-recurring Net Debt 3,355 3,387 (33) events in 2012 and 2011 EBITDA would have grown by 23%. Institutional Partnerships 942 1,011 (68) 1 Net Profit attributable to equity holders of EDPR +43% growth in Net Profit Net Profit in 2012 increased 43%, to 126 million euros while Robust balance sheet Adjusted Net Profit increases by 32% to 134 million euros (adjusted by the 2012 and 2011 non-recurring events, forex and Total assets increased 257 million euros in 2012, to a total of 13.3 capital gains). These figures highlight EDPR’s strong ability to billion euros. This change is mainly driven by an increase in nontransform the high operational efficiency of its fleet of wind farms current loans granted to related parties (99 million euros) and an into quality bottom-line metrics. increase in PP&E (82 million euros), given the capex incurred in the period. EDPR Free Cash-Flow positive Total equity at year-end of 5.7 billion euros increased by 295 By the year, Operating Cash-Flow increased 4% to 666 million million euros during the year, essentially as a result of the sale of euros, and for the first time exceeded all the capital expenditures non-controlling interests of 177 million euros and the net profit of of the period. Additionally, EDPR completed two minority stake the period of 126 million euros. transactions (with Borealis – already cashed-in – and China Three Gorges), executing one of the pillars of the strategic Total liabilities of 7.5 billion euros at year-end 2012, lower versus plan. As a consequence, Net Debt decreased 33 million euros prior year-end, include c. 51% from financial debt (3.9 billion euros) to 3.4 billion euros and the company was for the first year free and c. 12% from liabilities related to institutional partnerships cashflow positive. (0.9 billion euros). Capex in 2012 totalled 612 million euros reflecting the 440 MW added in 2012 and the works done in the period for the capacity under construction. As a result of the lower capacity additions in the period, capex decreased 26% from 2011. EBITDA (€m) Free Cash-Flow/ Change in Net Debt (€m) 33 938 2009 2010 2011 2012 801 713 -457 543 438 -715 -1,064 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 48 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (€m) 2012 2011 ∆% Solid top-line performance Revenues 1,285 1,069 +20% In 2012, EDPR kept delivering a solid operating performance that Other operating income 63 85 (25%) has been translated into a 20% top-line year-on-year growth. The Supplies and services (262) (225) +16% strong increase in electricity output and the higher average selling Personnel costs (63) (61) +3% price led to 1.3 billion euros of Revenues. Other operating costs (86) (67) +29% As a result of EDPR’s continued focus on operational efficiency, Operating Costs (net) (348) (268) +30% Opex – defined as Operating Costs (net) minus Other operating EBITDA 938 801 +17% income – was up 17% year-on-year below the top-line growth evolution. EBITDA/Revenues 73.0% 74.9% (2.0 pp) Provisions 0 0 (99%) EBITDA was up 17% to 938 million euros following the Revenues Depreciation and amortisation (503) (468) +7% growth, high operational efficiency levels and positive forex Amortization of deferred income impact, although negatively impacted by one-off events. (government grants) 15 15 +2% EBIT 450 347 +30% The operating income (EBIT) increased 30% during the year, Capital gains/(losses) 3 10 (74%) reaching 450 million euros by year-end, following the EBITDA performance and the 7% higher depreciation and amortisation. Financial income/(expense) (278) (244) +14% Depreciation and amortization was impacted by the new capacity Income/(losses) from group and 7 5 +42% associated companies brought into operation, the extension of the assets’ useful life and Pre-Tax Profit 182 119 +53% impairments (53 million euros) mostly related to projects under development in Spain. Excluding non-recurring events in 2012 and Income taxes (46) (28) +64% 2011 and adjusting for the impact of the extension of the useful life Profit of the period 136 91 +50% of assets, EBIT would have grown 34%. Net Profit (Equity holders of 126 89 +43% EDPR) At the financial results level, net interest costs before capitalisation Non-controlling interests 10 2 +384% increased 8% to 205 million euros in 2012, below the 14% yearon-year average financial debt evolution. Institutional partnership costs were 4% up year-on-year given the stronger US Dollar, while All in all, Net Profit increased 43% year-on-year to 126 million forex differences and derivatives remained positive. euros in 2012 while Adjusted Net Profit increased by 32% to 134 million euros when adjusted by the non-recurrent events with Pre-Tax Profit increased 53% year-on-year to 182 million euros impact on the operating income, forex differences and capital gains in 2012. In the period, income taxes amounted to 46 million euros, (in 2012 and 2011). with an effective tax rate of 25% (vs. 24% in 2011). Non-controlling interests totalled 10 million euros, following the better performance in EDPR Europe and the sale of a non-controlling interest in 599 MW in the US. 10% Revenues (€m) 1,285 1,069 947 INSTALLED CAPACITY EXPOSURE TO SPOT 724 713 PRICES (%, MW) 581 90% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Regulated/PPA Spot EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 49 : our performance : BALANCE-SHEET Total assets in 2012 totaled 13.3 billion euros, of which c. 79% are related to net property, plant and equipment (PP&E) reflecting the ASSETS (€m) 2012 2011 cumulative net invested capital in renewable energy generation. Property, plant and equipment, net 10,537 10,455 Total net PP&E increased to 10.5 billion euros (+82 million Intangible assets and goodwill, net 1,327 1,334 euros), mainly following the new additions in the period, and Financial investments, net 57 61 negatively impacted by the annual depreciation charges relating to the operating assets, the weaker US Dollar, and disposals and Deferred tax assets 89 56 write-offs. Inventories 16 24 Accounts receivable trade, net 180 146 11.3 billion euros invested in 7,597 MW Accounts receivable other, net 849 750 Total gross invested capital related to renewable energy assets in Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss 0 0 operation, work in progress related to assets under construction, Cash and cash equivalents 246 220 pipeline and excluding investment grants received amounted to Assets held for sale 0 0 11,318 million euros. Total Assets 13,302 13,045 Net intangible assets mainly includes the goodwill registered in EDPR’s books in the US and Spain while accounts receivable EQUITY (€m) 2012 2011 are mainly related to loans to related parties trade receivables, Share capital + share premium 4,914 4,914 guarantees and tax receivables. Reserves and retained earnings 384 325 Equity increases by 285 million euros Net Profit (Equity holders of EDPR) 126 89 Non-controlling interests 325 127 Total equity at year-end of 5.7 billion euros increased by 295 million euros during the year, essentially from the sale of Total Equity 5,749 5,454 non-controlling interests of 179 million euros and the net profit of the period of 126 million euros. LIABILITIES (€m) 2012 2011 Financial debt 3,874 3,826 Total liabilities of 7.5 billion euros at year-end 2012, lower versus prior year-end, include c. 51% of financial debt (3.9 billion euros) Institutional partnerships 942 1,011 and c. 12% from liabilities related to institutional partnerships (0.9 Provisions 64 58 billion eruos). Deferred tax liabilities 381 381 The institutional partnership stood at 942 million euros. Deferred Deferred revenues from institutional partnerships 738 773 revenues from institutional partnerships represent the nonAccounts payable net 1,555 1,542 economic liability related to the tax credits already benefited by the Total Liabilities 7,553 7,591 institutional investor and to be recognized in the P&L through the useful life of the wind farms. Total Equity and Liabilities 13,302 13,045 Deferred Tax liabilities to the amount of 381 million euros reflects mainly tax effects arising from temporary differences between assets and liabilities on an accounting basis and on tax basis. On the other hand, accounts payable include PP&E suppliers, deferred revenues related to cash grants received and derivative financial instruments. 9% PP&E Net (€bn) 10.5 10.5 10.0 8.6 7.1 CAPITAL STRUCTURE (%) 713 37% 54% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Equity Financial Debt Institutional Partnerships 50 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : CASH-FLOW STATEMENT CASH-FLOW (€m) 2012 2011 Δ% In 2012, for the first year, EDPR generated an Operating Cash-Flow EBITDA 938 801 +17% above the overall investments. Operating Cash-Flow increased 4% Current income tax (85) (29) +193% to 666 million euros which compares unfavourably with the Funds From Operations (FFO) performance given the non-recurrent Net interest costs (205) (189) +8% working capital changes registered in 2011 and the increased stock Income from group and associated 7 5 +36% of green certificates in Romania, which were mostly sold only at companies the beginning of 2013. FFO (Funds From Operations) 655 588 +11% Net interest costs 205 189 +8% Operating Cash-Flow (% of Capex) Income from group and associated (7) (5) +36% companies 109% 100% Non-cash items adjustments (120) (158) (24%) Changes in working capital (66) 29 Operating Cash-Flow 666 643 +4% 77% Capex (612) (829) (26%) Financial (investments) divestments (22) (237) +91% Changes in working capital related to PP&E 2 (23) suppliers 41% Cash grant 5 3 +105% Net Operating Cash-Flow 39 (444) Sale of non-controling interests 176 4 2010 2011 2012 Proceeds (payments) related to (15) 141 institutional partnerships Operating Cash-Flow Net interest costs (post capitalisation) (189) (156) (22%) The key cash-flow items that explain the 2012 cash evolution are Forex & other 22 (161) the following: Decrease / (Increase) in Net Debt 33 (616) • Funds From Operations, resulting from EBITDA after net interest • In the period, EDPR completed two minority stakes transactions expenses, income from associates and current taxes increased executing its asset rotation strategy of selling non-controlling 11% year-on-year to 655 million euros; interests in operationally optimized assets. Through the first sale of a 49% equity stake in a 599 MW portfolio of wind farms to • Operating Cash-Flow, before net interest costs, adjusted Borealis, EDPR received 230 million dollars (179 million euros) by non-cash items (namely income from US institutional in Dec-12. The instalment of the minority stake transaction partnerships) and net of changes in working capital, amounted announced in Dec-12 with CTG will occur in the 1H13; to 666 million euros (+4% YoY). The changes in working capital year-on-year comparison is influenced by non-recurrent • All in all, Net Debt decreased 33 million euros to 3,355 million receivables in 2011 (mostly related to VAT collection) and the euros. In 2012, EDPR was for the first time free cash-flow increased stock of green certificates in Romania, which were positive and going forward as the Operating Cash-Flow mostly sold only at the beginning of 2013; continues to grow and the asset rotation strategy is executed, EDPR is expected to enter into solid free cash-flow generation cycle. • Capital expenditures with the ongoing construction and development works totalled 612 million euros, while other investments activities amounted to 22 million euros; 2% Operating Cash-Flow (€m) 666 29% 643 567 CAPEX BREAKDOWN 392 BY PLATFORM (%, €m) 713 294 69% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Europe US Brazil & Other EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 51 : our performance : FINANCIAL DEBT NET DEBT (€m) 2012 2011 ∆€ At the end of 2012, EDPR’s financial debt was 3.9 billion euros Bank loans and other 917 837 +80 (+1% year-on-year), being c. 76% of it loans with EDP Group while Loans with EDP Group related the remaining is debt with financial institutions, mostly related to companies 2,957 2,989 (32) project finances. Financial Debt 3,874 3,826 +48 Cash and cash equivalents 246 220 +26 Net Debt totalled 3.4 billion euros in 2012, decreasing 33 million Loans to EDP Group related euros given that the Operating Cash-Flow and the first instalment companies and cash pooling 274 219 +55 of the asset rotation strategy more than covered the investment Financial assets held for 0 0 +0 activities and the debt service of the period. trading Cash & Equivalents 520 439 +81 EDPR’s debt has a long-term profile. Most of the debt matures Net Debt 3,355 3,387 (33) beyond 2018. Loans with EDP Group are closed for a 10 year period at fixed rates. Project finances also have a long-term duration. Such strategy enables the company to match its financing 92% of EDPR’s debt is at fixed rate costs with its operating cash-flow profile. 92% of the financial debt is at a fixed rate and most of it c. 80% has 76% of EDPR’s financial debt was contracted through shareholder a post-2018 maturity. EDPR continues to follow a long-term fixed loans with the EDP Group – EDPR’s principal shareholder –, while rate funding strategy to match the Operating Cash-Flow profile loans with financial institutions represented 24%. To continue to with its financing costs, therefore mitigating its interest rate risk. diversify its funding sources EDPR keeps on executing top quality projects enabling the company to secure local project finance As of December 2012, the average interest rate was 5.2%, a 20bps at competitive costs. In 2012, EDPR signed three new project decrease vs. December 2011, reflecting the long-term maturity of the finances for a total of 274 million euros for projects in Spain current debt and the attractive rates closed in the latest funding. (125 MW), Belgium (57 MW) and Romania (57 MW). Moreover, all of EDPR’s wind installed capacity in Romania (285 MW) has now project finance structures fully secured (238 million euros). INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS As of December 2012, 57% of EDPR’s financial debt was Euro Liabilities referred to as Institutional Partnerships decreased denominated, while 39% was funded in US Dollar given the 68 million euros year-on-year (50 million euros excluding the company’s investments in the US. The remaining debt is mainly forex translation effect) to 942 million euros, following to the tax related to funding in Polish Zloty and in Brazilian Real. benefits captured by the tax equity partners. PROJECT FINANCE SIGNED IN 2012 INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS (€m) Capacity 2012 2011 ∆€ Country Project Amount (€m) (MW) Torremadrina 50 Institutional Partnerships 942 1,011 (68) Spain Coll de Moro 50 177 Vilalba dels Arcs 25 Froidchapelle 25 Belgium Cerfontaine 22 46 Chimay I 10 Sarichioi 33 Romania 50 Vutcani 24 Debt profile (%) Cost of debt (%) 5% Other Variable 5.4% 8% 5.2% 5.2% US Dollar 39% Fixed 4.8% 92% 4.6% Euro 713 57% Debt by currency Debt by type 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 52 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : EUROPE OPERATING COSTS REVENUES Net operating costs increased 51% year-on-year to 144 million euros given the decrease in other operating income (-26% YoY) In the European platform, EDPR delivered a solid 22% year-onand the increase in other operating costs (+46% YoY). year growth in Revenues to 778 million euros. Revenues from the Rest of Europe division, namely France, Belgium, Poland Other operating cost performance was driven by higher taxes, and Romania already accounts for 24% of total revenues. Spain leases and rents reflecting the solid top-line performance and and Portugal reduced its relative contribution to 57% and 19% the payment of the €0.50/MWh grid access fee in Spain, and was respectively. also impacted by non-recurrent events (5 million euros) mostly related to write-offs. Other operating income performance was EDPR EU Revenues (€m) mainly impacted by 32 million euros of asset revaluations in 2012 vs. 52 million in 2011. Supplies and services and personnel costs 778 increased 17% and 7% YoY, respectively, considerable below the top-line evolution (+22% YoY). 635 EDPR EU OPEX RATIOS 2012 2011 ∆% Opex/Average MW in operation (€k) 52.9 47.4 +12% Opex/MWh (€) 23.0 21.7 +6% 2011 2012 OPERATING INCOME Revenues performance was driven by higher electricity output EBITDA in 2012 reached 633 million euros improving by +17% and better realised prices. Electricity output increased following year-on-year, on the back of the Revenues performance. The the new capacity brought into service in the period (+62 million EBITDA margin decreased to 81% impacted by non-recurrent euros) and a stronger wind resource (+35 million euros), whilst the events and the decrease in other income. increase in realized prices (+40 million euros) was driven by price increase in Spain, Portugal and Rest of Europe. EBIT increased by 30% YoY to 374 million euros, following the EBITDA growth and the change in the assets’ useful life. EDPR EU GENERATION AND Selling Price 2012 2011 ∆% EDPR EU INCOME STATEMENT (€m) 2012 2011 ∆% Electricity Generation (GWh) 8,277 7,301 +13% Revenues 778 635 +22% Average Selling Price (€/MWh) 94.2 88.0 +7% Other operating income 47 63 (26%) Supplies and services (125) (107) +17% Selling Price Personnel costs (25) (23) +7% Other operating costs (41) (29) +43% The 2012 average selling price improved by 7% to €94.2/ MWh, as a result of increase in the Rest of Europe, Spain and Operating Costs (net) (144) (96) +51% Portugal. Rest of Europe contributed to this increase with a 12% EBITDA 633 539 +17% increase in selling price to €107/MWh, combined with its higher EBITDA/Revenues 81.5% 84.9% (3 pp) relative contribution of the platform’s output (21% in 2012 vs. 18% in 2011). In Iberia, Spain registered a higher selling price Provisions 0 0 (99%) (+6% year-on-year) due to higher hedging prices and higher Depreciation and amortisation (260) (252) +3% production sold under the current Feed-in Tariff (RD 661/2007), Amortisation of deferred 1 1 (14%) while Portugal saw prices increase (+3% year-on-year) mostly income (government grants) reflecting the CPI indexation. EBIT 374 289 +30% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 53 : our performance : NORTH AMERICA OPERATING INCOME REVENUES EDPR NA INCOME STATEMENT (US$m) 2012 2011 ∆% Electricity sales and other 457 422 +8% EDPR NA Revenues (US$m) Income from institutional 164 155 +5% partnerships 620 Revenues 620 577 +8% 577 Other operating income 25 25 +3% Supplies and services (150) (141) +6% Personnel costs (37) (36) +3% Other operating costs (51) (48) +5% Operating Costs (net) (212) (201) +6% 2011 2012 EBITDA 408 376 +9% Revenues in 2012 grew 8% to 620 million dollars, benefiting EBITDA/Revenues 65.8% 65.2% +1 pp from higher capacity in operation, stable load factor and higher Provisions selling prices. Depreciation and amortisation (300) (292) +3% Selling Price Amortisation of deferred 18 19 (5%) income (government grants) EBIT 126 103 +22% The average selling electricity price in 2012 increased 3% from 2011 to $47/MWh. This performance reflects the 2% increase in the average selling price for PPA/hedge contracts in place (given All in all, EBITDA in the US increased 9% year-on-year to 408 the price escalators) and the 3% year-on-year improvement in the million dollars in 2012, in line with the top-line evolution. In the electricity spot price period, EBITDA margin improved +1pp to 66%. EDPR NA GENERATION AND Selling Price INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS 2012 2011 ∆% Electricity Generation (GWh) 9,937 9,330 +6% Income from institutional partnerships increased 5% to 164 million dollars, explained by the output increase of the projects generating Avg. Final Selling Price (US$/MWh) 47.1 45.7 +3% PTC’s. The projects that opted for the cash reimbursement benefited from lower depreciation charges, booked in the P&L OPERATING COSTS as amortisation of deferred income (18 million dollars in 2012). The Marble River wind farm applied for the cash reimbursement Net operating costs increased 6%, bellow the business program having received the proceeds in the first weeks of Jan-13 growth pace. Supplies and services increased 6% year-on(120 million dollars). year while personnel costs grew 3% (or 1 million dollars). Other operating costs include non-recurrent events related to EDPR NA TAX INCENTIVES (US$m) pipeline rationalisation (12 million dollars). Opex on a per MW 2012 2011 ∆% basis decreased 1% being a good indicator of the company’s Income from institutional 163.6 155.4 +5% high efficiency. partnerships EDPR NA OPEX RATIOS (EXCLUDING OTHER REVENUES) 2012 2011 ∆% Opex/Average MW in operation (US$) 68.1 68.7 (1%) 28% Opex/MWh (US$) 23.9 24.2 (1%) EDPR NA INSTALLED CAPACITY BREAKDOWN BY TAX INCENTIVE (%) 58% 14% PTC Tax Equity Cash Reimbursement Cash Flip Tax Equity 54 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : BRAZIL OPERATING COSTS AND INCOME REVENUES Overall, the EBITDA of the period increased 36% to R$42m, while the EBITDA margin reached 67%. EDPR Brazil Revenues (R$m) EDPR BR INCOME STATEMENT ($Rm) 2012 2011 ∆% 62 Revenues 62 45 +37% 45 Other operating income Supplies and services (15) (11) +36% Personnel costs (3) (3) +4% Other operating costs (2) (1) +295% 2011 2012 Operating Costs (net) (21) (15) +39% EBITDA 42 30 +36% In Brazil, EDPR reached Revenues of 62 million reais in the 2012, EBITDA/Revenues 66.9% 67.3% +1 pp representing a 37% year-on-year increase following the electricity generation performance and the selling price positive evolution. Provisions Depreciation and amortisation (16) (11) +49% In 2012, the average selling price of EDPR in Brazil increased 3% Amortisation of deferred to $R286/MWh following the inflation update. income (government grants) EBIT 26 20 +29% EDPR currently has 120 MW under development in Brazil with 20-year PPAs awarded in Dec-11 at the energy A-5 auction, which clearly reinforced EDPR’s presence in a market with a low risk EDPR BR OPEX RATIOS profile, attractive wind resource and strong growth prospects. (EXCLUDING OTHER REVENUES) 2012 2011 ∆% EDPR BR GENERATION AND Selling Price Opex/Average MW 244.8 259.3 (6%) in operation (R$k) 2012 2011 ∆% Opex/MWh (R$) 88.9 87.3 +2% Electricity Generation (GWh) 231 170 +36% Average Tariff (R$/MWh) 286.4 278.4 +3% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 55 : our performance : RISK MANAGEMENT Focus on ebitda at risk What is EBITDA at risk? Consistent with the “controlled risk profile” strategic pillar, EDPR has implemented mechanisms of evaluation and EBITDA at risk is used in EDPR to measure the maximum EBITDA management of risks and opportunities that may impact its loss associated with a certain statistical confidence level. This business, enabling the company to increase the likelihood of metric allows for Management and risk managers to understand achieving its financial targets. what the EBITDA would be in adverse and worst case scenarios. EBITDA at Risk in EDPR Risk Management Process In line with EDPR’s controlled risk approach, Management sets EDPR’s risk management processes are supported on an targets for EBITDA at Risk, hence ensuring that the business integrated and transversal management model that ensures is exposed to a limited risk level. This approach increases the the implementation of best practices of Corporate Governance likelihood of achieving our financial targets. and transparency in the communication to the market and shareholders. This process is closely followed and supervised One of the levers for reducing EBITDA at risk is eliminating by the Audit and Control Committee, an independent supervisory merchant exposure through power purchase agreements and body composed of non-executive members. energy hedges. EDPR is actively managing its merchant exposure in order to keep EBITDA at risk within the conservative levels Risk management is endorsed by the Executive Committee, defined by Management. supported directly by the Risk Committee and put into practice by EDPR follows EBITDA at Risk position monthly based on forecasts all managers of the company. This integrated process ensures the for market prices, foreign exchanges, wind resource and other identification and prioritization of critical risks, the development of volatile factors. adequate risk management strategies, and the implementation of controls in order to ensure the alignment of EDPR’s risk exposure Illustrative view of EBITDA at risk with the company’s desired risk profile. EBITDA at Risk in a worst case scenario EBITDA Wind Energy price FX Regulatory Worst case Forecast EBITDA Note: non-exhaustive Risk management process at EDPR EDPR’s Risk Committee intends to be the forum to discuss how EDPR can optimize its risk-return position according to its risk profile. The Committee integrates and coordinates all the risk functions and assures the link between risk strategy and the company’s operations. RISK COMMITTEE EDPR’s general 1 Risk profiler The responsibilities of the committee are: strategy • To analyze EDPR’s overall exposures and propose actions; Discussion Major Identification & of mitigation • To follow-up on the effectiveness of the mitigation actions; strategic Measure of risks questions strategies • To review transactional limits, risk policies and macrostrategies; • To review reports and significant findings of the risk profiler Risk analysis and the risk control areas; process Core risk process • To review the scope of the work of the risk profiler and its planned activities. Specific guidelines Implementation Risk committee functions are the following: Risk reporting of mitigation & Control Day-to-day strategies Risk profiler ­– Responsible for setting guidelines and limits decisions 3 Risk controllers 2 Risk managers for risk management within the company and for holding the Risk Committee; Risk manager – Responsible for day-to-day operational decisions and for taking or mitigating risks within approved levels; Risk controller – Responsible for follow up of the result of risk taking decisions and for contrasting alignment of operations with general policy approved by the board. 56 A World Full Of Energy : our performance : Risk areas and main risk factors wind energy business cycle, the following risk areas and risk factors were identified. The following matrix summarizes the Along the entire business cycle, major strategic questions are main risk areas and risk factors of EDPR’s business and the tools raised and grouped by risk area. Each strategic question is subject employed to manage them. Additionally, the table defines the risk to EDPR’s risk process analysis in order to produce specific mitigating actions in 2012 and structural competitive advantages guidelines to risk managers. of EDPR that help in risk mitigation. The full description of the risks and how they are managed can be found in the Corporate After a detailed analysis of EDPR´s risk exposure throughout Governance chapter. Risk factor How we manage risks Risk Matrix Risk area Actions 2012 Foreign exchange Financing Diversification of wind risk through a global portfolio of wind farms in different geographies. Natural hedging (maintaining debt and revenues in same currency) reduces impact from changes in Extensive know-how in wind assessment. Including exchange rates. extensive wind data collection in every wind site. Deep analysis of location and layout of new wind EDPR’s debt structure (57% euro, 39% dollar, 4% farms to minimize wake effect. others) closely matches the investments made in its geographies. As of Dec. 2012 EDPR had entered into multiple exchange rate derivatives arrangements aimed at mitigating FX exposure. Regulated remunerations schemes in most markets in Employment of a “buffer” to ensure that capacity which EDPR operates. targets are achieved. Hedge of market exposure through long-term Partnerships with strong local teams. bilateral energy sales contracts and short-term financial hedges when necessary. Wind Large and diversified pipeline, with 18.6 GW under 90% of capacity is sold under long-term and visible development in different countries. regulatory frameworks. Revenues M&A activity. 6 PPAs signed in the US and Europe. 2,0 TWh of energy swaps in Spain. Likelihood of occurrence Turbine price Execution Market Turbine contracts Pipeline development Revenues Signing of medium-term agreements with Limiting counterparty exposure in energy sales Careful selection of energy markets based on turbine manufacturers to ensure visibility of contracts. market fundamentals. turbine prices and supply. Diversification in market and remuneration schemes. Part of EDPR’s turbine requirements in 2012 were EDPR carefully screens new counterparties involved As of 2012, EDPR was present in 11 countries and is covered by a multi-year procurement contract with in energy sales and closely monitors the evolution of constantly scanning the globe for attractive Vestas, which provides price and volume visibility. their credit metrics and exposure. regulatory environments. Regulatory Counterparty Countries Revenues and Regulations Turbine Interest rate Turbine supply performance Financing Turbine contracts Turbine contracts Fixed interest rate produces a predictable cost of debt. Relying on a large base of turbine suppliers to ensure Closure of technical warranties and medium-term Alternative funding sources such as Tax equity optionality. full–scope maintenance agreements with suppliers. structures and Multilateral/ Project Finance Adequate preventive and scheduled maintenance. agreements. 92% of debt carries a fixed interest rate. EDPR employs turbines from 9 different suppliers. Further developed of our internal maintenance EDPR raised c 273 million euros through project system (CMMS) to optimize preventive maintenance finance and multilaterals in 2012. of our wind farms. Potential financial impact EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 57 our future our growth options 60 growth plan for the short-term 60 growth options for the future 61 a team that prospers in a challenging environment 62 mobility 62 training 62 recruiting 63 doing more for the environment and the community 64 environmental strategy on our investment plan 64 economic and social impact potential 64 our future financial performance 66 strategic core competences and quality portfolio 66 selective growth generating strong cash-flow 66 funding 66 Villa Castelli (Italy, Brindisi region) Villa Castelli is a landmark project for 20 MW 40 MW EDPR as it is, jointly with Pietragalla, one of the first wind farms to be commissioned in Italy. This 20 MW wind farm located in the Brindisi installed capacity installed capacity in Italy region benefits in full from the previous remuneration scheme. EDPR expects 10 Remuneration: that these two projects will be followed by a stable pipeline of new opportunities Pool + GCs currently under development, which will ensure that Italy becomes an important turbines growth market in the medium/long-term. : our future : OUR GROWTH OPTIONS Regulatory snapshot Country Remuneration scheme In line with its focused growth strategy, EDPR concentrates Portugal Feed-in Tariff – Moratorium for new projects its efforts on capturing and developing a limited number of France Feed-in Tariff opportunities that tie in well and complement the existing Spain Feed-in Tariff – Moratorium for new projects platforms. Investment in these value accretive projects will fuel Belgium Pool + Green certificates short and long-term growth, ensuring continuous value creation Poland Pool + Green certificates for our shareholders. Romania Pool + Green certificates Italy PPA set in tender GROWTH PLAN FOR THE UK US Green certificates. New system under debate (offshore) Pool + Green certificates/ PPA set in tender and tax incentives SHORT-TERM Canada Feed-in Tariff (Ontario) Brazil PPA set in tender EDPR’s growth plan for the 2012-2015 period was presented to our investor community at the 2012 Investor Day. This plan foresees the addition of 2.3 GW of renewable energy over the four year North America’s growth will depend on the eligibility for the period. The first step of this process has already been successfully Production Tax Credit (PTC) incentive scheme and/or attractive achieved with the addition of 504 MW in 2012. For the following PPA opportunities with off-takers. years capacity addition will be split between growth markets, core markets and new markets and/or new technologies. In Spain and Portugal, moratoria on the eligibility of new wind farms for incentive schemes has forced EDPR to halt new GROWTH MARKETS investments. However the projects that fall under previous regulatory agreements will continue to be executed, such as the EDPR’s capacity additions in the upcoming years will be strongly ENEOP project in Portugal or overpowering of existing wind farms. focused on the growth markets of Eastern Europe, Western Europe (excluding Iberia) and Brazil. The strong development efforts that NEW MARKETS AND TECHNOLOGIES followed EDPRs entry into these markets, some years ago, are now bearing fruit. For the 2013-2015 period these countries will Entering new markets and/or technologies is one of the main account for 60% of capacity additions, with the Eastern European strategic initiatives that EDPR has set out in its growth plan. markets representing a sizable stake. The execution of this strategic initiative will account for 12% of 2013-2015 growth. Eastern Europe is expected to account for more than one third of the 2012-2015 growth plan. This sizable investment in these EDPR’s teams have been identifying a number of prospective geographies is based on market attractiveness and stable legal and countries that fit our strict investment criteria. The growth transparent regulatory frameworks. potential, quality of the wind, or solar, resource and the availability of stable long-term remuneration frameworks are just some of the France, Belgium and Brazil will also contribute to EDPR growth in important criteria considered for potential investment. this period. All of these geographies provide long-term visibility for EDPR future investments. Entering into new technologies is an objective that has already started to be executed. As a result of the sharp increase in CORE MARKETS competitiveness, the high growth potential of this technology, and the excellent opportunity that was identified in Romania, EDPR Due to market maturity and regulatory issues, growth in our installed in 2012 its first solar power plants. core markets of Spain, Portugal and the US will slow vis-à-vis the last years. We see great promise in this technology and expect that it will provide top quality growth opportunities in the short and long-run. 12% 2012-2015 Capacity additions (GW) 28% 1.3 2.3 2013-2015E GROWTH BREAKDOWN (%, MW) 0.5 0.5 60% 2012 2013 2014-15 EDPR Growth Plan Core Markets Growth Markets New Markets/Techs 60 A World Full Of Energy : our future : GROWTH OPTIONS FOR THE FUTURE NEW TECHNOLOGIES In the long-run EDPR relies on its quality pipeline of projects, as Consistent with its growth strategy, EDPR constantly analyzes well as its market and technology prospecting activities to ensure the commercial outlook of a wide range of renewable energy valuable projects for the next decade. technologies that will contribute to a sustainable growth in the future. DEVELOPMENT OF QUALITY PIPELINE The choice of technologies for investment is based on two main EDPR possesses a diverse global pipeline of 18.6 GW of projects criteria. The first is the competitiveness of each technology as distributed throughout is current geographies. These projects, measured through the levelized cost of energy (LCoE) throughout mainly constituted by wind onshore, vary in their level of the useful life of the asset. EDPR only considers for investment, development. To classify these projects a tiering system in used, technologies that present competitive LCoE metrics. Generally, this by which projects classified as Prospects are in the early stages excludes technologies that are in their infancy as the effectiveness of development, and projects in Tier 1 are close to construction. of the technology and the lack of a track record makes them both EDPR currently has circa 12.7 GW of projects in Tier 3 or risky and uncompetitive. The second selection criterion is market Prospects providing a solid pool of options to fuel long-term growth potential. Only technologies that are expected to exhibit growth. Additionally, 1.2 GW of tier 1 and 4.8 GW in Tier 2 are strong growth over a sustained period of time, hence providing available to fuel our short-term ambitions. ample opportunities, are considered. NEW MARKETS Offshore EDPR has been growing by expanding to new countries, either According to Emerging Energy Research, wind offshore is by greenfield development or through strategic transactions of expected to grow exponentially in Europe increasing from a mere projects in early stages of development. Leveraging on its in-house 4% of additions in 2011 to approximately 31% in the 2012-2020 skills, EDPR has carefully picked its markets, considering a set of period. EDPR entered the Offshore wind technology in 2010 when principles that have been applied in every entry into a new country. it was awarded the Moray Firth project in the third round of UK offshore development, with expectations this technology could When considering a new market, EDPR enrols a multi-year program materialize into a growth option for the company. Currently EDPR contacting all relevant players, understanding the concerns of is developing 1.5 GW net in two offshore wind projects in the UK in the main stakeholders, identifying the main risks and constrains, partnership with Repsol Nuevas Energias. discussing with potential partners, and also technically assessing in detail a handful of particular projects available in that market. Renewable technology R&D An entry-decision in a new market usually brings with it several non-entry-decisions in other markets that have been thoroughly EDPR firmly recognizes the importance of research and analyzed, but discarded for not reaching EDPR’s required standards development efforts in renewable energy technologies. Only or for not being competitive enough at that time. following many years of tests, optimization and technological breakthroughs do early stage technologies evolve to a point in EDPR places a strong focus not only on the reliability and which large scale investment is sustainable. To this extent, EDPR sustainability of the country’s renewable tariff scheme, but also is partnering on the innovative WindFloat project led by EDP on the market’s potential to allow a high value creation during the Inovação. development phase of the projects. Therefore, extreme care and effort is put in place in every market to access top tier pipeline of This project aims at developing a technology that will allow for the projects as well as local skills to timely deliver them. exploitation of the wind potential at sea, at depths of more than This ongoing meticulous selection of new markets for investment 40m. The project has already successfully installed a 2MW wind is expected to generated new opportunities that will enlarge turbine on a floating semi-submersible foundation that is anchored EDPRs portfolio in the long-run. off the coast of Portugal. Wind offshore european market growth (%) EDPR pipeline breakdown (GW) of additions 18.6 1.2 4% 31% 4.8 8.1 4.6 Source: Emerging Energy Research Total Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Prospects 2011 2012-20E Addtions EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 61 : our future : A TEAM THAT In 2012, the number of attendances to training sessions PROSPERS IN A increased to 2,270, representing 2.93 attendances to training courses per employee. On the other hand, the total number of CHALLENGING training hours decreased to 14,611, as a result of a change of profile of training to more focussed, shorter courses. ENVIRONMENT Renewable Energy School EDP EDPR strives to train and prepare its top quality team, with University a clear focus on tackling the challenges and opportunities of the future. To do so, EDPR has implemented a strong training, In the coming years, the Renewable Energy School will gain development and mobility strategy. With these efforts, we want relevance as a tool aimed at facilitating know-how sharing and to preserve the excellence of the company’s human capital, while providing employees with an overview of the strategic challenges offering our people an attractive career development plan with that the company faces. opportunities for professional growth. The Renewable Energy School was created in 2011, in the context of the EDP University, and since its creation, it has proven to MOBILITY be a success, delivering 23 training sessions (representing 229 hours) to 389 attendants. To support company’s global growth strategy, mobility is of upmost importance as a powerful tool to share EDPR culture and best practices with new markets where we plan to enter. In addition, it also opens new horizons to our employees in their career development. During 2012, we initiated a process to facilitate employees’ access to those opportunities that better match their career plans. Employees were encouraged to update their professional experience information and their preferences regarding mobility. This information was processed in order to identify different profiles within the company, preparing for the forthcoming mobility requirements. In the following years, new open positions The School also fostered strategic discussion with a workshop within the company will be matched with the generated profiles, prepared during 2012 involving directors from different areas in order to prioritize internal movement with those employees across the company. And our business partners have also whose competencies, training and mobility preferences match the contributed to the objective of our school through collaborative requirements for the new position. courses, such as a specific training session in offshore wind energy held with Repsol and other collaborations with EDP University. TRAINING High Potential Program When defining our strategy for the future, we strive to align current and future demands of the organization with employees’ Our training strategy is also focused on boost career capabilities while fulfilling their professional development development of our high potential employees, as we want them expectations and supporting their continued employability. We are to become the future leaders to carry EDPR to the next level. In committed to offer our employees an attractive career plan, as well line with this objective, during 2012, we continued offering those as continuous education and training opportunities. employees a specific training program named High-Potential Program (HIPO). Training Metrics 2012 2011 Δ% Through the HIPO, those employees are assisted in their Number of training hours(#) 14,611 17,873 (18%) professional development with the support of a mentor that will Training investment (€k) 924 1,033 (11%) provide employees with guidance on their careers, and specific Number of attendances (#) 2,270 2,004 +13% training to develop the required soft skills to grow professionally Note: Training from Portugal and Brazil is reported by EDP and, as a result, not included within the company. Note 2: Metrics do not include language training. In 2012, language training accounted for 2,713 hours and 166 attendances, while in 2011 language training represented 20,123 hours and 1,681 attendances. Leadership Guide All of EDPR employees, regardless of their professional category, are evaluated yearly to determine the potential for development, Effective leadership is a pre-requisite for success and company’s thus creating a tailored development plan with the most development. During 2012, EDPR provided its management suitable training to address their particular needs. The potential with top leadership training, spanning topics from leadership assessment process is independent from performance appraisal responsibilities to leadership style. The training sessions held and is based on a 360 degree evaluation model in which the for this purpose were an excellent forum to share leadership system collects information from several data sources to evaluate experiences. employee performance: oneself, peers, subordinates and manager. 62 A World Full Of Energy : our future : RECRUITING INTEGRATION OF NEW HIRES EDPR has a strong company culture, and we want new hires to be able to understand this culture and quickly adopt it in their In order to fuel future growth, increase efficiency and drive day-to-day activities. To encourage this, new hires are involved innovation, EDPR is constantly scanning globally to recruit top in a number of workshops and team building activities aimed at talent. To this extent a recruiting strategy has been developed to fostering integration and gaining a better understanding of the achieve this critical goal, while ensuring that new hires are aligned company. with the company’s values: Our Welcome Day, a three day event for new hires, allow for • Team Oriented Environment: EDPR promotes an environment new employees to get some basic knowledge of the company, based on team building. our business and visit one of our wind farms. In parallel the Promotion events are aimed at team building, • Career Development: EDPR recognizes the importance of networking between new hires, and facilitating integration. career development and helps employees acquire knowledge and master the business. The Company recognizes and rewards employees for their innovation, hard work and performance. • Diversity: EDPR has a diverse team, with employees from a wide range of backgrounds and cultures. • Sustainability: EDPR aims to encourage environmental, economic and social stewardship by its employees. 6% Cooking Class with new hires from the promotion of 2011. 30% 36% NEW HIRES 2012 (%) 2% 6% 4% 4% 10% 3% Spain Poland UK Portugal Romania USA FR&BL Italy Brazil In 2012, we hired 145 employees. 33% of them women. In addition, in a process to attract the brightest people to the company, we hire interns from top universities and business schools. During 2012, 137 interns worked at EDPR and 9% of them were offered a full-time contract. Interns Summer Annual Total Contracts (%) Europe 4 70 74 5 7% North America 13 12 25 2 8% Brazil 0 5 5 1 20% Corporate 3 30 33 5 15% Total 20 117 137 13 9% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 63 : our future : DOING MORE FOR THE During the construction stage many external partners play an ENVIRONMENT AND important role in the works. For that reason, we believe it is essential to involve the entire value chain to ensure that they are THE COMMUNITY aligned with our environmental strategy. EDPR’s environmental requirements and best practices are included in the bidding documentation or specific environmental management plans. The company’s growth plans of pure renewable energy represent Through a monitoring plan we ensure that the environmental a solid commitment to foster the use of green energy sources. requirements are met. In the event that an unexpected Moreover, we are committed to support and use the best environmental impact is identified we are able to quickly technologies available in order to preserve natural resources and implement the corrective measure. reduce pollution. BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION DURING Our future business prospects are expected to create a positive CONSTRUCTION impact in our communities and the environment. Over the next In the wind farm Sierra de Carondio y Muriellos (Spain), several three years we expect to avoid about 54 million tons of CO2. We ponds and peat bogs have been protected and monitored during are going to continue applying the best practices available in the construction works. Our goal was to protect not only the order to maximize the positive returns to the community. water system of the site, but also the fauna inhabiting these areas (amphibians and reptiles). ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY ON OUR INVESTMENT PLAN Our business plan for the following years included additional MW of clean energy. Our expansion strategy is complemented with environmental practices that allow us to achieve our goals while ensuring a positive impact on the environment. From the initial development phase of our projects, we take into consideration the environmental aspects of our new projects, following our environmental and biodiversity policy commitments. Pond in the surroundings of Sierra de Carondio y Muriellos wind farm. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION After the construction period, it is our duty to return the site to its In future addition of projects to our portfolio, our approach initial state. Therefore, we perform morphological restoration and will continue being based in a proper management of the reseeding works. In 2012, 149.29 ha were restored. environmental risks. Environmental assessments are a critical component of the feasibility processes to only initiate In addition, to protect specific specimens, in some cases we the development of those projects that we consider to be decide to transplant the vegetation. This was the case of several environmentally sustainable. acebuches, a kind of a wild olive tree, present in the wind farm Janda III (Spain), that were transplanted to neighbouring areas As part of our development strategy, environmental and cultural during 2012. screenings are undertaken to identify and manage potential environmental risks, as well as to determine the constraints to be considered in the design, construction, and operation of the ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT facilities, given the specific nature of the site. POTENTIAL Potential environmental impacts are analyzed in detail in the Our business strategy for the following years foresees the environmental impact studies of the facilities, where feasible construction of new wind farms in our current geographies, as alternatives are also assessed and preventive, corrective and well as in new countries. compensation measures are determined. Since the early stages of construction, new wind farms bring a CUMULATIVE IMPACTS IN OFFSHORE wide range of benefits to the local communities. However it is In the Moray Firth area (Scotland), where EDPR is developing important to closely collaborate with our stakeholders to ensure an offshore project, we have undertaken several studies to gain that they maximize the value generated. knowledge on the environmental characteristics of the location. Maximizing shared value During this process, cumulative impact assessments gain significant relevance in such large scale projects. These studies The construction of a wind farm includes the construction of new complement the impact assessment that EDPR performs of the roads and the rehabilitation of existing ones in order to transport project alone, with an evaluation of the potential effects that may heavy equipment (wind turbine components, power transformers, arise from the interaction of our wind farm with other existing etc.) to the site during construction. The improved road system projects and future ones. facilitates future maintenance activities after construction works, as well as improves access to remote locations to the surrounding communities. During the operation of the wind farms these 64 A World Full Of Energy : our future : roads are maintained and further opportunities may be identified CHANGING ATTITUDES to increase the positive impact in the community, such as, the In 2012 we have conducted a survey in the neighbourhood conditioning of the access roads to Santa Quiteria hermitage in the of Margonin and Golancz wind farms (Poland) to evaluate municipality of Tardienta, Spain. the community’s perception of our wind farms. 400 people participated in the survey and results were compared to those of In addition, the integration of our generation capacity may also a similar survey conducted in 2010. require upgrades in the distribution and transmission grids that belong to the system operators. Those upgrades indirectly From 2010 to 2012 the communities perception changed benefit the quality of service offered in the surrounding areas, significantly, as the survey showed an increase in the positive minimizing electricity supply interruptions. Furthermore, during attitudes towards the wind farms and a sharp decrease in the 2012, an EDPR substation was used as backup equipment during negative views. the upgrade work of the transmission substation in the area, Survey results Golancz wind farm guaranteeing a continuous electricity supply as the equipment was ready to cover interruptions during the maintenance activities. 46% In 2012 alone, we invested 26 million euros in infrastructure 39% 37% investments that benefits surrounding communities. 35% 28% MAXIMIZING OPPORTUNITY FOR LOCAL CONTENT In order to maximize the potential of local content in our projects in UK, we are supporting the development of the local supply 15% chain. We started to collaborate with the Scottish Government Energy Division, Highlands and Island Enterprise, and Scottish Negative Neutral Positive Enterprise to enable the enterprise agencies to access appropriate parts of the project’s procurement process. 2010 2012 It is expected that the development of this new market will translate into growth and prosperity for the region. In 2012 we conducted a pilot project in Spain aimed at improving the relationships with landowners during construction of the wind Involving local opinion farms, interaction with them is critical to finalize the construction works in time. A minimal number of complaints were registered, Sites of wind farms are selected based on a comprehensive survey proving a high satisfaction level from affected landowners and not taking into account not only technical but also environmental and a single disruption of the construction works. The experience has social considerations. Early engagement with local communities set a standard for the following construction projects. provides valuable understanding of these social considerations and ensures a good and smooth development. Local hiring and procurement practices Public consultations are a standard practice for the development Although there are no in-house procedures explicitly requiring of our projects. Public consultations are well attended and receive local recruitment, a high percentage of our employees come from coverage in the local press. the locations in which the company operates. As a result, we contribute to local economic development. Furthermore, grievance mechanisms are available to ensure that complaints are properly recorded and addressed. In some All employees Directors particular cases, we decided to take a more proactive approach % of local hires 2012 2011 2012 2011 in this regard and now we rely on the town councils to filter and Europe 92% 94% n/a 67% communicate all the complaints. This increases transparency and North America 91% 88% 50% n/a shows serious commitment towards solving problems as soon as Brazil 100% 100% n/a n/a they arise. Corporate 70% 72% n/a n/a n/a: not applicable. No directors hired in that platform In addition, the interaction with landowners during the development phase is very active and positive, influencing the During the construction of our wind farms, the local community design of the project. Better engagement practices are always can see an influx of temporary construction workers that provide sought. We want to develop a proactive and close management of a positive impact on the local economy, through local spending and the relationships with land owners during construction works. increased sales tax revenue. There are no in-house procedures for procurement practices with local suppliers. However, on average, 78% of our expenditures were paid to local suppliers. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 65 : our future : OUR FUTURE FUNDING FINANCIAL EDPR’s new funding strategy is supported by three main PERFORMANCE components: operational cash-flow from installed capacity, proceeds from the execution of our assets rotation strategy and debt from competitive project finance deals. The swift execution of EDPR’s strategy for the 2012-15 period is expected result in top value creation for our shareholders. ASSET ROTATION STRATEGY High cash-flow generation from our growing portfolio of assets, coupled with stronger balance sheet solidity provided by our new EDPR’s asset rotation strategy leverages on our critical expertise funding strategy, are the cornerstones of this plan. in creating value through the development, construction and operating phases of renewable energy projects. Based on this superior expertise, EDPR is able to transform a project with high STRATEGIC CORE COMPETENCES risk – when it is in the development and construction phase – into AND QUALITY PORTFOLIO a project with a low risk profile, long useful life and with a stable and visible cash-flow stream. The starting point for EDPR’s 4 year business plan is its core competencies. These have been crucial for ensuring good The sale of minority stakes in our operating portfolio allows EDPR operational and financial performance in the past and are expected to capture the value created through the phases with higher risk, to remain the drivers of our future growth. The consolidated crystallizing the value of the projects cash-flows and providing know-how in development and wind assessment, engineering valuable proceeds to reinvest in the business. and construction, and O&M and asset management have all been essential for EDPR’s business performance. During 2012, EDPR successfully completed two major asset rotation deals. The first in the US, consisted of the sale of minority Based on its core knowledge of delivering assets with high net stakes in 4 wind farms (599 MW). Whilst the second, in Portugal, capacity factors and its strategy of a low risk approach to energy was the first of a series of expected transactions with CTG that fall prices, EDPR is able to secure premium revenues and superior under the strategic partnership signed with EDP. visibility on its income. Whilst from a costs perspective, the preventive maintenance schemes, good management of warranties These and similar transactions are expected to generate proceeds and a diversified portfolio of turbines ensure top OPEX ratios. This of over 2 billion euros in the 2012-15 period, constituting a all adds up to a solid stream of operational cash-flow that is the significant share of the global funding for this period. key to providing shareholder value. PROJECT FINANCE SELECTIVE GROWTH GENERATING Over the last couple of years EDPR has successfully signed a STRONG cash-flow number of project finance deals for the financing of projects in all of its major geographies. The completion of the agreements allows In addition to our current installed based, within the next years we for EDPR to access an additional source of competitive funding. It expect the addition of projects that exhibit above portfolio average also highlights the quality of the projects that have to comply with profitability metrics. Furthermore, as a result of our continuous the strict criteria of banks and other members of the global credit focus on efficiency, we expect a positive evolution of our main markets. Opex ratios for the whole portfolio. The combination of these effects is expected to produce an increase of 25% in our core During 2012, EDPR successfully signed 3 project finance profitability metric: EBITDA per average MW in operation. transactions, relating to projects in Spain, Belgium and Romania. The three deals included wind farms accounting for 239 MW and A knock-on effect of our increased profitability should be the 273 million euros of long-term financing at competitive rates. positive evolution in EBITDA. This metric is expected to reach 1.351.50 billion euros by 2015. The capacity installed in EDPR’s current growth markets as well as in new markets/technologies will play a significant role in achieving this target. EDPR’s 2015 targets +25% increase in EBITDA per Average MW 1.35-1.50 >3x Increase in Net income vs. 2011 figures by 2015 billion euros EBITDA by 2015 in operation by 2015 66 A World Full Of Energy gri information reporting principles 70 gri index 71 part-I: profile disclosures 71 part-II: disclosures on management approach (dmas) 73 part-III: performance indicators 76 additional information 85 independent assurance report 87 statement gri application level check 89 Tocha (Portugal, Beira Litoral region) 9 MW 1,005 MW* The Tocha wind farm is part of EDPR growing portfolio of assets in Portugal. Since EDPR’s inception in 2007, Portugal has been a source of solid installed capacity installed capacity in Portugal growth for the Company. This growth has come via own projects or through 5 its participation in the ENEOP – Eólicas Remuneration: de Portugal consortium. turbines Feed-in tariff * Includes capacity attributable to EDPR under the ENEOP Consortium : gri information : REPORTING PRINCIPLES In addition, the company has a Code of Ethics that contains specific clauses on the respect for human rights. In compliance with the This sustainability report responds to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines Code, EDPR expresses its total opposition to forced or compulsory indicators, and provides also information on the additional labour and recognizes that human rights should be considered electricity sector supplement indicators directly related to the fundamental and universal, based on conventions, treaties company business, which is the power generation from renewable and international initiatives like the United Nations Universal sources, basically wind. Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization and the Global Compact. EDPR is not considered an Utility company. In both cases (GRI indicators and Sector Supplement indicators) exceptions that may Our Procurement Manual also includes a chapter that guides exist are explained, due primarily to the fact that the Company’s each Purchasing Department to put these principles into practice, core business is based in generation from renewable sources and therefore when procuring and contracting goods and services the does not include power distribution nor power commercialization. Company appeals to all reasonable endeavours so that selected We also consider as our final product the electricity produced by suppliers accept to comply with the UN Global Compact’s ten our wind energy assets. EDPR is committed to the progressive principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment improvement of the information provided. and anti-corruption. To learn more about the UN Global Compact, please visit UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT www.unglobalcompact.org. Global Compact is an initiative of the United Nations launched in 2000 that defines guideline directives for businesses that opt to GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE contribute to sustainable development. The GRI directives define a set of indicators and recommendations EDPR has become signatory of this initiative and is committed to to create a global standard for disclosing information concerning put these principles into practice, informing society of the progress the three sustainability pillars: economic, environmental and social it has achieved. performance. A company’s adherence to these directives means that it concurs with the concept and practices of sustainability. The whole report, including environmental and social indicators contemplated by the GRI, was audited by KPMG. The GRI framework defines a list of principles to help organizations ensure that the content of the report is balanced and accurate. EDPR applied these principles as the basis for the 2012 Annual Report. To learn more about the GRI guidelines, please visit www.globalreporting.org. GRI Application Level The company self-declares to have reached the level A+, as confirmed by KPMG. This report has also been GRI-check to confirm that the report addresses GRI’s standard disclosures. GRI PRINCIPLES Materiality Stakeholder Inclusiveness Sustainability Context The concerns and the feedback received from This report includes the relevant This report is placed in the context of our stakeholders were taken into account information for the company’s the company strategy to contribute to during the report’s creation. stakeholders, as derived from the the sustainable development of society, For additional information about who are our materiality studies performed. whenever possible. stakeholders, please visit www.edpr.com. Accuracy, Clarity, Comparability and Completeness and Balance Timeliness Reliability Unless otherwise stated, this report The information presented in this report The information presented follows the covers all the company’s subsidiaries relates to FY2011. EDPR is committed to GRI directives aim to make information and is presented in a balanced and report sustainability information at least comparable, traceable, accurate and reliable. objective perspective. once a year. 70 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : gri index part-i: profile disclosures If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1.1. Fully 6-9 of the organization. Description of key impacts, risks, and 1.2. Fully 44,56-57,107-109 opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile 2.1. Name of the organization. Fully 4 2.2. Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 4,12-15 Operational structure of the organization, 2.3. including main divisions, operating companies, Fully 12-15 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. EDPR head offices are located in 2.4. Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully Madrid (Spain) Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5. major operations or that are specifically Fully 12-15 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6. Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 118-119,144 Markets served (including geographic 2.7. breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully 12-13,20 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8. Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 12-13,18-19,144 Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9. Fully 4,118-119,163-165 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10. Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 16 Installed capacity, broken down by primary EU1 Fully 12-13,18,34-35 energy source and by regulatory regime. Net energy output broken down by primary EU2 Fully 12-13,36 energy source and by regulatory regime. The company does Number of residential, industrial, institutional Not EU3 Not not have final and commercial customer accounts. Applicable customers The company business is related to wind energy Length of above and underground transmission Not EU4 Not generation, not and distribution lines by regulatory regime Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. The Company’s core Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or Not business is power EU5 equivalent, broken down by carbon trading Not Applicable generation from framework. renewable sources. 3. Report Parameters Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1. Fully 4 information provided. 3.2. Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 4 4 The information presented in this report relates to FY2012. 3.3. Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully EDPR is committed to report sustainability information at least once a year. Contact point for questions regarding the report 3.4. Fully “Contact us” at www.edpr.com. or its contents. 4,65,70 Understanding our stakeholders is of the upmost importance to EDPR. As a result we perform periodic consultations to our stakeholders as part of our business. In the elaboration of this report, we considered different 3.5. Process for defining report content. Fully studies, industry benchmarks and the results from direct consultations and the feedback obtained from the engagement with our stakeholders, in order to prioritize the addressed topics. For additional information, please visit www.edpr.com. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, 4,70,144,205-212 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6. Fully For additional information, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary please visit www.edpr.com. Protocol for further guidance. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 71 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in State any specific limitations on the scope 3.7. or boundary of the report (see completeness Fully 4,70-84,144 principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8. operations, and other entities that can Fully 4 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 4,70-84 techniques underlying estimations applied to To consolidate economic and 3.9. the compilation of the Indicators and other Fully social data, the exchange rates information in the report. Explain any decisions used were those of the financial not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, reporting. the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g. 3.10. Fully 4 mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous 3.11. reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully 4 measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12. Fully 70-84 Disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with regard to 3.13. Fully 4,70,87-89 seeking external assurance for the report. Governance, Commitments, 4. and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1. governance body responsible for specific tasks, Fully 99-105 such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 4.2. Fully 99-100 governance body is also an executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 4.3. Fully 99-100 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4. to provide recommendations or direction to the Fully 106-107,117 highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure 4.5. Fully 115-117 arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance 4.6. Fully 106-107,131-134 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7. governance body for guiding the organization’s Fully 99-105,131-134 strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 106-107 Internally developed statements of mission For additional information, or values, codes of conduct, and principles please visit www.edpr.com, 4.8. relevant to economic, environmental, and Fully to consult our sustainability social performance and the status of their commitments and principles and implementation. our company vision, mission and values Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and 4.9. social performance, including relevant risks and Fully 4,70 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4.10. Fully 115-117 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the 4.11. precautionary approach or principle is Fully 44,56-57,107-109 addressed by the organization. 4,106-107 EDPR became signatory of the Externally developed economic, environmental, United Nations Global Compact and social charters, principles, or other directives for a sustainable 4.12. Fully initiatives to which the organization subscribes development and has pledged to or endorses. put these principles into practice and to inform society of the progress achieved. 72 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in We are a member of several energy associations in the Memberships in associations (such as countries where we have a industry associations) and/or national/ presence, playing a relevant role international advocacy organizations in which in supporting the development of the organization: * Has positions in governance 4.13. Fully renewable energy. bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; Please visit our stakeholders’ * Provides substantive funding beyond routine information on the sustainability membership dues; or * Views membership as section our website, strategic. www.edpr.com, for a full list of the organizations. Please visit our stakeholders’ information on the sustainability List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14. Fully section our website, organization. www.edpr.com, for a full identification of our stakeholders 70,73 The identification of the stakeholders groups with whom the company works with is the result of an internal reflection Basis for identification and selection of 4.15. Fully process of the company stakeholders with whom to engage. management. Please visit our stakeholders’ information on the sustainability section our website, www.edpr.com. 70,73 Please visit our stakeholders’ information on the sustainability section our website, www.edpr.com. The company uses a variety of channels to engage with our stakeholders, as described in our website, and each one of the channels available allows a particular frequency and Approaches to stakeholder engagement, intensity for the relationship with 4.16. including frequency of engagement by type and Fully our stakeholders. The company by stakeholder group. engages continuously with them through the websites, mailboxes and specific departments that relate daily with employees, investors, media and suppliers. Internal and external surveys are also performed periodically. The company offers other means of engagement that are not periodic to ensure that stakeholders concerns are completely addressed. 70 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Please visit our stakeholders’ through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17. Fully information on the sustainability organization has responded to those key topics section our website, and concerns, including through its reporting. www.edpr.com. part-ii: disclosures on management approach (dmas) If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Fully 34-38,60-61 Market presence Fully 12-13,18 Indirect economic impacts Fully 46-47,64-65 The company business is related to wind energy Not Availability and reliability Not generation, not Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. The company business is related to wind energy Management approach to ensure short and Not EU6 Not generation, not long-term electricity availability and reliability Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. The company business is related to wind energy Not Demand-side management Not generation, not Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 73 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in The company business is related Demand-side management programs including to wind energy Not EU7 residential, commercial, institutional and Not generation, not Applicable industrial programs transmission and distribution of electricity. The company business is related to wind energy Not System efficiency Not generation, not Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. Research and development Fully 20,39-40 EDP Inovação is the company of the EDP Group responsible for performing R&D activity and Research and development activity and main expenditure in partnership expenditure aimed at providing reliable EU8 Fully with the different companies of electricity and promoting sustainable the group. A detailed disclosure development of the total expenditure in research and development can be found at www.edp.pt. The company does Not Plant decommissioning Not not have nuclear Applicable power plants The company does Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear Not EU9 Not not have nuclear power sites Applicable power plants DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN The amount of materials used for wind generation is Not Materials Not not significant and material therefore they have not been measured yet. Energy Fully 45-46 Wind generation does Not Water Not not have significant Applicable impact in Water Biodiversity Fully 44-46,64 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 44-46 Electricity consumption does Not Products and services Not not have significant material impacts in the environment During 2012, no environmental Compliance Fully sanction was imposed to EDPR. Transport Fully 45-46 Overall Fully 44 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Employment Fully 41-43,62-63 Processes and processes to ensure the EU14 Fully 62-63 availability of a skilled workforce Percentage of employees eligible to retire in EU15 the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job Fully 85 category and by region Policies and requirements regarding health EU16 and safety of employees and employees of Fully 43 contractors and subcontractors Generally, collective bargaining agreements apply to all employees working under an employment relationship with and for the account of the respective companies, regardless of the type of contract, the professional group into which they are classified, Labor/management relations Fully their occupation or job. However, matters relating to the corporate organization itself, the laws of each country or even usage and custom in each country result in certain groups being expressly excluded from the scope of collective bargaining agreements. 74 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Occupational health and safety Fully 43 Training and education Fully 62-63 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 41,63,85 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully 41,63,85 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Investment and procurement practices Fully 70 Non-discrimination Fully 70 Freedom of association and collective Fully 70 bargaining Child labor Fully 70 Forced and compulsory labor Fully 70 The company does Not Security practices Not not have relevant Applicable security personnel Indigenous rights Fully 70 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Community Fully 41,45-47,64-65 Stakeholder participation in the decision EU19 making process related to energy planning and Fully 65 infrastructure development. The company Approach to managing the impacts of Not EU20 Not does not produce displacement Applicable displacements Corruption Fully 82-83 Public policy Fully 82-83 Anti-competitive behavior Fully 82-83 Compliance Fully 82-83 Disaster/Emergency planning and response Fully 43 Contingency planning measures, disaster/ EU21 emergency management plan and training Fully 43 programs, and recovery/restoration plans. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Our core business and H&S initiatives Not are focused on the Customer health and safety Not Applicable electricity production facilities and not in its final consumption. Our core business is the electricity Not Product and service labelling Not production and is Applicable not related to its final consumption. Does not relate to the Company business as Not the company does not Marketing communications Not Applicable perform productrelated marketing communications. Our core business is the electricity Not Customer privacy Not production and is Applicable not related to its final consumption. Our core business is the electricity Not Compliance Not production and is Applicable not related to its final consumption. Our core business is the electricity Not Access Not production and is Applicable not related to its final consumption. Our core business Programs, including those in partnership with is the electricity Not EU23 government, to improve or maintain access to Not production and is Applicable electricity and customer support services. not related to its final consumption. Our core business is the electricity Not Provision of information Not production and is Applicable not related to its final consumption. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 75 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Our core business Practices to address language, cultural, low is the electricity literacy and disability related barriers to Not EU24 Not production and is accessing and safely using electricity and Applicable not related to its final customer support services consumption. part-iIi: performance indicators Economic If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other Fully 18-19,46,86 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization’s activities Fully 26,44,56-57,107-109 due to climate change. The company systems were not prepared to report a The company does 167 consolidated value Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit not report on the level Not EC3 Partially 92% of employees are eligible for the whole group 2014 plan obligations. of participation in Available for the retirement plan for the participation retirement plans. in retirement plans during the reporting process. 118-119 In 2012, the company received Significant financial assistance received from EC4 Fully 176 M€ in Tax Savings, Cash government. Grants and Federal and State Production Tax Credits Market presence EDPR EU: 162,6% Information not EDPR NA: 194,8% Range of ratios of standard entry level wage We do not disclose disclosed to protect EDPR BR: 468,6% Proprietary EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant Partially range ratios by gender employees’ data We considered significant information locations of operation. and country. privacy in specific locations all the countries where cases. we have presence. 65 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on By ”local” we refer to each one EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations Fully of the countries where we have a of operation. significant presence. Procedures for local hiring and proportion EC7 of senior management hired from the local Fully 65 community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 Fully 46-47,64-65 public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the extent Fully 46-47,64-65 of impacts. Availability and reliability The company business is related Planned capacity against projected electricity to wind energy Not EU10 demand over the long term, broken down by Not generation, not Applicable energy source and regulatory regime. transmission and distribution of electricity. System efficiency The company business is related to wind energy Average generation efficiency of thermal plants Not EU11 Not generation, not by energy source and regulatory regime. Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. The company business is related to wind energy Transmission and distribution losses as a Not EU12 Not generation, not percentage of total energy. Applicable transmission and distribution of electricity. 76 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : Environmental If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Materials The amount of materials used for wind generation is Not EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not not significant and material therefore they have not been measured yet. The amount of materials used for Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not wind generation is EN2 Not input materials. material not significant for the company´s main business activities. Energy The Company’s core Direct energy consumption by primary energy Not business is power EN3 Not source. Applicable generation from renewable sources. 45-46 Indirect electricity consumptions are the required electricity obtained from the grid for administrative purpouses in our offices, and to cover needs from our wind farms operations during the periods of time that our turbines cannot produce green EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully electricty and to cover our needs. In 2012, EDPR consumed 193 TJ of electricity. Electricity consumed from the grid has been considered to be generated from the primary energy sources that constitutes the country generation mix from each one of the locations where we are present. The Company’s core Energy saved due to conservation and Not business is power EN5 Not efficiency improvements. Applicable generation from renewable sources. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or The Company’s core renewable energy based products and services, Not business is power EN6 Not and reductions in energy requirements as a Applicable generation from result of these initiatives. renewable sources. The company does not The Company’s core report the extent to business is power which indirect energy generation from use has been reduced renewable sources. during the reporting CO2 avoidance due Initiatives to reduce indirect energy period and underlying Not EN7 Partially 46 to renewable energy consumption and reductions achieved. assumptions and material generation is greater methodologies used than the results of to calculate other initiatives performed indirect energy use and to reduce indirect indicate the source of emissions. information. Water Wind generation does Not EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not not have significant Applicable impact in Water Wind generation does Water sources significantly affected by Not EN9 Not not have significant withdrawal of water. Applicable impact in Water Wind generation does Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not EN10 Not not have significant and reused. Applicable impact in Water Biodiversity 45 Location and size of land owned, leased, Please visit our environmental managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11 Fully information on the sustainability and areas of high biodiversity value outside section our website, protected areas. www.edpr.com. 44-45,64 Description of significant impacts of activities, For additional information, visit products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 Fully our environmental information protected areas and areas of high biodiversity on the sustainability section our value outside protected areas. website, www.edpr.com. Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the EU13 Fully 44-45,64 biodiversity of the affected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Fully 44-45,64 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14 Fully 44-45,64 managing impacts on biodiversity. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 77 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Emissions, effluents and waste 44-46 Gas consumption emissions were estimated according to Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas the GHG protocol. Electricity EN16 Fully emissions by weight. consumption emissions were calculated with the global emission factors of each country and state within the US. 44-46 2012 indirect emissions from business travel and employee commuting has been estimated Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas EN17 Fully according to the DEFRA emissions by weight. standard. 2011 information has been estimated according to the GHG protocol resulting in lower values. 44-46 Our core business activity, wind production, already implies reducing GHG emissions. To calculate emissions avoidance, the energy generation has been multiplied by the CO2 eq emission factors of each country and state within the US, Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions considering just fossil energy. EN18 Fully and reductions achieved. In 2012, we changed the methodology for the calculation of CO2 avoidance, to exclude nuclear energy in the emission factor, as we consider that our energy just replaces fossil energy. All future and past CO2 avoidance measures presented in this report were recalculated according to this methodology. The company business does not Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not EN19 Not produce relevant weight. Applicable emissions of ozonedepleting substances The company business does not NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not produce relevant EN20 Not by type and weight. Applicable NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions The company Not business does not EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not material use water as relevant resource 44-45 In Europe and Brazil, the method of disposal has been indicated by the waste hauler, while in the US the disposal method has been determined by the organizational defaults of the waste hauler. For the purposes of this report, all wastes have been classified The company as Hazardous or Non-hazardous The company does differentiates according to European Waste not break down hazardous & Catalogue; however, in each the total amount of nonhazardous waste country where EDPR has a waste (hazardous by the following geographic presence, each & nonhazardous by Total weight of waste by type and disposal Not treatment methods: EN22 Partially wind farm is required to adhere type: composting, for 2014 method. Available recycled, recovered to national law by following incineration (or use (not company procedures for handling, as fuel), for deep well recycled), send to labeling, and storage of wastes injection, for on-site landfill disposal to ensure compliance. In cases, storage and recycled and other means of like in the United States, when vs. recovered. disposal. our operations generate small quantities of substances which fall into additionally-regulated categories–such as used oils and universal wastes–we follow strict standards for handling and disposal of these waste types to ensure we remain compliant with all applicable laws. 45 We consider a spill to be EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully significant if it was about 0,16 m3 and reached the ground. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or The company treated waste deemed hazardous under the business does not Not EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, Not include transport, Applicable and VIII, and percentage of transported waste import, export, or shipped internationally. treatment of waste. 78 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity The company value of water bodies and related habitats Not business does not EN25 Not significantly affected by the reporting Applicable use water as relevant organization’s discharges of water and runoff. resource Products and services Electricity Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts consumption does Not EN26 of products and services, and extent of impact Not not have significant material mitigation. impacts in the environment. Does not relate to the Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not Company business, EN27 Not materials that are reclaimed by category. Applicable as the company end product is energy Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total During 2012, no environmental number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 Fully sanctions were imposed to non-compliance with environmental laws and EDPR. regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods EN29 and materials used for the organization’s Fully 46 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall The company does not report the total The company Environmental uses a different protection expenditures categorization of Total environmental protection expenditures broken down by waste Not environmental EN30 Partially 44 2014 and investments by type. disposal, by emissions Available protection treatment, remediation expenditures and and prevention costs investments that the and environmental one defined by GRI. management costs. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Employment Total workforce by employment type, LA1 Fully 41,85 employment contract, and region. Total number and rate of employee turnover by LA2 Fully 41,63,85 age group, gender, and region. Days worked by contractor and subcontractor 432,837 days worked by our EU17 employees involved in construction, operation Fully contractors, excluding overtime and maintenance activities. Percentage of contractor and subcontractor EU18 employees that have undergone relevant health Fully 43,86 and safety training. Benefits provided to full-time employees that LA3 are not provided to temporary or part-time Fully 42 employees, by major operations. The company The company does started reporting not report the number this indicator for of employees who 2011 and the missing 85 returned to work information was not Return to work and retention rates after Not LA15 Partially No employees did not return or after the parental available during the 2016 paternal leave, by gender Available extended the parental leave. leave ended who are reporting process to still employed twelve give a consolidated months after their response according return to work. to GRI completeness principle. Labor/management relations 85 Percentage of employees covered by collective From EDPR’s 861 employees, LA4 Fully bargaining agreements. 27% were covered by collective bargaining agreements. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 79 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Per country case law, EDPR may have a minimum period which the Company must comply with for giving formal notice of organizational changes at the companies in the Group with an impact on employees. However, it is customary to communicate significant events to the affected Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant groups in advance. LA5 operational changes, including whether it is Fully As an employer in the United specified in collective agreements. States, EDPR complies with the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act Guide to Advance Notice of Closings and Layoffs. Employees who have worked more than six months and 20 hours a week are required to receive 60 days notice in the event of closings and layoffs. Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and LA6 Fully 43 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 43,86 The company Minor first-aid injuries are not systems were not included. The company does not prepared to disclose Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Days = scheduled work days report occupational Not this information LA7 days, and absenteeism, and number of workPartially Average number of independent 2015 diseases rate and Available using common related fatalities by region. contractors absentee rate. criteria for all EU: 952 the locations of NA: 594 operations. BR: 34 The company does The company not report whether systems were not Education, training, counseling, prevention, there are workers prepared to disclose and risk-control programs in place to who are involved in Not this information LA8 assist workforce members, their families, Partially 43 2015 occupational activities Available using common or community members regarding serious who have a high criteria for all diseases. incidence or high risk the locations of of specific diseases. operations. The large majority of EDPR collective bargaining agreements Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 Fully address employees’ rights and agreements with trade unions. duties of the company regarding Health & Safety. Training and education The information The company does not has not been Average hours of training per year per 62 break down total hours Not LA10 Partially consolidated 2015 employee by employee category. 22.3 hours per employee of training by employee Available following these category or gender. categories. The company does not report whether transition assistance programs to support employees who are retiring or who have been terminated provide any preretirement plan for intended retirees; Our workforce is Programs for skills management and any retraining for young and we will lifelong learning that support the continued Not LA11 Partially 62-63 those intending to not be facing these employability of employees and assist them in material continue working; issues in the near managing career endings. any severance pay future. (if severance pay is provided, does it take into account employee age and years of service); any job placement services; and any assistance on transitioning to a nonworking life. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 Fully 62 performance and career development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity The company does not report the percentage Composition of governance bodies and of employees in There are not breakdown of employees per category minority groups and Not significant minority LA13 Partially 41,85,131-134 according to gender, age group, minority group individuals within material groups within the membership, and other indicators of diversity. the organization’s company. governance bodies in minority groups. 80 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Equal remuneration for women and men Information not disclosed to protect Ratio of basic salary of men to women by We do not disclose Proprietary LA14 Partially 85 employees’ data employee category. rates by country. information privacy in specific cases. Social: Human Rights If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Investment and procurement action Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 Fully 70 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. 70 As the business culture in the countries in which we operate is entirely respectful of human Percentage of significant suppliers and rights, the company has not HR2 contractors that have undergone screening on Fully undergone any human rights human rights and actions taken. screening of suppliers or contractors and its investment agreements do not include human rights clauses. 70 In 2011, EDPR started a Ethics training program to all country managers, directors and senior managers with a team from EDPR EU and EDPR Corporate, Total hours of employee training on policies and holding a double objective: 1. To procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 Fully enhance EDPR ethical process, that are relevant to operations, including the and all the tools and documents percentage of employees trained. available in the company; 2. To prepare them to give ethics training to their teams. Each manager was responsible for providing training to his/her team on the first quarter of 2012. Non-discrimination In 2012, EDPR registered no allegation of gender Total number of incidents of discrimination and discrimination but has a HR4 Fully actions taken. pending allegation of gender discrimination and retaliation in a state federal court in the US. Freedom of association and collective bargaining 70 EDPR Code of Ethics has specific clauses concerning the right to Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association. exercise freedom of association and collective The company has no knowledge HR5 Fully bargaining may be at significant risk, and of any activity carried out that actions taken to support these rights. could jeopardize the right of freedom of association or the right to adhere to collective bargaining agreements. Child Labor 70 EDPR Code of Ethics has specific clauses against child Operations identified as having significant risk or forced labour. The company HR6 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Fully did not identify any operation to contribute to the elimination of child labor. that could have a significant risk for incidents of child labour, forced and compulsory labour or indigenous rights. Forced and compulsory labor 70 EDPR Code of Ethics has specific Operations identified as having significant risk clauses against child or forced for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, labour. The company did not HR7 Fully and measures to contribute to the elimination of identify any operation that could forced or compulsory labor. have a significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour or indigenous rights. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 81 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Indigenous rights 70 The company did not identify Total number of incidents of violations involving HR9 Fully any operation that could have a rights of indigenous people and actions taken. significant risk for incidents with indigenous rights. 70 EDPR has more than 200 Percentage and total number of operations that wind farms and operates in 11 HR10 have been subject to human rights reviews and/ Fully markets, all of which are within or impact assessments. scope of the Code of Ethics premises and regulation. Number of grievances related to human rights HR11 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Fully 106-107,117 grievance mechanisms. Social: Society If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 Fully 41,45-47,64-65 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Number of people physically or economically The company Not EU22 displaced and compensation, broken down by Not does not produce Applicable type of project. displacements Operations with significant potential or actual SO9 Fully 41,45-47,64-65 negative impacts on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 Fully 41,45-47,64-65 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption 106-107 EDPR Code of Ethics applies to all employees and business units. The code is published on the Company’s intranet and is included in the welcome pack given to all new hires, Percentage and total number of business units SO2 Fully as it needs to be signed by analyzed for risks related to corruption. all of them when entering the company. In the Code of Ethics, active and passive corruption is forbidden, either through acts and omissions or through the creation of situations of benefit or illicit influence. In 2011, EDPR started a Ethics training program to all country managers, directors and senior managers with a team from EDPR EU and EDPR Corporate, holding a double objective: 1. To Percentage of employees trained in enhance EDPR ethical process, SO3 organization’s anti-corruption policies and Fully and all the tools and documents procedures. available in the company; 2. To prepare them to give ethics training to their teams. Each manager was responsible for providing training to his/her team on the first quarter of 2012. 106-107 Corporate Governance: II.5.A] EDPR has no knowledge of any corruption-related incidents recorded during 2012. Moreover, the company has internal procedure to monitor compliance with the Code of Ethics and define actions to be Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 Fully taken in case of incidents. corruption. For addition information, please refer to the Corporate Governance Section of this report, chapter II.5. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEMENT, or visit our ethics information on the corporate governance section, in our website, www.edpr.com. 82 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Public policy The renewable industry has been subject of public debate all over the world. EDPR is committed to contributing to public policy dialogue with key public institutions and local communities, generating effective initiatives and policy solutions that promote the development of renewable energy. We are aware that only through legal and regulatory certainty, Public policy positions and participation in SO5 Fully will we be able to provide a public policy development and lobbying. sustainable business in the long term, consistently adding value for all our stakeholders and providing a contribution in the challenge to provide clean and sustainable energy. Please visit our stakeholders’ information on the sustainability section our website, www.edpr.com, for additional information on our public policy. In 2012, EDPR NA contributed $40,450 of corporate funds to various campaigns including political action committees (PACs) and state political Total value of financial and in-kind contributions candidates that champion the SO6 to political parties, politicians, and related Fully company’s goal of increasing institutions by country. opportunities for renewable energy in the United States. In EDPR EU and EDPR BR, there were no contributions to political parties in 2012. Anti-competitive behavior EDPR has no knowledge of any Total number of legal actions for antilegal actions for anti-competitive SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Fully behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices and their outcomes. practices recorded during 2012. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total During 2012, EDPR paid two SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for nonFully sanctions of 1,500 € following a compliance with laws and regulations. failure of a litigation. Social: Product Responsibility If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Customer health and safety Our core business Life cycle stages in which health and safety and H&S initiatives impacts of products and services are assessed are focused on Not PR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant Not the electricity Applicable products and services categories subject to production facilities such procedures. and not in its final consumption Our core business Total number of incidents of non-compliance and H&S initiatives with regulations and voluntary codes are focused on Not PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of Not the electricity Applicable products and services during their life cycle, by production facilities type of outcomes. and not in its final consumption Number of injuries and fatalities to the public During 2012, EDPR did not involving company assets, including legal identify injuries or fatalities to EU25 Fully judgments, settlements and pending legal cases the public involving company of diseases. assets. Product and service labeling Our core business Type of product and service information is the electricity required by procedures and percentage of Not production and is PR3 Not significant products and services subject to Applicable not related to its such information requirements. distribution to final clients Our core business Total number of incidents of non-compliance is the electricity with regulations and voluntary codes Not production and is PR4 Not concerning product and service information and Applicable not related to its labeling, by type of outcomes. distribution to final clients EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 83 : gri information : If applicable, Reason To be Cross-reference / Description Reported indicate the part for Explanation reported Direct reference not reported omission in Our core business is the electricity Practices related to customer satisfaction, Not production and is PR5 including results of surveys measuring Not Applicable not related to its customer satisfaction. distribution to final clients Marketing communications Does not relate to the Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Company business and voluntary codes related to marketing Not as the company does PR6 Not communications, including advertising, Applicable not perform productpromotion, and sponsorship. related marketing communications Does not relate to the Total number of incidents of non-compliance Company business with regulations and voluntary codes Not as the company does PR7 concerning marketing communications, Not Applicable not perform productincluding advertising, promotion, and related marketing sponsorship by type of outcomes. communications Customer privacy Our core business is the electricity Total number of substantiated complaints Not production and is PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Not Applicable not related to its losses of customer data. distribution to final clients Compliance Our core business Monetary value of significant fines for is the electricity non-compliance with laws and regulations Not production and is PR9 Not concerning the provision and use of products Applicable not related to its and services. distribution to final clients. Assess Our core business is the electricity Percentage of population unserved in licensed Not production and is EU26 Not distribution or service areas. Applicable not related to its distribution to final clients Our core business is the electricity Number of residential disconnections for Not production and is EU27 non-payment, broken down by duration of Not Applicable not related to its disconnection and by regulatory regime. distribution to final clients Our core business is the electricity Not production and is EU28 Power outage frequency. Not Applicable not related to its distribution to final clients Our core business is the electricity Not production and is EU29 Average power outage duration. Not Applicable not related to its distribution to final clients Our core business is the electricity Average plant availability factor by energy Not production and is EU30 Not source and by regulatory regime. Applicable not related to its distribution to final clients 84 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : additional information human capital indicators Equal Remuneration for women and men Workforce Breakdown 2012 % Female M/F Salary Ratio 2012 M/F Salary By Employment type Board of Directors (non-executive) 9 n/a Full time 843 30% Directors 68 111% Part time 18 100% Senior Managers 68 100% By Employment Contract Managers 440 99% Permanent 853 32% Professionals 222 96% Temporary 8 25% Administratives 63 87% By Country Spain 337 31% Employees eligible to retire Portugal 63 13% Employees eligible to retire in 10 years in 5 years France 35 26% By employment category Belgium 1 0% Directors 10 3 Poland 37 30% Senior Managers 8 3 Romania 29 38% Managers 17 3 Italy 19 37% Professionals 6 1 UK 28 43% Administratives 8 5 USA 291 36% By Country Brazil 21 33% Spain 12 3 Portugal 10 3 Employee turnover Poland 2 0 Employee Turnover New Hires Departures Turnover USA 23 9 Total 145 80 13% Brazil 2 0 By Gender Female 48 25 14% Return to work after parental leave Male 97 55 13% Maternal and Paternal leave Maternal Paternal By Age Group Spain 7 18 20-30 years old 84 22 23% Portugal 0 1 31-40 years old 45 33 10% France 0 1 >40 years old 16 25 9% Belgium 0 0 By Country Poland 3 1 Europe 60 28 11% Romania 0 0 North America 47 40 17% Italy 1 0 Brazil 9 4 31% UK 3 0 Corporate 29 8 10% USA 2 12 Note: turnover calculated as [((new hires + departures) / 2) / (total employees – temporary contracts)]. Brazil 0 0 Total 16 33 Labour Relations Employees covered by collective bargaining 2012 % agreements Spain 94 28% Portugal 63 100% France 35 100% Belgium 1 100% Poland 0 0% Romania 0 0% Italy 19 100% UK 1 4% USA 0 0% Brazil 20 95% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 85 : gri information : health and safety performance Indicator H&S 2012 2011 (%) Company personnel Number of industrial accidents 0 2 (100%) Number of industrial fatal accidents 0 0 0% Working days lost by accidents caused 0 34 0% Injury Rate (IR)1 0.00 2.28 (100%) Lost work day rate (LDR)2 0 39 (100%) Contractor personnel Number of industrial accidents 22 19 +16% Number of industrial fatal accidents 0 0 0% Working days lost by accidents caused 717 587 +22% Injury Rate (IR)1 6.35 5.97 +6% Lost work day rate (LDR)2 207 184 +13% economic value analysis Economic value generated and distributed 2012 2011 Turnover 1,182 992 Other income 190 196 Gains/(losses) on the sale of financial assets 3 10 Share of profit in associates 7 5 Financial income 74 62 Economic Value Generated 1,457 1,265 Cost of raw material and consumables used 24 35 Supplies and services 262 225 Other costs 86 57 Personnel costs 63 57 Financial expenses 352 341 Current tax 85 29 Dividends 0 0 Economic Value Distributed 872 744 Economic Value Accumulated 584 521 86 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : independent assurance report Independent Assurance Report to the Management of EDP Renováveis, S.A. We performed a limited assurance review on the non-financial information contained in EDP Renováveis, S.A., (hereinafter EDP Renováveis) Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 (hereinafter ‘the Report’). The information reviewed corresponds specifically to the GRI indicators in “Our performance” chapters: “Strong Know How and a World Class Team”, “Guaranteeing Health and Safety”, “Positive impact on the environment and Society”, in “Our Future” chapter: “A team that prospers in a challenging environment” and in section “GRI Information”. EDP Renováveis management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.1 (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative as described in section “GRI Information” of the Report. This section details the self-declared application level, which has been confirmed by Global Reporting Initiative. Management is also responsible for the information and assertions contained within the Report; for determining its objectives in respect of the selection and presentation of sustainable development performance; and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported performance information is derived. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and, based on the work performed, to issue a report. We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and also in accordance with the guidance set out by the Instituto de Censores Jurados de Cuentas de España (ICJCE). These standards require that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Report is free from material misstatement and that we comply with ethical requirements, including those of independence that form part of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore also the level of assurance provided. This report should by no means be considered as an audit report. Our limited assurance engagement work has consisted of making inquiries to Management, primarily to the persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying the following analytical and other evidence gathering procedures: • Interviews with relevant EDP Renováveis staff concerning the application of sustainability strategy and policies for material issues. • Interviews with relevant EDP Renováveis staff responsible for providing the information in the Report. • Analysing the processes of compiling and internal control over quantitative data reflected in the Report and verifying the reliability of the information using analytical procedures and review testing based on sampling. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 87 : gri information : 2 • Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of EDP Renováveis. • Verifying that the financial information reflected in the Report was taken from the annual accounts of EDP Renováveis, which were audited by independent third parties. Our multidisciplinary team included specialists in social, environmental and economic business aspects. Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the Annual Report of EDP Renováveis for the year ended 31 December 2012 have not been reliably obtained, that the information has not been fairly presented, or that significant discrepancies or omissions exist, nor that the Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with A+ Application Level of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative as described in the Report section “GRI Information”. Under separate cover, we will provide EDP Renováveis management with an internal report outlining our complete findings and areas for improvement. KPMG Asesores, S.L. José Luis Blasco Vázquez 27 March 2013 88 A World Full Of Energy : gri information : statement gri application level check EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 89 corporate governance statement of compliance 92 general shareholders’ meeting 96 management and supervisory bodies 99 section I: general chapters 99 section II: board of directors 109 section III: general and supervisory board, committee for financial matters, audit committee, and fiscal council 114 section IV: remuneration 115 section V: special committees 118 information and auditing 118 annex I, II, III, IV and V 127 Tramandaí (Brazil, Rio Grande do Sul State) The Tramandaí wind farm is EDPR 70 MW 84 MW largest wind farm in Brazil, with an installed capacity of 70 MW. Commissioned in 2011, Tramandaí benefits from an attractive 20 year installed capacity installed capacity in Brazil PPA and a high wind resource. Since entering the Brazilian market in 2008, 31 Remuneration: EDPR has been developing a pipeline of quality projects, turning this geography Feed-in tariff into one of the Company’s future growth drivers. turbines : corporate governance : 0. STATEMENT The organization and functioning of EDPR corporate governance OF COMPLIANCE model is designed to achieve the highest standards of corporate governance, business conduct and ethics referenced on the best national and international practices in corporate governance. 0.1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE In this context, EDPR states that it has adopted the CMVM EDP Renováveis, S.A. (hereinafter referred to as EDP recommendations on the governance of listed companies Renováveis, EDPR or the Company) is a Spanish company listed provided in the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code, with the in a regulated stock exchange in Portugal. EDP Renováveis’ exceptions indicated below. corporate organization is subject to its personal law and to the extend applicable to the recommendations contained in the The following table shows the CMVM recommendations set forth in Portuguese Corporate Governance Code, (“Código de Governo das the code and indicates whether or not they have been fully adopted Sociedades”) approved by the Comissão do Mercado de Valores by EDPR and the place in this report in which they are described in Mobiliários (CMVM) (Portuguese Securities Market Commission) more detail. in January 2010. This governance code is available to the public at CMVM website (www.cmvm.pt). 0.2 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE (CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS) STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Description in Recommendation Adoption information Report I. GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING I.1 General Shareholders’ Meeting Board I.1.1 The Presiding of the Board of the General Shareholders’ Meeting shall be equipped with the necessary and Adopted Chapter I.1 adequate human resources and logistic support, taking the financial position of the company into consideration. I.1.2 The remuneration of the Presiding Board of the General Shareholders’ Meeting shall be disclosed in the Adopted Chapter I.3 Annual Report on Corporate Governance. I.2 Participation at the meeting I.2.1 The requirement for the Board to receive statements for share deposit or blocking for participation at the Adopted Chapter I.4 General Shareholders’ Meeting shall not exceed 5 working days. I.2.2 Should the General Shareholders’ Meeting be suspended, the company shall not compel share blocking during Adopted Chapter I.5 that period until the meeting is resumed and shall then prepare itself in advance as required for the first session. I.3 Voting and Exercising Voting rights I.3.1 Companies shall not impose any statutory restriction on postal voting and whenever adopted or admissible, on Adopted Chapter I.9 electronic voting. I.3.2 The statutory deadline for receiving early voting ballots by mail, may not exceed three working days. Adopted Chapter I.11 I.3.3 Companies shall ensure the level of voting rights and the shareholder’s participation is proportional, ideally through the statutory provision that obliges the one share-one vote principal. The companies that: i) hold shares that do not confer voting right; Adopted Chapter I.6 ii) establish non-casting of voting rights above a certain number, when issued solely by a shareholder or by shareholders related to former, do not comply with the proportionality principle. I.4 Resolution Fixing-Quorum I.4.1 Companies shall not set a resolution-fixing quorum that outnumbers what is prescribed by law. Adopted Chapter I.8 I.5 Minutes and Information on Resolutions Passed I.5.1 Extracts from the minutes of the General Shareholders’ Meetings or documents with corresponding content must be made available to shareholders on the company’s website within five days period after the General Chapter I.13 and Shareholders’ Meeting has been held, irrespective of the fact that such information may not be classified as Adopted I.14 material information. The information disclosed shall cover the resolutions passed, the represented capital and the voting results. Said information shall be kept on file on the company’s website for no less than 3 year period. I.6 Measures on Corporate Control I.6.1 Measures aimed at preventing successful takeover bids, shall respect both company’s and the shareholders’ interests. The company’s articles of association that by complying with said principal provide for the restriction of the number of votes that may be held or exercised by a sole shareholder, either individually or in concert with Adopted Chapter I.7 and I.19 other shareholders, shall also foresee for a resolution by the General Assembly (5 year intervals), on whether that statutory provision is to be amended or prevails – without super quorum requirements as to the one legally in force – and that in said resolution, all votes issued be counted, without applying said restriction. I.6.2 In cases such as change of control or changes to the composition of the Board of Directors, defensive measures shall not be adopted that instigate immediate and serious asset erosion in the company, and further Adopted Chapter I.20 disturb the free transmission of shares and voluntary performance assessment by the shareholders of the members of the Board of Directors. 92 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Description in Recommendation Adoption information Report II. BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SUPERVISORY BOARD II.1 General Chapters II.1.1 Structure and Duties II.1.1.1 The Board of Directors shall assess the adopted model in its Annual Report on Corporate Governance and Chapter 0.1 and pin-chapter possible hold-ups to its functioning and shall propose measures that it deems fit for surpassing such Adopted II.3-A obstacles. II.1.1.2 Companies shall set up internal control and risk management systems in order to safeguard the company’s worth and which will identify and manage the risk. Said systems shall include at least the following components: i) setting of the company’s strategic objectives as regards risk assumption; ii) identifying the main risks associated to the company’s activity and any events that might generate risks; iii) analyze and determine the extent of the impact and the likelihood that each of said potential risks will occur; iv) risk management aimed at aligning those actual incurred risks with the company’s strategic options for risk Adopted Chapter II.5 assumption; v) control mechanisms for executing measures for adopted risk management and its effectiveness; vi) adoption of internal mechanisms for information and communication on several components of the system and of risk warning; vii) periodic assessment of the implemented system and the adoption of the amendments that are deemed necessary. II.1.1.3 The Board of Directors shall ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal control and risk management systems. The Supervisory Board shall be responsible for assessing the functioning of said systems Adopted Chapter II.6 and proposing the relevant adjustment to the company’s needs. II.1.1.4 The companies shall: i) identify the main economic, financial and legal risk that the company is exposed to during the exercise of its activity; Adopted Chapter II.9 ii) describe the performance and efficiency of the risk management system, in its Annual Report on Corporate Governance. II.1.1.5 The Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board shall establish internal regulations and shall have these Adopted Chapter II.7 disclosed on the company’s website. II.1.2 Governance Incompatibility and Independence II.1.2.1 The Board of Directors shall include a number of non-executive members that ensure the efficient Adopted Chapter II.14 supervision, auditing and assessment of the executive members’ activity. II.1.2.2 Non-executive members must include an adequate number of independent members. The size of the company and its shareholder structure must be taken into account when devising this number and may never be Adopted Chapter II.15 less than a fourth of the total number of Board of Directors. II.1.2.3 The independence assessment of its non-executive members carried out by the Board of Directors shall take into account the legal and regulatory rules in force concerning the independence requirements and the incompatibility framework applicable to members of other corporate boards, which ensure orderly and sequential Adopted Chapter II.15 coherence in applying independency criteria to all the company. An independent executive member shall not be considered as such, if in another corporate board and by force of applicable rules, may not be an independent executive member. II.1.3 Eligibility and Nominations Criteria II.1.3.1 Depending on the applicable model, the Chair of the Supervisory Board and of the Auditing and Financial Chapter II.1 and Adopted Matters Committees shall be independent and adequately competent to carry out his/her duties. II.3-C II.1.3.2 The selection process of candidates for non-executive members shall be conjured so as prevent Adopted Chapter II.16 interference by executive members. II.1.4 Policy on the Reporting of Irregularities II.1.4.1 The company shall adopt a policy whereby irregularities occurring within the company are reported. Such reports shall contain the following information: i) the means by which such irregularities may be reported internally, including the persons that are entitled to Adopted Chapter II.35 receive the reports; ii) how the report is to be handled, including confidential treatment, should it be required by the reporter. II.1.4.2 The general guidelines on this policy shall be disclosed in the Annual Report of Corporate Governance. Adopted Chapter II.35 II.1.5 Remuneration II.1.5.1 The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors shall be structured so that the formers’ interests are capable of being aligned with the long-term interests of the company. Furthermore, the remuneration shall be based on performance assessment and shall discourage taking on extreme risk. Thus, remunerations shall be structured as follows: i) The remuneration of the Board of Directors carrying out executive duties shall include a variable element which is determined by a performance assessment carried out by the company’s competent bodies according to preestablished quantifiable criteria. Said criteria shall take into consideration the company’s real growth and the actual growth generated for the shareholders, its long-term sustainability and the risks taken on, as well as compliance with the rules applicable to the company’s activity. ii) The variable component of the remuneration shall be reasonable overall as regard the fixed component of the remuneration and maximum limits shall be set for all components. iii) A significant part of the variable remuneration shall be deferred for a period not less than three years and its Chapter II.30, II.31, payment shall depend of the company’s steady positive performance during said period; Adopted II.32 and II.33 iv) Members of the Board of Directors shall not enter into contracts with the company or third parties that will have the effect of mitigating the risk inherent in the variability of the remuneration established by the company; v) The Executive Directors shall hold, up to twice the value of the total annual remuneration, the company shares that were allotted by virtue of the variable remuneration schemes, with the exception of those shares that are required to be sold for the payment of taxes on the gains of said shares; vi) When the variable remuneration includes stock options, the period for exercising same shall be deferred for a period of not less than three years; vii) The appropriate legal instruments shall be established so that in the event of a Director’s dismissal without due cause, the envisaged compensation shall not be paid out if the dismissal or termination by agreement is due to the Director’s inadequate performance; viii) The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors shall not include any component the value of which is subject to the performance or the value of the company. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 93 : corporate governance : STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Description in Recommendation Adoption information Report II.1.5.2 A statement on the remuneration policy of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board referred to in Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of June 19 th, shall contain, in addition to the content therein stated, adequate information on: Chapter II.30 and Adopted i) which groups of companies the remuneration policy and practices of which were taken as a baseline for setting II.32 the remuneration; ii) the payments for the dismissal or termination by agreement of the Director’s duties. II.1.5.3 The remuneration policy statement referred to in Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 shall also include the Director’s remunerations which contain an important variable component, within the meaning of Article 248-B/3 of Chapter II.29 and the Securities Code. The statement shall be detailed and the policy presented shall particularly take the long-term Adopted II.30 performance of the company, compliance with the rules applicable to its business and restraint in taking risks into account. II.1.5.4 A proposal shall be submitted at the General Shareholders’ Meeting on the approval of plans for the allotment of shares and/or options for share purchase or further yet on the variations in share process, to members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and other managers within the context of Article 248/3/B of the Securities Code. The proposal shall contain the regulation plan or in its absence, the plan’s conditions. The main Adopted Chapter II.32 characteristics of the retirement benefit plans established for members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and other managers within the context of Article 248/3/B of the Securities Code, shall also be approved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. II.1.5.5 Left in blank II.1.5.6 At least one of the Remuneration Committee’s representatives shall be present at the Annual General Adopted Chapter I.15 Shareholders’ Meeting for Shareholders. II.1.5.7 The amount of remuneration received, as a whole and individually, in other companies of the group and the Chapter II.31 and pension rights acquired during the financial year in question shall be disclosed in the Annual Report on Corporate Adopted II.32 Governance. II.2 Board of Directors II.2.1 Within the limits established by law for each management and supervisory structure, and unless the company is of a reduced size, the Board of Directors shall delegate the day-to-day running and the delegated duties shall be Adopted Chapter II.3-A identified in the Annual Corporate Governance Report. Not Adopted (“Under Spanish Law, the matters referred to in this recommendation can be delegated II.2.2 The Board of Directors must ensure that the company acts in accordance with its goals and shall not delegate by the Board of Directors on the Executive its duties, namely in what concerns: Committee. It is common practice in Spanish i) the definition of the company’s general strategy and policies; listed companies for the delegation of ii) the definition of the group’s corporate structure; powers to be far-reaching, with the exception iii) decisions taken that are considered to be strategic due to the amounts, risk and particular characteristics of matters related to the preparation of involved. accounts. Nevertheless, the Executive Committee always informs the Board of Directors of all the strategic decisions or relevant structure changes ”.) II.2.3 Should the Chair of the Board of Directors carry out executive duties, the Board of Directors shall set up efficient mechanisms for coordinating non-executive members that can ensure that these may decide upon, in an Not Applicable Chapter II.8 independent and informed manner, and furthermore shall explain these mechanisms to the shareholders in the Corporate Governance Report. II.2.4 The annual management report shall include a description of the activity carried out by the Non-Executive Adopted Chapter II.17 Directors and shall mention any restraints encountered. II.2.5 The company shall expound its policy of portfolio rotation on the Board of Directors, including the person Chapter II.11 responsible for the financial portfolio, and report on same in the Annual Corporate Governance Report. Not Applicable II.3 CEO, Executive Committee and Executive Board of Directors II.3.1 When managing Directors that carry out executive duties are requested by other Directors to supply information, the former must do so in a timely manner and the information supplied must adequately suffice the Adopted Chapter II.3-A request made. II.3.2 The Chair of the Executive Committee shall send the convening notice and minutes of the meetings to the Chair of the Board of Directors and, as applicable, to the Chair of the Supervisory Board or the Auditing Committee, Adopted Chapter II.3-A respectively. II.3.3 The Chair of the Board of Directors shall send the convening notices and minutes of the meetings to the Chair Not applicable of the General and Supervisory Board and the Chair of the Financial Matters Committee. II.4 General and Supervisory Board, Financial Matters Committee, Audit Committee and Supervisory Board II.4.1 Besides carrying out its supervisory duties, the General and Supervisory Board shall advise, follow-up and carry out an on-going assessment on the management of the company by the Executive Board of Directors. Besides other subject matters, the General and Supervisory Board shall decide on: i) the definition of the strategy and general policies of the company; Not applicable ii) the corporate structure of the group; and iii) decisions taken that are considered to be strategic due to the amounts, risk and particular characteristics involved. II.4.2 The annual reports and financial information on the activity carried out by the General and Supervisory Chapter II.4 and Committee, the Financial Matters Committee, the Auditing and Supervisory Committee must be disclosed on the Adopted III.15 company’s website. II.4.3 The annual reports on the activity carried out by the General and Supervisory Board, the Financial Matters Chapter II.4 and Committee, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board must include a description on the supervisory activity Adopted III.15 and shall mention any restraints that they may have come up against. II.4.4 The General and Supervisory Board, the Auditing Committee and the Supervisory Board (depending on the applicable model) shall represent the company for all purposes at the external auditor, and shall propose the services supplier, the respective remuneration, ensure that adequate conditions for the supply of these services Adopted Chapter II.24 are in place within the company, as well as being liaison offer between the company and the first recipient of the reports. II.4.5 According to the applicable model, the General and Supervisory Board, Audit Committee and Supervisory Board shall assess the external auditor on an annual basis and advise the General Shareholders’ Meeting that he/ Adopted Chapter II.24 she be discharged whenever justifiable grounds are present. 94 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Description in Recommendation Adoption information Report II.4.6 The internal audit services and those that ensure compliance with the rules applicable to the company (compliance services) shall functionally report to the Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or in Chapter II.5 and Adopted the case of companies adopting the Latin model, an independent Director or Supervisory Board, regardless of the II.6 hierarchical relationship that these services have with the executive management of the company. II.5 Special Committees II.5.1 Unless the company is of reduced size and depending on the adopted model, the Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Committees, shall set up the necessary Committees in order to: i) ensure that a competent and independent assessment of the Executive Director’s performance is carried out, as Chapter II.2 and well as its own overall performance and further yet, the performance of all existing committees; Adopted II.3 D. ii) study the adopted governance system and verify its efficiency and propose to the competent bodies, measures to be carried out with a view to its improvements; iii) in due time identify potential candidates with the high profile required for the performance of Director’s duties. Not applicable (“The members of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee are members of the Board of Directors. However, its members are considered independent members and do not therefore belong to the Executive Committee. In accordance with Articles 23 II.5.2 Members of the Remuneration Committee or equivalent shall be independent from the members of the Board Chapter II.2 and and 217 of the Spanish Companies Law, the of Directors and include at least one member with knowledge and experience in matters of remuneration policy. II.38 remuneration scheme for Directors should be fixed in the articles of association. It is normal practice in Spanish companies for this remuneration to be decided upon by the General Shareholders’ Meeting and for its allocation to the different members of the Board of Directors to be decided on by the Board itself.”). II.5.3 Any natural or legal person which provides or has provided, over the past three years, services to any structure subject to the Board of Directors, to the Board of Directors of the company or that has to do with Adopted Chapter II.39 the current consultant to the company shall not be recruited to assist the Remuneration Committee. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal person who has an employment contract or provides services. II.5.4 All the Committees shall draw up minutes of the meetings held. Adopted Chapter II.37 III. INFORMATION AND AUDITING III.1 General Disclosure Obligations III.1.1 Companies shall maintain permanent contact with the market thus upholding the principle of equality for shareholders and ensure that investors are able to access information in a uniform fashion. To this end, the Adopted Chapter III.16 company shall create an Investor Assistance Unit. III.1.2 The following information that is made available on the company’s Internet website shall be disclosed in the English language: a) The company, public company status, headquarters and remaining data provided for in Article 171 of the Portuguese Commercial Companies Code; b) Articles of Association; c) Credentials of the Members of the Board of Directors and the Market Liaison Officer; Adopted Chapter III.16 d) Investor Relations Office, its functions and contact information; e) Financial statements; f ) Half-yearly calendar of company events; g) Proposals submitted for discussion and voting at General Shareholders’ Meetings; h) Invitation to General Shareholders’ Meetings. III.1.3. Companies shall advocate the rotation of auditors after two or three terms in accordance with four or three years respectively. Their continuance beyond this period must be based on a specific opinion for the Supervisory Adopted Chapter III.18 Board to formally consider the conditions of auditor independence and the benefits and costs of replacement. III.1.4. The external auditor must, within its powers, verify the implementation of remuneration policies and Chapter II.3-C and systems, the efficiency and functioning of internal control mechanisms and report any shortcomings to the Adopted III.17 company’s Supervisory Board. III.1.5. The company shall not recruit the external auditor for services other than audit services, nor any entity with which same takes part or incorporates the same network. Where recruiting such services is called for, said services should not be greater than 30% of the value of services rendered to the company. The hiring of these Adopted Chapter III.17 services must be approved by the Supervisory Board and must be expounded in the Annual Corporate Governance Report. IV. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IV.1 Shareholder Relationship IV.1.1 Where deals are concluded between the company and shareholders with qualifying holdings, or entities with which same are linked in accordance with Article 20 of the Securities Code, such deals shall be carried out in Adopted Chapter III.12 normal market conditions. Adopted IV.1.2 Where deals of significant importance are undertaken with holders of qualifying holdings, or entities, with which same are linked in accordance with Article 20 of the Securities Code, such deals shall be subject to a (According to the Spanish law and the Chapter III.13 preliminary opinion from the Supervisory Board. The procedures and criteria required to define the relevant level governance structure, these functions were of significance of these deals and other conditions shall be established by the Supervisory Board. delegated by the Board of Directors to the Related-Party Transactions Committee) EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 95 : corporate governance : 0.3 GLOBAL ASSESSMENT OF THE ADOPTION OF CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS’ I. GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ During 2012, EDPR has continued its consolidation task as to the Company’s governance principles and practices This is in MEETING line with the principle regulatory developments that occurred in 2010, particularly the modifications to the Portuguese Companies I.1 MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL Code and the Portuguese Securities Code aimed at transposing SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING the so-called Shareholders’ Rights Directive, as well as the entry into force of CMVM Regulation no. 1/2010 and the CMVM The Members of the Board of the General Shareholders’ Meeting Recommendations on Listed Companies Governance in its version are the Chairperson of the General Shareholders’ Meeting, the published in January 2010. Chairperson of the Board of Directors or his substitute, the other Directors, and the Secretary of the Board of Directors. The high level of compliance with the best governance practices by EDPR was recognised by an independent study developed Apart from the Board of the General Shareholders’ Meeting and in 2012 by the Universidade Católica Portuguesa (Portuguese according to Recommendation I.1.1, the Chairperson of the General Catholic University) at the request of AEM – Associação de Shareholders’ Meeting of EDPR has the appropriate human and Empresas Emitentes de Valores Cotados em Mercado (Portuguese logistical resources for his needs. Therefore in addition to the Listed Companies Association), within which the Company was resources from the Company Secretary and the legal support given the maximum rating – AAA – based on the Company’s 2011 provided for that purpose, the Company hires a specialized entity Governance Report and compliance with the abovementioned to collect, process and count the votes. CMVM Recommendations. I.2 BEGINNING AND END OF THE TERM OF Also in order to comply with the Recommendation II.1.1.1 of the THE CHAIRPERSON AND THE SECRETARY Portuguese Corporate Governance Code, and according to the OF THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ results of the reflection made by the Audit and Control Committee MEETING regarding the terms of the Recommendation II.5.1 part ii), the governance model that was adopted has been ensuring an The Chairperson of the General Shareholders meeting was elected effective performance and articulation of EDPR Social Bodies and on June 4th, 2008 and re-elected on April 11th, 2011 for a three-year proved to be adequate to the company’s governance structure term. The Secretary of the General Shareholders meeting was without any constraints to the performance of its checks and nominated as Secretary of the Board on December 4th, 2007. The balances system adopted to justify the changes made in the Secretary of the Board mandate does not have a date for the end Governance practices of EDPR. of the term according to the Spanish Companies Law since he is a non-member of the Board. 0.4 ANALYSIS OF DEVIATIONS REGARDING CMVM RECOMMENDATIONS I.3 REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ The explanation of CMVM’s recommendations that EDPR does MEETING not adopt or that the Company deems not applicable, reasoning and other relevant comments as well as reference to the part In 2012, the remuneration of the Chairperson of the General of the report where the description may be found, are in the Shareholders’ Meeting of EDPR was EUR 15,000. previous table. I.4 PARTICIPATION IN THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING All shareholders, irrespective of the number of shares that they own, may attend a General Shareholders’ Meeting and take part in its deliberations with right to speak and vote. In order to exercise their right to attend, the company informs in its Summon and shareholders guide of the General Shareholders’ Meeting that the shareholders must have their shares registered in their name in the Book Entry Account at least five (5) working days in advance of the date of the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Any shareholder with the right to attend may send a representative to a General Shareholders’ Meeting, even if this person is not a shareholder. Power of attorney is revocable. The Board of Directors may require shareholders’ power of attorney to be in the Company’s possession at least two (2) days in advance, indicating the name of the representative. 96 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : Power of attorney shall be specific to each General Shareholders’ the date scheduled for the first calling to order of the General Meeting, in writing or by remote means of communication, Shareholders’ Meeting. such as post. Remote votes can be revoked subsequently by the same means I.5 SUSPENSION OF THE GENERAL used to cast them within the time limit established for the purpose SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING or by personal attendance at the General Shareholders’ Meeting by the shareholder who cast the vote or his/her representative. There is no express provision on this matter in the Articles of Association of the company. In the event of the suspension I.10 FORM USED FOR MAIL VOTING of a General Shareholders’ Meeting, EDPR plans to adopt Recommendation I.2.2 of the Portuguese Corporate Governance The Board of Directors approves a Shareholder’s Guide for the Code and not require the blocking of shares more than five days in first General Shareholders’ Meeting, detailing mail and electronic advance. communication voting forms among other matters. It is at the shareholder’s disposal at www.edprenovaveis.com. I.6 VOTING RIGHTS I.11 DEADLINE TO RECEIVE THE BALLOT FOR Each share entitles its holder to one vote. THE MAIL VOTING I.7 RESTRICTIONS TO VOTING RIGHTS Votes by mail shall be sent in writing to the place indicated on the summon of the meeting, accompanied by the documentation EDPR’s Articles of Association have no restrictions regarding indicated in the Shareholder’s Guide. Pursuant to the terms of voting rights. article 15 of the Articles of Association, mail-in votes must be received by the Company before midnight on the day before the I.8 EXERCISE OF VOTING RIGHTS AND scheduled meeting date on first call. QUORUM FOR CONSTITUTING AND ADOPTING THE DECISIONS OF THE I.12 ELECTRONIC VOTING GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING In order to vote by electronic communication, shareholders Regarding the exercise of voting rights the information is available must express this intention to the Chairperson of the General on chapter I.4. Shareholders’ Meeting in the form indicated in the invitation to the meeting, with sufficient time in advance to permit the vote According to EDPR’s Articles of Association and as established on within the established time limit. The shareholders will receive the law, both ordinary and extraordinary General Shareholders’ a password for voting by electronic communication within the Meetings are validly constituted when first called if the time limit and in the form established in the call of the General Shareholders, either present or represented by proxy, represent at Shareholders’ Meeting. Pursuant to the terms of article 15 of the least twenty five percent (25%) of the subscribed voting capital. On Articles of Association, electronic votes must be received by the the second call, the General Shareholders’ Meeting will be validly Company before midnight of the day before the scheduled meeting constituted regardless of the amount of the capital present in date on first call. order to comply with the minimum established under the Spanish Companies Law. I.13 MINUTES AND INFORMATION ON DECISIONS OF THE GENERAL Nonetheless, to validly approve the issuance of bonds, the increase SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING or reduction of capital, the transformation, merger or spin-off of the Company, and in general any necessary amendment Given that EDPR is a listed company on Eurolist by NYSE Euronext to the Articles of Association, the Ordinary or Extraordinary Lisbon, shareholders have access to corporate governance Shareholders’ Meeting will need: on the first call, that the information at EDPR’s website, www.edprenovaveis.com. Extracts Shareholders, either present or represented by proxy, represent of General Shareholders’ Meeting minutes and the invitation, at least fifty percent (50%) subscribed voting capital and, on the agenda, motions submitted to the General Shareholders’ Meeting, second call, that the Shareholders, either present or represented and forms of participation shall be placed at the shareholder’s by proxy, represent at least twenty five percent (25%) of the disposal five (5) days after they are held. subscribed voting capital. In the event the shareholders attending represent less than fifty percent (50%) of the subscribed voting Given the personal nature of the information involved, the record capital, the resolutions will only be validly adopted with the does not include the attendance lists at general Shareholders’ favourable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the present or represented Meetings. However, in accordance with CMVM Circular nr. 156/ capital in the General Shareholders’ Meeting. EMIT/DMEI/2009/515, when General Shareholders’ Meetings are held, EDPR plans to replace them by statistical information I.9 MAIL AND ELECTRONIC indicating the number of shareholders present and represented. COMMUNICATION VOTES EDPR therefore publishes on its website an extract of the Shareholders may vote on chapters on the agenda, relating minutes of General Shareholders’ Meetings with all information to any matters of the Shareholder’s competence, by mail or on the constitution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting and electronic communication. It is essential for their validity that decisions taken on the meeting, including motions submitted and they be received by the company by midnight of the day before explanations of votes, if any. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 97 : corporate governance : The website also provides EDPR shareholders with information I.17 INTERVENTION OF THE GENERAL on: i) requirements for participating in the General Shareholders’ SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING REGARDING Meeting, ii) mail and electronic communication votes iii) SHARES AND/OR STOCK OPTION PLANS information available at the registered office. EDPR has not incorporated any share remuneration or share GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING IN 2012 purchase option plans for the members of the governing bodies. On April 12th 2012, the Ordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting of I.18 INTERVENTION OF THE GENERAL EDPR took place in Madrid. SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING IN THE APPROVAL OF THE RETIREMENT BENEFIT The Meeting’s validity was ascertained by the meeting’s President, SYSTEMS and the definitive quorum of members was: The General Shareholders’ Meeting has mentioned on chapter I.16 • 154 shareholders were present, holding 25,999,436 shares approval on the statement on the remuneration policy, in which it making up for 2.98% of the share capital, and is also included the approval of the retirement benefits systems applicable to the officers included in this system. • 344 shareholders were represented, holding 737,817,447 shares making up for 84.58% of the share capital. I.19 STATUTORY RULE FOR THE LIMITATION OF THE NUMBER OF VOTES A total of 498 shareholders attended the General Shareholders’ Meeting, including those present and those represented, holding EDPR’s Articles of Association does not provide any limitation of a total of 763,816,883 shares which constitutes a nominal amount the number of votes. of EUR 3,819,084,415.00 of the share capital, that is, 87.56% of the mentioned share capital. I.20 DEFENSIVE MEASURES The seven proposals submitted to approval at the General The Company has taken no defensive measures that might Shareholders’ Meeting were all approved. Extracts of the 2012 affect its assets in any of the cases of a change in control in its General Shareholders’ Meeting minutes, the summon, agenda, shareholder structure or the Board of Directors. motions submitted to the General Shareholders’ Meeting and forms of participation are available on the company’s website, The Articles of Association contain no limitations on the www.edprenovaveis.com. transferability of shares or voting rights in any type of decision and no limitations on membership of the governing bodies of EDPR. I.14 RECORD OF THE DECISIONS TAKEN BY Neither are there any decisions that come into effect as a result of THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING a takeover bid. EDPR’s website, www.edprenovaveis.com, contains all the The fact that the Company has not adopted any measures information regarding the company’s General Shareholders’ designed to prevent successful takeover bids is therefore in line meetings of the last three years. with Recommendation I.6.1 of the Portuguese Code of Corporate Governance. I.15 ATTENDANCE AT THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF A I.21 CHANGE OF THE CONTROL OF THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE NOMINATIONS COMPANY AND REMUNERATIONS COMMITTEE EDPR has not entered into any agreements subject to the condition At least one of the members of the Nominations and of a change in control of the Company, other than in accordance Remunerations Committee was present or represented at the with normal practice in case of financing of certain wind farm General Shareholders’ Meeting of EDPR. projects by some of its group companies and on the case of intragroup agreements. I.16 INTERVENTION OF THE GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING REGARDING THE I.22 AGREEMENTS WITH BOARD MEMBERS REMUNERATION POLICY OR SENIOR MANAGERS The General Shareholders’ Meeting is responsible for approving There are no agreements between the Company and members of the statement on remuneration policy for the Company’s corporate its Board of Directors or managers providing for compensation in bodies submitted by the Nominations and Remunerations the event of resignation of discharge of Directors or in the event Committee through the Board of Directors. of resignation or dismissal without just cause or cessation of the working relationship following a change in control of the Company. Pursuant to Article 164 of the Spanish Companies Law, the General Shareholders’ Meeting evaluates the performance of the company’s management and makes an annual decision on whether to maintain confidence, or not, in their members. 98 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : II. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES SECTION I: GENERAL CHAPTERS II.1 IDENTIFICATION AND COMPOSITION OF THE GOVERNING BODIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS Pursuant to Articles 20 and 21 of the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall consist of no less than five (5) and no more than seventeen (17) Directors. Their term of office shall be of three (3) years, and they may be re-elected once or more times for equal periods. The number of Board Members was fixed in seventeen (17) members according to the decision of the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on June 21st, 2011. Date of first Name Position Date of Re-election End of Term Appointment António Mexia Chairperson and Director 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Manso Neto Vice-Chairperson, CEO 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Until the next João Marques da Cruz Director 16/05/2012 Shareholder’s meeting Nuno Alves Director 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Gabriel Alonso Director 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Paulo Costeira Director 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Rui Teixeira Director 11/04/2011 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Gilles August Director (Independent) 14/04/2009 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Lopes Raimundo Director (Independent) 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Manuel de Mello Franco Director (Independent) 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Jorge Santos Director (Independent) 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 José Araújo e Silva Director (Independent) 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Rafael Caldeira Valverde Director (Independent) 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 On 2012, Mrs. Ana Maria Fernandes, Mr. António Nogueira Leite, The above table reflects the composition of the Board of Directors Mr. Francisco Queiroz de Barros de Lacerda, and Mr. Luis Adão as of December 31st, 2012. However, pursuant to the Nominations da Fonseca resigned as Board members. On February 28th, 2012, and Remunerations Committee proposal dated February 22nd, Mr. João Manso Neto was elected Vice-Chairperson of the Board of 2013, three (3) new independent Directors are appointed by Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Also, on May cooptation by the Board of Director’s meeting on February 2012, Mr. João Marques da Cruz was nominated by co-optation as 26th, 2013. Additionally, in such meeting, the Board of Directors Member of the Board until the first General Shareholders’ Meeting is summons a General Shareholders’ Meeting which includes, in its gathered. The co-option proposal was made according to Article 23, agenda, the ratification of such appointments. nº 2, of EDPR’s Articles of Association. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 99 : corporate governance : EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE II.2 SPECIAL COMMITTEES FOR MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY Pursuant to Article 27 of the Company’s Articles of Association, MATTERS the Executive Committee shall consist of no less than six (6) and no more than nine (9) Directors. On the Board of Directors of April NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS 12th, 2012, the number of members of the Executive Committee COMMITTEE was fixed in six (6). Pursuant to Article 29 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Its constitution, the nomination of its members and the extension the Nominations and Remunerations Committee shall consist of no of the powers delegated must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of less than three (3) and no more than six (6) members. At least one the members of the Board of Directors. of its members must be independent and shall be the Chairperson of the committee. The Executive Committee consists of six (6) members, plus the Secretary. The current members are: The members of the committee shall not be members of the Executive Committee. The Nominations and Remunerations • João Manuel Manso Neto, who is the current Chairperson Committee is constituted by independent members of the Board of pursuant to his appointment by the Board of Directors of Directors, in compliance with Recommendation 44 of the Unified April 12th, 2012, following Mr. António Mexia resignation as Code of Good Governance approved by decision of the Board of Chairperson and member of the Executive Committee. the Spanish Securities Commission (hereinafter the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores CNMV), as amended by CNMV • Gabriel Alonso Imaz. Circular 4/2007 of December 27th, which lays down that the Nominations and Remunerations Committee must be entirely made • João Paulo Nogueira de Sousa Costeira. up of external Directors numbering no fewer than three (3). As it is made up of independent Directors (in Spain the committee • Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves. may only be comprised of Directors), it complies to the extent possible with the recommendation indicated in chapter II.5.2 of the • Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira. Portuguese Code of Corporate Governance. Additionally, Mr. Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the Secretary of The Nominations and Remunerations Committee consists of three the Executive Committee. (3) independent members, plus the Secretary. Mr. Luis Adão da Fonseca resigned as member of the Executive The current members are: Committee on September 21st, 2012, as a consequence of his resignation as member of the Board of Directors. Due to his • Jorge Santos, who is the Chairperson. resignation, the Board of Directors proposes for the next General Shareholders’ Meeting to reduce the number of members of the • Rafael Caldeira Valverde. Executive Committee to a minimum of four (4) members and a maximum of seven (7), and it will be fixed in five (5) members by Given the resignation of Mr. Francisco José Queiroz de Barros the Board of Directors. de Lacerda as member of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee as a consequence of his resignation as member of the AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE Board of Directors on August 24th, 2012, the Board of Directors appoints on its meeting of February 26th 2013 a new member for Pursuant to Article 28 of the Company’s Articles of Association, this Committee. the Audit and Control Committee consists of no less than three (3) and no more than five (5) members. Additionally, Mr. Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the Secretary of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee. The Audit and Control committee consists of three (3) independent members, plus the Secretary. The current members are: None of the committee members are spouses or up to third-degree relatives in direct line of the other members of the Board of • João Manuel de Mello Franco, who is the Chairperson. Directors. • João Lopes Raimundo. The committee members shall maintain their positions for as long as they are Company Directors. Nonetheless, the Board may • Jorge Santos. decide to discharge members of the committee at any time and the members may resign said positions while still remaining Company Additionally, Mr. Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the Secretary of Directors. the Audit and Control Committee. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE Pursuant to Article 30 of the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors may set up other committees, such as the Related Party Transactions Committee. This committee shall consist of no fewer than three (3) members. The majority of the members of the Related Party Transactions Committee shall be independent, 100 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : although in the case of this committee it has one non-independent decision, of which the General Shareholders’ Meeting must be member, Mr. Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves. informed at the end of the time limit or limits for performing it. Members of the Related Party Transactions Committee shall According to Article 146 of the Spanish Companies Law, the Board be considered independent if they can perform their duties of Directors was authorized by the General Shareholders’ Meeting without being conditioned by relations with EDPR, its majority to acquire its own shares issued by the parent company and/or the shareholders or its Directors and, if this is the case, meet the other affiliate companies through their management bodies for a term of requirements of the applicable legislation. five years since the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 13th, 2010. The terms for this acquisition are available to the public The Related Party Transactions committee consists of three (3) at the company’s website, www.edprenovaveis.com. independent members, plus the Secretary. FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The current members are: In addition to the Articles of Association and the law, the Board • João Manuel de Mello Franco. of Directors is governed by its regulations approved on May 3 rd, 2008. • Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves. The Board of Directors must meet at least four (4) times a year, Given the resignation of Mr. António do Pranto Nogueira Leite preferably once a quarter. Nonetheless, the Chairperson, on his as member of the Related Party Transactions Committee as own initiative or that of three (3) Directors, may convene a Board a consequence of his resignation as member of the Board of meeting whenever he deems it necessary for the Company’s Directors on April 18th, 2012, the Board of Directors appoints on its interests. Meetings are convened by the Chairperson, who may meeting of February 26th 2013 a new member for this Committee. order the Secretary to send the invitations. Invitations shall be sent at least five (5) days prior to the date of the meeting. Only when Additionally, Mr. Emilio García-Conde Noriega is the Secretary of the circumstances so require, the Chairperson may call a meeting the Related Party Transactions Committee. of the Board without respecting the required advance notice. The committee members shall maintain their positions for as The meetings of the Board are valid if half of the Directors plus one long as they are Company Directors. Nonetheless, the Board may are present or represented. Directors shall attend Board meetings decide to discharge members of the committee at any time and the personally and, on exception, if they are unable to do so, they members may resign said positions while still remaining Company may delegate their representation through a written Declaration Directors. to another Director. Without prejudice to the above, the Board of Directors shall be deemed to have been validly convened, with no II.3 ALLOCATION OF POWERS AMONG THE need for an invitation, if all the Directors present or represented GOVERNING BODIES, COMMITTEES, AND/ agree unanimously to hold the meeting as universal and accept the OR DEPARTMENTS OF THE COMPANY agenda to be dealt with at it. A. MANAGEMENT BODIES Decisions are adopted by absolute majority among those present. Each Director present or represented has one vote and the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairperson has the casting vote in the event of a tie. Pursuant to Article 19 of the Company’s Articles of Association, the In order for the non-executive Directors to be able to decide Board of Directors has the broadest powers for the administration, independently and be informed, Articles 22, 24, and 25 of the management, and governance of the Company, with no limitations Board regulations establishes the following mechanisms: other than the responsibilities expressly and exclusively invested in the General Shareholders’ Meeting in the Company’s Articles of • Invitations to meetings shall include the agenda, although Association or in the applicable law. provisional, of the meeting and be accompanied by relevant available information or documentation; Regarding the decisions to increase the share capital, the Board of Directors does not have this power but, subject to prior delegation • The Directors have the broadest powers to obtain information from the General Shareholders’ Meeting, would be able to decide on any aspect of the Company, to examine its books, records, the increase of the share capital. This delegation must comply with documents, and other registers of the Company’s operations. In the law and the By-Laws. order to prevent distortions in the Company management, the exercise of the powers to obtain information shall be channeled On the other hand, the General Shareholders’ Meeting may through the Chairperson or Secretary of the Board of Directors; also delegate to the Board of Directors the power to implement an adopted decision to increase the share capital, indicating • Any Director may request the hiring, on the Company’s account, the date or dates of its implementation and establishing any of legal advisers, accountants, financial, or commercial other conditions that have not been specified by the General specialists or other experts. The performance of the job must Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors may use this necessarily relate to concrete problems of a certain importance delegation wholly or in part and may also decide not to perform it and complexity. Requests to hire experts shall be channeled in consideration to the conditions of the Company, the market, or through the Chairperson or Secretary of the Board of Directors, any particularly relevant events or circumstances that justify said who shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Directors. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 101 : corporate governance : Additionally, the Executive Committee informs the Board of B. POWERS OF THE CHAIRPERSON AND VICEDirectors of its decisions at the first Board meeting held after each CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, committee meeting and delivers the minutes of the meetings held OF THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE EXECUTIVE to the members of the Board. COMMITTEE, AND THE SECRETARY OF THE BOARD of directors EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Chairperson of the Board of Directors The Executive Committee is a permanent body to which all the António Mexia competences of the Board of Directors that are delegable under the law and the Articles of Association can be delegated, with the exception of the following: The Chairperson of the Board of Directors is the Chairperson of the Company and fully represents it. • Election of the Chairperson of the Board of Directors; Without prejudice to the powers of the Chairperson under the law • Nomination of Directors by cooption; and Articles of Association, he also has the following powers: • Requests to convene or convening of General Shareholders’ • Convening and presiding over the meetings of the Board of Meetings; Directors, establishing their agenda, and directing discussions and decisions; • Preparation and drafting of the Annual Management Report and Accounts and submission to the General Shareholders’ Meeting; • Acting as the Company’s highest representative dealing with public bodies and any sectorial or employees bodies. • Change of registered office; The Chairperson of the Board is nominated by the members • Drafting and approval of the proposal for mergers, spin-off, or of the Board of Directors, unless this is done by the General transformation of the company. Shareholders’ Meeting. The current Chairperson was elected on March 18th, 2008 and re-elected on June 21st, 2011 by the Board of The Executive Committee members have been delegated by the Directors. Board of Directors with all the powers of representation of the Company so that any two of its members can act jointly in the Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors name and on behalf of the Company. João Manso Neto FUNCTIONING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Vice-Chairperson replaces the Chairperson when he is unable In addition to the Articles of Association, this committee is also to attend the meetings. The Board may also delegate executive governed by its regulations approved on June 4th, 2008 and also powers to the Vice-Chairperson. by the Board of Directors Regulations. The committee regulations are available to the public at www.edprenovaveis.com. The Vice-Chairperson is nominated by the Board of Directors by proposal of the Chairperson. The current Vice-Chairperson was The Executive Committee shall meet at least once a month and elected on February 28th, 2012. whenever is deemed appropriate by its Chairperson, who may also suspend or postpone meetings when he sees fit. The Executive Chief Executive Officer Committee shall also meet when requested by at least two (2) of João Manso Neto its members. The Chairperson of the Executive Committee, who is currently also The Board of Directors may nominate one or more Chief Executive the Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors, shall send to the Officers. Chief Executive Officers are nominated by proposal of Chairperson of the Audit and Control Committee invitations to the the Chairperson or two-thirds of the Directors. Chief Executive Executive Committee meetings and the minutes of those meetings. Officers are nominated with a vote in favour of two-thirds of the The Chairperson of the Board of Directors also receives the Directors and must be chosen from among the Directors. minutes of the meetings of the Executive Committee. The competences of each Chief Executive Officer are those Meetings of the Executive Committee are valid if half of its deemed appropriate in each case by the Board of Directors, with members plus one are present or represented. Decisions shall be the only requirement being that they are delegable under the law adopted by simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairperson and the Articles of Association. shall have the casting vote. The Chief Executive Officer was elected on February 28th, 2012 Executive Directors shall provide any clarifications needed by the with the competences including coordination of the implementation other Directors or corporate bodies whenever requested to do so. of Board of Directors and Executive Committee decisions, representing the company in dealings with third parties, and other related duties. 102 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : Company Secretary Emilio García-Conde Noriega The duties of the Company Secretary are those set forth in current laws, the Articles of Association and Board of Directors Regulations. In particular, in accordance with the Board of Directors Regulations and in addition to those set forth in the Articles of Association, his competences are: • Assisting the Chairperson in his duties; • Ensuring the smooth operation of the Board, assisting and informing it and its members; • Safeguarding company documents; • Describing in the minutes books the proceedings of Board meetings and bearing witness to its decisions; • Ensuring at all times the formal and material legality of the Board of Directos actions so that they comply with the Articles of Association and Board Regulations; • Monitoring and guaranteeing compliance with provisions imposed by regulatory bodies and consideration of their recommendations; • Acting as secretary to the committees. The Company Secretary, who is also the General Secretary and Head of the Legal Department at EDPR, was nominated on December 4th, 2007. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 103 : corporate governance : MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Executive Committe Corporate and Management Areas • Human Resources • Communication João Manso Neto • Regulation & Markets CEO • Global Risk Strategy • Business Initiatives • Corp. Applications & Processes • Technical • Legal Emilio García‑Conde Noriega • Lean General Secretary and • Renewable Energy School General Counsel Nuno Alves Rui Teixeira João Paulo Costeira Gabriel Alonso CFO COO EU COO NA • Financial Management • EDPR Europe • EDPR North America Corporate and • Consolidation, IFRS • EDPR Brasil Management Areas Report and Tax • Financial Planning and Control • Investor Relations & Sustainability • Procurement* • Investment Analysis & M&A * Delegated by the ceo C. SUPERVISORY BODIES AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE Pursuant to Article 28 of the Articles of Association, the members • Proposing the nomination of the Company’s auditors to the of the Audit and Control Committee are nominated by the Board Board of Directors for subsequent approval by the General of Directors. The term of office of the Chairperson of the Audit Shareholders’ Meeting, as well as the contractual conditions, and Control Committee is three (3) years, after which he may scope of the work – specially concerning audit services, only be re-elected for a new term of three (3) years. Nonetheless, “audit related” and “non audit” – annual activity evaluation and chairpersons leaving the committee may continue as members of revocation or renovation of the auditor nomination (to comply the Audit and Control Committee. with Recommendation III.1.5 of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code of 2010); The powers of the Audit and Control Committee are as follows: • Supervising the finance reporting and the functioning • Reporting, through the Chairperson, at General Shareholders’ of the internal risk management and control systems, as Meetings on questions falling under its jurisdiction; well as, evaluate those systems and propose the adequate adjustments according to the Company necessities (to comply 104 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : with Recommendation II.1.1.3 of the Portuguese Corporate As such, the Nominations and Remunerations Committee has no Governance Code of 2010); executive functions. The main functions of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee are to assist and report to the Board of • Supervising internal audits and compliance (to comply with Directors about nominations (including by co-option), re-elections, Recommendation II.4.6 of the Portuguese Corporate Governance dismissals, and the remuneration of the Board members and Code of 2010); its position about the composition of the Board of Directors , as well as the nominations, remuneration, and dismissal of senior • Establish a permanent contact with the external auditors to management personnel. The Nominations and Remunerations assure the conditions, including the independence, adequate to Committee shall also inform the Board of Directors on general the services provided by them, acting as the Company speaker remuneration policy and incentives to them and the senior for these subjects related to the auditing process, and receiving management. These functions include the following: and maintaining information on any other questions regarding accounting subjects (to comply with Recommendation II.4.4 of • Defining the standards and principles governing the composition the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code of 2010); of the Board of Directors and the selection and nominations of its members; • Preparing an annual report on its supervisory activities, including eventual constraints, and expressing an opinion on the • Proposing the nominations and re-election of Directors in Management Report, the Accounts and the proposals presented cases of nominations by co-option and in other cases for the by the Board of Directors (to comply with Recommendation II.4.3 submission to the General Shareholders’ Meeting by the Board of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code of 2010); of Directors; • Receiving notices of financial and accounting irregularities • Proposing to the Board of Directors the candidates for the presented by the Company’s employees, shareholders, or entity different committees; that has a direct interest and judicially protected, related with the Company social activity (to comply with Recommendation • Proposing to the Board, within the limits established in the II.1.4.1 of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code of 2010); Articles of Association, the remuneration system, distribution method, and amounts payable to the Directors; • Engaging the services of experts to collaborate with Committee members in the performance of their functions. When • Making proposals to the Board of Directors on the conditions of engaging the services of such experts and determining their the contracts signed with Directors; remuneration, the importance of the matters entrusted to them and the economic situation of the company must be taken • Informing and making proposals to the Board of Directors into account; regarding the nominations and/or removal of executives and the conditions of their contracts and generally defining the hiring • Drafting reports at the request of the Board and its committees; and remuneration policies of executive staff; • Reflecting on the governance system adopted by EDPR in order • Reviewing and reporting on incentive plans, pension plans, and to identify areas for improvement; compensation packages; • Any other powers entrusted to it by the Board of Directors or • Any other functions assigned to it in the Articles of Association the Articles of Association. or by the Board of Directors. FUNCTIONING OF THE AUDIT AND CONTROL COMMITTEE FUNCTIONING OF THE NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS COMMITTEE In addition to the Articles of Association and the law, this committee is governed by its regulations approved on June In addition to the Articles of Association, the Nominations 4th, 2008, amended on May 4th, 2010 and also by the Board of and Remunerations Committee is governed by its Regulations Directors regulations. approved on June 4th, 2008 and also by the Board regulations. The committee’s regulations are available at www.edprenovaveis.com. The committee shall meet at least once a quarter and additionally whenever its Chairperson sees fit. This committee shall meet at least once every quarter and also whenever its Chairperson sees fit. This committee shall draft Decisions shall be adopted by simple majority. The Chairperson minutes of every meeting held and inform the Board of Directors of shall have the casting vote in the event of a tie. its decisions at the first Board meeting held after each committee meeting. Decisions shall be adopted by simple majority. The D. OTHER COMMITTEES AND SUPPORTING Chairperson shall have the deciding vote in the event of a tie. STRUCTURES RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS COMMITTEE The Related Party Transactions Committee is a permanent body The Nominations and Remunerations Committee is a permanent belonging to the Board of Directors that performs the following body belonging to the Board of Directors with an informative duties, without prejudice, to others that the Board may assign to it: and advisory nature and its recommendations and reports are not binding. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 105 : corporate governance : • Periodically reporting to the Board of Directors on the II.4 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE ACTIVITY commercial and legal relations between EDPR or related entities CARRIED OUT BY THE AUDIT AND CONTROL and EDP or related entities; COMMITTEE • In connection with the approval of the Company’s annual results, The annual report on the activities of the Audit and Control reporting on the commercial and legal relations between the Committee for the 2012 financial year is available to Shareholders EDPR Group and the EDP Group and the transactions between on the Company’s website, together with the financial statements, in related entities during the fiscal year in question; compliance with CMVM Recommendations II.4.2 and II.4.3. The Audit and Control Committee found no constraints in performing its duties. • Ratifying transactions between EDPR and/or related entities with EDP and/or related entities by the stipulated deadline in II.5 INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK each case, provided that the value of the transaction exceeds MANAGEMENT EUR 5,000,000 or represents 0.3% of the consolidated annual income of the EDPR Group for the fiscal year before; A. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING • Ratifying any modification of the Framework Agreement signed by EDPR and EDP on May 7th, 2008; General Description • Making recommendations to the Board of Directors of the EDPR has an Internal Control System over Financial Reporting Company or its Executive Committee regarding the transactions (SCIRF) updated and monitored in line with international standards between EDPR and related entities with EDP and related entities; of internal control. • Asking EDP for access to the information needed to perform its This system covers the main aspects of COSO (Committee duties. of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission): maintaining a control environment for the preparation of qualified Should the Related-Party Transactions Committee not ratify financial information, assessment of the risks of financial reporting, transactions or legal relations between EDPR or its related parties existence of control activities to mitigate risks of error, information, and EDP and its related parties, said relations shall require the and communication and evaluation mechanisms. approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Board of Directors, whenever at least half of the members proposed by EDPR, in order to implement and maintain the SCIRF in operational entities other than EDP, including independent Directors, vote in terms, has developed a Responsibilities Model and a SCIRF Manual. favour, unless before submission for ratification by the Related Party Transactions Committee, this majority of members has The Responsibilities Model includes the functions and main activities voiced its approval. in the management and maintenance of the system at all levels of the organization including: monitoring activities related to the The previous paragraphs shall not apply to operations between annual cycle, the implementation of controls, and documentation of EDPR or its related parties and EDP or its related parties that have evidence and supervision activities. standard conditions and these conditions are applied in the same way in transactions with parties not related to EDPR and EDP or EDPR has also a SCIRF Manual where the general principles of the their respective related parties. Internal Control System over Financial Reporting are established, as well as the methodology used, the procedures for ensuring FUNCTIONING OF THE RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS the effectiveness of internal control, and design of models, COMMITTEE documentation, evaluation, and reporting. In addition to the Articles of Association, the Related-Party Code of Ethics and Ethics Channel Transactions Committee is governed by its regulations approved on June 4th, 2008 and by the Board of Directors Regulations. The EDPR has a Code of Ethics published on its intranet, which includes committee’s regulations are available at www.edprenovaveis.com. principles like transparency, honesty, integrity, non-discrimination, equal opportunity, and sustainability. The committee shall meet at least once a quarter and additionally whenever its Chairperson sees fit. The Code of Ethics has been widely circulated among employees of the Group through internal communications mechanisms, individual This committee shall draft minutes of every meeting held and shipments, delivery to new employees, and intranet publishing. inform the Board of Directors of decisions that it makes at the first Board meeting held after each committee meeting. There is a strong commitment by the Company in relation to the dissemination and promotion of compliance with the Code available Decisions shall be adopted by simple majority. The Chairperson to all employees through training, questionnaires, and open shall have the casting vote in the event of a tie. discussions of the findings. There is also an Ethics Channel and Ethics Regulation to articulate any specific claims of the Code of Ethics and to resolve doubts on all matters relating to the Code of Ethics. 106 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : Communications regarding possible breaches of the Code of Ethics EDPR has descriptions of Competency Profiles for the Positions to are sent to the Ethics Ombudsman, which performs a first analysis, be carried out in the exercise of the main features of each position forwarding its conclusion to the Ethics Committee of EDPR, which that includes a description of their main responsibilities. These receives, records, processes, and reports to the Board of Directors. include the descriptions of the key positions of those involved in the preparation of financial information. These descriptions include In 2012 there were no communications to the Ethics Ombudsmen responsibilities in the preparation of financial information and regarding any irregularity at EDPR. compliance with internal control procedures. Communication Channel to the Audit and Control Committee The documentation of processes and associated controls designed include among others, the completion of closure activities by In addition to the Code of Ethics and the Ethics Channel, EDPR has completing monthly closing checklists by entity, setting time implemented a Communication Channel to the Audit and Control limits for the closures, the identification of the relevance of Committee that allows direct communication with the Audit and the operations in order to be reviewed at the appropriate level, Control Committee of any inappropriate practices in accounting conducting analytical reviews of financial information, the existence and finance. of limitations in systems to prevent erroneous records or by unauthorized people, analysis of deviations from the budget, the The operation of this Communication Channel is regulated by the analysis in the meetings of the Executive Committee of relevant Regulation on procedures to be adopted in communication matters and significant facts that could cause a significant impact on the to the Audit and Control Committee. Submissions can be made by accounts, or the allocation of responsibilities for calculating amounts email or letter, being handled by the Secretary of the Audit and to be provisioned for them to be carried out by authorized personnel Control Committee. To ensure confidentiality, access to information with the right skills. submitted is restricted and limited. In addition to the mentioned processes, major transactional Scope Revision and Update processes resulting from the scope are documented. The description of the activities and controls are designed with the aim The SCIRF Manual includes the annual update of the scope that aims of ensuring the registration, evaluation, appropriate presentation, to identify companies, areas, and processes that must be included and disclosure of transactions in financial reporting. in the scope of SCIRF, according to criteria of materiality and risk, including the risk of error or fraud. Control activities of EDPR’s SCIRF also include those relating to systems and information technology (Computer General Controls) The risk analysis included in the scoping process for SCIRF, following an international reference, the COBIT framework includes different types of risk (operational, economic, financial, (Control Objectives for Information and related Technologies). The technological, or legal) and control objectives of financial reporting importance of this area is that the information systems are the (existence and occurrence, completeness, measurement, tools with which financial information is prepared, and is therefore, presentation, disclosure, comparability, and rights, and obligations in relevant for transactions conducted with them. terms of their potential impact on the financial statements). These control activities include those related to access control to The results of the updated scope with the methodology outlined are applications and systems, segregation of duties, management of communicated at all levels of the organization involved in the SCIRF corrective and evolutive maintenance, new projects implementation, and supervised by the Audit and Control Committee. administration and management of the systems, facilities and operations (back-ups, security incidents), and their proper Preparation, review and approval of financial information monitoring and planning. These activities are developed taking into account the requirements of control and supervision. In documented SCIRF processes and controls, information capture mechanisms are established (including identification of the scope Among the activities of SCIRF’s scope update, there is a periodic of consolidation). The steps and controls that are carried out for analysis of the existence of service providers that perform relevant the preparation of the financial information that will be part of activities in relation to the processes of preparing financial consolidated financial statements are specified. information. The procedures for review and approval of financial information Evaluation of the efficiency of SCIRF are provided by the areas of Planning and Control, Administration, and Finance. Financial information is monitored in the scope of EDPR Group decided to have its SCIRF audited by the external its competences by the Audit and Control Committee, prior to the auditor as of December 31st, 2012. The external auditor has included formulation of the accounts by the Board of Directors. in the scope of their audit work, an opinion on the SCIRF of the EDPR Group, specific jobs regarding EDPR’s SCIRF. The SCIRF includes control activities related to these processes, embodied in Entity Level Controls, Process Controls, and B. RISK MANAGEMENT General Computer Controls. These processes include review and approval activities of the financial information which are EDPR’s risk framework was designed to not be a stand-alone described in the processes of elaboration of individual accounts, activity separated from the main activities and processes of the preparation of consolidated accounts, and processing of company, but to be part of the responsibilities of management as consolidated financial statements. an integrating element of all organizational processes, including strategic planning. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 107 : corporate governance : RISK FRAMEWORK AND PROCESS EDPR has an Internal Audit Department that reports to the President of the Board of Directors and is overseen by the Audit and Control In EDPR’s risk framework, risk process aims to link the Committee as provided in the Basic Internal Audit Act. company’s overall strategy to manager’s day-to-day decisions, enabling the company to increase the likelihood of achieving its The main functions of the Internal Audit Department are set out strategic objectives. in the Basic Internal Audit Act which includes, among others, the evaluation activities of internal control systems including the internal EDPR’s general strategy is translated into major strategic questions control system over financial reporting. that are grouped by risk area and then subject to EDPR’s risk process. The outcome of the risk process is a set of specific The annual work plans of the Internal Audit Department are subject guidelines per risk area that will guide managers in their decisions to the approval of the Audit and Control Committee. according to the company’s risk profile. Among these activities, Internal Audit supports the Audit and Control Committee in monitoring the implementation and maintenance of RISK COMMITTEE SCIRF and reports the results of the evaluation, the improvement EDPR’s general 1 Risk profiler actions identified, and their evolution. strategy Discussion Major Identification & of mitigation The entity has action plans for the improvement actions identified strategic Measure of risks questions strategies in SCIRF’s assessment processes, which are accompanied and supervised by the Internal Audit Department, considering their Risk impact on the financial information. process Core risk process Also in the year 2012, as in previous years, a process of selfSpecific certification was made by the heads of the various process owners guidelines Implementation regarding proper documentation update on SCIRF controls and Risk reporting & Control of mitigation processes in their area of responsibility and the implementation of Day-to-day strategies decisions controls with corresponding evidence. 3 Risk controllers 2 Risk managers Performance evaluation of SCIRF and relevance to the needs of society The auditor may communicate relevant issues arising from its II.6 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MANAGEMENT financial audit work and any single internal control weaknesses AND SUPERVISORY BODIES ON identified in the course of their work. For this purpose, the auditor THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK has summoned meetings with the Audit and Control Committee MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS accompanying the results of their work usually once a year. A. INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS The reporting mechanism of the Internal Audit Department to senior management and the Audit and Control Committee is specified in General Description the Basic Internal Audit Act, including the reporting of the results of their work. The administration, governance, and management of the company lies in the governing bodies of the Company (General Shareholders’ B. RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Meeting, Board of Directors, and Executive Committee) and corresponds to the Board of Directors to establish the organization RISK FUNCTIONS AND RISK COMMITTEE of the Company. Risk management in EDPR is supported by three distinct The Board of Directors sets limits regarding the allocation of powers organizational functions: of the Executive Committee, the CEO, and the Audit and Control Committee. It is also defined by the Board of Directors the guide Risk functions Description lines to conduct transactions with third parties. Responsible for setting guidelines and limits for risk management within the company EDPR’s Articles of Association in its Article 28 mentions that 1 Strategy/ General risk Profile policy & strategy Attempts to clarify and support proposals the Audit and Control Committee has, among other powers, the related to general strategic issues obligation to meet the internal control systems of the Company. The Audit and Control Committee supervises the SCIRF in the Risk management Responsible for day to day operational 2 Management & risk business decisions and for related risk – taking, risk scope of the exercise of their activities through the monitoring decisions – mitigating positions and supervision of the developed mechanisms for SCIRF’s implementation, evolution and evaluation, and the results of the scope analysis and the extent of the situation in terms of coverage. Responsible for follow up of the results of risk taking decisions and for contrasting 3 Controlling Risk control For this purpose, the Audit and Control Committee is assisted by the alignment of operations with general risk policy approved by the executive committee Internal Audit Department. 108 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : EDPR’s risk framework was designed to not be a stand-alone 6. Operations Projects may deliver a volume different from activity separated from the main activities and processes of the expected. company, but to be part of the responsibilities of management as an integrating element of all organizational processes, including II.9.1 Countries and regulations strategic planning. II.9.1.1 Regulatory risks RISK FRAMEWORK AND PROCESS The development and profitability of renewable energy projects are In EDPR’s risk framework, risk process aims to link the company’s subject to policies and regulatory frameworks. The jurisdictions in overall strategy to manager’s day-to-day decisions, enabling which EDPR operates provide numerous types of incentives that the company to increase the likelihood of achieving its strategic support the energy generated from renewable sources. objectives. The European Union and various US federal and state bodies EDPR’s general strategy is translated into major strategic questions have regularly reaffirmed their desire to continue and strengthen that are grouped by risk area and then subject to EDPR’s risk support for renewable energy sources, although due to the financial process. The outcome of the risk process is a set of specific difficulties that Governments are experiencing, remuneration guidelines per risk area that will guide managers in their decisions schemes have become less competitive in some countries. according to the company’s risk profile. Therefore, it cannot be guaranteed that the current support will II.7 REGULATIONS ON THE FUNCTIONING OF be maintained or that the electricity produced by future renewable THE GOVERNING BODIES energy projects will benefit from state purchase obligations, tax incentives, or other support measures for the electricity generation All EDPR governing bodies and special committees have internal from renewable energy sources. Regulation promoting green Regulations which are available to the public on the company’s energy has been revised or is being under study in a large number website at www.edprenovaveis.com. of regions. Management of regulatory risks SECTION II: BOARD OF DIRECTORS EDPR is managing its exposure to regulatory risks through II.8 EXECUTIVE POWERS OF THE diversification (being present in several countries) and by being an CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD active member in several wind associations. Sensitivity analyses to OF DIRECTORS updated regulatory scenarios are also performed. The Chairperson of EDPR’s Board of Directors does not have II.9.2 Revenues executive duties. II.9.2.1 Exposure to market electricity prices II.9 MAIN ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL, AND LEGAL RISKS EDPR faces limited market price risk as it pursues a strategy of being present in countries or regions with long term visibility on RISK AREAS AND RISK RELATED STRATEGIC revenues. In most countries where EDPR is present, prices are QUESTIONS determined through regulated framework mechanisms. In the markets where there is expected short term volatility in market The following list summarizes the main risk areas and descriptions prices, EDPR uses various financial and commodity hedging of EDPR’s business: instruments in order to optimize the exposure to fluctuating electricity prices. However, it may not be possible to successfully 1. Countries & regulations Changes in regulations may impact hedge the exposures or there may be other difficulties in executing EDPR’s business in a given country; the hedging strategy. 2. Revenues Revenues received by EDPR’s projects may diverge In Europe, EDPR operates in countries where the selling price from what is expected; is defined by a feed-in-tariff (Spain, Portugal and France) or in markets where on top of the electricity price, EDPR receives either 3. Financing EDPR may not be able to raise enough cash to a pre-defined regulated premium or a green certificate, whose finance its planned Capex; EDPR may not be able to fulfill its price is achieved on a regulated market (Spain, Belgium, Poland, financial obligations; and Romania). Additionally, EDPR is developing activity in Italy and UK where current incentive system is based on green certificates. 4. Wind turbine contracts Changes in turbine prices may impact Recently Italy changed to a feed in tariff from green certificates and projects’ profitability; Contracts should take into account the UK is in process. pipeline development risk; In North America, EDPR is focus on developing in states which 5. Pipeline development EDPR may deliver an installed capacity have an RPS program in place, providing higher revenues visibility different from its targets or suffer delays and/or anticipations in through the REC (Renewable Energy Credit) market and nonits installation; compliance penalties. The North American market does not provide a regulated framework system for the electricity price although it may exist for the RECs in some states. Most of EDPR’s capacity in EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 109 : corporate governance : the US has predefined prices determined by long-term contracts EDPR´s hedging efforts minimize but don´t eliminate the impact of with local utilities in line with the Company’s policy of signing longinterest rate and exchange rate volatility. term contracts for the output of its wind farms. Management of financial risks In Brazilian operations, the selling price is defined through a public auction which is later translated into a long-term contract. The evolution of the financial markets is analyzed on an on-going basis in accordance to EDP Group’s risk management policy Management of risks related to exposure to market electricity approved by the EDPR`s Board of Directors. prices The Board of Directors is responsible for the definition of general Under EDPR’s global approach to optimize the exposure to market risk-management principles and the establishment of exposure electricity prices, the Company evaluates on a permanent basis if limits based on the recommendation of the Risk Committee. there are any deviations to the defined limits (measured through EBITDA at risk), assessing in which markets financial hedges Taking into account the risk management policy and approved may be more effective to correct it. In 2012, in order to manage exposure limits, the Finance team identifies evaluates, and submits such exposure, EDPR financially hedged a significant part of its the financial strategy appropriate to each project/location for the generation in Spain while in the US it closed a significant portion of Board’s approval. its exposure through several power purchase agreements, long term hedges and financial swaps. Additionally, EDPR hedged part of the II.9.3.1.1 Interest rate risk merchant generation in Poland and Romania. The purpose of the interest rate risk management policies is to II.9.2.2 Risk related to volatility of energy production reduce the exposure of long term debt cash flows from market fluctuations, mainly by contracting long term debt with a fixed rate, The amount of electricity generated by EDPR from its wind but also through the settlement of derivative financial instruments to farms, and therefore EDPR’s profitability, is dependent on swap from floating rate to fixed rate when long term debt is issued climatic conditions, which vary across the locations of the wind with floating rates. farms, and from season to season and year to year. Energy output at wind farms may decline if wind speed falls outside EDPR has a portfolio of interest-rate derivatives with maturities specific ranges, as turbines will only operate when wind speeds ranging from 2 to 14 years. Sensitivity analyses of the fair value of are within those ranges. financial instruments to interest-rate fluctuations are performed. Variations and fluctuations in wind conditions at wind farms Given the policies adopted by EDPR Group, its financial cash flows may result in seasonal and other fluctuations in the amount of are substantially independent from the fluctuation in interest rates. electricity that is generated and, consequently, in the operating results and efficiency. II.9.3.1.2 Exchange rate risk Management of risks related to volatility of energy production EDPR operates internationally and is exposed to the exchange-rate risk resulting from investments in foreign subsidiaries. Currently, the EDPR mitigates wind resource volatility and seasonality by having main currency exposure is the U.S. dollar/euro currency fluctuation a strong knowledge in the design of its wind farms and through risk that results principally from our operations in the US. With the geographical diversification – in each country and in different ongoing increasing capacity in others non-euro regions, EDPR is countries – of its asset base. This “portfolio effect” enables EDPR also exposed to different currencies in Poland, Romania, Brazil, to offset wind variations in each area and to keep the total energy United Kingdom and Canada. generation relatively steady. Currently, EDPR is present in 11 countries: Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, UK, EDPR´s general policy is the Natural Hedging in order to match Italy, US, Canada and Brazil. currency cash flows, minimizing the impact of changes in the exchange rate and preserving value. The essence of this approach There exist financial products to hedge weather risk. EDPR is is to create financial foreign currency outflows to match equivalent currently exploring the interest of contracting those products in foreign currency inflows. specific cases. II.9.3.2 Counterparty credit risk II.9.3. Financing Counterparty risk is the default risk of third-parties in an agreement II.9.3.1 Risks related to financial market exposure with EDPR either due to temporary liquidity issues or long term systemic issues. EDPR is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates through financing. This risk can be mitigated by contracting fixed rates and financial Management of counterparty credit risk instruments such as hedges and interest rate swaps. EDPR´s policy in terms of the counterparty credit risk on financial Additionally, because of its presence in several countries, currency transactions is managed by an analysis of the technical capacity, fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the financial competitiveness, credit notation and exposure to each counterparty. results. EDPR hedges against currency fluctuations by employing Counterparties in derivatives and financial transactions are natural hedging strategies, and using hedging instruments such as restricted to high-quality credit institutions, therefore, there cannot forward foreign exchange contracts and Cross Interest Rate Swaps. 110 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : be considered any significant risk of counterparty non-compliance control, such as choice of locations, optimal lay-out, we intend to and no collateral is demanded for these transactions. make our projects more resilient to an adverse external environment II.9.3.3 Liquidity risk Management of permitting risk Liquidity risk is the risk that EDPR will not be able to meet its EDPR mitigates this risk by generating optionality, by having financial obligations. development activities in 11 different countries (Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, UK, Italy, US, Canada and Brazil) Management of liquidity risk with a portfolio of projects in several stages of maturity. EDPR has a large pipeline located in the most attractive regions providing a EDPR’s strategy to manage liquidity is to ensure that it will have “buffer” to overcome potential delays in the development of new sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal projects, ensuring growth targets and being able to compensate and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or permitting delays in some geographies with development efforts in risking damage to EDPR’s reputation. others. EDPR has a diversified financial structure composed of corporate II.9.6 Operations debt and project finance, which. considers among other factors, financing cost, project ownership and project currency liquidity. II.9.6.1 Wind turbine performance risk Finally, EDPR uses a financial model to forecast liquidity risk in Wind farm output depends upon the availability and operating the medium and long term to meet strategic targets previously set performance of the equipment necessary to operate it, mainly the (EBITDA, debt ratio and others). components of wind turbines and transformers. Therefore, the risk is that the performance of the turbine does not reach its optimum II.9.4 Wind turbine contracts thus leading to lower than expected value. II.9.4.1 Wind turbine supply risk Management of wind turbine performance risk The wind turbine generator (WTG) is a key element in the EDPR mitigates this risk by using a mix of turbine suppliers which development of EDPR’s wind-related energy projects, as the minimizes technological risk, by signing a medium-term full-scope shortfall or an unexpected sharp increase in WTG prices can create maintenance agreement with the turbine supplier and by an a question mark on new project’s development and profitability. adequate preventive and scheduled maintenance program. WTG represents on average 70 to 80% of a wind farm´s capital expenditure. Most recently, EDPR is externalizing non core technical O&M activities of its wind farms, while primary and value added activities Management of wind turbine supply risk continue controlled by EDPR. EDPR faces limited risk to the availability and price increase of II.10 POWERS GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF WTG´s due to the framework agreements with the major global DIRECTORS, NAMELY REGARDING SHARE wind turbines suppliers. The Company uses a large mix of turbines CAPITAL INCREASE suppliers in order to diversify the wind turbine supply risk. The Board of Directors is vested with broad-ranging powers of II.9.5 Pipeline development administration, management, and governance of the Company without limitation, except for the powers specifically assigned to II.9.5.1 Permitting risks General Shareholders’ Meeting in the Articles of Association or other applicable law. Wind farms are subject to strict regulations at different authority levels (international, national, state, regional and local) relating to A. In this regard, the Board is specifically empowered to: the development, construction, grid interconnection and operation of power plants. Among other things, these laws regulate landscape • Acquire personal property, real estate, rights, actions, and environmental aspects, building licenses, land use and land and participations for the Company under any onerous or securing and access to the grid issues. lucrative title. While level of exigency might be different depending on the • Dispose of, mortgage or encumber the Company’s property, real geographies, we acknowledge a trend for legislations to align estate, rights, shares, and participations and cancel mortgages towards the most restrictive rules and development risks and other en rem rights. concentrating on the consenting (namely environmental and urbanistic aspects) and connection side. • Negotiate and enter into loans and credit operations as deemed necessary. In this context, the experience EDPR is able to gather in a certain country will be useful to anticipate and deal with future similar • Negotiate and formalise acts and contracts with private changes in other countries. individuals and public entities. During the development and design phase, EDPR focuses on the • Take civil and criminal actions involving the Company, optimization of its projects. By mastering the variables under our representing the Company before functionaries, authorities, EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 111 : corporate governance : corporations; governmental, administrative, economicII.11 RULES REGARDING THE NOMINATION administrative, contentious-administrative, and judicial tribunals; AND DISCHARGE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE labour courts and labour sections of the supreme courts and of BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE POLICY OF the high court of justice of autonomous communities, without PORTFOLIO ROTATION limitation, including the Court of Justice of the European Communities and in general before the public administration at The Nominations and Remunerations Committee, according to its all levels; intervening in, promoting, monitoring and concluding Regulations, presents to the Board of Directors a proposal with cases, trials and proceedings; consenting to rulings; filing appeals, the names of the candidates that the Committee considers having including cassation appeals and other extraordinary appeals; the best qualities to fulfill the role of Board Member. The Board of desisting and agreeing, reaching settlement, compromising in Directors presents the proposal at the General Shareholders’ Meeting arbitration proceedings, issuing notices and summonses and that will approve the proposal by majority for an initial period of three granting powers of attorney to solicitors and other proxies with (3) years and may re-elect these members once or more times for the powers deemed necessary in each case, including general further periods of three (3) years. Nonetheless, pursuant to Article powers for legal proceedings and special powers as necessary; 23 of the Articles of Association and 243 of the Spanish Companies revoking such powers. Law, shareholders wishing so, may group their shares until they constitute an amount of capital equal or higher than the result of • Convening the General Shareholders’ Meeting and submitting the dividing it by the number of Directors and nominate those that, proposals to the shareholders for their consideration. using only whole fractions, are deducted from the corresponding proportion. Those making use of this power cannot intervene in the • Directing the Company’s operations and the organisation of nomination of the other members of the Board of Directors. its work and operations, staying abreast of the Company’s business and operations, investing funds, making extraordinary In case of a vacancy, pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of amortisations of its obligations, and doing all that is deemed Association and 243 of the Spanish Companies Law, the Board of necessary for the best achievement of the Company’s objectives. Directors may co-opt people from the shareholders, who will occupy the position until the next General Shareholders’ Meeting, which shall • Nomination and removal of directors and other technical and ratify the co-opted Director. Pursuant to Article 247 of the Spanish administrative personnel; stipulating their responsibilities and Companies Law, the co-option of Directors, as for other Board remuneration. decisions, must be approved by absolute majority of the Directors at the meeting. • Agree to change the Company’s location within the same municipal area. According to the Spanish Law and the Spanish companies’ practices, the daily management of the business is guaranteed by • Create legal entities as stipulated under the law, assigning and a Chief Executive Officer who is empowered to ensure the dayinvesting in them all kinds of goods and rights and entering to-day management of the company. This type of organization is into concentration and cooperation agreements, associations, different from what occurs on the Portuguese companies in which a groups, joint ventures, community property and agree to their “conselho de administracão executivo” takes the assignment of areas modification, transformation, and dissolution. of business and each executive director is responsible to and for an area of business. • All other powers specifically attributed to the Board in the Articles of Association or by law, this enumeration being merely indicative II.12 NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE but in no way restrictive. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES In order to guarantee that the common interests of the Company and The Board of Directors held six (6) meetings during the year ending those of its subsidiaries and group companies are properly served, on December 31st, 2012. Minutes of all meetings were drawn up. the Board of Directors shall act at all times in coordination with those companies. In 2012, the Audit and Control Committee held fourteen (14) meetings, six of those meetings were plenary and the other eight were with the B. Regarding the decisions to increase the share capital, the Board different departments whose activity development was discussed of Directors does not have this power but, subject to prior delegation with the Committee. from the General Shareholders’ Meeting, would be able to decide the increase of the share capital. This delegation must comply with the This committee drafted minutes of every meeting held and informed law and the By-Laws. the Board of Directors of its decisions at the first Board meeting held after each committee meeting. On the other hand, the General Shareholders’ Meeting may also delegate to the Board of Directors the power to implement an II.13 NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE adopted decision to increase the share capital, indicating the date EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE or dates of its implementation and establishing any other conditions that have not been specified by the General Shareholders’ Meeting. The Executive Committee held forty-nine (49) meetings during the The Board of Directors may use this delegation wholly or in part and year ending on December 31st, 2012. may also decide not to perform it in consideration of the conditions of the Company, the market, or any particularly relevant events The Executive Committee drafted minutes for each of the meetings or circumstances that justify said decision, of which the General held and informed the Board of Directors of its decisions at the first Shareholders’ Meeting must be informed at the end of the time limit Board meeting held after each committee meeting. The minutes are or limits for performing it. also sent to the Chairperson of the Audit and Control. 112 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : II.14 EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Name Position Date of first Election Date of Re-election End of Term António Mexia Chairperson and Non-Executive 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Director João Manso Neto ViceChairperson and Executive 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Director Nuno Alves Executive Director 18/03/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Gabriel Alonso Executive Director 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Paulo Costeira Executive Director 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Rui Teixeira Executive Director 11/04/2011 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Gilles August Non-Executive Director 14/04/2009 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Lopes Raimundo Non-Executive Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Manuel de Mello Franco Non-Executive Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 João Marques da Cruz Non-Executive Director 16/05/2012 Until the next General Shareholders’ Meeting Jorge Santos Non-Executive Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 José Araújo e Silva Non-Executive Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Non-Executive Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 Rafael Caldeira Valverde Non-Executive Director 4/06/2008 21/06/2011 21/06/2014 EDPR’s Articles of Association, which are available for consultation on the company’s website (www.edprenovaveis.com) contain the rules on independence for the fulfillment of duties in any body of the Company. The information regarding the legal and regulatory rules for Independent Assessment is available in chapter II.15. The Board of Directors of EDPR considers that the following Directors meet the independence and incompatibility criterias required by law and the Articles of Association: Name Position Date of Reelection End of Term Gilles August Director (Independent) 21-06-2011 21-06-2014 João Lopes Raimundo Director (Independent) 21-06-2011 21-06-2014 Member of the Audit and Control Committee João Mello Franco Director (Independent) 21-06-2011 21-06-2014 Chairperson of Audit and Control Committee And Member of the Related-Party Transactions Committee Jorge Santos Director (Independent) 21-06-2011 21-06-2014 Chairperson of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee and Member of the Audit and Control Committee José Araújo e Silva Director (Independent) 21-06-2011 21-06-2014 Rafael Caldeira Valverde Director (Independent) 21-06-2011 21-06-2014 Member of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 113 : corporate governance : II.15 LEGAL AND REGULATORY RULES other Board decisions, must be approved by absolute majority of the FOR INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT AND Directors at the meeting. INCOMPATIBILITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS II.17 ACTIVITY OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Following the recommendations of CMVM, Article 12 of the Board of Directors regulations require that at least twenty-five percent (25%) EDPR’s Annual Management Report of 2012 includes a description of the Members of the Board have to be independent. Article 20.2 of the activity taken out by the non-executive directors and of EDPR’s Articles of Association defines independent members of possible constraints detected. With the mechanisms set forth in the Board of Directors as those that are able to perform their duties the regulations, non-executive Directors have encountered no without being limited by relations with the company, its shareholders difficulties in performing their duties. In 2012, the non-executive with significant holdings, or its Directors and comply with the other Directors were involved in the governance of EDPR not only by legal requirements. participating in meetings of the Board of Directors, where they gave their opinions on different company matters, made any suggestions In addition, pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of Association, the they saw fit, and took decisions on matters submitted to them, but following may not be Directors: also by working on the Nominations and Remunerations Committee, on the Related-Party Transactions Committee, and the Audit and • People who are Directors of or are associated with any Control Committee, where all the members are non-executive with competitor of EDPR and those who are related to the above. the exception of the Related-Party Transactions Committee, which A company shall be considered to be a competitor of EDPR if has one executive Director, Mr. Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida it is directly or indirectly involved in the generation, storage, Alves. transmission, distribution, sale, or supply of electricity or combustible gases and also those that have interests opposed II.18 BIOGRAPHIES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE to those of EDPR, a competitor or any of the companies in its BOARD OF DIRECTORS Group, and Directors, employees, lawyers, consultants, or representatives of any of them. Under no circumstances shall Annex IV of the Report gives a brief description of the Directors’ companies belonging to the same group as EDPR, including professional and academic careers. abroad, be considered competitors; II.19 ROLES HELD BY THE MEMBERS • People who are in any other situation of incompatibility or OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN OTHER prohibition under the law or Articles of Association. Under COMPANIES Spanish law, people, among others, who are i) aged under eighteen (18) years, (ii) disqualified, iii) competitors; (iv) convicted The positions held by the members of the Board in the last five (5) of certain offences, or (v) hold certain management positions are years, those that they currently hold, and positions in Group and not allowed to be Directors. non-Group companies are listed in Annexes I, II and III, respectively. II.16 SELECTION PROCESS OF CANDIDATES Also, the shares of EDPR owned by each Director are described in FOR NON-EXECUTIVE MEMBERS OF THE the table in Annex V. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Nominations and Remunerations Committee, according to its SECTION III: GENERAL AND Regulations, presents to the Board of Directors a proposal with the SUPERVISORY BOARD, COMMITTEE names of the potential candidates that the Committee considers FOR FINANCIAL MATTERS, AUDIT having the best qualities to fulfill the role of Board Member. The Board of Directors presents the proposal at the General COMMITTEE, AND FISCAL COUNCIL Shareholders’ Meeting where it will approved by the majority, for an initial period of three (3) years, and may re-elect them once or more Information as provided for in Chapters II.20. to II.23. of CMVM times for further periods of three (3) years. Nonetheless, pursuant Regulation no. 1/2010 does not apply to EDPR. The governance to Article 23 of the Articles of Association and 243 of the Spanish model adopted by EDPR, as it is compatible with its personal law, Companies Law, shareholders wishing so, may group their shares corresponds to the so-called “Anglo-Saxon” model set forth in the until they constitute an amount of capital equal to or higher than Portuguese Commercial Companies Code, in which the management the result of dividing it by the number of Directors and nominate body is a Board of Directors, and the supervision and control duties those that, using only whole fractions, are deducted from the are of the responsibility of an Audit and Control Committee. corresponding proportion. Those making use of this power cannot intervene in the nomination of the other members of the Board of II.24 EVALUATION OF THE EXTERNAL Directors. AUDITOR In case of a vacancy, pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of The Audit and Control Committee is responsible for proposing to Association and 243 of the Spanish Companies Law, the Board the Board of Directors for submission to the General Shareholders’ of Directors may co-opt people from the shareholders, who will Meeting the nomination of the Company auditors, the terms of their occupy the position until the next General Shareholders’ Meeting, contracts, scope of their duties, and revocation and renewal of their which shall ratify the co-opted Director. Pursuant to Article 247 contracts. of the Spanish Companies Law, the co-option of Directors, as for 114 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : In order to protect the External Auditor independence, the following SECTION IV: REMUNERATION competences of the Audit and Control Committee were exercised during 2011: II.30 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES • Direct and exclusive supervision from the Audit and Control Committee; Pursuant to Article 26 of the Company’s Articles of Association, the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors • Evaluation of the qualifications, independence, and performance shall consist of a fixed amount to be determined by the General of the External Auditor and the annual report from the External Shareholders Meeting for all the Directors and expenses for Auditor regarding the information of all existing relations attending Board meetings. between the Company and the Auditors or people related to them, including all the services rendered and all the services in The above mentioned article also establishes the possibility of the course. The Audit and Control Committee, in order to evaluate its Directors being remunerated with Company shares, share options, independence, obtained from the External Auditor information or other securities granting the right to obtain shares or by means regarding their independence according to Portuguese Decreeof share-indexed remuneration systems. In any case, the system Law n.º 224/2008, November 20th, that changes the Articles of chosen must be approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting Association of the External Auditors Association; and comply with current legal provisions. • Revision of the transparency report signed by the External The maximum remuneration approved by the General Auditor and published on their website. This report is about a Shareholders Meeting in the previous fiscal year, for all the group of subjects regulated on article 62º-A from the Portuguese members of the Board of Directors was EUR 2,500,000. Decree-Law n.º 224/2008, mainly related to the Internal Control System and to the process of quality control realized by the Pursuant to Article 26.4 of the Company’s Articles of Association, competent entities; the rights and duties of any kind derived from the condition of Board Member shall be compatible with any other rights and • Analysis with the External Auditor of the scope, planning, and obligations either fixed or variable that could correspond to resources to use on the services provided. the Board Members as a consequence of other employment or professional engagements, if any, carried out in the Company. In 2012, according to the Audit and Control Committee’s Variable remuneration resulting from said contracts or from any competences and in line with Recommendations II.4.4 and II.4.5, it other relationship, including being a Board Member, will be limited was the first and direct recipient and the corporate body in charge to a maximum annual amount to be established by the General of the permanent contact with the external auditor on matters that Shareholders’ Meeting. may pose a risk to their independence and any other matters related to the auditing of accounts. It also receives and stores information The maximum remuneration approved by the General on any other matters provided for in legislation on audits and in Shareholders Meeting for the variable remuneration for all the auditing standards in effect at any time. members of the Board of Directors was EUR 600,000 per year. The Audit and Control Committee assessed the performance of the The Nominations and Remunerations Committee is responsible external auditor in providing the services hired by the Company for proposing to the Board of Directors, although not bindingly, the and made a positive evaluation of their quality, considering that they system, distribution, and amount of remuneration of the Directors meet applicable standards and that it is advisable to maintain the on the basis of the overall amount of remuneration authorized same auditor. by the General Shareholders Meeting. The Committee can also propose to the Board of Directors the terms of the contracts with The work of the external auditor, including reports and audits of the Directors. The distribution and exact amount paid to each its accounts, was supervised and evaluated in accordance with Director, the frequency and other details of the remuneration shall applicable rules and standards, in particular international auditing be determined by the Board of Directors based on the proposal standards. The external auditor in coordination with the Audit and presented by the Nominations and Remunerations Committee. Control Committee verifies the implementation of remuneration policies and the efficiency and functioning of internal control Additionally, this Committee defines the variable remuneration to mechanisms. The external auditor reports to the Audit and Control be attributed to the Directors, with the purpose that it reflects the Committee all the shortcomings. performance of each of the members in each year of their term of office (variable annual remuneration), and also their performance Information as provided for in Chapters II.25. to II.28. of CMVM during their term of office establishing a variable component which Regulation no. 1/2010 does not apply to EDPR. The governance is consistent with the maximization of the Company’s long term model adopted by EDPR, as it is compatible with its personal law, performance (variable multi-annual remuneration for a three-year corresponds to the so-called “Anglo-Saxon” model set forth in the period), thereby guaranteeing the alignment of the performance of Portuguese Commercial Companies Code, in which the management the governing bodies with the interests of the shareholders. body is a Board of Directors, and the supervision and control duties are of the responsibility of an Audit and Control Committee. The remuneration policy proposed by the Nominations and approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting on April 11th, II.29 REMUNERATION POLICY OF THE 2011 (the Remuneration Policy), defines a structure with a fixed SENIOR MANAGERS remuneration for all members of the Board of Directors and a variable remuneration, with an annual component and a multiThis information is available on chapter II.30. annual component for the members of the Executive Committee. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 115 : corporate governance : For the period 2011-2013, it was decided to maintain the EUR 480,000, corresponding to the fixed remuneration of the remuneration structure in terms of its components, as well as to Executive Managers, , plus the variable component according to keep the same nominal value of fixed annual component as the the Remuneration Policy, plus the PPR percentage, and ii) EUR one in force during the 2009-2010 period, revising the KPI’s (Key 90,000, corresponding to the fixed remuneration of the NonPerformance Indicators) for variable multi-annual and annual Executive Managers. The retirement savings plan for the members components. of the Executive Committee, excluding the Officers, acts as an effective retirement supplement and corresponds to 5% of their II.31 INDIVIDUAL ANNUAL REMUNERATION annual salary. OF THE MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES The non-executive directors may opt between a fixed remuneration or attendance fees per meeting, in a value equivalent The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors for the to the fixed remuneration proposed for a director, taking into year ended on December 31st 2012 was as follows: consideration the duties carried out. Euros In 2012, the remuneration of the Officers, as EDPR employees, Remuneration Variable Fixed Total excluding the Chief Executive Officer, was the following: MultiAnnual annual Executive Directors Euros Ana Maria Fernandes A) 54,857 147,942 364,022 566,821 Remuneration Variable* Fixed Total João Manso Neto (CEO) B) MultiAnnual annual Nuno Alves B) Gabriel Alonso 250.000 75.000 0 325.000 Gabriel Alonso C) João Paulo Costeira C) João Paulo Costeira 250.000 75.000 0 325.000 Luis Adão da Fonseca C) Luis Adão da Fonseca A) 181.270 75.000 0 256.270 Rui Teixeira C) Rui Teixeira 250.000 75.000 0 325.000 TOTAL 931.270 300.000 0 1.231.270 Non-Executive Directors *Corresponds to the 2011 annual variable. António Mexia D) ----A) Mr. Luis Adão da Fonseca resigned as member of the Board of Directors and consequently as António Nogueira Leite E) member of the Executive Committee on September 21st, 2012. The remuneration mentioned above corresponds to the months when he was still on duty. Francisco José Queiroz de Barros 36,666 36,666 de Lacerda E) Gilles August 45,000 45,000 The retirement savings plan for the members of the Executive João Lopes Raimundo 60,000 60,000 Committee that are also Officers, acts as an effective retirement João Manuel de Mello Franco 80,000 80,000 supplement with a range between 3% to 6% of their annual salary. João Marques da Cruz F) The percentage is defined according with the retirement savings Jorge Santos 60,000 60,000 plan applicable in their home country. José Araújo e Silva G) 15,000 15,000 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez 45,000 45,000 Additionally, the Officers, with the exception of the CEO, also Rafael Caldeira Valverde 55,000 55,000 receive the following non-monetary benefits: company car, and Total 451,523 147,942 364,022 963,487 those who are expatriated, have as benefits: housing allowance and education allowance for the children if applied, that together A) Mrs. Ana Maria Fernandes resigned as Chief Executive Officer of EDPR on February 28th, 2012. The fixed remuneration mentioned above refers only to the months when the prior CEO was still on duty paid corresponds to EUR256,828. in 2012 and adjustments on the variable remuneration paid in February 2013. B) With the exception of the Executive Committee Directors that are also Officers, the members of the Executive Committee have not received any remuneration from EDPR. On February 28th, 2012 Mr. João Manso Neto, was nominated Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Vice-Chairperson of the Board The Directors do not receive any relevant non-monetary benefits of Directors of EDPR. In order to increase transparency and healthy corporate governance practices, as remuneration. and also to treat Mr. João Manso Neto consistently with the other Directors, the Nominations and Remunerations Committee proposed to the Board of Directors (which approved it) a modification of the Remuneration Policy in order to include the CEO compensation in the management fee of the Executive Management Services Agreement. II.32 REMUNERATION STRUCTURE C) Mr. Gabriel Alonso, Mr. João Paulo Costeira, Mr. Luis Adão da Fonseca and Mr. Rui Teixeira, as Officers and members of the Executive Committee receive their remuneration as EDPR employees, as described on the table below. The remuneration of the Executive Committee is built in three D) In 2012, Mr. António Mexia resigned as Chairperson and member of the Executive Committee. He received his remuneration according to the Executive Management Services Agreement, as executive blocks: fixed remuneration (40% of the total remuneration), annual Manager during the performance of his duties as Chairperson of the Executive Committee, and as (27% of the total remuneration) and multi-annual bonus (33% of non-executive Manager after the above mentioned resignation; therefore he has not received any remuneration from EDPR. the total remuneration). E) In 2012, Mr. António Nogueira Leite and Mr. Francisco José Queiroz de Barros de Lacerda resigned as members of the Board of Directors. The remuneration mentioned above refers only to the months when these Board members were still on duty. The annual bonus is defined as a maximum of 68% of the annual F) On May 2012, Mr. João Marques da Cruz was nominated by co-optation as Member of the Board of Directors until the first General Shareholders’ Meeting is gathered. Mr. João Marques da Cruz receives salary, the multi-annual bonus is defined as a maximum of 102% his remuneration through the Executive Management Services Agreement. The executive management fee paid by the Company to EDP was adjusted and an additional management fee for non-executive of the annual salary and, both of them, are calculated based on the services was included, therefore he has not received any remuneration directly from EDPR. following indicators in each year of their term: G) Mr. José Araújo e Silva remuneration reflects only some months of the year, as he renounced to the remuneration during the time he served in a State-owned Company. • The relative performance of the Total Shareholder Return of According to the Executive Management Services Agreement EDP Renováveis vs Benchmark, (TSR vs. Wind peers & Psi 20); signed with EDP as amended, EDPR is due to pay to EDP, for the services rendered by the Executive Managers and the Non• EDP Renováveis growth (Incremental MW and profitable ready to executive Managers; the amount due under said Agreement build pipeline) for the management services rendered by EDP in 2012 are: i) 116 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : • The risk – result of EDP Renováveis (ROIC Cash; EBITDA and undergoes a process of takeover, a fusion or a significant change net profit) in the shareholder control before finalizing the Multi-annual period, the EC members will be able to perform their rights and charge • Efficiency (technical availability, OPEX/MW, CAPEX/MW). all the accumulated amounts to date in their Multi-annual variable remuneration account. • Environmental and social perspectives (ithe performance G) Not applicable to EDPR. of the Sustainability Index applied to EDPR (DJSI method), H) Not applicable to EDPR. iiEmployee satisfaction survey, iiiAppreciation of the I) This information is available on chapter II.31. Remuneration Committee). J) Not applicable to EDPR. L) Not applicable to EDPR. According to the Remuneration Policy approved by the General M) Not applicable to EDPR. Shareholders’ Meeting , the maximum variable remuneration N) This information is available on chapter II.31 and II.32 (annual and multi-annual) is applicable if all the above mentioned O) Not applicable to EDPR. KPI’s were achieved and the performance evaluation is equal or P) Not applicable to EDPR. above 110%. Q) Not applicable to EDPR. The remuneration of the Executive Committee Directors that are II.34 REMUNERATION OF THE also Officers, with the exception of the CEO, was paid directly by NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EDPR while for the other members of the Executive Committee there hasn’t been any direct payment to its members. This information is available on chapter II.32. This corporate governance practice of remuneration is in line II.35 WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY with the model adopted by the EDP Group, in which the executive Directors of EDP do not receive any remuneration directly from EDPR has always carried out its activity by consistently the group companies on whose governing bodies they serve, but implementing measures to ensure the good governance of its rather through EDP. companies, including the prevention of incorrect practices, particularly in the areas of accounting and finance. Nonetheless, in line with the above corporate governance practice, EDPR has signed an Executive Management Services Agreement EDPR provides the Group workers with a channel enabling them with EDP, under which the Company bears the cost for the render to report directly and confidentially to the Audit and Control of those services corresponding to the remuneration defined for Committee any practice presumed illicit or any alleged accounting some of the members of the Board of Directors. and/or financial irregularity in their company, in compliance with the provisions of CMVM Regulation no. 1/2010. The non-executive Directors only receive a fixed remuneration, which is calculated on the basis of their work exclusively With this channel for reporting irregular accounting and financial as Directors or cumulatively with their membership on the practices, EDPR aims: Nominations and Remunerations Committee, Related Party Transactions Committee, and the Audit and Control Committee. • Guaranteeing conditions that allow workers to freely report any concerns they may have in these areas to the Audit and Control EDPR has not incorporated any share remuneration or share Committee; purchase options plans as components of the remuneration of its Directors. • Facilitating the early detection of irregular situations which, if practised, might cause serious damage to the EDPR Group, its No Director has entered into any contract with the company or workers, customers, and shareholders. third parties that have the effect of mitigating the risk inherent in the variability of the remuneration established by the company. Contact with the Company’s Audit and Control Committee is only possible by email and post, and access to information received is In EDPR there aren’t any payments for the dismissal or termination restricted. of Director’s duties. Any complaint addressed to the Audit and Control Committee will II.33 REMUNERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE be kept strictly confidential and the whistle-blower will remain DIRECTORS anonymous, provided that this does not prevent the investigation of the complaint. S/he will be assured that the Company will not take A) This information is available on chapter II.32. any retaliatory or disciplinary action as a result of exercising his/ B) This information is available on chapter II.30. her right to blow the whistle on irregularities, provide information, C) This information is available on chapter II.32. or assist in an investigation. D) This information is available on chapter II.32. E) This information is available on chapter II.30 and chapter II.31. The Secretary of the Audit and Control Committee receives all the F) If any member of EDPR’s Executive Committee leaves this body communications and presents a quarterly report to the members during the term, for some reason other than a significant change of the Committee. in the control of EDPR or due to factors that are not attributable to them, namely illness or death, disability, or a request to occupy a In 2012 there were no communications regarding any irregularity public position,…, the accumulated amount of Multi-annual variable with material impact at EDPR. remuneration will revert to EDPR. On the other hand, if EDPR EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 117 : corporate governance : SECTION V: SPECIAL COMMITTEES III. INFORMATION II.36 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION, AND AUDITING GOVERNANCE PRACTICES AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEES III.1 CAPITAL STRUCTURE The composition and functioning of the Nominations and The share capital of EDPR is, as from the initial public offering Remunerations Committee is described on chapter II.3 C). As (IPO) in June 2008, EUR 4,361,540,810, represented by explained on chapter II.11, The Nominations and Remunerations 872,308,162 shares with a face value of EUR 5 each. All shares Committee, according to its Regulations, presents to the Board integrate a single class and series and are fully issued and paid. of Directors a proposal with the names of the candidates that the Committee considers having the best qualities to fulfill the role of The shares representing 100% of the EDPR share capital were Board Member. The Board of Directors presents the proposal to admitted to trading in the official stock exchange NYSE Euronext the General Shareholders’ Meeting that will approve it by majority Lisbon on June 4th, 2008. for an initial period of three (3) years and may re-elect them once or more times for further periods of three (3) years. Nonetheless, EDP Renováveis, S.A. pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of Association and 243 of the Share Capital EUR 4,361,540,810 Spanish Companies Law, shareholders so wishing may group their Nominal Share Value EUR 5.00 shares until they constitute an amount of capital equal to or higher Number of Shares 872,308,162 than the result of dividing it by the number of Directors and nominate those that, using only whole fractions, are deducted from the Date of IPO June 4th, 2008 corresponding proportion. Those making use of this power cannot intervene in the nomination of the other members of the Board of NYSE Euronext Lisbon Directors. ISIN ES0127797019 In case of a vacancy, pursuant to Article 23 of the Articles of Reuters RIC EDPR.LS Association and 243 of the Spanish Companies Law, the Board of Bloomberg Ticker EDPR PL Directors may co-opt people from the shareholders, who will occupy the position until the next General Shareholders’ Meeting, which shall ratify the co-opted Director. Pursuant to Article 247 of the Spanish Companies Law, the co-option of Directors, as for other Board III.2 QUALIFIED HOLDINGS decisions, must be approved by absolute majority of the Directors at the meeting. Qualifying holdings in EDPR are subject to the Spanish Law, which regulates the criteria and thresholds of the shareholders’ holdings. Regarding the Governance structure of the Company, in order to comply with the Recommendation II.1.1.1, the governance model As of Dec. 31st , 2012, no qualifying holdings in EDPR were adopted has been ensuring an effective performance and articulation identified with the exception of EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. of EDPR Social Bodies, and proved to be adequate to the company’s governance structure without any constraints to the performance of Numbers of % Voting Shareholder % Capital Shares Rights its checks and balances system. EDP – Energias de Portugal EDP – Energias de II.37 NUMBER OF MEETING OF THE Portugal, S.A. – Sucursal 541,027,156 62.0% 62.0% COMMITTEES AND MINUTES en España Hidroeléctrica del 135,256,700 15.5% 15.5% Cantábrico, S.A. During 2012 the Nominations and Remunerations Committees held 4 Total 676,283,856 77.5% 77.5% (four) meetings and the Related-Party Transactions Committee held 3 (three) meetings. Minutes were prepared for all these meetings. 22.5% II.38 REFERENCE TO THE FACT THAT A MEMBER OF THE NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE HAS KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE IN REMUNERATION POLICY SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE EDPR’s Nominations and Remunerations Committee has at least one member with knowledge and experience in remuneration policy. II.39 INDEPENDENCE OF THE PEOPLE HIRED BY THE NOMINATIONS AND 77.5% REMUNERATIONS COMMITTEE EDP Group Free Float The Nominations and Remunerations Committee has not entered into any employment or supply contracts with any natural or legal person. 118 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : The free-float level is unchanged since the IPO at 22.5%. By Dec. III.6 RULES APPLICABLE TO THE 31st, 2012, EDPR’s free float comprised about 100,000 institutional AMENDMENT OF THE ARTICLES and private investors spread across more than 45 different OF ASSOCIATION OF THE COMPANY countries with special focus on Portugal, United States and United Kingdom. Rest of Europe more representative countries are The Amendment of the Articles of Association of the company is Norway, France and Switzerland. of the responsibility of the General Shareholders’ Meeting who has the power to decide on this matter. According to Article 17 Institutional Investors represented 80% of the EDPR’s freeof the company’s Articles of Association (“Constitution of the float, while private investors, mostly Portuguese, stand for the General Shareholders’ Meeting, Adoption of resolutions”), to validly remaining 20%. approve any necessary amendment to the Articles of Association, the Ordinary or Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting will need: 20% • On the first call, that the Shareholders either present or represented by proxy, represent at least fifty percent (50%) subscribed voting capital. • On the second call, that the Shareholders either present or FREE-FLOAT BY represented by proxy, represent at least twenty five percent INVESTOR TYPE (25%) of the subscribed voting capital. In the event the shareholders attending represent less than fifty percent (50%) of the subscribed voting capital, the resolutions referred to in the present paragraph will only be validly adopted with the favourable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the present or 80% represented capital in the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Institutional Private III.7 CONTROL MECHANISMS PLANNED FOR ANY EMPLOYEE CAPITAL HOLDING SYSTEM 1% TO THE EXTENT THAT VOTING RIGHTS ARE NOT EXERCISED BY SUCH EMPLOYEES 21% 27% There is no system specifically providing for any share capital holding by employees in the Company as a result of which the relevant voting rights are not directly exercised by such employees. FREE-FLOAT BY GEOGRAPHY III.8 PERFORMANCE OF EDPR SHARE PRICE EDPR had by December 31st, 2012 a market capitalization of 23% EUR 3.5 billion, down 15.5% from the EUR 4.1 billion of Dec. 31st, 2011, equivalent to EUR 3.99 per share. The EDPR share price 28% underperformed the NYSE Euronext Lisbon benchmark index PSI20 (3%) and the Dow Jones Eurostoxx Utilities – SX6E (-9%). Portugal US Rest of the World The year’s low was recorded on July 24th (EUR 2.31) and the year’s Europe UK high was reached on January 6th (EUR 4.86). III.3 SHAREHOLDERS WITH SPECIAL RIGHTS EDPR share price performance vs. PSI 20 & SX&E There are no holders of special rights. 110 100 III.4 RESTRICTIONS TO SHARE 90 TRANSFERABILITY 80 70 Pursuant to the Article 8 of the Company’s Articles of Association 60 there are no restrictions on the transfer of EDPR shares. 50 III.5 SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT 40 Jan.12 Feb.12 Mar.12 Apr.12 May.12 Jun.12 Jul.12 Aug.12 Sep.12 Oct.12 Nov.12 Dec.12 As far as the EDPR Board of Directors is aware there are currently no shareholders’ agreements that might lead to restrictions in the EDPR PSI20 SX6E transfer of securities or voting rights. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 119 : corporate governance : In 2012 there were 207 million EDPR shares traded, representing The graph below shows the evolution in EDPR share price over the an 11% year-on-year decrease on the liquidity and corresponding year and the announcements and relevant events that may have to a turnover of approximately EUR 0.7 billion. On average, 0.8 impacted them. million shares were traded per day. The total number of shares traded represented 24% of the total shares admitted to trading and Main events in 2012 to 106% of the company’s free float. € 5.00 EDPR share price performance 4.00 € 6.00 6,000,000 3.00 5.00 5,000,000 2.00 4.00 4,000,000 1.00 3.00 3,000,000 0.00 2.00 2,000,000 Jan.12 Feb.12 Mar.12 Apr.12 May.12 Jun.12 Jul.12 Aug.12 Sep.12 Oct.12 Nov.12 Dec.12 1.00 1,000,000 Share Price # Date Descripton 0.00 0 (EUR) EDP announces its intention to propose Mr. João Manso Jan.12 Feb.12 Mar.12 Apr.12 May.12 Jun.12 Jul.12 Aug.12 Oct.12 Nov.12 Dec.12 1 6/Jan 4.86 Neto as EDPR CEO 2 2/Feb EDPR discloses 2011 provisional operating data 4.42 Volume Preço 3 28/Feb EDPR announces Mr. João Manso Neto as new CEO 4.04 4 28/Feb EDPR discloses its 2011 annual results 4.04 Capital Market Indicators 5 5/Mar EDPR executes project finance for 125 MW in Spain 3.93 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 6 12/Apr EDPR holds its Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 3.50 EDPR Shares in NYSE Euronext Lisbon (EUR) EDPR announces the new Executive Committe leaded 7 12/Apr 3.50 by Mr. João Manso Neto Opening price 4.73 4.34 6.63 5.00 8.00 8 18/Apr EDPR discloses 1Q2012 provisional operating data 3.40 Closing price 3.99 4.73 4.34 6.63 5.00 EDPR informs that Mrs. Ana Maria Fernandes resigned from member of EDPR Board of Directors and appoints Peak price 4.86 5.25 7.01 7.75 8.00 9 8/May 3.43 by cooption Mr. João Marques da Cruz as member of such Board Minimum price 2.31 3.89 3.72 5.00 3.45 10 9/May EDPR discloses 1Q2012 financial results 3.45 Variation in Share Price and Reference Indices 11 22/May EDPR holds its Investor Day in Oporto 3.18 EDP Renováveis -16% 9% -35% 33% -37% 12 5/Jun EDPR informs on management transactions 2.82 PSI20 3% -28% -10% 33% -51% 13 21/May EDPR informs on management transactions 3.00 Dow Jones Eurostoxx -9% -25% -15% -1% -38% Utilities 14 11/Jul EDPR discloses 1H2012 provisional operating data 2.73 Liquidity of EDPR Shares in the Market 15 25/Jul EDPR discloses 1H2012 financial results 2.34 Volume in NYSE Euronext 697.9 1 ,060.3 1 ,539.2 1 ,676.0 1 ,646.0 16 30/Jul EDPR executes project finance for 57 MW in Belgium 2.51 (EUR million) Daily average volume (EUR Wind sector and Portuguese Government reached 2.7 4.1 6.0 6.4 11.0 million) 17 3/Sep agreement for the extension of the remuneration 3.02 framework Number of shares traded 207.5 232.3 311.2 257.0 216.0 (million) EDPR informs that Mr. Nogueira Leite and Mr. Francisco 18 4/Sep Lacerda have presented their resignation from 3.01 Daily Average traded 0.8 0.9 1.2 1.0 1.5 members of the Board of Directors shares (million) EDPR informs that Mr. Luís Adão da Fonseca has Total shares issued 872.3 872.3 872.3 872.3 872.3 19 24/Sep presented his resignation from member of the Board 3.99 (million) of Directors Number of own shares EDPR starts the construction of its first Solar PV (million) 20 26/Sep 3.48 projects Free-float shares (million) 196.3 196.3 196.3 196.3 196.3 21 17/Oct EDPR discloses 9M2012 provisional operating data 3.82 Annual rotation of capital 24% 27% 36% 29% 25% 22 6/Nov EDPR discloses 9M2012 financial results 3.80 (% of total shares) Annual rotation of capital EDPR reached na agreement with Borealis to sell a 49% 106% 118% 159% 131% 110% (% of free-float) 23 6/Nov equity shareholding in a portfolio of wind farm assets in 3.80 the US for $230m EDPR Market Value (EUR million) 24 7/Nov EDPR clarifies yesterday announcement 3.77 Market capitalisation at 3,484 4 ,124 3,783 5, 783 4,364 end of period EDPR agreed with Vestas Wind Systems A/S to extend 25 9/Nov until 2015 the delivery period of the turbines covered by 3.79 the 1,500 MW master supply agreement 26 10/Dec EDPR executes project finance for 57 MW in Romania 3.89 EDPR agrees with CTG on the first investment in 27 20/Dec 4.14 minority stakes in wind farms 120 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : III.9 DIVIDEND POLICY through a joint venture with EDP – Energias do Brasil, S.A., for the development, construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities The distribution of dividends must be proposed by EDPR ’s Board of or activities related to wind, solar, wave and/or tidal power, and Directors and authorized by a resolution approved in the Company’s other renewable energy generation technologies that may be Shareholders Meeting. In keeping with the legal provisions in developed in the future. Nonetheless, the agreement excludes force, namely the Spanish Companies Law, the EDPR Articles of technologies being developed in hydroelectric power, biomass, Association require that profits for a business year consider: cogeneration, and waste in Portugal and Spain. • The amount required to serve legal reserves; It lays down the obligation to provide EDP with any information that it may request from EDPR to fulfill its legal obligations and • The amount agreed by the same General Shareholders’ Meeting prepare the EDP Group’s consolidated accounts. to allocate to dividends of the outstanding shares; The framework agreement shall remain in effect for as long as • The amount agreed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting to EDP directly or indirectly owns more than 50% of the share capital constitute or increase reserve funds or free reserves; of EDPR or appoints more than 50% of its Directors. • The remaining amount shall be booked as surplus. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT SERVICES AGREEMENT The expected dividend policy of EDPR, as announced in the On November 4th, 2008 EDP and EDPR signed an Executive EDPR Investor Day of May 22nd, 2012, is to propose dividend Management Services Agreement that was renewed on May 4th, distribution each year from 2013-15, representing 25% to 35% of 2011 and effective from March 18th, 2011 and renewed again on May EDPR’s distributable profit. Accordingly, for 2013, EDPR’s Board 10th, 2012. of Directors proposes a dividend of EUR 34,892,326.48, or €0.04 per share, which corresponds to a pay-out ratio of 28% on the Through this contract, EDP provides management services to EDP consolidated results of EDPR net profit of 2012. Renováveis, including matters related to the day-to-day running of the Company. Under this agreement EDP nominates four people III.10 SHARE GRANTS OR STOCK OPTION from EDP to be part of EDPR’s Management: i) two Executive PLANS Managers which are members of the EDPR Executive Committee and (ii) two Non-Executive Managers, for which EDP Renováveis EDPR currently has no share grant or stock option plans. pays EDP an amount defined by the Related Party Committee, and Therefore, this chapter it is not applicable. approved by the Board of Directors and the Shareholders Meeting. III.11 TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN THE Under this contract, EDPR is due to pay an amount of COMPANY AND MEMBERS OF THE EUR 1,295,000.00, corresponding to the fixed and variable COMPANY’S GOVERNING BODIES OR remuneration, for the management services rendered in 2012. GROUP COMPANIES The term of the contract is on June 21st 2014. During 2012, EDPR has not signed any contracts with the members of its corporate bodies or with holders of qualifying holdings, FINANCE AGREEMENTS AND GUARANTEES excluding EDP, as mentioned below. The finance agreements between EDP Group companies and EDPR Regarding related-party transactions, EDPR and/or its subsidiaries Group companies were established under the above described have signed the contracts detailed below with EDP – Energias de Framework Agreement and currently include the following: Portugal, S.A. (hereinafter, EDP) or other members of its group not belonging to the EDPR subgroup. LOAN AGREEMENTS The contracts signed between EDPR and its related parties are EDPR (as the borrower) has loan agreements with EDP Finance analyzed by the Related-Party Transactions Committee according BV (as the lender), a company 100% owned by EDP – Energias de to its competences, as mentioned on chapter II.3 C) of the report. Portugal, S.A.. Such loan agreements can be established both in EUR and USD, usually have a 10-year tenor and are remunerated at FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT rates set at an arm’s length basis. As at December 31st, 2012, such loan agreements totalled EUR 1,451,042,386 and USD 1,986,641,541. The framework agreement was signed by EDP and EDPR on May 7th, 2008 and came into effect when the latter was admitted COUNTER-GUARANTEE AGREEMENT to trading. The purpose of the framework agreement is to set out the principles and rules governing the legal and business A counter-guarantee agreement was signed, under which EDP relations existing when it came into effect and those entered into or EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, sucursal en subsequently. España (hereinafter guarantor or EDP Sucursal) undertakes on behalf of EDPR, EDP Renewables Europe SLU (hereinafter The framework agreement establishes that neither EDP nor the EDPR EU), and EDPR North America LLC (hereinafter EDPR EDP Group companies other than EDPR and its subsidiaries can NA) to provide corporate guarantees or request the issue of engage in activities in the field of renewable energies without any guarantees, on the terms and conditions requested by the the consent of EDPR. EDPR shall have worldwide exclusivity, subsidiaries, which have been approved on a case by case basis by with the exception of Brazil, where it shall engage its activities the EDP executive board. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 121 : corporate governance : EDPR will be jointly liable for compliance by EDPR EU and with the short term positions in the North American, Polish, and EDPR NA. The subsidiaries of EDPR undertake to indemnify Romanian subsidiaries, fixing the exchange rate for EUR/USD, the guarantor for any losses or liabilities resulting from EUR/PLN and EUR/RON in accordance to the prices in the forward the guarantees provided under the agreement and to pay a market in each contract date. As of December 31st 2012, the fee established in arm’s length basis. Nonetheless, certain following amounts remained outstanding. guarantees issued prior to the date of approval of these agreements may have different conditions. As of December • EUR/USD, with EDP Servicios Financieros España for a total 31st, 2012, such counter-guarantee agreements totalled EUR amount of USD 329,000,000.00; 155,169,622 and USD 573,208,391. • EUR/RON, with EDP SA for a total amount of RON There is another counter-guarantee agreement signed, under 297,813,400.20; which EDP Energias do Brasil, SA or EDPR undertakes on behalf of EDPR Brasil, to provide corporate guarantees or request the • EUR/PLN, with EDP SA for a total amount of PLN issue of any guarantees, on the terms and conditions requested 533,594,285.30. by the subsidiaries, which have been approved on a case by case basis by the EDPR Executive Committee. Each party undertakes to HEDGE AGREEMENTS – COMMODITIES indemnify the other pro-rata to its stake of any losses or liabilities resulting from the guarantees provided under the agreement and EDP and EDPR EU entered into hedge agreements for a total to pay a fee established in arm’s length basis. As of December 31st volume of 1,599 MWh for 2012 at the forward market price at the 2012, such counter-guarantee agreements totaled in terms of fees time of execution related with the expected sales of energy in the from EDPR to EDP – Energias do Brasil of BRL 291,105,540. Spanish market. CURRENT ACCOUNT AGREEMENT TRADEMARK LICENSING AGREEMENT EDP Sucursal and EDPR signed an agreement through which EDP On May 14th 2008, EDP and EDPR signed an agreement under Sucursal manages EDPR’s cash accounts. The agreement also which the former granted to the latter a non-exclusive license for regulates a current account between both companies, remunerated the trademark “EDP Renováveis” for use in the renewable energy on arm’s length basis. As of December 31st 2012, there are market and related activities. three different current accounts with the following balance and counterparties: In return for the granting of the trademark license, EDPR will pay to EDP fees calculated on the basis of the proportion of the costs • in USD, with EDP Sucursal for a total amount of USD pertaining to the former in the Group’s annual budget for image 137,229,686.66 in favor of EDPR; and trademark services, which are subject to annual review. The fee established for 2012 was EUR 1,500,000. • in EUR, with EDP Sucursal for a total amount of EUR 49,884,584.07 in favor of EDPR; The license is granted indefinitely and shall remain in effect until the expiry of EDP’s legal ownership of the trademark or until EDP • in EUR, with EDP Servicios Financieros España for a total ceases to hold the majority of the capital or does not nominate amount of EUR 62,137,593.97 in favor of EDPR. the majority of Directors of EDPR. EDP may also terminate the agreement in case of non-payment or breach of contract. The agreements in place are valid for one year as of date of signing and are automatically renewable for equal periods. The licensing agreement is restricted by the terms of the framework agreement. CROSS CURRENCY INTEREST RATE SWAPS CONSULTANCY SERVICE AGREEMENT Due to the net investment in EDPR NA, EDPR Brazil, and Polish companies, EDPR’s accounts were exposed to the foreign On June 4th, 2008, EDP and EDPR signed a consultancy service exchange risk. With the purpose of hedging this foreign exchange agreement. Through this agreement, and upon request by EDPR, risk, EDPR settled the following Cross Currency Interest Rate EDP (or through EDP Sucursal) shall provide consultancy services Swap (CIRS): in the areas of legal services, internal control systems, financial reporting, taxation, sustainability, regulation and competition, risk • in USD and EUR, with EDP Sucursal for a total amount of USD management, human resources, information technology, brand and 2,632,613,000.00; communication, energy planning, accounting and consolidation, corporate marketing, and organizational development. • in BRL and EUR, with EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A.l for a total amount of BRL 118,000,000.00; The price of the agreement is calculated as the cost incurred by EDP plus a margin. For the first year, it was fixed at 8% based on • in PLN and EUR, with EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. for a total an independent expert on the basis of market research. For 2012 amount of PLN 544,376,188.00. the estimated cost of these services is EUR 6,658,273,00. This was the total cost of services provided for EDPR, EDPR EU, and HEDGE AGREEMENTS – EXCHANGE RATE EDPR NA. EDP Sucursal and EDPR entered into several hedge agreements The duration of the agreement is one (1) year tacitly renewable for with the purpose of managing the transaction exposure related equal periods. 122 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT The amount to be paid to EDP for the services provided in 2012 totalled EUR 479,476.21. On May 13th, 2008, EDP Inovação, S.A. (hereinafter EDP Inovação), an EDP Group company, and EDPR signed an agreement regulating The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year from date of relations between the two companies regarding projects in the signing and it is tacitly renewed for a new period of one (1) year. field of renewable energies (hereinafter the R&D Agreement). Either party may renounce the contract with one (1) month notice. The object of the R&D Agreement is to prevent conflicts of interest and foster the exchange of knowledge between companies REPRESENTATION AGREEMENT WITH HIDROELÉTRICA and the establishment of legal and business relationships. The DEL CANTÁBRICO S.A. FOR THE EDP RENOVÁVEIS, agreement forbids EDP Group companies other than EDP Inovação S.A. PORTFOLIO IN SPAIN to undertake or invest in companies that undertake the renewable energy projects described in the agreement. On October 27th, 2011 EDPR and Hidroeletrica del Cantábrico S.A. signed an Agreement for Representation services. The R&D Agreement establishes an exclusive right on the part of EDP Inovação to project and develop new renewable energy The object of this agreement was to provide EDPR representation technologies that are already in the pilot or economic and/or services in the market and risk management for a fix tariff based commercial feasibility study phase, whenever EDPR exercises its in volume (0,12€/MWh) in the electricity market. option to undertake them. The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year from date of The agreement shall remain in effect for as long as EDP directly or signing and it is tacitly renewed for a new period of one (1) year. indirectly maintains control of more than 50% of both companies or nominate the majority of the members of the Board and CONSULTANCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP Executive Committee of the parties to the agreement. RENOVÁVEIS BRASIL S.A., AND EDP ENERGIAS DO BRASIL S.A. MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP RENOVÁVEIS PORTUGAL S.A. The object of the agreement is to provide to EDP Renováveis AND EDP VALOR – GESTÃO INTEGRADA DE Brasil S.A. (hereinafter EDPR Brasil) the consultancy services RECURSOS, S.A. described on the contract and its attachments by EDP – Energias do Brasil S.A. (hereinafter EDP Brasil). Through this agreement, On January 1st, 2003, EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A., holding and upon request by EDPR Brasil, EDP Brasil shall provide company of the EDPR subgroup in Portugal, and EDP Valor – consultancy services in the areas of legal services, internal control Gestão Integrada de Recursos, S.A. (hereinafter EDP Valor), an systems, financial reporting, taxation, sustainability, regulation EDP Group company, signed a management support service and competition, risk management, human resources, information agreement. technology, brand and communication, energy planning, accounting and consolidation, corporate marketing, and organizational The object of the agreement is the provision to EDP Renováveis development. Portugal by EDP Valor of services in the areas of procurement, economic and financial management, fleet management, property The amount to be paid to EDP Brasil for the services provided in management and maintenance, insurance, occupational health and 2012 totalled BRL 246,330,09. safety, and human resource management and training. The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year from date of The remuneration paid to EDP Valor by EDP Renováveis Portugal signing and it is tacitly renewed for a new period of one (1) year. and its subsidiaries for the services provided in 2012 totalled EUR 952,127.36. SUPPLY SERVICES AND INFRA-STRUCTURES AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP RENEWABLES EUROPE The initial duration of the agreement was five (5) years from date S.L.U, HIDROCANTÁBRICO DISTRIBUCIÓN ELÉCTRICA of signing and it was tacitly renewed for a new period of five (5) S.A.U AND HIDROCANTÁBRICO EXPLOTACIÓN DE years on January 1st, 2008. REDES S.A.U Either party may renounce the contract with one (1) year’s notice. On January 10th, 2012 EDPR Europe S.L.U, Hidrocantábrico Distribución Eléctrica S.A.U (HCDE) and Hidrocantábrico INFORMATION TECHONOLOGY MANAGEMENT Explotación de Redes S.A.U signed a supply services and infraSERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN EDP RENOVÁVEIS structures agreement. S.A. AND EDP – ENERGIAS DE PORTUGAL, S.A. The object of this agreement is the provision to EDPR Europe On January 1st, 2010 EDPR and EDP signed an IT management S.L.U of communication services and technical assistance related services agreement. to the infra-structures of energy production. The object of the agreement is to provide to EDPR the information The amount to be paid to HCDE for the services provided in 2012 technology services described on the contract and its attachments totalled EUR51,560.26. by EDP. The initial duration of the agreement is one (1) year from date of signing and it is tacitly renewed for a new period of one (1) year. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 123 : corporate governance : III.12 TRANSACTIONS WITH QUALIFIED information is of fundamental importance to an accurate SHAREHOLDERS perception of the company’s strategy, financial situation, accounts, assets, prospects, risks, and significant events. During 2012, EDPR has not signed any contracts with other holders of qualifying holdings other than EDP, as mentioned EDPR, therefore, looks to provide investors with information above. However, there was a contract signed between EDPR and that can support them in making informed, clear, and concrete China Three Gorges (CTG), qualified shareholder of EDP, but not investment decisions. of EDPR, for the acquisition of 49% of the share capital of EDP Renewables Portugal (EDPR subsidiary). Transaction closing is An Investor Relations Office was created to ensure a direct and pending on regulatory approval. For this transaction EDPR’s Audit permanent contact with all market related agents and stakeholders, and Control Committee issued a favorable opinion as referred on to guarantee the equality between shareholders and to prevent Recommendation IV.1.2 of CMVM. imbalances in the information access. III.13 INTERVENTION OF THE SUPERVISORY The EDPR Investor Relations Department is the intermediary BODY IN THE PREVIOUS ASSESSMENT OF between EDPR and its actual and potential shareholders, the TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN THE COMPANY financial analysts that follow the Company’s activity, all investors, AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS and the financial market agents in general. The main purpose of the department is to guarantee the principle of equality among The contracts signed between EDPR and its Shareholders are shareholders, prevent asymmetries in access to information, analyzed by the Related-Party Transactions Committee according and reduce the market perception gap of the company’s strategy to its competences, as mentioned on chapter II.3 C) of the report and intrinsic value. The department responsibility encompasses and the Audit and Control Committee. According with Article 9º developing and implementing EDPR’s communication strategy and nº 1 c) of the Related-Party Transactions Committee Regulation, preserving an appropriate institutional and informative relationship the committee ratifies, in the correspondent term according with the financial market, the stock exchange at which EDPR to the necessities of each specific case, the transactions shares trade, and the regulatory and supervisory entities (CMVM between Qualifying Holdings other than EDP with entities from – Comissão de Mercado de Valores Mobiliários – in Portugal and the EDP Renováveis Group whose annual value is superior to CMNV – Comisíon Nacional del Mercado de Valores – in Spain). EUR 1.000.000. This information is included on the annual report of the Audit and Control Committee regarding those cases that The company representative for relations with the market is needed a previous opinion from the committee. The mechanisms the Executive Board of Directors member, Mr. Rui Teixeira. The established on both committees regulation and also the fact that Investor Relation Department is coordinated by Mr. Rui Antunes one of the members of the Related-Party Transactions Committee and is located at the company’s head offices in Madrid, Spain. The is the President of the Audit and Control Committee constitutes department contacts are as follows: a relevant element for an adequate evaluation of the relations established between EDPR and third entities. IR Contacts Calle Serrano Galvache 56 Centro Empresarial Parque Norte Edificio Olmo – 7th Floor III.14 DESCRIPTION OF STATISTICAL DATA www.edprenovaveis.com (NUMBER, AVERAGE, AND MAXIMUM Phone: +34 902 830 700 Fax: +34 914 238 429 VALUE) FOR TRANSACTIONS SUBJECT E-mail: ir@edpr.com TO PRIOR INTERVENTION BY THE SUPERVISORY BODY During 2012, the EDPR management and the IR team held more The Related Party Transactions Committee and the Audit and than 200 meetings in the company’s offices and in 19 of the major Control Committee were informed that in 2012 the average value financial cities of Europe and of the US. and the maximum value regarding the transactions analyzed by the Committee was EUR 1,837,724.50 and EUR 6,658,273, respectively. EDPR is clearly aware of the importance of delivering clear and detailed information to the market on time. Consequently, EDPR The total value of the operations with the EDP Group in 2012 was publishes the company’s price sensitive information before the EUR21 million which corresponds to a 8.1% of the total value of opening of the NYSE Euronext Lisbon stock exchange through S&S, and EUR 262 million for total operational costs. CMVM’s information system, and simultaneously, we make that same information available on the website investors’ section and III.15 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE AUDIT through the IR department’s mailing list. AND CONTROL COMMITTEE On each earnings announcement, EDPR promotes a conference Information available on chapter II.4. call and webcast, at which the Company’s management updates the market on EDPR’s activities. On each of these events shareholders, III.16 INVESTOR RELATIONS DEPARTMENT investors, and analysts had the opportunity to directly submit their questions and to discuss EDPR’s results as well as the company’s EDPR seeks to provide to shareholders, investors, and outlook. stakeholders all the relevant information about the Company and its business environment. The promotion of transparent, The IR Department of EDPR was in permanent contact with consistent, rigorous, easily accessible, and high‑quality the financial analysts who evaluated the Company and with all 124 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : shareholders and investors by e‑mail, phone, or face‑to‑face Company Analyst Price Target Recommendation meetings. In 2012, as far we are aware, the sell‑side analysts Banesto António Cruz-Guzmán 6,75 Overweight issued more than 200 reports evaluating EDPR’s performance. Bank of America Julie Dollé 5,00 Buy Merrill Lynch ANALYSTS Barclays Capital Monica Girardi 4,00 Equalweight BBVA Daniel Ortea 4,15 Market Perform At the end of the 2012, as far as the company is aware of, there were 24 institutions elaborating research reports and following Millenium BCP Vanda Mesquita 5,30 Buy actively the Company’s activity. As of December 31st, 2012, the Espirito Santo Fernando Garcia 4,95 Buy average price target of those analysts was of EUR 4.66 per BPI Flora Trindade 5,15 Buy share with most of them reporting “Buy” recommendations on EDPR’s share: 17 Buys, 5 Neutrals and only 1 analyst with rating Caixa BI Helena Barbosa Suspended suspended. Cheuvreux Jose Porta 4,52 Outperform Citigroup Andrew Smith 4,60 Buy ONLINE INFORMATION: WEBSITE AND E-MAIL Deutsche Bank Virginia Sanz de Madrid 4,80 Buy EDPR considers online information a powerful tool in the Fidentiis Daniel Rodríguez 4,93 Buy dissemination of material information, and accordingly updates Goldman Sachs Fred Barasi 4,30 Neutral its website with all the relevant documents. Apart from all HSBC Sean Mcloughlin 3,75 Overweight the required information by CMVM and CNMV regulations, the Company website also carries financial and operational updates of JP Morgan Sarah Laitung 4,70 Overweight EDPR’s activities ensuring all an easy access to information. Macquarie Shai Hill 4,40 Outperform Morgan Stanley Carolina Dores 4,80 Overweight Portuguese English Spanish Natixis Philippe Ourpatian 3,83 Neutral Identification of the company √ √ √ Nomura Javier Suarez 3,90 Buy Financial statements √ √ √ Regulations of the management and Redburn Partners Archie Fraser 5,00 Buy √ √ √ supervisory bodies Sabadell Jorge González 5,02 Buy Audit Committee Annual report √ √ √ Santander Joaquin Ferrer 4,90 Buy Investor Relations Department √ √ √ functions and contact details Société Générale Jorge Alonso 3,86 Hold Articles of association √ √ √ UBS Alberto Gandolfi 4,50 Buy Calendar of company events √ √ √ Invitation to General Meeting √ √ √ Proposal submitted for discussion and √ √ √ voting at General Meetings Minutes of the General Shareholders' √ √ √ Meeting EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 125 : corporate governance : III.17 REMUNERATION OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR (EUR) Portugal Spain Brazil USA Other Total % Audit and statutory audit of accounts and financial 177,000 633,974 68,170 790,791 411,581 2,081,517 83% statements Other assurance and reliability services (*) 40,000 54,440 30,677 11,730 136,847 5% Sub-total audit related services 217,000 688,414 68,170 821,469 423,311 2,218,364 89% Tax consultancy services 164,111 31,627 195,738 8% Other services unrelated to statutory auditing 10,500 29,510 40,000 80,010 3% Sub-total non-audit related services 10,500 193,621 31,627 40,000 275,748 11% Total 227,500 882,035 68,170 853,095 463,311 2,494,112 100% (*) The fees of Portugal regarding the inspection of the Internal Control System (SCIRF) includes the Spanish subsidiaries in Spain (EUR20,000) and of EDPR NA (EUR 20,000) , as their invoices were issued in this country. In EDPR there is a policy of pre-approval by the Audit and Control • Review of the transparency report, signed by the Auditor and Committee for the selection of the External Auditor and any related disclosed at its website. This report covers the matters provided entity for non-audit services, according to Recommendation III.1.5 for under article 62A of Decree-Law no. 224/2008, including of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Code. This policy was those regarding the quality control internal system of the audit strictly followed during 2012. firm and the quality control procedures carried out by the competent authorities; The services, other than auditing services, provided to the Company by the External Auditor and entities in a holding • Definition of the Company’s hiring policy concerning persons relationship with or incorporated in the same network as who have worked or currently work with the External Auditors; the External Auditor were previously approved by the Audit Committee, upon review of each specific service, which • Review, with the External Auditors, of the scope, planning, and considered the following aspects: (i) such services having no resources to be used in their services; effect on the independence of the External Auditor and any safeguards used; and (ii) the position of the External Auditor in • Responsibility for the settlement of any differences between the provision of such services, notably the External Auditor’s the Executive Committee and the External Auditors concerning experience and knowledge of the Company. financial information. Furthermore, although hiring services other than auditing services Within this context, it should be particularly stressed that External to the External Auditor is admissible, it is envisaged as an Auditor independence was safeguarded by the implementation of exception. In this way, as referred to above, in 2012 such services the Company’s policy on pre-approval of the services to be hired reached only around 5% of the total amount of services provided to to External Auditors (or any entity in a holding relationship with or the Company. incorporating the same network as the External Auditors), which results from the application of the rules issued by SEC on this In order to safeguard the independence of the External Auditors, matter. According to such policy, the Audit Committee makes an the following powers of the Audit Committee were exercised overall pre-approval of the services proposal made by the External during the 2012 financial year and should be highlighted: Auditors and a specific pre-approval of other services that will eventually be provided by the External Auditors, particularly tax • Nominate and hire the External Auditors and responsibility for consultancy services and services other than “audit and audit establishing their remuneration as well as pre-approval of any related” services. services to be hired from the External Auditors; III.18 REFERENCE TO THE ROTATION PERIOD • Direct and exclusive supervision by the Audit Committee; OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR • Assessment of the qualifications, independence, and EDPR’s External Auditor is, since the year 2007, KPMG Auditores performance of the External Auditors, and obtaining, yearly S.L.. The external auditor is currently in its second mandate of and directly from the External Auditors, written information on three years, therefore there is still no need to rotate the auditor all relations existing between the Company and the Auditors according to Recommendation III.1.3 of the Portuguese Corporate or associated persons, including all services rendered and all Governance Code. services in progress; in fact, the Audit Committee, in order to evaluate independence, obtained from the External Auditors information on their independence in light of article 62B of Decree-Law no. 224/2008 of 20 November 2008, which amends the articles of association of the Chartered Accountant Professional Association; 126 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : ANNEX I MAIN POSITIONS HELD BY MEMBERS OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS NOME Position ANTÓNIO MEXIA Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. (CEO) Member of the General Supervisory Board of Banco Comercial Portugues S.A. JOÃO MANSO NETO Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board of the Operador del Mercado Ibérico de Energía, Polo Español (OMEL) Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. NUNO ALVES Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. (CFO) JOÃO MARQUES DA CRUZ Chief Executive Officer of EDP Renováveis, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis, S.A. Member of the Board of EDP Internacional, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors of CEM – Macao Electrical Company Member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. RUI TEIXEIRA Chief Financial Officer of EDP Renováveis, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis, S.A. JOÃO PAULO COSTEIRA Chief Operating Officer for Europe and Brazil of EDP Renováveis, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis, S.A. GABRIEL ALONSO IMAZ Chief Operating Officer for North America of EDP Renováveis, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of EDP Renováveis, S.A. GILLES AUGUST Co-founder of August & Debouzy. Manages the firm’s corporate department. JOÃO LOPES RAIMUNDO Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. (OMIP SGPS) Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Banque BCP Luxembourg Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Banque BCP France Member of the Board of Directors of Banque Privée BCP Switzerland Managing Director of Banco Comercial Português Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Millennium Angola Member of the Board of Directors of Banco Millennium BCP de Investimento Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Millennium Bank, NA (USA) Member of the Board of Directors of CIMPOR Cimentos de Portugal SGPS, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors of BCP Holdings USA, Inc JOÃO MANUEL DE MELLO FRANCO Director of Portugal Telecom SGPS, SA Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A Member of the Remunerations Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A. Member of the Evaluation Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A. Member of the Corporate Governance Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A. Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Sporting Clube de Portugal S.A.D. JORGE SANTOS Full Professor of Economics at Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão (ISEG), da Universidade Técnica de Lisboa President of the Econimics Department (ISEG) Member of the Scientific Council of ISEG Coordinator of the MSc course in Economics at ISEG JOSÉ ARAÚJO E SILVA Director of Corticeira Amorim, SGPS, SA Member of the Executive Committee of Corticeira, SGPS, SA Director of Caixa Geral de Depósitos Member of the Board of RTP, Rádio Televisão de Portugal, S.A. MANUEL MENÉNDEZ MENÉNDEZ Chairperson and CEO of Liberbank S.A. Chairperson of Banco de Castilla-La Mancha Chairperson of Cajastur Chairperson of Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. Chairperson of Naturgas Energía, S.A. Member of the Board of EDP Renewables Europe, SL Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis, S.A. Member of the Board of Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorro Member of the Board of CECABANK Member of the Board of UNESA RAFAEL CALDEIRA VALVERDE Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, S.A. Member of the Executive Committee of Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, S.A. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 127 : corporate governance : ANNEX II CURRENT MAIN POSITIONS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN COMPANIES NOT BELONGING TO THE SAME GROUP AS EDP RENOVÁVEIS, S.A. OR EDP – ENERGIAS DE PORTUGAL, S.A. Name Position ANTÓNIO MEXIA Member of the General Supervisory Board of Banco Comercial Portugues S.A. JOÃO MANSO NETO Member of the Board of the Operador del Mercado Ibérico de Energía, Polo Español(OMEL) Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. NUNO ALVES N/A JOÃO MARQUES DA CRUZ N/A RUI TEIXEIRA N/A JOÃO PAULO COSTEIRA N/A GABRIEL ALONSO IMAZ N/A GILLES AUGUST Co-founder of August & Debouzy. Manages the firm’s corporate department. JOÃO LOPES RAIMUNDO Member of the Board of OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. (OMIP SGPS) Director of CIMPOR Cimentos de Portugal SGPS, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors of BCP Holdings USA, Inc. Managing Director of Banco Comercial Português JOÃO MANUEL DE MELLO FRANCO Director of Portugal Telecom SGPS, SA Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A. Member of the Evaluation Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A. Member of the Corporate Governance Committee of Portugal Telecom SGPS, S.A. Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Sporting Clube de Portugal S.A.D. JORGE SANTOS Director of Fundação Económicas President of the General Assembly of IDEFE JOSÉ ARAÚJO E SILVA Consultant MANUEL MENÉNDEZ MENÉNDEZ Chairperson and CEO of Liberbank, S.A. Chairperson of Banco de Castilla-La Mancha Chairperson of Cajastur Member of the Board of Confederación Española de Cajas de Ahorro Member of the Board of CECABANK Member of the Board of UNESA RAFAEL CALDEIRA VALVERDE Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, S.A. Member of the Executive Committee of Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, S.A. 128 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : ANNEX III CURRENT POSITIONS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN COMPANIES BELONGING TO THE SAME GROUP AS EDP ENERGIAS DE PORTUGAL S.A. João João Manuel António Nuno Gabriel João Paulo Rui Manso Marques Ménendez Mexia Alves Alonso Costeira Teixeira Neto da Cruz Menéndez Balwerk Consultadoria Económica e Participações, M Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. Companhia de Electricidade de Macau – CEM, S.A. CBD EDP – Ásia Investimentos e Consultoria, Lda. CBD EDP – Ásia Soluções Energéticas Lda. CBD EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en PR PR PR PR España EDP Energia Ibérica S.A. D EDP Finance BV R R R EDP Gás.com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A. CBD EDP Inovacão, S.A. EDP Valor—Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. CBD EDP—Energias de Portugal, S.A. CEBD D D EDP—Energias do Brasil, S.A. CBD D EDP—Estudos e Consultoria, S.A. CBD EDP—Imobiliária e Participações, S.A. CBD Eléctrica de la Ribera de Ebro, SL CBD Energia RE, S.A. CBD Hidrocantábrico Energía, SAU CBD Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. VCBD CBD D Naturgás Energia Grupo, S.A. D CBD Sãvida—Medicina Apoiada, S.A. CBD SCS—Serviços Complementares de Saúde, S.A. CBD CEBD – Chairperson Executive Board of Directors CBD – Chairperson of the Board of Directors/ CEO – Chief Executive Officer D Director M Manager R – Representative PR Permanent Representative EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 129 : corporate governance : ANNEX III Current MAIN positions of the members of the Board of Directors in companies belonging to the same group AS EDP RENOVÁVEIS S.A. Manuel António João Manso João Gabriel João Paulo Ménendez Nuno Alves Rui Teixeira Mexia Neto Marques da Alonso Costeira Menéndez Cruz EDP Renewables Italia, SRL D EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd CEO D EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. CBD D D D EDP Renewables France SA CBD EDP Renewables North America LLC CEO EDP Renewables Polska, SP, z.o.o. D D EDP Renewables Romania SRL CBD EDP Renewables SGPS, S.A. CBD D EDP Renewables UK Ltd D D EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. CBD D D EDP Renováveis Portugal, SA CBD D ENEOP – Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. CBD ENEOP 2 S.A CBD Greenwind, S.A. CBD Operacão e Manutencão Industrial, S.A. D CBD – Chairperson of the Board of Directors CEO – Chief Executive Officer D Director MSB – Member of the Supervisory Board PGMS – President of the General Shareholders’ Meeting M – Manager NOTE: This Annex contains information regarding all the main companies of the EDPR Group. The information regarding all other affiliate companies where the members of the Board of Directors hold a position is available in the Annual Accounts on Note 38. 130 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : ANNEX IV of EDP Produção. In 2005 he was elected CEO at HC Energía, Chairman of Genesa and Member of the Board of Naturgas Energia and OMEL. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as member of BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and 20th February 2012. On February 28th, 2012, he was nominated Vice-Chairperson of the António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia Board of Directors and CEO of EDP Renováveis, S.A. (Chairperson) João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz Born in 1957, he received a degree in Economics from Université de Genève (Switzerland) in 1980, where he was also Assistant Born in 1961, he holds a degree in Management (1984) from Lecturer in the Department of Economics. He was a postgraduate Lisbon’s ISE at the Technical University of Lisbon Instituto lecturer in European Studies at Universidade Católica. He was also Superior de Economia da Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, an MBA a member of the governing boards of Universidade Nova de Lisboa (1989) from the Technical University of Lisbon Universidade and of Universidade Católica, where he was Director from 1982 Técnica de Lisboa, and a Post Graduation in Marketing and to 1995. Served as Assistant to the Secretary of State for Foreign Management of Airlines (1992) from the Bath University / Trade from 1986 until 1988. From 1988 to 1990, Antonio served as International Air Travel Association, UK. He began his career at Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors of ICEP (Portuguese the TAP Group in 1984 (Transportes Aéreos de Portugal) having Institute for Foreign Trade). From 1990 to 1998, he was Director of had several positions until becoming General Director. Between Banco Espírito Santo de Investimentos and, in 1998 was nominated 1997 and 1999 he was a Board Member of TAPGER. Between 2000 Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Gás de Portugal and and 2002, he was a member of the Board of several companies Transgás. In 2000, he joined Galp Energia as Vice-Chairperson of within CP – Portuguese Railways, namely EMEF. From 2002 and the Board of Directors. From 2001 to 2004, he was the Executive 2005, he became CEO of AirLuxor, an airline company, and from Chairperson of Galp Energia and Chairperson of the Board of 2005 to 2007 he was chairman and CEO of ICEP Instituto do Directors of Petrogal, Gás de Portugal, Transgás and TransgásComércio Externo de Portugal, a Portuguese state owned agency Atlântico. In 2004, was nominated Minister of Public Works, for international trade and promotion. Since March 2007, he has Transport and Communication for Portugal’s 16th Constitutional been a board member of EDP Internacional S.A. and in 2009 Government. He also served as Chairperson of the Portuguese he was nominated Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEM – Energy Association (APE) from 1999 to 2002, member of the Macao Electrical Company. He was nominated as a member of the Trilateral Commission from 1992 to 1998, Vice-Chairperson of the Executive Board of Directors on 20th February 2012. On May 8th, Portuguese Industrial Association (AIP), and Chairperson of the 2012, he was nominated Member of the Board of EDP Renováveis, General Supervisory Board of Ambelis. He was also a Government S.A. by cooption. representative to the EU working group for the trans-European network development. In January 2008, he was nominated Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves member of the General Supervisory Board of Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A. having before integrated the Superior Board of Born in 1958, he holds a degree in Naval Architecture and Marine this Bank. On 30th March 2006, was nominated Chairperson of Engineering (1980) and a Master in Business Administration (1985) EDP’s Executive Board of Directors to start the term of office on by the University of Michigan. In 1988, he joins the Planning and 30th June 2006. He was re-elected on 15th April 2009 and 20th Strategy Department of Millennium BCP and in 1990 becomes an February 2012. associate director of the bank’s Financial Investments Division. In 1991, Mr. Nuno Alves is appointed as the Investor Relations João Manuel Manso Neto Officer for the group and in 1994 he joins the Retail network as (Vice-Chairperson CEO) Coordinating Manager. In 1996, he becomes Head of the Capital Markets Division of Banco CISF, currently Millennium BCP Born in 1958, he graduated in Economics from Instituto Superior Investimento, and, in 1997, Co Head of the bank’s Investment de Economia (1981) and received a post-graduate degree in Banking Division. In 1999, Mr. Nuno Alves is appointed as Chairman European Economics from Universidade Católica Portuguesa and CEO of CISF Dealer, the brokerage arm of Banco CISF. Since (1982). He also completed a professional education course 2000, before his appointment as EDP’s Chief Financial Officer in through the American Bankers Association (1982), the academic March 2006, Mr. Nuno Alves acted as an Executive Board Member component of the Master’s Degree programme in Economics at the of Millennium BCP Investimento, responsible for BCP Group Faculty of Economics, Universidade Nova de Lisboa and, in 1985, Treasury and Capital Markets. He was appointed on 30th March the “Advanced Management Program for Overseas Bankers” at the 2006 as member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office Wharton School in Philadelphia.From 1981 to 1995 he worked at began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009 and Banco Português do Atlântico, occupying several positions, manly 20th February 2012. as Head of the International Credit Division, and General Manager responsible for Financial and South Retail areas.From 1995 to 2002 he worked at the Banco Comercial Português, where he held the posts of General Manager of Financial Management, General Manager of Large Corporates and Institutional Businesses, General Manager of the Treasury, member of the Board of Directors of BCP Banco de Investimento and Vice-Chairman of BIG Bank Gdansk in Poland. From 2002 to 2003, he was a member of the Board of Banco Português de Negócios. From 2003 to 2005 he worked at EDP as General Manager and Member of the Board EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 131 : corporate governance : Gabriel Alonso Imaz focussing on energy, shipping, and retail banking. From 2004 (COO North America) to 2007, he headed the corporate planning and control division within the EDP Group. In 2007 also served as Chief Financial Born in 1973, he has been working in the global wind energy Officer of EDP Renewables Europe SL (former NEO). He was industry for more than 15 years in several countries across nominated Chief Financial Officer of the Company in 2008. He is Europe, North America, and North Africa. He joined EDP in early also Member of the Board of Directors of several subsidiaries of 2007 as Managing Director for North America, where he led EDP’s the Company’s Group. entrance into the United States’ renewables arena through EDP’s acquisition of Horizon Wind Energy from Goldman Sachs, the He holds a Master of Science degree in naval architecture and largest renewable energy transaction to date. He was instrumental marine engineering from the Institute Superior Técnico de Lisboa in the creation, launch, and implementation of the initial public and a master in business and administration from the Universidade offering (IPO) of EDPR in June of 2008. He served in EDPR NA Nova de Lisboa. as Chief Development Officer (CDO) and Chief Operating Officer (COO), responsible for overseeing development, engineering, Gilles August construction, energy management, procurement, and operations and maintenance. He is currently Chief Executive Officer for He was born in 1957. Between 1984 and 1986, he practiced law EDP Renewables North America LLC (EDPR NA), member of the at Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley & Casey Executive Committee, and Member of the Board of Directors of Law Office in Washington DC. Between 1986 and 1991 he was an EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR). He is also member of the Executive Associate and later became Partner at Baudel, Salès, Vincent Committee and currently holds the role of Chair-Elect of the Board & Georges Law Firm in Paris. In 1991 he became a Partner at of Directors of the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA). Salès Vincent Georges, where he stayed until 1994. In 1995 he co-founded August & Debouzy Law firm where he is presently He holds a law degree and a Master of Science degree in working as the manager of the firm’s corporate department. economics, each from the University of Deusto in Spain, and has He has been a Lecturer at École Supérieure des Sciences completed the Advanced Management Program at The University Economiques et Commerciales and at Collège de Polytechnique of Chicago Booth School of Business. and is currently giving lectures at CNAM (Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers). He is Knight of the Lègion d’Honneur. Since João Paulo Nogueira de Sousa Costeira 2009, he has been a Non-Executive Director of EDPR’s Board (COO Europe) of Directors. Born in 1965, he was the Commercial Director of Portgás from He has a Master in Law from Georgetown University Law Center 1992 to 1998. In 1998 he entered Galpenergia Group (Portugal’s in Washington DC (1986); a Post-graduate degree in Corporate Law National Oil & Gas Company), where he held several positions from University of Paris II Phantéon, DEA (1984) and a Master in such as General Manager of Lisboagás (Lisbon’s Natural gás LDC), Private Law from the same University (1981). He graduated from Managing Director of Transgás Industria (Liberalized wholesale the Ècole Supérieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales customers), and Managing Director of Lusitaniagás (Natural (ESSEC). gas LDC). He also was a member of the Management Team of GalpEmpresas and Galpgás. In 2006 he became an Executive João José Belard da Fonseca Lopes Raimundo Board Member for Natural Gas Distribution and Marketing (Portugal and Spain). In 2007 he joined EDP Renováveis S.A., he was born in 1960. Between 1982 to 1985, he was a senior where he serves currently as Chief Operating Officer for Europe auditor of BDO—Binder Dijker Otte Co. Between 1987 to 1990, and Brazil, he’s a member of the Executive Committee and member he was a director of Banco Manufactures Hanover (Portugal), of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis S.A.. S.A., and between 1990 to 1993 he was a Member of the Boards of TOTTAFactor, S.A. (Grupo Banco Totta e Açores) and Valores He holds a degree in Electrical Engineering by the Faculdade Ibéricos, SGPS, S.A. In 1993, he held directorships with Nacional Engenharia da Universidade do Porto, and a Master in Business Factoring, da CISF—Imóveis and CISF Equipamentos. Between Administration by IEP/ESADE (Oporto and Barcelona). He 1995 and 1997 he was a director of CISF—Banco de Investimento also studied the Executive Development Program at École des and a Member of the Board of Directors of Nacional Factoring. HEC (Université de Lausanne, 1997), the Strategic Leadership In 1998, he was nominated to the Board of Directors of several Development Program at INSEAD (Fontainebleau, 2002) and the financial companies, including Leasing Atlântico, Comercial Advanced Management Program of IESE (Barcelona, 2004). Leasing, Factoring Atlântico, Nacional Leasing, and Nacional Factoring. From 1999 to 2000, he was a Member of the Board Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira of Directors of BCP Leasing, BCP Factoring, and Leasefactor (CFO) SGPS. From 2000 to 2003, he was nominated Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banque BCP (Luxemburg) and Chairman Born in 1972, he is a member of the Board of Directors of EDP of the Executive Committee of Banque BCP (France). Between Renováveis, S.A., a member of the Executive Committee, and is 2003 and 2006 he was a Member of the Board of Banque Privée the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. From 1996 to 1997, BCP (Switzerland) and was General Manager of BCP’s Private he was assistant director of the commercial naval department of Banking Division. From 2006 to 2009, he was a Member of the Gellweiler— Sociedade Equipamentos Maritimos e Industriais, Board of Directors of Banco Millennium BCP de Investimento, S.A. Lda. From 1997 to 2001, he worked as a project manager and and General Manager of Banco Comercial Português, S.A. . He ship surveyor for Det Norske Veritas, with responsibilities for also held a position until 2010 as Vice-Chairman of the General offshore structures, shipbuilding, and ship repair. Between Assembly Board of Millennium Angola. From 2009 to 2010 he 2001 and 2004, he was a consultant at McKinsey & Company, was nominated Vice-Chairman and CEO of Millenniumbcpbank, 132 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : NA (USA). From 2009 to 2012 he was a Member of the Board of committee for the elaboration of the Strategic Programme of Directors of CIMPORCimentos de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. Economic and Social Development for the Peninsula of Setúbal. Since 2007, he has been coordinator of the masters program in Currently, he is the Chairman of the Board of BCP Holdings (USA), economics. Since 2009, he has been President of the Economics Inc., General Manager of Banco Comercial Portugês, and Managing Department of Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão of the Director of its Investment Banking Division, Member of the Board Universidade Técnica de Lisboa (ISEG). In December 2011 he was of Directors of EDP Renováveis, S.A., and Member of the Board of elected president of the general assembly of IDEFE and is now OMIP – Operador do Mercado Ibérico (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. Since administrator of “Fundação Económicas”. Since 2008 he has 2008 he has been a Non-Executive Director of EDPR’s Board of been a NonExecutive Directors of EDPR’s Board of Directors, Directors, was member of the Nominations and Remunerations Chairperson of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee, Committee from 2008 till 2011, and in 2011 was nominated member and in 2011 was nominated member of the Audit and Control of the Audit and Control Committee. Committee He has an undergraduate degree in company management and He has an undergraduate degree in economics from Instituto administration from Universidade Católica Portuguesa de Lisboa Superior de Economia e Gestão, a master degree in economics and a master of business administration degree from INSEAD. from the University of Bristol and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Kent. He additionally has a doctorate degree João Manuel de Mello Franco in economics from the Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão of Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, and has consequently held He was born in 1946. Between 1986 and 1989, he was a member the positions of Professor Auxiliar and Professor Associado of the management council of Tecnologia das Comunicações, with Universidade Técnica de Lisboa. He has been nominated Lda. Between 1989 to 1994, he was chairperson of the board of as university professor (catedrático) of Universidade Técnica directors of Telefones de Lisboa e Porto, S.A., and between 1993 de Lisboa and is the President of the Department of Economics to 1995 he was chairperson of Associação Portuguesa para o at ISEG. Desenvolvimento das Comunicações. From 1994 to 1995, he was chairperson of the board of directors of Companhia Portuguesa José Fernando Maia de Araújo e Silva Rádio Marconi and additionally, was chairperson of the board of directors of Companhia Santomense de Telecomunicações e da Born in 1951, he began his professional career as an assistant Guiné Telecom. From 1995 to 1997, he was vice-chairperson of lecturer at Faculdade de Economia do Porto and in 1987 and 1988 the board of directors and CEO of Lisnave (Estaleiros Navais) he was responsible for the “Gestão Financeira Internacional” S.A. Between 1997 and 2001, he was CEO and in the last year degree at the same University. From 1980 to 1983 he held a chairperson of the board of directors of Soponata and was a part-time position as technician for Comissão de Coordenação director and member of the audit committee of International da Região Norte., and from 1991 he was invited to be a lecturer at Shipowners Reinsurance, Co S.A. Between 2001 and 2004, he Universidade Católica do Porto.He has since held the position of was vice-chairperson of José de Mello Imobiliária SGPS, S.A. director of several companies, including of Banco Espírito Santo Since 1998, he has been a director of Portugal Telecom SGPS, e Comercial de Lisboa and Soserfin— Sociedade Internacional de S.A., chairperson of the audit committee since 2007, member of Serviços Financeiros—Oporto group. He has been involved in the the corporate governance committee since 2006, and member of finance and management coordination of Sonae Investimentos the evaluation committee since 2008. Since 2008 he has been a SGPS, was executive director of Sonae Participações Financeiras, Non-Executive Director of EDPR’s Board of Directors, Chairperson SGPS, S.A. and was vice-Chairperson of Sonae Indústria, SGPS, of the Audit and Control Committee, and member of the RelatedS.A. He has additionally held directorships with Tafisa, S.A., Party Transactions Committee. Spread SGPS, S.A. and Corticeira Amorim, SGPS. He presently serves on the board of directors of Caixa Geral de Depósitos, He was member of the remuneration committee of Portugal S.A, and is President of Caixa Seguros e Saúde, Caixa Leasing telecom, SGPS, SA between 2003 and 2008. and Factoring, and Locarent, as well as Non Executive Director in several other companies. Since 2008 he has been a NonFrom 2011 until 2012 he acted as chairperson of the audit Executive Director of EDPR’s Board of Directors. committee of Sporting Clube de Portugal S.A.D. He has an undergraduate degree in economics from the He has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from Faculdade de Economia do Porto and has obtained certificates Instituto Superior Técnico. He additionally holds a certificate in from Universidade de Paris IX, Dauphine and the Midland Bank strategic management and company boards and is the holder of a International banker’s course in London. grant of Junta de Energia Nuclear. Manuel Menéndez Menéndez Jorge Manuel Azevedo Henriques dos Santos He was born in 1960. He is Chairperson and CEO of Liberbank He was born in 1951. From 1997 to 1998, he coordinated the S.A., a financial institution formed by the integration of the committee for evaluation of the EC Support Framework II and was financial businesses of Caja de Ahorros de Asturias, Caja de a member of the committee for the elaboration of the ex-ante EC Extremadura, and Caja Cantabria, as well as Chairperson of Support Framework III. From 1998 to 2000, he was Chairperson Cajastur and Chairperson of Banco de Castilla-La Mancha. He is of the Unidade de Estudos sobre a Complexidade na Economia a member of the board of directors of CECA and CECABANK, on and from 1998 to 2002 was Chairperson of the scientific council behalf of Liberbank Group. He is also Chairperson of HC Energia of Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão of the Universidade and Naturgás Energía and member of the Board of Directors of Técnica de Lisboa. From 2001 to 2002, he coordinated the EDP RENOVÁVEIS S.A. and EDP Renewables Europe SLU, and of EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 133 : corporate governance : UNESA (the Spanish association of the electricity industry). Since 2008 he has been a Non-Executive Director of EDPR’s Board of Directors. He is a university professor in the Department of Business Administration and Accounting at the University of Oviedo; has a PhD in Economic Sciences and a degree in Economics and in Business Administration, both from the University of Oviedo. He has supervised several doctoral theses, developing research work, and has participated as a speaker in many courses and seminars. His main research areas are the efficiency in credit institutions, management control in decentralized companies, and those in sectors with regulated economies. He is also author of many books and technical articles about the aforementioned matters. Rafael Caldeira de Castel-Branco Valverde He was born in 1953. In 1987, he joined Banco Espírito Santo de Investimento, S.A. and was the Director responsible for financial services management, client management, structured financing management, capital markets management, and for the department for origination and information; between 1991 and 2005 he was also Director and Member of the Executive Committee. In March 2005, he was nominated as vice-chairperson of the board of Directors of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimento, S.A. and formed part of the executive committee of the company. He is Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors and Member of the Executive Committee of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimento, S.A. Director of BES Investimento do Brasil, S.A.; ESSI, SGPS, S.A.; ESSI COMUNICAÇÕES, SGPS, S.A.; ESSI INVESTIMENTOS, S.A. and Espírito Santo Investment Holdings Limited. Since 2008 he has been a Non-Executive Director of EDPR’s Board of Directors and member of the Nominations and Remunerations Committee. He has an undergraduate degree in economics from the Instituto de Economia da Faculdade Técnica de Lisboa. SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Emilio García-Conde Noriega Born in 1955, he joined Soto de Ribera Power Plant, which was owned by a consortium comprising Electra de Viesgo, Iberdrola and Hidrocantábrico, as legal counsel in 1981. In 1995, he was nominated general counsel of Soto de Ribera Power Plant and also chief of administration and human resources of the consortium. In 1999, he was nominated as legal counsel at Hidrocantábrico and in 2003 was nominated general counsel of Hidrocantábrico and also a member of its management committee. Presently serves as general counsel of the Company, as secretary of the Board, and is also Chairperson, Director and/or secretary on Boards of Directors of a number the Company’s subsidiaries in Europe. Holds a master in law from the University of Oviedo. 134 A World Full Of Energy : corporate governance : ANNEX V SHARES OF EDP RENOVÁVEIS S.A. OWNED BY MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS AT 31.12.2012 Board Member Direct Indirect TOTAL António Luis Guerra Nunes Mexia 3.880 320 4.200 João Manuel Manso Neto 0 0 0 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 5.000 0 5.000 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 1.200 0 1.200 Gabriel Alonso Imaz 26.503 0 26.503 João Paulo Nogueira de Sousa Costeira 3.000 0 3.000 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 12.000 370 12.370 Gilles August 0 0 0 João José Belard da Fonseca Lopes Raimundo 170 670 840 João Manuel de Mello Franco 380 0 380 Jorge Manuel Azevedo Henriques dos Santos 200 0 200 José Fernando Maia de Araújo e Silva 80 0 80 Manuel Menéndez Menéndez 0 0 0 Rafael Caldeira de Castel-Branco Valverde 0 0 0 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 135 financial statements financial statements 138 consolidated income statement 138 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 139 consolidated statement of financial position 140 consolidated statement of changes in equity 141 consolidated statement of cash flows 142 notes to the consolidated annual accounts 143 statement on compliance of financial information 215 statement on compliance on the system of internal control over financial reporting 216 auditor’s report on the consolidated annual accounts 217 audit report on the system of internal control over financial reporting 218 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated Income Statement for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Thousands of Euros Notes 2012 2011 Revenues 6 1,157,796 957,217 Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms 7 127,350 111,610 1,285,146 1,068,827 Other operating income / (expenses) Other operating income 8 63,116 84,544 Supplies and services 9 -261,810 -225,069 Personnel costs and employee benefits 10 -62,659 -60,832 Other operating expenses 11 -86,212 -66,732 -347,565 -268,089 937,581 800,738 Provisions 3 266 Depreciation and amortisation expense 12 -502,709 -468,493 Amortisation of deferred income (government grants) 12 15,231 14,986 450,106 347,497 Gains / (losses) from the sale of financial assets 2,766 10,499 Financial income 13 74,188 61,555 Financial expenses 13 -351,804 -305,685 Share of profit of associates 6,833 4,796 Profit before tax 182,089 118,662 Income tax expense 14 -46,039 -28,038 Profit for the year 136,050 90,624 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP Renováveis 29 126,266 88,604 Non-controlling interests 31 9,784 2,020 Profit for the year 136,050 90,624 Earnings per share basic and diluted Euros 28 0.14 0.10 The following notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts 138 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended at 31 December 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 Equity NonEquity Nonholders of -controlling holders of -controlling Thousands of Euros the parent Interests the parent Interests Profit for the year 126,266 9,784 88,604 2,020 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -38,469 -7,375 -10,827 -1,109 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 7,875 1,922 1,622 200 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -129 -82 -7,673 844 Actuarial gains / (losses) 14 17 Tax effect of actuarial gains/(losses) -4 -5 Exchange differences arising on consolidation 1,580 -6,861 -15,686 -1,357 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax -29,133 -12,396 -32,552 -1,422 Total comprehensive income for the year 97,133 -2,612 56,052 598 The following notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 139 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 Thousands of Euros Notes 2012 2011 Assets Property, plant and equipment 15 10,536,907 10,454,621 Intangible assets 16 24,915 21,819 Goodwill 17 1,301,930 1,311,845 Investments in associates 18 47,473 51,381 Available for sale financial assets 19 9,407 9,618 Deferred tax assets 20 89,378 55,558 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 23 55,153 64,211 Other debtors and other assets 24 299,653 185,324 Total Non-Current Assets 12,364,816 12,154,377 Inventories 21 16,209 23,751 Trade receivables 22 180,259 146,105 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 23 104,165 80,029 Other debtors and other assets 24 335,209 379,246 Current tax assets 25 55,089 41,288 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 389 211 Cash and cash equivalents 26 245,837 219,922 Total Current Assets 937,157 890,552 Total Assets 13,301,973 13,044,929 Equity Share capital 27 4,361,541 4,361,541 Share premium 27 552,035 552,035 Reserves 28 -74,385 -40,545 Other reserves and Retained earnings 28 458,202 365,531 Consolidated net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 126,266 88,604 Total Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 5,423,659 5,327,166 Non-controlling interests 29 325,168 126,559 Total Equity 5,748,827 5,453,725 Liabilities Medium / Long term financial debt 30 3,657,083 3,691,068 Employee benefits 222 163 Provisions 31 63,603 57,982 Deferred tax liabilities 20 380,592 381,468 Institutional partnerships in US wind farms 32 1,679,753 1,783,861 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 33 376,503 404,233 Other liabilities and other payables 34 258,824 189,250 Total Non-Current Liabilities 6,416,580 6,508,025 Short term financial debt 30 217,237 135,054 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 33 704,610 707,590 Other liabilities and other payables 34 157,876 189,119 Current tax liabilities 35 56,843 51,416 Total Current Liabilities 1,136,566 1,083,179 Total Liabilities 7,553,146 7,591,204 Total Equity and Liabilities 13,301,973 13,044,929 The following notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts 140 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the years ended at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 Equity attributable to equity Reserves holders NonTotal Share Share and retained Exchange Hedging Fair value of EDP -controlling Thousands of Euros Equity Capital Premium earnings Differences reserve reserve Renováveis Interests Balance as at 31 December 2010 5,393,511 4,361,541 552,035 363,643 -15,316 -4,913 10,980 5,267,970 125,541 Recognised income and expense for the year Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes -6,829 -1,268 -6,405 -7,673 844 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -10,114 -9,205 -9,205 -909 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes 12 12 12 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -17,043 -15,686 -15,686 -1,357 Profit for the year 90,624 88,604 88,604 2,020 Total recognised income and expense for the year 56,650 87,348 -15,686 -9,205 -6,405 56,052 598 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -3,419 -3,419 Share capital increase in EDP Renovaveis Brazil 1,493 1,493 Changes resulting from acquisitions / sales and equity increases 5,215 2,810 2,810 2,405 Other 275 334 334 -59 Balance as at 31 December 2011 5,453,725 4,361,541 552,035 454,135 -31,002 -14,118 4,575 5,327,166 126,559 Recognised income and expense for the year Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) net of taxes -211 -129 -129 -82 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -36,047 -30,594 -30,594 -5,453 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes 10 10 10 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -5,281 1,580 1,580 -6,861 Profit for the year 136,050 126,266 126,266 9,784 Total recognised income and expense for the year 94,521 126,276 1,580 -30,594 -129 97,133 -2,612 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -4,805 -4,805 Share capital increase in EDP Renovaveis Brasil 26,443 26,443 Sale without loss of control of Vento II (EDPR NA) 176,121 4,057 -3,224 -1,473 -640 176,761 Changes resulting from acquisitions / sales and equity increases 2,822 2,822 Balance as at 31 December 2012 5,748,827 4,361,541 552,035 584,468 -32,646 -46,185 4,446 5,423,659 325,168 The following notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 141 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Thousands of Euros 2012 2011 Cash flows from operating activities Cash receipts from customers 1,141,490 987,826 Cash paid to suppliers -285,247 -276,080 Cash paid to employees -68,893 -56,807 Other receipts / (payments) relating to operating activities -75,573 13,197 711,777 668,136 Income tax received / (paid) -45,465 -25,604 Net cash flows from operating activities 666,312 642,532 Continuing activities 666,312 642,532 Cash flows from investing activities Cash receipts resulting from: Proceeds from sale of financial assets 11,113 66,644 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2,273 40,075 Other proceeds related to fixed assets 489 605 Interest received 20,559 8,409 Dividends received 4,075 2,488 38,509 118,221 Cash payments resulting from: Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) and other investments -28,880 -262,944 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -612,495 -892,409 -641,375 -1,155,353 Net cash flows from investing activities -602,866 -1,037,132 Continuing activities -602,866 -1,037,132 Cash flows from financing activities Sale of non-controlling interests 175,687 3,879 Receipts/ (payments) of loans -4,413 147,987 Interest and similar costs -215,330 -164,089 Governmental grants received 4,817 2,587 Increases in capital and share premium 26,517 5,863 Receipts/ (payments) from derivative financial instruments 166 -5,726 Dividends paid -4,805 -7,365 Receipts / (Payments) from institutional partnership in US wind farms -15,159 141,111 Net cash flows from financing activities -32,520 124,247 Continuing activities -32,520 124,247 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 30,926 -270,353 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held -5,011 -10,364 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (*) 219,922 500,639 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (*) 245,837 219,922 (*) See Note 26 of the consolidated financial statements for a detailed breakdown of Cash and cash equivalents. The following notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Annual Accounts 142 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts 1. The business operations of the EDP Renováveis Group 144 2. Accounting policies 147 3. Critical accounting estimates and judgments in applying accounting policies 159 4. Financial risk management policies 160 5. Consolidation perimeter 163 6. Revenues 165 7. Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farm 165 8. Other operating income 166 9. Supplies and services 166 10. Personnel costs and employee benefits 167 11. Other operating expenses 167 12. Depreciation, amortisation expense and deferred income 168 13. Financial income and financial expenses 168 14. Income tax expense 169 15. Property, plant and equipment 170 16. Intangible assets 172 17. Goodwill 173 18. Investments in associates 175 19. Available for sale financial assets 176 20. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 177 21. Inventories 178 22. Trade receivables 178 23. Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 179 24. Other debtors and other assets 179 25. Current tax assets 180 26. Cash and cash equivalents 180 27. Capital 180 28. Reserves and retained earnings 181 29. Non-controlling interests 183 30. Financial debt 183 31. Provisions 184 32. Institutional partnerships in US wind farms 185 33. Trade and other payables from commercial activities 186 34. Other liabilities and other payables 186 35. Current tax liabilities 187 36. Derivative financial instruments 187 37. Commitments 190 38. Related parties 191 39. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 197 40. Relevant subsequent events 199 41. Recent accounting standards and interpretations used 200 42. Environment issues 203 43. Segmental reporting 203 44. Audit and non audit fees 204 Annex 1 205 Annex 2 213 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 143 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 1. THE BUSINESS OPERATIONS OF THE EDP RENOVÁVEIS GROUP EDP Renováveis, Sociedad Anónima (hereinafter referred to as “EDP Renováveis”) was incorporated on 4 December 2007. Its main corporate objective is to engage in activities related to the electricity sector, namely the planning, construction, operation and maintenance of electricity generating power stations, using renewable energy sources, mainly wind. The registered offices of the company are located in Oviedo, Spain. On 18 March 2008 EDP Renováveis was converted into a company incorporated by shares (Sociedad Anónima). As at 31 December 2012 the share capital is held 62.02% by EDP S.A. Sucursal en España ( EDP Branch ), 15.51% by Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. and 22.47% of the share capital is free-float in the NYSE Euronext Lisbon. As at 31 December 2012, EDP Renováveis holds a 100% stake in the share capital of EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (“EDPR EU”), a 100% stake in the share capital of EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. (“EDPR NA”), a 100% stake in the share capital of EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd. (“EDPR Canada”) and a 55% stake in the share capital of EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. ( EDPR BR ). The Company belongs to the EDP Group, of which the parent company is EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., with registered offices at Praça Marquês de Pombal, 12 4, Lisbon. In December 2011, China Three Gorges Corporation (CTG) acquired 780,633,782 ordinary shares in EDP from Parpública – Participaçoes Públicas SGPS, S.A., representing 21.35% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP Energías de Portugal S.A., a majority shareholder of the Company. The terms of the agreements through which CTG became a shareholder of the EDP Group stipulate that CTG would make minority investments totalling 2,000 million of Euros in the assets of the EDP Renováveis Group, representing 1.5 GW of installed capacity (900 MW in operation and 600 MW under construction). EDPR EU operates through its subsidiaries located in Portugal, Spain, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, Italy and United Kingdom. EDPR EU's main subsidiaries are: EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. (wind farms in Portugal), EDP Renovables España, S.L. (renewable resources electricity generation in Spain), EDP Renewables France (wind farms in France), EDP Renewables Belgium (wind farms in Belgium partnership with local investors), EDP Renewables Polska, SP.ZO.O (wind farms in Poland), EDP Renewables Romania, S.R.L. (wind farms in Romania), EDP Renewables Italy, SRL (wind farms in Italy) and EDPR UK Limited (offshore development projects). EDPR NA's main activities consist in the development, management and operation of wind farms in the United States of America and providing management services for EDPR Canada. The purpose of EDP Renováveis Brasil is to aggregate all the investments in the renewable energy market of Brazil. As at 31 December 2012, EDP Renováveis and its subsidiaries ( the Group or the EDP Renováveis Group ) had a fully consolidated installed capacity, as follows : Installed capacity MW 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 United States of America 3,637 3,422 Spain 2,310 2,201 Portugal 615 613 Romania 350 285 France 314 306 Poland 190 190 Brazil 84 84 Belgium 57 57 Italy 40 7,597 7,158 Additionally, through its interest in ENEOPEólicas de Portugal, S.A. is attributable to EDPR equity consolidated 390 MW (326 MW as at 31 December 2011). Regulatory framework for the activities in Spain The Electrical Sector in Spain is regulated by Law 54 of 27 November 1997 and subsequent amendments to legislation. On May 2007, the Spanish Government approved a Royal Decree (RD 661/2007) implementing the new regulatory framework for wind energy installations to be built from 2008 to 2012, and to which all operating assets would be exposed after 31 December 2012. 144 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 According to Royal Decree 661 of 25 May 2007, published on 26 May 2007, wind farms are entitled to choose between two remuneration schemes: (i) Fixed tariff and (ii) market plus premium: wind farms receive each hour the pool price plus a variable premium. Once the decision between the two schemes has been made for a specific wind farm, it is binding for, at least, one year. Wind farms installed before January 2008 are ruled by Royal Decree 661/2007 transitory regime, which in fact is similar to previous Royal Decree 436/2004. Under this transitory regime, that ends in December 2012, wind farms could choose between a fixed tariff and a market option receiving market price plus a fixed premium. On July 2010, the Industry Ministry established an agreement with two key renewable energy associations (the Spanish Wind Energy Association and Protermosolar) to amend the existing regulation. This agreement means the approval of the RD 1614/2010 of 7 December, that defines (i) a cut, for the years 2011 and 2012, of 35% of the renewable premium applicable to the wind capacity ruled by RD 661/2007, (II) an amendment to the article 44.3 of RD 661/2007 clarifying that future revisions to the premium value would only be applied to the capacity that comes on line after 2012 and (iii) the definition of a limit of 2,589 hours of installed capacity operation, from which the wind farm has no right to receive any premium if overall system equivalent hours is above 2,300 hours. The premium will be recovered from 2013 onwards. On 28 January 2012 the Spanish Government enacted Royal-Decree Law 1/2012 that approves a temporary suspension of the premium remuneration for renewable energy capacity not included in the pre-assignation registry. Although in practice, it does not affect the assets of EDP Renováveis. On December 2012, by means of Law15/2012 of 27 December, the Spanish Government approved 7% across-the-board tax on electricity generation, as well as new taxes on nuclear and large-scale hydropower, plus a new carbon levy. The tax will be applied from 2013 onwards. Regulatory framework for the activities in Portugal The Portuguese legal provisions applicable to the generation of electrical power based on renewable resources are currently established by Decree-Law No. 189/88 dated 27 May, as amended by Decree-Law No. 168/99 dated 18 May, Decree-Law No. 312/2001 dated 10 December , and Decree-Law No. 339-C/2001 dated 29 December. Also relevant is Decree-Law No. 33-A/2005, dated 16 February (“DL 33A/2005”), which establishes the current amounts used in the remuneration formula applicable to energy produced by means of renewable resources and the deadlines for the application of such remuneration formula. The Portuguese wind sector and the Portuguese Government reached an agreement in principles that maintains the legal stability of the current contracts (Decree-Law 33-A/2005) and protects the value of the investments made by the wind energy developers in the Portuguese economy. The wind farm operators can voluntarily invest to obtain further remuneration visibility, through the acquisition of a new tariff scheme to be applied upon the initial 15 years established by law. The proceeds will be used to reduce the overall costs of the Portuguese electricity system. In order to maximise the number of wind developers that voluntarily adheres to the extension of the remuneration framework the Government proposed four alternative tariff schemes to be elected by each of the wind developers, that include the following conditions: i) alternative cap and floor selling prices; ii) alternative durations to the new scheme beyond the initial 15 years of the current contracts; and consequently iii) alternative levels of investment (on a per MW basis) to acquire the new scheme. EDPR has chosen a 7-year extension of the tariff defined as the average market price of previous twelve months, with a floor of 74€/MWh and a cap of 98€/MWh values growing with inflation from 2021 onwards, in exchange of a payment of 5.800€/MW from 2013 to 2020. Regulatory framework for the activities in France The electricity industry in France is governed primarily by Act 2000-108 (amended by Acts 2004-803 and 2006-1537) (“Act 2000’), passed on 10 February 2000, which governs the modernization and development of public energy services and is the general legislative framework for the operation of wind facilities in France. Act 2000 provides that, operator of wind facilities may enter into long-term agreements for the purchase and sale of energy with Electricité de France (EDF). The tariffs are set by Order of July 10, 2006 which was repealed in August 2008 due to formal defect in its approval, and then republished without any amendment in December 2008. The tariffs are the following: i) during the first ten years of the EDF Agreement, EDF pays a fixed annual tariff, which is €82 per MWh for applications made during 2006 (tariff is amended annually based, in part, on a inflation-related index); ii) During years 11 to 15 of the EDF Agreement, the tariff is based on the annual average percentage of energy produced during the wind facility' s first ten years. These tariffs are also amended annually, based, in part, on a inflation-related index; iii) Beginning in the year 16, there is no specific support structure and the wind energy generators will sell their electricity at market price. On March 2012, the legality of the 2008 feed-in tariff ministerial order for wind farm projects was questioned before the French Council of State (Conseil dÉtat) on the basis that the required notification to the European Commission on State Aid was missed. On 15 May, the French Council of State decided to raise the issue for a preliminary ruling before the EU Court of Justice (is expected 12 to 18 months to solve). In the event that the tariff is finally cancelled, the French government has urged the Council of State the postponement of this eventual ruling until 2013 onwards, thus, no retroactive effects are expected. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 145 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Regulatory framework for the activities in the United States of America The United States federal government and various state governments have implemented policies designed to promote the growth of renewable energy, including wind power. The primary federal renewable energy incentive program is the Production Tax Credit (PTC), which was established by the U.S. Congress as part of 1992 EPACT. Additionally, many states have passed legislation, principally in the form of renewable portfolio standards (“RPS”), which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy supply from renewable sources, similar to the Renewable Energy Directive in the EU. On 1 January 2013, the US Congress approved the American Taxpayer Relief Act that included an extension of the PTC for wind, including the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit instead of the PTC. Congress set a new expiration date of 31 December 2013 and changed the qualification criteria (projects can now qualify as long as they are under construction by year-end 2013). The legislation also includes a depreciation bonus on new equipment placed in service which allows depreciation of a higher percentage of the cost of the project (less 50% of the ITC) in the year that it is placed in service. This bonus depreciation was 100% in 2011 and 50% for 2012. Regulatory framework for the activities in Poland The legislation applicable to renewable energy in Poland is primarily contained in an Energy Act passed on 10 April 1997, which has been amended by the Act of 24 July 2002 and the Energy Act of 2 April 2004, which came into effect in January 2005 (together, the ‘‘Energy Act’’). Pursuant to the Energy Act, power generation from renewable sources is supported. The following are forms of such support introduced in Poland: (i) A system of obligatory purchase of certificates of origin by the generation companies and trading companies selling electricity to the end user interconnected to a grid in Poland. These power companies are obliged to: a) obtain a certificate or origin and submit it to the ERA President for cancellation, or b) pay a substitute fee calculated in accordance with the Energy Act. ii) If the power company does not purchase certificates or origin or does not pay a substitute fee, the ERA President will penalize such company by the financial penalty calculated in accordance with the Energy Act. Regulatory framework for the activities in Belgium The regulatory framework for electricity in Belgium is conditioned by the the division of powers between the federal and the three regional entities: Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels-Capital. The federal regulatory field of competence includes electricity transmission (of transmission levels above 70 kV), generation, tariffs, planning and nuclear energy. The relevant federal legislation is the Electricity Act of 29 April 1999 (as modified) (the ‘‘Electricity Act’’). The regional regulatory entities are responsible for distribution, renewable energy and cogeneration (with the exception of offshore power plants) and energy efficiency. The relevant regional legislation, respectively, is: (a) for Flanders, the Electricity Decree of 17 July 2000; (b) for Wallonia, the Regional Electricity Market Decree of 12 April 2001; and (c) for Brussels-Capital, the Order of 19 July 2001 on the Organization of the Electricity Market. The Belgian regulatory system promotes the generation of electricity from renewable sources (and cogeneration) by a system of green certificates (each a ‘‘GC’’), as described below. The Belgian federal government is responsible for offshore power plants and for imposing obligations on the transmission system operators. The various GC systems are very similar across the three regions and are similar to the GC system for federally-regulated offshore power plants. There are currently differences in terms of quotas, fines and thresholds for granting GCs. On 21 March 2012, Walloon government approved a decree which fixes the quotas of GC until 2020. The new quotas are: (i) 19.4% in 2013; (ii 23.1% in 2014; (iii) 26.7% in 2015; (iv) 30.4% in 2016. For the period from 1 January 2017 until 31 December 2019, the yearly quotas will at the latest be fixed in 2014 on the basis of an evaluation carried out beforehand by the energy regulator of Wallonia (CWaPE). A new tax for wind generators has been approved in Wallonia last July. According to this regulation, all generators earning green certificates shall pay 0,54€/MWh. The energy regulator of Wallonia (CWaPE) will be the beneficiary of this tax, aimed at supporting the costs originated by green certificates management. Regulatory frameworks for the activities in Romania The promotion of electricity generated from renewable energy sources in Romania was set with the Electricity Law 318/2003. In 2005 a Green Certificate mechanism was introduced with mandatory quotas for suppliers, in order to comply with their EU renewable requirements.The regulatory authority establishes a fixed quota of electricity produced from RES which suppliers are obliges to buy, and, annually reviews applications form green generators in order to be awarded green certificates. Law 220/2008 of November, introduced some changes in the green certificates system. In particular, it allows wind generators to receive 2GC/MWh until 2015 . From 2016 onwards generators receive 1 green certificate for each MWh . The price of electricity is determined in the electricity market and the price of green certificates is determined on a separate market. The trading value of green certificates has a floor of 27€ and a cap of 55€, both indexed to Romanian inflation. Law 220/2008 also guarantees the access to the National Grid for the electricity produced from renewable sources. 146 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Law 220/2008 on renewable energy was amended by the Emergency Order 88/2011. A key aspect of this amendment was the overcompensation analysis which must be carried out on a yearly basis. ANRE shall monitor the producers benefiting from the support system and prepare annual reports on this regard. If overcompensation is found, ANRE will propose a reduction of the applicability period of the support scheme or the number of GCs initially granted to the technology. This reduction would be applied only to new plants. Law 123/2012 of 19 July 2012 on Electricity and Natural Gas eliminates the provision of bilateral contracts not publicly negotiated as a mean to sale electricity. Thus, trading of electricity must be carried out on a centralized market. On 4 September 2012, ANRE published the Order on Balancing Market. The new regulation has an impact for wind generation. On the one side, it states that for the energy reduced, the producer does not have the right to claim compensations for the loss of unproduced green certificates. This loss cannot be recovered. Also, new rules could result on larger balancing costs as the deficit price that wind generators have to face when the production is lower than the forecast may increase. Regulatory frameworks for the activities in Italy On 6 July 2012, the Government approved the new renewable regulation by means of the Decree on Renewables (DM FER) based on feedin-tariff support scheme. The key aspects of the new regulation provided by the DM FER are the following: (i) Wind farms over 5 MW will be remunerated under a feed-in tariff scheme defined by tenders; (ii) capacity to be tendered is set in different technologies’ capacity paths (only set until 2015); (iii) the reference tariff for 2013 is 127 €/MWh for onshore wind. Tender participants will bid offering discounts on a reference tariff (in %);(iv) The reference tariff will decrease 2% per year and will be granted for the whole average useful life of the renewable plant -20 years for onshore wind. The new system substitutes the previous one based on GCs. Under the previous system producers obtain their revenues from the sale of the electricity in the electricity market and from the sale of GCs. Wind farms built until December 2012 (with some exceptions) will continue to operate under the previous system until 2015 when the GC system will be transformed into a feed-in-premium. Regulatory frameworks for the activities in Brazil The Electrical Sector in Brazil is regulated by Federal Law nº 8,987 of 13 February 1995, which generally rules the concession and permission regime of public services; Law nº 9,074 of 7 July 1995, which rules the grant and extension of public services concession or permission contracts; Federal Law nº 10,438 of 26 April 2002, which governs the increase in Emergency Electric Power Supply and creates the 3,300 MW Program of Incentives for Alternative Electricity Sources (PROINFA); Federal Law nº 10,762 of 11 November 2003 and Law nº 10,848 of 15 March 2004, concerning commercial rules for the trade of Electric Power; and, subsequent amendments to the legislation. The Decree nº 5,025 of 30 March 2004, regulates the Federal Law nº 10,438 and states the Alternative Energy Sources economical and legal framework. PROINFA participants have granted a PPA with ELETROBRÁS, and are subject to the regulator (ANEEL) authority. However, the first stage of PROINFA has ended and the second stage is highly uncertain. After PROINFA program, renewable producers obtain their remuneration by participating in auctions where price is the only criteria. Winners of the auctions obtain a PPA contract at the price bid. Public Electricity Auctions are technically lead by the state “Energy Planning and Research Company” (EPE), who registers, analyses and allows potential participants. 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES a) Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated annual accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting records of EDP Renováveis, S.A. and consolidated entities. The consolidated financial statements for 2012 and 2011 have been prepared to present fairly the consolidated equity and consolidated financial position of EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the consolidated results of operations, consolidated cash flows and changes in consolidated equity for the years then ended. In accordance with Regulation (EC) no. 1606/2002 of 19 July 2002, from the European Council and Parliament, the Group's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union (EU). IFRS comprise accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ('IASB') and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and its predecessor bodies. The Board of Directors approved these consolidated annual accounts on 28 February 2013. The annual accounts are presented in thousands of Euros, rounded to the nearest thousand. The annual accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the application of fair value basis for derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading and available-for-sale, except those for which a reliable measure of fair value is not available. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 147 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the IFRS-EU requires the Board of Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and of the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and related assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors considered reasonable in accordance with the circumstances. They form the basis for making judgments regarding the values of the assets and liabilities whose valuation is not apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The areas involving the highest degree of judgment or complexity, or for which the assumptions and estimates are considered significant, are disclosed in Note 3 (Critical accounting estimates and judgments in applying accounting policies). Prior to 2012, amounts included in transaction costs related to institutional partnerships were included as a component of non-current Other debtors and other assets. In 2012, EDP Group included these transaction costs as a reduction of Institutional partnerships in USA wind farms instead of an asset. For consistency purposes, this presentation has been applied to all statements of financial position presented (see note 32). b) Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statments of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the noncontrolling interests to have a deficit balance. Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost. The cost of the investment includes transaction costs. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest, including any long-term investments, is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee. Jointly controlled entities Jointly controlled entities, consolidated under the proportionate consolidation method, are entities over whose activities the Group has joint control along with another company, under a contractual agreement. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's proportionate share of the joint ventures' assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, from the date the joint control begins until it ceases. Business combination From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2008) in accounting for business combinations. The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no material impact on earnings per share. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable. Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: • The fair value of the consideration transferred; plus • The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus • If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less • The net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 148 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred. Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Some business combinations in the period have been determined provisionally as the Group is currently in the process of measuring the fair value of the net assets acquired. The identifiable net assets have therefore initially been recognised at their provisional value. Adjustments during the measurement period have been recorded as if they had been known at the date of the combination and comparative information for the prior year has been restated where applicable. Adjustments to provisional values only include information relating to events and circumstances existing at the acquisition date and which, had they been known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date. After that period, adjustments to initial measurement are only made to correct an error. In business combinations achieved in stages, any excess of the consideration given, plus the fair value of the interest previously held in the acquiree, and the net assets acquired and net liabilities assumed is recognised as goodwill. Any shortfall, after measuring the consideration given to the previously held interest and identifying and measuring the net assets acquired, is recognised in profit and loss. The Group recognises the difference between the fair value of the interest previously held in the acquiree and its carrying amount in consolidated profit and loss, based on the classification of the interest. The Group also reclassifies amounts deferred in other comprehensive income in relation to the previously held interest to profit and loss or consolidated reserves, based on their nature. Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010 For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree. When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss. Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition. Accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (2008) in accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests. The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no impact on earnings per share. Under the new accounting policy, acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. Previously, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction. Investments in foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to Euro at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations, are translated to euro at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. When the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the translation reserve in equity. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 149 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Balances and transactions eliminated on consolidation Inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in those entities. Common control transactions The accounting for transactions among entities under common control is excluded from IFRS 3. Consequently, in the absence of specific guidance, within IFRSs, the EDP Renováveis Group has developed an accounting policy for such transactions, as considered appropriate. According to the Group's policy, business combinations among entities under common control are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the EDP consolidated book values of the acquired company (subgroup). The difference between the carrying amount of the net assets received and the consideration paid, is recognised in equity. Put options related to non-controlling interests IFRS-EU did not establish specific accounting treatment for commitments related to written put options related with investments in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests at the date of acquisition of a business combination. Nevertheless, the EDP Renováveis Group records these written put options at the date of acquisition of a business combination or at a subsequent date as an advance acquisition of these interests, recording a financial liability for the present value of the best estimate of the amount payable, irrespective of the estimated probability that the options will be exercised. The difference between this amount and the amount corresponding to the percentage of the interests held in the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Until 31 December 2009, in years subsequent to initial recognition, the changes in the liability due to the effect of the financial discount are recognised as a financial expense in the consolidated income statement, and the remaining changes are recognised as an adjustment to the cost of the business combination. Where applicable, dividends paid to minority shareholders up to the date the options are exercised are also recorded as adjustments to the cost of the business combination. In the event that the options are not exercised, the transaction would be recorded as a sale of interests to minority shareholders. As from January 2010, the Group applies IAS 27 (2008) to new put options related to non-controlling interests and there subsequent changes in the carrying amount of the put liability are recognised in profit or loss. c) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the period, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available-for-sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. d) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised on the trade date at fair value. Subsequently, the fair value of derivative financial instruments is re-measured on a regular basis, being the gains or losses on re-measurement recognised directly in the income statement, except for derivatives designated as hedging instruments. The recognition of the resulting gains or losses on re-measurement of the derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the risk being hedged and of the hedge model used. The fair value of derivatives correspond to their quoted market prices as provided by an exchange, or is determined by using net present value techniques, including discounted cash flows models and option pricing models, as appropriate. 150 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Hedge accounting The Group uses financial instruments to hedge interest and foreign exchange risks resulting from its operational and financing activities. The derivate financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recorded as for trading. The derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments are recorded at fair value, being the gains and losses recognised in accordance with the hedge accounting model adopted by the Group. Hedge accounting is used when: (i) At the inception of the hedge, the hedge relationship is identified and documented; (ii) The hedge is expected to be highly effective; (iii) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured; (iv) The hedge is revalued on a on-going basis and is considered to be highly effective over the reporting period; and (v) The forecast transactions hedged are highly probable and represent a risk to changes in cash flows that could affect the income statement. Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the risk being hedged. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the accumulated gains or losses concerning the fair value of the risk being hedged are amortised over the period to maturity. Cash flow hedge The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge model is recognised in equity. The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship are recognised in the income statement in the moment they occur. The cumulative gains or losses recognised in equity are also reclassified to the income statement over the periods in which the hedged item will affect the income statement. When the forecast transaction hedge results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, the gains or losses recorded in equity are included in the acquisition cost of the asset. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity at that time stays recognised in equity until the hedged transaction also affects the income statement. When the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses recognized in equity are recorded in the income statement. Net investment hedge The net investment hedge is applied on a consolidated basis to investments in subsidiaries in foreign currencies. The exchange differences recorded against exchange differences arising on consolidation are offset by the exchange differences arising from the foreign currency borrowings used for the acquisition of those subsidiaries. If the hedging instrument is a derivative, the gains or losses arising from fair value changes are also recorded against exchange differences arising on consolidation. The ineffective portion of the hedging relation is recognised in the income statement. e) Other financial assets The Group classifies its other financial assets at acquisition date in the following categories: Loans and receivable Loans and receivable are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently are measured at amortised cost less impairment losses. Impairment losses are recorded based on the valuation of estimated losses from non-collection of loans and receivable at the balance sheet date. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, and can be reversed if the estimated losses decrease in a later period. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category includes: (i) financial assets held for trading, which are those acquired principally for the purpose of being sold in the short term and (ii) financial assets that are designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 151 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Available-for-sale-investments Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale and that are not classified in any of the other categories. The Group’s investments in equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets. Initial recognition, measurement and derecognition Purchases and sales of: (i) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and (ii) available for sale investments, are recognised on trade date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs except for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, in which case these transaction costs are directly recognised in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when: (i) the contractual rights to receive their cash flows have expired, (ii) the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership or (iii) although retaining some, but not substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group has transferred the control over the assets. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Available for sale financial assets are also subsequently carried at fair value, however, gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the financial assets are derecognised or impaired, being the cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity recognised in the income statement. Foreign exchange differences arising from equity investments classified as available for sale are also recognised in equity. Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method and dividends, are recognised in the income statement. The fair values on quoted investments in active markets are based on current bid prices. For unlisted securities the Group determines the fair value through: (i) valuation techniques, including the use of recent arm’s length transactions or discounted cash flow analysis and (ii) valuation assumptions based on market information. Financial instruments whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost. Reclassifications between categories The Group does not reclassify, after initial recognition, a financial instrument into or out of the fair value through profit or loss category. Impairment At each balance sheet date an assessment is performed as to whether there is objective evidence of impairment, namely those resulting in an adverse effect on estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, and every time it can be reliably measured. If there is objective evidence of impairment, the recoverable amount of the financial asset is determined, and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after their initial recognition, such as: (i) in the case of listed securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the listed price of the security, and (ii) in the case of unlisted securities, when that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated amount of the future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, that can be reliably estimated. Evaluating the existence of objective evidence of impairment involves judgement, in which case the Group considers, among other factors, price volatility and current economic situation. Thus, when listed securities are concerned, it is considered as continuous a devaluation in the listed price of the security for a period over 24 months and as significant a devaluation of the security's value above 40%. If there is objective evidence of impairment on available-for-sale investments, the cumulative potential loss recognised in fair values reserves, corresponding to the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value at the balance sheet date, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred to the income statement. 152 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 For debt instruments, if in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss decreases, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed to the income statement up to the amount of the acquisition cost, if the increase is objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. In the case of equity instruments, impairment losses can not be reversed and any subsequent gain in fair value is recognised in equity under fair value reserves. f) Financial liabilities An instrument is classified as a financial liability when it contains a contractual obligation to transfer cash or another financial asset, independently from its legal form. These financial liabilities are recognised (i) initially at fair value less transaction costs and (ii) subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. The Group derecognises the whole or part of a financial liability when the obligations included in the contract have been satisfied or the Group is legally released of the fundamental obligation related to this liability either through a legal process or by the creditor. The Group considers that the terms are substantially different if the current value of cash flows discounted under the new terms, including any commission paid net of any commission received, and using the original effective interest rate to make the discount, differs by at least 10% of the current discounted value of cash flows remaining from the original financial liability. If the exchange is recognised as a cancellation of the original financial liability, costs or commissions are taken to the consolidated income statement. Otherwise, costs or commissions adjust the book value of the liability and are amortised following the amortised cost method over the remaining term of the modified liability. The Group recognises the difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability which has been cancelled or transferred to a third party) and the consideration paid, which includes any asset transferred other than cash or the liability assumed, with a debit or credit to the consolidated income statement. g) Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of assets are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. A qualifying asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. To the extent that funds are borrowed generally, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation are determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditures on these assets. The capitalisation rate corresponds to the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the enterprise that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during a period does not exceed the amount of borrowing costs incurred during the period. The capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when expenditures for the asset are being incurred, borrowing costs have been incurred and activities necessary to prepare all or part of the assets for their intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying assets for their intended use or sale are completed. Capitalisation of borrowing costs shall be suspended during extended periods in which active development is interrupted. h) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located. Cost also may include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment. The cost of acquisition includes interest on external financing and personnel costs and other internal expenses directly or indirectly related to work in progress accrued solely during the period of construction. The cost of production is capitalised by charging costs attributable to the asset as own work capitalised under financial expenses and personnel costs and employee benefit expense in the consolidated income statement. When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent costs are recognised as separate assets only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group. All repair and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. The Group assesses assets impairment, whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the impairment being recognised in the income statement. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 153 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The recoverable amount is determined by the highest value between the net selling price and its fair value in use, this being calculated by the present value of estimated future cash-flows obtained from the asset and after its disposal at the end of its economic useful life. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on the other assets is calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Number of years Buildings and other constructions 20 to 33 Plant and machinery Wind farm generation 25 Hydroelectric generation 20 to 30 Other plant and machinery 15 to 40 Transport equipment 3 to 10 Office equipment and tools 3 to 10 Other tangible fixed assets 4 to 10 In the second quarter of 2011 EDPR Group, based on a study performed by an independent entity, has changed the useful life of the wind farms from 20 to 25 years, with effect from 1 April 2011 (see note 3). i) Intangible assets The other intangible assets of the Group are booked at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The Group does not own intangible assets with indefinite lives. The Group assesses for impairment, whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the impairment being recognised in the income statement. The recoverable value is determined by the highest amount between its net selling price and its value in use, this being calculated by the present value of the estimated future cash-flows obtained from the asset and sale price at the end of its economic useful life. Acquisition and development of software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software. These costs are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives. Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable specific software applications by the Group, and that will probably generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. These costs include employee costs directly associated with the development of the referred software and are amortised using the straight-line method during their expected useful lives. Maintenance costs of software are charged to the income statement when incurred. Industrial property and other rights The amortisation of industrial property and other rights is calculated using the straight-line method for an expected useful live expected of less than 6 years. j) Impairment of non financial assets The carrying amounts of the Group's non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset's recoverable amount is then estimated. For goodwill the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the cash-generating unit ). The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units which are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. 154 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in circumstances that caused the impairment. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. k) Leases The Group classifies its lease agreements as finance leases or operating leases taking into consideration the substance of the transaction rather than its legal form. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers to the lessee substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating leases Lease payments are recognised as an expense and charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. l) Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of the acquisition cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories includes purchases, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated selling costs. The cost of inventories is assigned by using the weighted average method. m) Classification of assets and liabilities as current and non-current The Group classifies assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position as current and non-current. Current assets and liabilities are determined as follows: Assets are classified as current when they are expected to be realised or are intended for sale or consumption in the Group’s normal operating cycle, they are held primarily for the purpose of trading, they are expected to be realised within twelve months of the balance sheet date or are cash or a cash equivalent, unless the assets may not be exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months from the balance sheet date. Liabilities are classified as current when they are expected to be settled in the Group’s normal operating cycle, they are held primarily for the purpose of trading, they are due to be settled within twelve months of the balance sheet date or the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period. Financial liabilities are classified as current when they are due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, even if the original term was for a period longer than twelve months, and an agreement to refinance, or to reschedule payments, on a long-term basis is completed after the reporting period and before the consolidated financial statements are authorised for issue. n) Employee benefits Pensions EDP Renováveis Portugal, one of the portuguese companies of EDP Renováveis Group attribute post-retirement plans to their employees under defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, namely, pension plans that pay complementary old-age, disability and surviving-relative pension complements, as well as early retirement pensions. Defined benefit plans In Portugal, the defined benefits plan is financed through a restricted Pension Fund complemented by a specific provision. This Pension Fund covers liabilities for retirement pension complements as well as liabilities for early retirement. The pension plans of the Group companies in Portugal are classified as defined benefit plans, since the criteria to determine the pension benefit to be received by employees on retirement is predefined and usually depend on factors such as age, years of service and level of salary at the age of retirement. The liability of the Group with pensions is calculated annually, at the balance sheet date for each plan individually, by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The discount rate used in this calculation is determined by reference to interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liabilities. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 155 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Actuarial gains and losses determined annually and resulting from (i) the differences between financial and actuarial assumptions used and real values obtained and (ii) changes in the actuarial assumptions are recognised against equity, in accordance with the alternative method defined by IAS 19. The increase in past service costs arising from early retirements (retirements before the normal age of retirement) is recognised in the income statement when incurred. Annually the Group recognises as cost in the income statement the net amount of: (i) the current service cost, (ii) the interest cost, (iii) the estimated return of the fund assets and (iv) the cost arising from early retirements. Defined contribution plans In Spain, Portugal and United States of America, some Group Companies have social benefit plans of defined contribution that complement those granted by the social welfare system to the companies employees, under which they pay a contribution to these plans each year, calculated in accordance with the rules established in each plan. The cost related to defined contribution plans is recognised in the results in the period in which the contribution is made. Other benefits Medical care and other plans In Portugal some Group companies provide medical care during the period of retirement and early retirement, through complementary benefits to those provided by the Social Welfare System. These medical care plans are classified as defined benefit plans. The present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date is recognised as a defined benefit liability. Measurement and recognition of the liability with healthcare benefits is similar to the measurement and recognition of the pension liability for the defined benefit plans, described above. Variable remuneration to employees In accordance with the by-laws of certain Group entities, annually the shareholders approve in the annual general meeting a percentage of profits to be paid to the employees (variable remuneration), following a proposal made by the Board of Directors. Payments to employees are recognised in the income statement in the period to which they relate. o) Provisions Provisions are recognised when: (i) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, (ii) it is probable that settlement will be required in the future and (iii) a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Dismantling and decommissioning provisions The Group recognises dismantling and decommissioning provisions for property, plant and equipment when a legal or contractual obligation is settled to dismantling and decommissioning those assets at the end of their useful life. Consequently, the Group has booked provisions for property, plant and equipment related with wind turbines, for the expected cost of restoring sites and land to its original condition. The provisions correspond to the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation and are recognised as part of the initial cost or an adjustment to the cost of the respective asset, being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the asset useful life. The assumptions used are: EDPR EU EDPR NA Average cost per MW (Euros) 14,000 18,549 Salvage value per MW (Euros) 25,000 17,776 Discount rate 6.33% 5.38% Inflation rate 2.00% 2.50% Capitalisation (number of years) 25 25 With the change of the useful life of the wind farms from 20 to 25 years (see note 2 h) the capitalisation rate (number of years) of the dismantling and decommissioning provisions has changed to 25 years, with a prospective application from 1 April 2011. Decommissioning and dismantling provisions are remeasured on an annual basis based on the best estimate of the settlement amount. The unwinding of the discount at each balance sheet date is charged to the income statement. 156 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 p) Recognition of costs and revenue Costs and revenues are recorded in the year to which they refer regardless of when paid or received, in accordance with the accrual concept. Differences between amounts received and paid and the corresponding revenue and expenditure are recorded under other assets and other liabilities. Revenue comprises the amounts invoiced on the sale of products or of services rendered, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts, after elimination of intra-group sales. Revenue from electricity sales is recognised in the period that electricity is generated and transferred to customers. Engineering revenue includes the initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and can be measured reliably. As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue and expenses are recognised in profit or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract. Differences between estimated and actual amounts, which are normally not significant, are recorded during the subsequent periods. q) Financial results Financial results include interest payable on borrowings, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, unwinding of the discount of provisions and written put options to non-controlling interests, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on financial instruments and the accrual of tax equity estimated interest over outstanding liability. Interest income is recognised in the income statement based on the effective interest rate method. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity's right to receive payments is established. r) Income tax Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. s) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding the average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury stock. t) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups (groups of assets and related liabilities that include at least a non-current asset) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through sale and the assets or disposal groups are available for immediate sale and its sale is highly probable. The Group also classifies as non-current assets held for sale those non-current assets or disposal groups acquired exclusively with a view to its subsequent disposal, that are available for immediate sale and its sale is highly probable. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 157 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Immediately before classification as held for sale, the measurement of the non-current assets or all assets and liabilities in a disposal group, is adjusted in accordance with the applicable IFRS. Subsequently, these assets or disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount at fair value less costs to sell. u) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include balances with maturity of less than three months from the balance sheet date, including cash and deposits in banks. This caption also includes other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships that are funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships in U.S.A., in the next twelve months. v) Government grants Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income under non-current liabilities when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are recognised. w) Environmental issues The Group takes measures to prevent, reduce or repair the damage caused to the environment by its activities. Expenses derived from environmental activities are recognised as other operating expenses in the period in which they are incurred. x) Institutional partnerships in US wind farms The Group has entered in several partnerships with institutional investors in the United States, through limited liability company operating agreements that apportion the cash flows generated by the wind farms between the investors and the Company and allocates the tax benefits, which include Production Tax Credits (PTCs), Investment Tax Credits (ITC) and accelerated depreciation, largely to the investor. The institutional investors purchase their minority partnership interests for an upfront cash payment with an agreed targeted internal rate of return over the period that the tax credits are generated. This anticipated return is computed based on the total anticipated benefit that the institutional investors will receive and includes the value of PTC’s / ITC's, allocated taxable income or loss and cash distributions received. The control and management of these wind farms are a responsibility of EDPR Group and they are fully consolidated in these Financial Statements. The upfront cash payment received is recognised under Liabilities arising from institutional partnerships and subsequently measured at amortised cost. This liability is reduced by the value of tax benefits provided and cash distributions made to the institutional investors during the contracted period. The value of the tax benefits delivered, primarily accelerated depreciation and ITC are recognized as Income from institutional partnerships on a pro-rata basis over the 25 year useful life of the underlying projects (see note 7). The value of the PTC's delivered are recorded as generated. After the Flip Date, the institutional investor retains a small non-controlling interest for the duration of its membership in the structure. The non controlling interest is entitled to cash distribution and income allocation percentages varying from 2.5% to 6.0%, with the exception of Vento VI in which the institutional investor is allocated 17.0% of income. EDPR NA also has an option to purchase the institutional investor’s residual interest at fair market value on the Flip Date for PTC flip structures and generally, six months after the later of the 5-year anniversary of final turbine commissioning date or the Flip Date, or ten years after the final funding date if the Flip Date has not yet occured. The liability for residual interest is accreted on a straight line basis from the funding date through the Flip Date to reflect the institutional investors’ minority interest position in the EDPR Group at the Flip Date. The liability with institutional investors is increased by an interest accrual that is based on the outstanding liability balance and the targeted internal rate of return agreed. z) EDPR Group concession activities (IFRIC 12) The International Financial Reporting Commitee (IFRIC) issued in July 2007, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. This interpretation was approved by the European Commission on 25 March 2009 and is applicable for the annual periods beginning after that date. IFRIC 12 is applicable to the public-private concession contracts in which the public entity controls or regulates the services rendered through the utilisation of determined infrastructures as well as the price of these services and equally controls any significant residual interest in those infrastructures. 158 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 According to IFRIC 12, the infrastructures allocated to concessions are not recognised by the operator as tangible fixed assets or as financial leases, as the operator does not control the assets. These infrastructures are recognised according to one of the following accounting models, depending on the type of remuneration commitment of the operator assumed by the grantor within the terms of the contract: Financial Asset Model This model is applicable when the operator has an unconditional right to receive certain monetary amounts regardless of the level of use of the infrastructures within the concession and results in the recognition of a financial asset, booked at amortised cost. Intangible Asset Model This model is applicable when the operator, within the concession, is remunerated on the basis of the level of use of the infrastructures (demand risk) and results in the recognition of an intangible asset. Mixed Model This model is applicable when the concession includes simultaneously guaranteed remuneration and remuneration based on the level of use of the infrastructure within the concession. Under the terms of the contracts in place throughout the Group business, the Management of EDPR concluded that IFRIC 12 is not applicable. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The IFRS set forth a range of accounting treatments and require the Board of Directors to apply judgment and make estimates in deciding which treatment is most appropriate. The main accounting estimates and judgements used in applying the accounting policies are discussed in this note in order to improve the understanding of how their application affects the Group’s reported results and disclosures. A broader description of the accounting policies employed by the Group is disclosed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although estimates are calculated by the Company’s directors based on the best information available at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, future events may require changes to these estimates in subsequent years. Any effect on the financial statements of adjustments to be made in subsequent years would be recognised prospectively. Considering that in many cases there are alternatives to the accounting treatment adopted by EDP Renováveis, the Group’s reported results could differ if a different treatment was chosen. EDP Renováveis believes that the choices made are appropriate and that the financial statments are presented fairly, in all material respects, the Group’s financial position and results. The alternative outcomes discussed below are presented solely to assist the reader in understanding the financial statments and are not intended to suggest that other alternatives or estimates would be more appropriate. Impairment of available for sale investments The Group determines that available for sale investments are impaired when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost. This determination of what is significant or prolonged requires judgment. In making this judgment, the Group evaluates among other factors, the normal volatility in share price. In addition, valuations are generally obtained through listed market prices or valuation models that may require assumptions or judgment in making estimates of fair value. Alternative methodologies and the use of different assumptions and estimates could result in a higher level of impairment losses recognised with a consequent impact in the income statement of the Group. Fair value of derivatives Fair values are based on listed market prices, if available, otherwise fair value is determined either by dealer prices (both for that transaction or for similar instruments traded) or by pricing models, based on net present value of estimated future cash flows which take into account market conditions for the underlying instruments, time value, yield curves and volatility factors. These pricing models may require assumptions or judgments in estimating fair values. Consequently, the use of a different model or of different assumptions or judgments in applying a particular model may have produced different financial results for a particular period. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 159 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Review of the useful life of assets related to production The Group regularly reviews the useful life of its electrical generation installations in order to bring it into line with the technical and economic measurements of the installations, taking into consideration their technological capacity and prevailing regulatory restrictions. In the second quarter of 2011 EDPR Group has changed the useful life of the wind farms from 20 to 25 years (see note 2 h). The redefinition of the useful life of the wind generation assets was made based on a technical study performed by an independent entity which has considered the technical availability for an additional period of 5 years of useful life of these assets. The referred study has covered 95% of wind installed capacity of EDPR Group, in the different geographies (Europe and North America), considering assumptions and estimates that requires judgements. Impairment of non financial assets Impairment test are performed whenever there is an indication that the recoverable amount of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets is less than the corresponding net book value of assets. Considering that estimated recoverable amounts related to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill are based on the best information available, changes in the estimates and judgments could change the impairment test results which could affects the Group’s reported results. Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant interpretations and estimates are required in determining the global amount for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Different interpretations and estimates would result in a different level of income taxes, current and deferred, recognised in the period. Tax Authorities are entitled to review the EDP Renováveis, and its subsidiaries’ determination of its annual taxable earnings, for a determined period that may be extended in case there are tax losses carried forward. Therefore, it is possible that some additional taxes may be assessed, mainly as a result of differences in interpretation of the tax law. However, EDP Renováveis and those of its subsidiaries, are confident that there will be no material tax assessments within the context of the financial statements. Dismantling and decommissioning provisions The Board of Directors considers that Group has contractual obligations with the dismantling and decommissioning of property, plant and equipment related to wind electricity generation. For these responsibilities the Group has recorded provisions for the expected cost of restoring sites and land to its original condition. The provisions correspond to the present value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle the obligation. The use of different assumptions in estimates and judgments referred may have produced different results from those that have been considered. 4. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES The businesses of EDP Renováveis Group are exposed to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in market prices, foreign exchange and interest rates. The main financial risks lie essentially in its debt portfolio, arising from interest-rate and the exchange-rate exposures. The unpredictability of the financial markets is analysed on an on-going basis in accordance with the EDPR’s risk management policy. Financial instruments are used to minimize potential adverse effects resulting from the interest rates and foreign exchange rates risks on EDP Renováveis financial performance. The Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis is responsible for the definition of general risk-management principles and the establishment of exposure limits. The management of financial risks of EDP Renováveis Group is outsourced to the Finance Department of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., in accordance with the policies approved by the Board of Directors. The outsourcing service includes identification and evaluation of hedging mechanisms appropriate to each exposure. All transactions undertaken using derivative financial instruments require the prior approval of the Board of Directors, which defines the parameters of each transaction and approves the formal documents describing their objectives. 160 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Exchange-rate risk management EDP Group’s Financial Department is responsible for managing the foreign exchange exposure of the Group, seeking to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the net assets and net profits of the Group, using foreign exchange derivatives, foreign exchange debt and/or other hedging structures with symmetrical exposure characteristics to those of the hedged item. The effectiveness of these hedges is reassessed and monitored throughout their lives. EDPR operates internationally and is exposed to the exchange-rate risk resulting from investments in foreign subsidiaries. With the objective of minimizing the impact of exchange rates fluctuations, EDP Renováveis general policy is to fund each project in the currency of the operating cash flows generated by the project. Currently, the main currency exposure is the U.S. dollar, resulting from the shareholding in EDPR NA. With the increasing capacity in other geographies, EDPR is also becoming exposed to other currencies (Brazilian Real, Polish Zloty and Romanian Leu). To hedge the risk originated with net investment in EDPR NA, EDP Renováveis entered into a CIRS in USD/EUR with EDP Branch and also uses financial debt expressed in USD. Following the same strategy adopted to hedge these investments in USA, EDP Renováveis has also entered into two CIRS in BRL/EUR and two in PLN/EUR to hedge the investments in Brazil and Poland (see note 36). Sensitivity analysis Foreign exchange rate As a consequence a depreciation/appreciation of 10% in the foreign currency exchange rate, with reference to 31 December 2012 and 2011, would originate an increase/(decrease) in EDP Renováveis Group income statement and equity before taxes, as follows: 31 Dec 2012 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD / EUR 6,202 -7,581 PLN / EUR 11,628 -14,213 RON / EUR 5,957 -7,280 23,787 -29,074 31 Dec 2011 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD / EUR 10,516 -12,853 PLN / EUR 3,309 -4,044 RON / EUR 10,516 -12,853 3,309 -4,044 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely interest rates, remain unchanged. Interest rate risk management The Group’s operating cash flows are substantially independent from the fluctuation in interest-rate markets. The purpose of the interest-rate risk management policies is to reduce the exposure of debt cash flows to market fluctuations. As such, whenever considered necessary and in accordance to the Group's policy, the Group contracts derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks. In the floating-rate financing context, the Group contracts interest-rate derivative financial instruments to hedge cash flows associated with future interest payments, which have the effect of converting floating rate loans into fixed rate loans. All these hedges are undertaken on liabilities in the Group’s debt portfolio and are mainly perfect hedges with a high correlation between changes in fair value of the hedging instrument and changes in fair value of the interest-rate risk or upcoming cash flows. The EDP Renováveis Group has a portfolio of interest-rate derivatives with maturities between 1 and 14 years. The Financial Department of EDP Group undertakes sensitivity analyses of the fair value of financial instruments to interest-rate fluctuations or upcoming cash flows. About 92% of EDP Renováveis Group financial debt bear interest at fixed rates, including operations with financial instruments. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 161 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Sensitivity analysis Interest rates The management of interest rate risk associated to activities developed by the Group is outsourced to the Financial Department of EDP Group, contracting derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk. Based on the debt portfolio of the EDPR EU Group and the related derivative financial instruments used to hedge associated interest rate risk, as well as on the shareholder loans received by EDP Renováveis, a change of 100 basis points in the interest rates with reference to 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 would increase/(decrease) in EDP Renováveis Group income statement and equity before taxes, as follows: 31 Dec 2012 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros + 100 bp 100 bp + 100 bp 100 bp Cash flow hedge derivatives 44,406 -48,749 Unhedged debt (variable interest rates) -1,333 1,333 -1,333 1,333 44,406 -48,749 31 Dec 2011 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros + 100 bp 100 bp + 100 bp 100 bp Cash flow hedge derivatives 37,929 -40,540 Unhedged debt (variable interest rates) -1,839 1,839 -1,839 1,839 37,929 -40,540 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely foreign exchange rates, remain unchanged. Counter-party credit-rate risk management in financial transactions The EDP Renováveis Group policy in terms of the counterparty risk on financial transactions with companies outside EDP Group is managed by an analysis of the technical capacity, competitiveness, credit rating and exposure to each counter-party. Counterparties in derivatives and financial transactions are restricted to high-quality credit institutions or to the EDP Group. The EDP Renováveis Group documents financial operations according to international standards. Most derivative financial instruments contracted with credit institutions are engaged under ISDA Master Agreements. In the specific case of the EDPR EU Group, credit risk is not significant due to the limited average collection period for customer balances and the quality of its debtors. The Group’s main customers are operators and distributors in the energy market of their respective countries (OMEL and MEFF in the case of the Spanish market). In the specific case of EDPR NA Group, credit risk is not significant due to the limited average collection period for customer balances and the quality of its debtors. The Group’s main customers are regulated utility companies and regional market agents in the U.S. EDP Renováveis believes that the amount that best represents the Group's exposure to credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of Trade receivables and Other debtors, net of the impairment losses recognised. The Group believes that the credit quality of these receivables is adequate and that no significant impaired credits exist that have not been recognised as such and provided for. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the possibility that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group strategy to manage liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have significant liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group's reputation. The liquidity policy followed ensures compliance with payment obligations acquired, through maintaining sufficient credit facilities and having access to the EDP Group facilities. The EDP Renováveis Group undertakes management of liquidity risk through the engagement and maintenance of credit lines and financing facilities with its main shareholder, as well as directly in the market with national and international financial institutions, assuring the necessary funds to perform its activities. 162 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Market price risk As at 31 December 2012, market price risk affecting the EDP Renovavéis Group is not significant. In the case of EDPR NA, the great majority of the plants are under power purchase agreements, with fixed or escalating prices. In the case of EDPR EU the electricity is sold in Spain directly on the daily market at spot prices plus a pre-defined premium (regulated). Nevertheless, EDPR EU has an option of selling the power through regulated tariffs, granting minimum prices. In the remaining countries, prices are mainly determined through regulated tariffs. EDPR EU and EDPR NA have electricity sales swaps that qualify for hedge accounting (cash flow hedge) that are related to electricity sales for the year 2012 and 2013 (see note 36). The purpose of EDP Renováveis Group is to hedge a volume of energy generated to reduce its exposure to the energy price volatility. Capital management The Group’s goal in managing equity, in accordance with the policies established by its main shareholder, is to safeguard the Group’s capacity to continue operating as a going concern, grow steadily to meet established growth targets and maintain an optimum equity structure to reduce equity cost. In conformity with other sector groups, the Group controls its financing structure based on the leverage ratio. This ratio is calculated as net financial borrowings divided by total equity and net borrowings. Net financial borrowings are determined as the sum of financial debt, institutional equity liabilities corrected for non-current deferred revenues, less cash and cash equivalents. 5. CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER During the year ended in 31 December 2012, the changes in the consolidation perimeter of the EDP Renováveis Group were: Companies acquired: ● EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. acquired 100% of the share capital of Pietragalla Eolico S.R.L. (see note 17) and 85% of the share capital of Sibioara Wind Farm, S.R.L.; ● EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd. acquired 100% of the share capital of the following companies: 0867242 BC Ltd.; Eolia Renewable Energy Canada Ltd.; South Branch Wind Farm Inc. ● EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L. (incorporated during the year 2012) acquired 100% of the share capital of the following companies (see note 17): Cujmir Solar S.R.L.; Foton Delta S.R.L.; Foton Epsilon S.R.L.. Potelu Solar S.R.L.; Studina Solar S.R.L.; Vanju Mare Solar S.R.L. ● EDP Renewables Polska SP. ZO.O. acquired 60% of the share capital of J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O. and 100% of the share capital of Korsze Wind Farm SP. ZO.O. Companies sold and liquidated: ● EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. liquidated Horizon Wind Energy International, L.L.C.; ● EDPR Renovables España, S.L. liquidated Parque Eólico Plana de Artajona, SLU, Parque Eólico Montes de Castejón, S.L., Siesa Renovables Canarias, S.L.; Compañía Eléctrica de Energías Renovables Alternativas, SAL and Corporación Empresarial de Renovables Alternativas, SLU; ● Generaciones Especiales I, S.L. sold by 5,531 thousands of Euros all of its interests in the following companies which generated a gain of 2,857 thousands of Euros recognised against Gains/Losses on disposal of financial assets: 25% interest in Hidroastur S.A. (see note 18); 80% interest in Hidroeléctrica del Rumblar S.L. (see note 15); 100% interest in Hidroeléctrica Fuentermosa S.L. (see note 15); 75% in interest in Hidroeléctrica Gormaz S.A. (see note 15). ● A 49% share interest in 2007 Vento II, L.L.C. was sold by 175,687 thousands of Euros (225,721 thousands of US Dollar corresponding to a sale price of 230,000 thousands of US Dollar deducted of capital contributions and transaction fees amounting 2,800 and 1,478 thousands of US Dollar, respectively) with the subsequent loss of 49% share interest in the following companies (see note 29): Telocaset Wind Power Partners, L.L.C.; Post Oak Wind, L.L.C.; High Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C.; Old Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 163 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Companies merged: ● The following companies were merged into Desarrollos Eólicos Promoción S.A.U., which then changed its designation to EDP Renovables España, S. L.: Agrupación Eólica S.L.U.; Desarrollos Eólicos, S.A.; Ceasa Promociones Eólicas S.L.U.; Generaciones Especiales I, S.L.; Neo Catalunya S.L.; Santa Quiteria Energia, S.L.U.; Sinae Inversiones Eólicas S.A. Companies incorporated: ● 2012 Vento XI, L.L.C. *; ● Castellaneta Wind S.R.L.; ● Central Eólica Aventura, S.A.; ● Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão I, S.A.; ● Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão II, S.A.; ● Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão III, S.A.; ● Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão IV, S.A.; ● EDP Renewables SGPS, S.A.; ● EDP Renewables Belgium, S.A.; ● EDP Renewables Canada GP Ltd. *; ● EDP Renewables Canada LP Ltd.; ● EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L.; ● EDPR PT Promoção e Operação, S.A.; ● EDPR Wind Ventures XI, L.L.C. *; ● EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L.; ● Laterza Wind S.R.L..; ● MFW Gryf SP. ZO.O.; ● MFW Neptun SP. ZO.O.; ● MFW Pomorze SP. ; ● Monts de la Madeleine Energie, S.A.S.; ● Monts du Forez Energie, S.A.S.; ● SBWFI GP Inc. *; ● South Dundas Wind Farm LP *; ● Verde Wind Power L.L.C. * * EDP Renováveis Group holds, through its subsidiary EDPR NA and EDPR Canada, a set of subsidiaries in the United States and Canada legally incorporated without share capital and that as at 31 December 2012 do not have any assets, liabilities, or operating activity. During the year ended in 31 December 2011, the changes in the consolidation perimeter of the EDP Renováveis Group were: Companies acquired: ● EDPR Group, through its subsidiary EDPR UK, acquired 49% of the share capital of Seaenergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited.; ● EDPR Group, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, acquired 85% of the share capital of S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. Companies sold and liquidated: ● Generaciones Especiales I, S.L. dissolved and liquidated the subsidiary Sodecoan, S.L.; ● Generaciones Especiales I, S.L. sold the subsidiary Subgroup Veinco (see note 15); ● EDPR UK, sold an interest of 8.36% in the Moray Offshore Renewables Limited share capital for 4,033 thousands of Euros. As a consequence, the indirect shareholding in the subsidiaries MacColl Offshore Windfarm Limited, Stevenson Offshore Windfarm Limited and Telford Offshore Windfarm Limited have also been reduced in 8.36%; ● Agrupación Eólica, S.L.U. sold the subsidiary Neomai Inversiones SICAV, S.A. for 40,894 thousands of Euros; ● Sinae Inversiones Eólicas S.A., sold an interest of 1.25% in the Eólica Alfoz, S.L. share capital for 106 thousands of Euros. Companies merged: ● Farma Wiatrowa Wyszogrod, SP. ZO.O. was merged into Masovia Wind Farm I, S.P. ZO.O. 164 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Companies incorporated: ● 2011 Vento X, L.L.C.; ● Eastern Nebraska Wind Farm, L.L.C.*; ● EDP Renováveis Cantabria, S.L.; ● EDPR Wind Ventures X, L.L.C.; ● Paulding Wind Farm IV L.L.C.*; ● Pestera Wind Farm, S.A.; ● Pochidia Wind Farm, S.A.; ● Rush County Wind Farm, L.L.C.*; ● Villa Castelli Wind, S.R.L. * EDP Renováveis Group holds, through its subsidiary EDPR NA and EDPR Canada, a set of subsidiaries in the United States and Canada legally incorporated without share capital and that as at 31 December 2011 do not have any assets, liabilities, or operating activity. Other changes ● The Group EDPR increased its indirect holding from 47% to 61% in the share capital of Aplicaciones Industriales de Energias Limpias, S.L. through the subsidiary Santa Quitéria Energia, S.L.U.; ● The Group EDPR increased its indirect holding from 58% to 84% in the share capital of Desarrollo Eólico Santa Quitéria, S.L. through the subsidiary Aplicaciones Industriales de Energias Limpias, S.L.; ● The Group EDPR increased its indirect holding from 51% to 100% in the share capital of the companies Relax Wind Park II, SP. ZO.O. and Relax Wind Park IV, SP. ZO.O. through the subsidiary EDP Renewables Polska, S.P. ZO.O; ● The Group EDPR increased its indirect holding from 90% to 100% in the share capital of Eólica Sierra de Avila, S.L. through the subsidiary Sinae Inversiones Eólicas S.A. 6. REVENUES Revenues are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Revenues by business and geography: Electricity in Europe 773,070 634,518 Electricity in United States of America 355,508 302,890 Electricity, other 24,754 19,464 1,153,332 956,872 Other revenues 6,850 17,709 1,160,182 974,581 Services rendered 4,961 4,888 Changes in inventories and cost of raw material and consumables used: Cost of consumables used -292 -15,168 Changes in inventories -7,055 -7,084 -7,347 -22,252 Total Revenues 1,157,796 957,217 7. INCOME FROM INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN US WIND FARMS Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Income from institutional partnerships EDPR NA 127,350 111,610 127,350 111,610 Income from institutional partnerships EDPR NA, includes revenue recognition related to production tax credits (PTC), investments tax credits (ITC) and other tax benefits, mostly from accelerated tax depreciation related to projects Vento I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and X (see note 32). EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 165 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 8. OTHER OPERATING INCOME Other operating income is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Amortisation of deferred income related to power purchase agreements 9,888 10,334 Gain related with business combinations 32,393 51,695 Other income 20,835 22,515 63,116 84,544 The power purchase agreements between EDPR NA and its customers were valued, at the acquisition date, using discounted cash flow techniques. At that date, these agreements were valued based on market assumptions by approximately 120 millions of Euros (190.4 millions of USD) and recorded as a non-current liability (note 33). This liability is amortised over the period of the agreements against other operating income. As at 31 December 2012, the amortisation for the period amounts to 9,888 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 10,334 thousands of Euros). In 2012, EDPR Group carried out the purchase price allocation of several companies acquired which originated the recognition of an operating income of 29,754 thousands of Euros in EDPR Romania and 2,639 thousands of Euros in EDPR Italia (see note 17). These occasiona advantageous acquisitions were possible to execute mainly due to bargaining power of EDPR, ability to access funding and liquidity and, to a certain extend, the still developing nature of Romanian solar market which enables opportunistic favorable transactions. During 2010, the Group acquired 85% of EDP Renewables Italia, S.r.l (see note 17). The EDPR Group granted the seller a put option over the remanaining 15% of the interest which, in line with the Group's accounting policy, has been treated as an advance purchase. The acquisition cost recognised in the annual accounts for 2011 included the balance settled in cash, consideration contigent on the successful implementation of projects underway and an amount reflecting the fair value of the put option. The contigent consideration and the amount of the put option are both at fair value, based on the EDPR Group's best estimate at the purchase data (see note 34). In 2011, EDPR Italia increased its share capital. The minority shareholder, Energía in Natura, S.r.l., did not subscribe this increase. As a result, the percentage ownership on the non-controlling interests has fallen from 15% to 6.48% and the put option was reduced by the corresponding amount. Futhermore, at 2011 year end, the EDPR Group updated the fair value of the deferred amounts for the 2010 purchase (contigent consideration and put option), taking into account the information existing at year end which included a reduction in the estimated sales price of electricity to be produced and in the number of MW to be installed in the future. In light of the above, the EDPR Group has reduced the liability associated with the put option by 34,625 thousands of Euros and with the contigent consideration by 17,070 thousands of Euros, and recognised an other operating income for the year of 51,695 thousands of Euros (see note 34). 9. SUPPLIES AND SERVICES This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Supplies and services: Leases and rents 40,670 34,857 Insurance 13,875 12,842 Maintenance and repairs 143,250 126,601 Specialised works: IT Services, legal and advisory fees 16,599 13,152 Shared services 11,866 7,918 Other services 12,225 10,109 Other supplies and services 23,325 19,590 261,810 225,069 166 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 10. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Personnel costs and employee benefits is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Personnel costs Board remuneration 945 1,063 Remunerations 52,320 51,257 Social charges on remunerations 7,582 8,130 Employee's variable remuneration 8,937 15,104 Other costs 971 6,145 Own work capitalised -15,339 -23,466 55,416 58,233 Employee benefits Costs with pension plans 2,825 2,282 Costs with medical care plans and other benefits 3,320 317 Other 1,098 7,243 2,599 62,659 60,832 As at 31 December 2012, Costs with pension plans relates to defined contribution plans (2,802 thousands of Euros) and defined benefit plans (23 thousands of Euros). The average breakdown by management positions and professional category of the permanent staff as of 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Board members 14 17 14 17 Senior management / Senior officers 68 62 Middle management 504 453 Highly-skilled and skilled employees 221 206 Other employees 64 71 857 792 871 809 The companies of EDPR Group consolidated under the proportional consolidation method do not have contributed with employees (31 December 2011: 14 included in Other employees). The number of employees includes Management and all the employees of all the subsidiaries and associates. 11. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Other operating expenses are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Direct operating taxes 20,115 17,946 Indirect taxes 21,824 16,738 Losses on fixed assets 17,035 11,813 Lease costs related to the electricity generating centres 12,147 8,998 Other costs and losses 15,091 11,237 86,212 66,732 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 167 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 12. DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION EXPENSE AND DEFERRED INCOME This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Property, plant and equipment: Buildings and other constructions 1,801 1,592 Plant and machinery: Wind generation 433,518 415,583 Other plant and machinery 16 119 Office equipment and tools 10,253 6,714 Other tangible fixed assets 1,862 1,819 Impairment 53,401 5,058 500,851 430,885 Other intangible assets: Industrial property, other rights and other intangibles 1,858 2,120 Impairment of goodwill 35,488 502,709 468,493 Amortisation of deferred income: Government grants -15,231 -14,986 -15,231 -14,986 487,478 453,507 As a result of the recoverability assessment of the wind generation assets (see assumptions note 17), was booked an impairment of 45,617 and 7,784 thousands of Euros in EDPR EU and in EDPR NA, respectively (see note 15). In 2011, the caption Impairment of goodwill includes essentially, an impairment loss in EDPR Italia Group of 34,737 thousands of Euros resulting from the recoverability assessment of these assets based on the update of the assumptions in the estimates of MW to install and future energy prices (see notes 8 and 17). 13. FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES Financial income and financial expenses are analysed as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Financial income Interest income 16,770 10,844 Derivative financial instruments Interest 5,483 19,913 Fair value 24,321 8,980 Foreign exchange gains 27,010 20,578 Other financial income 604 1,240 74,188 61,555 Financial expenses Interest expense 215,987 204,094 Derivative financial instruments Interest 21,152 16,156 Fair value 35,136 3,211 Foreign exchange losses 10,496 42,284 Own work capitalised -15,697 -33,927 Unwinding 72,824 68,279 Other financial expenses 11,906 5,588 351,804 305,685 Financial income / (expenses) -277,616 -244,130 Derivative financial instruments Interest, relates to the interest liquidations on the derivative financial instrument established between EDP Renováveis and EDP Branch (see notes 34 and 36). 168 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 In accordance with the accounting policy described on note 2g), of the 31 December 2012 financial statements, the borrowing costs (interest) capitalised in tangible fixed assets in progress as at 31 December 2012 amounted to 15,697 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 33,927 thousands of Euros) (see note 15), and are included under Own work capitalised (financial interest). The interest rates used for this capitalisation vary in accordance with the related loans, between 1.81% and 10.25% (31 December 2011: 2.62% and 13.06%). Interest expense refers to interest on loans bearing interest at contracted and market rates. Unwinding expenses refers essentially to the financial update of provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of wind farms 3,366 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 2,995 thousands of Euros) (see note 31) and the implied return in institutional partnerships in US wind farms 68,431 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 62,538 thousands of Euros) (see note 31). 14. INCOME TAX EXPENSE In accordance with current legislation, tax returns are subject to review and correction by the tax authorities during subsequent periods. In Portugal and Spain the period is 4 years and in Brazil it is 5 years, being the last year considered settled by the tax administration the year of 2008. In the United States of America the general Statute of Limitations for the IRS to issue additional income tax assessments for an entity is 3 years from the date that the income tax return is filed by the taxpayer. Tax losses generated in each year, which are also subject to inspection and adjustment, can be deducted from taxable income during subsequent periods (5 years in Portugal since 2012, 18 years in Spain, 20 years in the United States, without an expiry date in Belgium and France and without an expiry date in Brazil, although in Brazil it is limited to 30% of the taxable income of each period). The EDP Group companies are taxed, whenever possible, on a consolidated basis as allowed by the tax legislation of the respective countries. EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. and its subsidiary companies file individual tax declarations in accordance with prevailing tax legislation. Nevertheless, the main Group companies pay income tax following the specific principles of the Special Tax Consolidation Regime, contained in articles 64 and 82 of Royal Legislative Decree 4/2004 whereby the revised corporate income tax law was approved. The companies of EDPR Group in Spain are included in the Tax consolidation perimeter of EDP, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch). This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Current tax -85,225 -29,060 Deferred tax 39,186 1,022 -46,039 -28,038 The effective income tax rate as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Profit before tax 182,089 118,662 Income tax expense -46,039 -28,038 Effective Income Tax Rate 25.28% 23.63% The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Group during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Profit before taxes 182,089 118,662 Nominal income tax rate 30.00% 30.00% Expected income taxes -54,627 -35,599 Income taxes for the year -46,039 -28,038 Difference 8,588 7,561 Accounting revaluations, amortizations, depreciations and provisions 5,403 -835 Capitalisation of deferred tax assets related to tax losses from previous periods 361 8,221 Unrecognised deferred tax assets related to tax losses generated in the period -4,908 -2,792 Financial investments in associates 1,692 1,432 Difference between gains and accounting gains and losses 3,488 Non deductible expenses -7,753 -1,276 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 4,847 -3,175 Tax benefits 4,196 1,896 Other 4,750 602 8,588 7,561 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 169 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The income tax rates in the countries in which the EDP Renováveis Group operates are as follows: Country Subgroup 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Spain EDPR EU 30.00% 30.00% Portugal EDPR EU 31.50% 29.00% France EDPR EU 33.33% 33.33% Italy EDPR EU 27.50% 27.50% Poland EDPR EU 19.00% 19.00% Belgium EDPR EU 33.99% 33.99% Romania EDPR EU 16.00% 16.00% Canada EDPR Canada 26.50% 26.50% United States of America EDPR NA 37.73% 37.22% Brazil EDPR BR 34.00% 34.00% 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Cost: Land and natural resources 24,601 21,389 Buildings and other constructions 16,700 16,053 Plant and machinery: Wind generation 11,572,839 10,905,666 Other plant and machinery 6,484 9,151 Office equipment and tools 62,336 48,753 Other tangible fixed assets 14,201 13,675 Assets under construction 1,080,675 1,203,445 12,777,836 12,218,132 Accumulated depreciation: Depreciation and amortisation expense for the period -447,450 -425,827 Impairment for the period -53,401 -5,058 Accumulated depreciation -1,740,078 -1,332,626 -2,240,929 -1,763,511 Carrying amount 10,536,907 10,454,621 The movement in Property, plant and equipment during 2012, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Acquisitions / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Write-offs Transfers Differences Other 31 Dec Cost: Land and natural resources 21,389 3,942 -82 -417 -231 24,601 Buildings and other constructions 16,053 954 -366 59 16,700 Plant and machinery: Wind generation 10,905,666 9,610 -539 771,474 -114,251 879 11,572,839 Other plant and machinery 9,151 -108 61 -2,620 6,484 Office equipment and tools 48,753 11,176 -188 3,178 -673 90 62,336 Other tangible fixed assets 13,675 1,660 -13,911 12,875 -82 -16 14,201 Assets under construction 1,203,445 662,760 -4,862 -787,588 6,674 246 1,080,675 12,218,132 690,102 -19,690 -109,115 -1,593 12,777,836 170 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Impairment Changes in Balance at Charge for Losses / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan the period Reverses Write-offs Differences Other 31 Dec Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses: Buildings and other constructions 5,487 1,801 -105 4 7,187 Plant and machinery: Wind generation 1,723,783 433,518 52,977 -203 -19,663 -35 2,190,377 Other plant and machinery 8,011 16 -108 -1,691 6,228 Office equipment and tools 18,222 10,253 2 -188 -318 -17 27,954 Other tangible fixed assets 8,008 1,862 422 -1,033 -76 9,183 1,763,511 447,450 53,401 -1,532 -20,162 -1,739 2,240,929 Plant and Machinery includes the cost of the wind farms under operation. The caption Changes in perimeter/Other includes mainly the effect of the aquisition of J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O., Pietragalla Eolico S.R.L. and solar photovoltaic companies acquired by EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L and the sale of the companies holders of the mini-hydrics previously held in Spain (see note 5). The movement in Property, plant and equipment during 2011, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Acquisitions / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Write-offs Transfers Differences Other 31 Dec Cost: Land and natural resources 18,867 2,322 153 -5 52 21,389 Buildings and other constructions 13,896 146 -24 1,993 158 -116 16,053 Plant and machinery: Wind generation 9,536,702 80,835 -6,646 1,158,187 136,548 40 10,905,666 Other plant and machinery 8,917 24 210 9,151 Office equipment and tools 29,186 3,047 -2,262 17,631 990 161 48,753 Other tangible fixed assets 13,846 2,421 -12,501 9,756 85 68 13,675 Assets under construction 1,666,957 741,915 -17,615 -1,187,720 1,010 -1,102 1,203,445 11,288,371 830,710 -39,048 138,786 -687 12,218,132 Impairment Changes in Balance at Charge for Losses / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan the period Reverses Write-offs Differences Other 31 Dec Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses: Buildings and other constructions 3,787 1,592 -24 145 -13 5,487 Plant and machinery: Wind generation 1,274,124 415,583 5,036 -87 29,113 14 1,723,783 Other plant and machinery 7,870 119 22 8,011 Office equipment and tools 13,454 6,714 -2,261 314 1 18,222 Other tangible fixed assets 7,365 1,819 22 -1,308 61 49 8,008 1,306,600 425,827 5,058 -3,680 29,633 73 1,763,511 The caption Changes in perimeter/Other includes the effect of the sale of Subgroup Veinco made by EDPR EU during the first semester of 2011. During 2011, EDPR Group changed the useful life of wind farms based on a study performed by an independent entity with prospective effect from 1 April of 2011 as described on the note 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Assets under construction as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Electricity business: EDPR EU Group 842,278 757,921 EDPR NA Group 212,783 433,240 Other 25,614 12,284 1,080,675 1,203,445 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 171 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Assets under construction as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 for EDPR EU and EDPR NA Group are essentially related to wind farms and solar plants under construction and development. Financial interests capitalised amount to 15,697 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 33,927 thousands of Euros) (see note 13). Personnel costs capitalised amount to 15,339 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 23,466 thousands of Euros) (see note 10). The EDP Renováveis Group has lease and purchase obligations disclosed in Note 37 Commitments. 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Cost: Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 47,221 42,462 Intangible assets under development 4 4 47,225 42,466 Accumulated amortisation: Depreciation and amortisation expense for the period -1,858 -2,120 Accumulated depreciation -20,452 -18,527 -22,310 -20,647 Carrying amount 24,915 21,819 Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets include 14,035 thousands of Euros and 30,186 thousands of Euros related to wind generation licenses of EDPR Portugal (31 December 2011: 14,035 thousands of Euros) and EDPR NA Group (31 December 2011: 25,500 thousands of Euros), respectively. The movement in Intangible assets during 2012, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Acquisitions / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Write-offs Transfers Differences Other 31 Dec Cost: Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 42,462 24 -601 5,336 47,221 Intangible assets under development 4 4 42,466 24 -601 5,336 47,225 Changes in Balance at Charge Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan for the year Impairment Write-offs Differences Other 31 Dec Accumulated amortisation: Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 20,647 1,858 -154 -41 22,310 20,647 1,858 -154 -41 22,310 The movement in Intangible assets during 2011, is analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Acquisitions / Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Write-offs Transfers Differences Other 31 Dec Cost: Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 41,069 5 620 768 42,462 Intangible assets under development 4 4 41,069 9 620 768 42,466 172 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Changes in Balance at Charge Disposals/ Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan for the year Impairment Write-offs Differences Other 31 Dec Accumulated amortisation: Industrial property, other rights and other intangible assets 18,342 2,120 250 -65 20,647 18,342 2,120 250 -65 20,647 17. GOODWILL For the Group, the breakdown of Goodwill resulting from the difference between the cost of the investments and the corresponding share of the fair value of the net assets acquired, is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Functional Currency 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Electricity business: Goodwill booked in EDPR EU Group Euro, Lei, Zloty 700,234 698,403 EDPR Spain Group Euro 534,610 534,642 EDPR Portugal Group Euro 42,588 42,588 EDPR France Group Euro 65,752 65,752 EDPR Italia Group Euro 23,044 23,044 Other Euro, Lei, Zloty 34,240 32,377 Goodwill booked in EDPR NA Group US Dollar 600,302 611,882 Goodwill booked in EDPR BR Group Brazilian Real 1,394 1,560 1,301,930 1,311,845 The movements in Goodwill, by subgroup, during 2012 are analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Decreases Impairment Differences Other 31 Dec Electricity Business EDPR EU Group EDPR Spain Group 534,642 -32 534,610 EDPR Portugal Group 42,588 42,588 EDPR France Group 65,753 65,753 EDPR Italia Group 23,044 23,044 Other 32,376 164 1,699 34,239 EDPR NA Group 611,882 -11,580 600,302 EDPR BR Group 1,560 -166 1,394 1,311,845 164 -32 -10,047 1,301,930 The movements in Goodwill, by subgroup, during 2011 are analysed as follows: Changes in Balance at Exchange perimeter / Balance at Thousands of Euros 01 Jan Increases Decreases Impairment Differences Other 31 Dec Electricity Business EDPR EU Group EDPR Spain Group 547,488 -12,846 534,642 EDPR Portugal Group 42,588 42,588 EDPR France Group 66,504 -751 65,753 EDPR Italia Group 57,781 -34,737 23,044 Other 35,031 -2,655 32,376 EDPR NA Group 592,915 18,967 611,882 EDPR BR Group 1,699 -139 1,560 1,344,006 -12,846 -35,488 16,173 1,311,845 In 2011, the decrease in EDPR Spain Group goodwill of 12,846 thousands of Euros is related with the final price of the liability related with the put option of Caja Madrid over the non-controlling interests held by this entity over EDP Renovables España (3,363 thousands of Euros) and the sale of Subgroup Veinco (9,483 thousands of Euros). This shareholding was sold by 15,8 million of Euros generating a gain of 732 thousands of Euros. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 173 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 In 2011, the update of the assumptions in the estimates of MW to install and the energy prices resulted in an impairment in EDPR Italia Group of 34,737 thousands of Euros (see notes 8 and 12). Other information for purchase price allocation and business combinations included in 2012 EDPR Italia Group During 2012 the EDPR Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the company Pietragalla Eolico S.R.L. (see note 5) and has carried out the purchase price allocation that originates the recognition of an operating income of 2,639 thousands of Euros (see note 8). Assets and Thousands of Euros Book value PPA Liabilities at fair value Property, plant and equipment 1,227 10,300 11,527 Other assets (including licenses) Total assets 1,227 10,300 11,527 Deferred tax liabilities 2,833 2,833 Current liabilities 1,035 1,035 Total liabilities 1,035 2,833 3,868 Net assets acquired 192 7,467 7,659 Consideration transferred 5,020 5,020 Badwill -2,639 Other During 2012 the EDPR Solar Romania acquired 99.99% of the share capital of the companies Cujmir Solar S.R.L., Foton Delta S.R.L., Foton Epsilon S.R.L., Potelu Solar S.R.L., Studina Solar S.R.L. and Vanju Mare Solar S.R.L. (see note 5) and has carried out the purchase price allocation that originates the recognition of an operating income of 29,754 thousands of Euros (see note 8). Assets and Thousands of Euros Book value PPA Liabilities at fair value Property, plant and equipment 26 43,305 43,331 Other assets (including licenses) 500 14,167 14,667 Total assets 526 57,472 57,998 Deferred tax liabilities 9,195 9,195 Current liabilities 513 513 Total liabilities 513 9,195 9,708 Net assets acquired 13 48,277 48,290 Consideration transferred 18,536 18,536 Badwill -29,754 During 2012 the EDPR Group has paid an amount of 30,279 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 15,317 thousands of Euros) for business combinations and success fees related to acquisition of the companies of EDPR Spain Group (2,325 thousands of Euros), EDPR Poland Group (7,348 thousands of Euros), EDPR Solar Romania (8,801 thousands of Euros), EDPR Italia Group (2,520 thousands of Euros), EDPR Canada Group (4,807 thousands of Euros) and Other (4,478 thousands of Euros wich 3,200 thousands of Euros related with EDPR Belgium Group). Goodwill impairment tests EDPR Group The goodwill of the EDPR Group is tested for impairment each year with basis of September. In the case of operational wind farms, it is performed by determining the recoverable value through the value in use. Goodwill is allocated to each country where EDPR Group performs its activity, so the EDPR Group aggregate all the CGUs cash flows in each country in order to calculate the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated. To perform this analysis, a Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method was used. This method is based on the principle that the estimated value of an entity or business is defined by its capacity to generate financial resources in the future, assuming these can be removed from the business and distributed among the company’s shareholders, without compromising the maintenance of the activity. Therefore, for the businesses developed by EDPR's CGUs, the valuation was based on free cash flows generated by the business, discounted at appropriate discount rates. 174 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The future cash flows projection period used is the useful life of the assets (25 years) which is consistent with the current depreciation method. The cash flows also incorporate the long-term off-take contract in place and long-term estimates of power prices, whenever the asset holds merchant exposure. The main assumptions used for the impairment tests are as follows: Power produced: net capacity factors used for each CGU utilize the wind studies carried out, which takes into account the long-term predictability of wind output and that wind generation is supported in nearly all countries by regulatory mechanisms that allow for production and priority dispatching whenever weather conditions permit; Electricity remuneration: regulated or contracted remuneration has been applied where available, as for the CGUs that benefit from regulated remuneration or that have signed contracts to sell their output during all or part of their useful life; where this is not available, prices were derived using price curves projected by the company based on its experience, internal models and using external data references; New capacity: tests were based on the best information available on the wind farms expected to be built in coming years, adjusted by probability of success and by the growth prospects of the company based on the Business Plan Targets, its historical growth and market size projections. The tests considered the contracted and expected prices to buy turbines from various suppliers; Operating costs: established contracts for land leases and maintenance agreements were used; other operating costs were projected consistent with the company’s experience and internal models; Terminal value: considered as a 15% of the initial investment in each wind farm, considering inflation; Discount rate: the discount rates used are post-tax, reflect EDPR Group’s best estimate of the risks specific to each CGU and range as follows: 2012 2011 Portugal and Spain 7.0% 7.1% 6.7% United States 5.5% 6.8% 5.0% 6.9% Rest of Europe 5.9% 8.2% 6.0% 8.6% Impairment tests done have taken into account the regulation changes in each country, as disclosed in note 1. EDPR has performed a series of sensitivity analyses of the results of impairment tests to reasonable changes in some of the key variables, such as: EDPR NA, decrease in the Net Capacity Factors of 2.1%; EDPR NA, 10% reduction of Merchant Prices; EDPR EU, decrease of the terminal value until 10%. Furthermore, EDPR Group has done an additional sensitivity analysis increasing 100 basis points the discount rate used in case base for EDPR NA and EDPR EU CGU's. These sensitivity analyses performed for each assumption independently would not suppose any impairment for the goodwill allocated to each country. 18. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Investments in associates: Equity holdings in associates 47,473 51,381 Carrying amount 47,473 51,381 For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements presentation, goodwill arising from the acquisition of associated companies is presented in this caption, included in the total amount of Equity holdings in associates. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 175 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The breakdown of Investments in associates , is analysed as follows: 31 Dec 2012 Thousands of Euros Investment Impairment Associated companies: Seaenergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited 14,498 Desarrollos Eólicos de Canárias, S.A. 9,933 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. 9,908 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero S.A. 7,043 Other 6,091 47,473 31 Dec 2011 Thousands of Euros Investment Impairment Associated companies: Seaenergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited 14,951 Desarrollos Eólicos de Canárias, S.A. 12,372 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. 10,696 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero S.A. 5,040 Other 8,322 51,381 The movement in Investments in associates , is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2012 2011 Balance as at 1 January 51,381 45,871 Acquisitions 13,592 Disposals -2,389 -3 Share of profits of associates 6,833 4,796 Dividends received -3,512 -3,412 Exchange differences 42 1,419 Changes in consolidation method -4,790 Others -4,882 -6,092 Balance as at 31 December 47,473 51,381 Disposals are related with the sale of Hidroastur, S.A. ,included in the caption Others investments in associates, by Generaciones Especiales I, S.L. (see note 5). 19. AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. 8,636 8,847 Other 771 771 9,407 9,618 The assumptions used in the valuation models of available for sale financial assets are as the same used to the impairment tests. The interest in share capital, voting rights, net assets and net income of the last approved financial statements of the investments classified as available for sale financial assets are analysed as follows: % of share Head office capital Voting rights Net assets Net income Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. Madrid 17.00% 17.00% 27,122 3,772 176 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 20. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The EDP Renováveis Group records the tax effect arising from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities determined on an accounting basis and on a tax basis, which are analysed as follows: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Tax losses brought forward 632,050 540,156 Provisions 11,497 7,796 4,896 Derivative financial instruments 15,720 13,091 361 49 Property, plant and equipment 24,662 19,646 315,013 225,121 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities 418,434 425,145 Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms 251,786 271,959 Non-deductible financial expenses 16,230 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities -611,281 -543,013 -611,281 -543,013 Other 500 17,882 1,383 2,207 89,378 55,558 380,592 381,468 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities is mainly related to Europe and United States of America, as follows: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Europe: Tax losses brought forward 24,541 19,733 Provisions 8,821 7,468 4,896 Derivative financial instruments 15,953 7,285 361 49 Property, plant and equipment 22,316 19,646 15,142 1,098 Non-deductible financial expenses 16,230 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities 331,673 351,780 Other 500 1,098 1,342 2,207 88,361 55,230 353,414 355,134 United States of America: Tax losses brought forward 606,550 520,423 Provisions 2,356 Derivative financial instruments -233 5,806 Property, plant and equipment 2,346 299,803 224,023 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities 81,288 66,902 Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms 251,786 271,959 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities -611,019 -543,013 -611,019 -543,013 Other 16,784 21,858 19,871 The movements in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are analysed as follows: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Opening balance 55,558 38,519 -381,468 -371,600 Movements charged to the profit and loss account 27,257 18,417 11,928 -16,563 Movements charged to reserves 8,621 -1,107 1,173 2 Exchange differences and other movements -2,058 -271 -12,225 6,693 89,378 55,558 -380,592 -381,468 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 177 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The Group tax losses and tax credits carried forward are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Expiration date: 2012 352 2013 249 249 2014 264 239 2015 108 7 556 2016 1,505 20 882 2017 3,649 742 2018 to 2032 1,659,359 1 363 370 Without expiration date 268,983 275 396 1,934,117 1,668,786 21. INVENTORIES This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Advances on account of purchases 5,547 8,344 Finished and intermediate products 3,469 12,194 Raw and subsidiary materials and consumables 7,193 3,213 16,209 23,751 The Finished and intermediate products are essentially related with wind farms under construction. 22. TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Trade receivables Current: Europe: Spain 67,141 64,424 Romania 26,467 5,440 Poland 13,356 12,420 Portugal 12,210 11,803 Rest of Europe 15,798 15,451 134,972 109,538 United States of America 42,575 31,660 Other 4,054 6,344 181,601 147,542 Impairment losses -1,342 -1,437 180,259 146,105 178 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 23. DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Debtors and other assets from commercial activities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Current: Prepaid turbine maintenance 7,140 6,775 Services rendered 10,648 5,167 Advances to suppliers 49,516 45,445 Sundry debtors and other operations 36,861 22,642 104,165 80,029 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Non-current: Deferred costs (EDPR Portugal Group) 42,809 44,715 Sundry debtors and other operations 12,344 19,496 55,153 64,211 159,318 144,240 Deferred costs (EDPR Portugal Group) non-current relates to up-front rents and surface rights paid to land owners and up-front network rents paid to EDP Distribuição. These costs are deferred on the balance sheet and recognised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. Advances to suppliers include downpayment advances to equipment manufacturers and suppliers. 24. OTHER DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS Other debtors and other assets are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Other debtors and other assets Current: Loans to related parties 302,214 324,242 Derivative financial instruments 7,323 9,430 Guarantees and tied deposits 15,067 14,943 Sundry debtors and other operations 10,605 30,631 335,209 379,246 Other debtors and other assets Non-current: Loans to related parties 236,196 123,560 Guarantees and tied deposits 48,484 45,828 Derivative financial instruments 5,145 8,650 Sundry debtors and other operations 9,828 7,286 299,653 185,324 634,862 564,570 Loans to related parties Current includes mainly 62,138 thousands of Euros of loans granted by EDP Renováveis, S.A. to EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A., 189,114 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 198,713 thousands of Euros) of loans granted by EDP Renováveis, S.A. to EDP S.A. Sucursal en España, 7,896 thousands of Euros (99,324 thousands of Euros) of loans granted by EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. to ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. and 28,244 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 19,920 thousands of Euros) of loans granted by EDPR Europe, S.L. to EDP S.A. Sucursal en España. Loans to related parties Non-current includes mainly 232,200 thousands of Euros of loans granted by EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. to ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. Group (31 December 2011: 117,880 thousands of Euros). Guarantees and tied deposits non current refer to amounts held in bank accounts to comply with obligations under project finance agreements entered into by certain EDP Renewable subsidiaries. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 179 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 25. CURRENT TAX ASSETS Current tax assets is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 State and other public entities: Income tax 16,243 15,163 Value added tax (VAT) 33,610 21,738 Other taxes 5,236 4,387 55,089 41,288 26. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Cash: Cash in hand 2 2 Bank deposits: Current deposits 240,667 188,607 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships 65 24,636 Other deposits 5,103 6,677 245,835 219,920 Cash and cash equivalents 245,837 219,922 During 2012, cash was distributed to institutional equity partnership. 27. CAPITAL At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the share capital of the Company is represented by 872,308,162 shares of Euros 5 par value each, all fully paid. The shares are in book-entry bearer form, the company is entitled to request the listing of its shares and all the shareholders are registered in the relevant book-entry records. These shares have the same voting and profit-sharing rights and are freely transferable. Companies which hold a direct or indirect interest of at least 10% in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Main shareholders and shares held by company officers EDP Renováveis, S.A. shareholder's structure as at 31 December 2012 is analysed as follows: No. of Shares % Capital % Voting EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 541,027,156 62.02% 62.02% Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. 135,256,700 15.51% 15.51% Other(*) 196,024,306 22.47% 22.47% 872,308,162 100.00% 100.00% (*) Shares quoted on the Lisbon stock exchange In 2007 and 2008, the Company carried out various share capital increases, which were subscribed through non-monetary contributions comprising 100% of the shares in EDPR NA and EDPR EU. The contributions are applicable to the special tax treatment for mergers, spin-offs, transfers of assets and conversion of securities foreseen in Chapter VIII of Section VII of Royal Decree 4 dated 5 March 2004 which approved the revised Spanish tax law. The disclosures required by prevailing legislation were included in the annual accounts for 2007 and 2008. 180 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Earning per share attributable to the shareholders of EDPR are analysed as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in thousands of Euros) 126,266 88,604 Profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in thousands of Euros) 126,266 88,604 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 872,308,162 872,308,162 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding 872,308,162 872,308,162 Earnings per share (basic) attributable to equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.10 Earnings per share (diluted) attributable to equity holders of the parent (in Euros 0.14 0.10 Earnings per share (basic) from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.10 Earnings per share (diluted) from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of the parent (in Euros) 0.14 0.10 The EDPR Group calculates its basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent using the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. The company does not hold any treasury stock as at 31 December 2012 and 2011. The average number of shares was determined as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Ordinary shares issued at the beginning of the period 872,308,162 872,308,162 Effect of shares issued during the year Average number of realised shares 872,308,162 872,308,162 Average number of shares during the year 872,308,162 872,308,162 Diluted average number of shares during the year 872,308,162 872,308,162 28. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Reserves: Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -46,185 -14,118 Fair value reserve (available for sale financial assets) 4,446 4,575 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -32,646 -31,002 -74,385 -40,545 Other reserves and retained earnings: Retained earnings 372,944 286,175 Additional paid in capital 60,666 60,666 Legal reserve 24,592 18,690 458,202 365,531 383,817 324,986 Additional paid in capital The accounting for transactions among entities under common control is excluded from IFRS 3. Consequently, in the absence of specific guidance, within IFRSs, the Group EDPR has adopted an accounting policy for such transactions, judged appropriate. According to the Group's policy, business combinations among entities under common control are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the book values of the acquired company (subgroup) in the EDPR consolidated financial statements. The difference between the carrying amount of the net assets received and the consideration paid is recognised in equity. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 181 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Legal reserve The legal reserve has been appropriated in accordance with Article 274 of the Spanish Companies Act whereby companies are obliged to transfer 10% of the profits for the year to a legal reserve until such reserve reaches an amount equal to 20% of the share capital. This reserve is not distributable to shareholders and may only be used to offset losses, if no other reserves are available, or to increase the share capital. Profit distribution (parent company) The EDP Renováveis, S.A. proposal for 2012 profits distribution to be presented in the Annual General Meeting is as follows: Euros Profit for the period 50,838,439.82 Distribution Legal reserve 5,083,843.98 Dividends 34,892,326.48 Retained earnings 10,862,269.36 50,838,439.82 The EDP Renováveis, S.A. 2011 profits distribution approved in the Annual General Meeting on 13 April2012 was as follows: Euros Profit for the period 59,018,372.50 Distribution Legal reserve 5,901,837.25 Retained earnings 53,116,535.25 59,018,372.50 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) The Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments. Fair value reserve (available-for-sale financial assets) This reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available for sale financial assets as at the balance sheet date. Thousands of Euros Balance as at 1 January 2011 10,980 Sociedad Eólica de Andalucia -7,725 Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. 1,320 Balance as at 31 December 2011 4,575 Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. -129 Balance as at 31 December 2012 4,446 Exchange differences arising on consolidation This caption reflects the amount arising on the translation of the financial statments of subsidiaries and associated companies from their functional currency into Euros. The exchange rates used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements are as follows: Exchange rates Exchange rates as at 31 December 2012 as at 31 December 2011 Closing Average Closing Average Currency Rate Rate Rate Rate US Dollar USD 1.319 1.285 1.294 1.392 Zloty PLN 4.074 4.185 4.458 4.121 Brazilian Real BRL 2.704 2.508 2.416 2.327 New Leu RON 4.445 4.459 4.323 4.239 Pound Sterling GBP 0.816 0.811 0.835 0.868 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.314 1.284 1.322 1.376 182 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 29. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Non-controlling interests in income statement 9,784 2,020 Non-controlling interests in share capital and reserves 315,384 124,539 325,168 126,559 Non-controlling interests , by subgroup, are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 EDPR NA Group 176,825 EDPR EU Group 115,389 115,937 EDPR BR Group 32,954 10,622 325,168 126,559 The movement in non-controlling interests of EDP Renováveis Group is mainly related to: (i) profits of the year attributable to non-controlling interests of 9,784 thousands of Euros; (ii) sale without loss of control of Vento II (EDPR NA Group) attributable to non-controlling interests of 176,761 thousands of Euros (see note 5); (iii) share capital increases from non-controlling interests of EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. totalling 26,443 thousands of Euros; (iv) dividends paid by EDPR EU to non-controlling interests amount to 4,805 thousands of Euros; (v) a negative effect due to Exchange differences arising on consolidation attributable to non-controlling interests totalling 6,861; (vi) and a negative variation of the fair value reserve attributable to non-controlling interests amounting 5,453 thousands of Euros. 30. FINANCIAL DEBT This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Financial debt Current Bank loans: EDPR EU Group 77,777 66,876 EDPR BR Group 17,709 59,165 Loans from shareholders of group entities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. 113,644 Other loans: EDPR EU Group 1,763 2,061 EDPR NA Group 1,122 1,050 Interest payable 5,222 5,902 217,237 135,054 Financial debt Non-current Bank loans: EDPR EU Group 718,681 588,353 EDPR BR Group 73,501 91,997 Loans from shareholders of group entities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. 2,843,114 2,986,433 Other loans: EDPR EU Group 20,521 21,893 EDPR NA Group 1,266 2,392 3,657,083 3,691,068 3,874,320 3,826,122 Financial debt Non-current for EDP Renováveis, mainly refers to a set of loans granted by EDP Finance BV (2.843.114 thousands of Euros). These loans have an average maturity of 6 years and bear interest at fixed market rates. The Group has project finance financings that include the usual guarantees on this type of financings, namely the pledge or a promise of pledge of bank accounts and assets of the related projects. As at 31 December 2012, these financings amount to 815,562 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 670,840 thousands of Euros), which are included in the total debt of the Group. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 183 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The breakdown of Financial debt by maturity, is as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Bank loans: Up to 1 year 100,270 129,512 1 to 5 years 319,176 295,382 Over 5 years 473,006 384,968 892,452 809,862 Loans from shareholders of group entities: Up to 1 year 114,082 2,431 1 to 5 years 241,000 241,000 Over 5 years 2,602,114 2,745,433 2,957,196 2,988,864 Other loans: Up to 1 year 2,885 3,111 1 to 5 years 21,787 24,285 Over 5 years 24,672 27,396 3,874,320 3,826,122 The fair value of EDP Renováveis Group's debt is analysed as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Carrying Market Carrying Market Thousands of Euros Value Value Value Value Financial debt Current 217,237 217,237 135,054 135,054 Financial debt Non-current 3,657,083 3,468,395 3,691,068 3,262,999 3,874,320 3,685,632 3,826,122 3,398,053 The market value of the medium/long-term (non-current) debt and borrowings that bear a fixed interest rate is calculated based on the discounted cash flows at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The market value of debt and borrowing that bear a floating interest rate is considered not to differ from its book value as these loans bear interest at a rate indexed to Euribor. The book value of the short-term (current) debt and borrowings is considered to be the market value. As at 31 December 2012, the scheduled repayments of Group's debt are as follows: Subsequent Thousands of Euros Total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 years Debt and borrowings Current 217,237 217,237 Debt and borrowings Non -current 3,657,083 102,890 84,135 329,892 65,046 3,075,120 3,874,320 217,237 102,890 84,135 329,892 65,046 3,075,120 The breakdown of guarantees is presented in note 38 to the financial statments accounts. The breakdown of Financial debt, by currency, is as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Loans denominated in EUR 2,173,786 2,035,563 Loans denominated in USD 1,508,329 1,538,832 Loans denominated in other currencies 192,205 251,727 3,874,320 3,826,122 184 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 31. PROVISIONS Provisions are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Dismantling and decommission provisions 63,336 57,694 Provision for other liabilities and charges 267 288 63,603 57,982 Dismantling and decommission provisions refer to the costs to be incurred with dismantling wind farms and restoring sites and land to their original condition, in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note 2 o). The above amount respects to 37,652 thousands of Euros for wind farms in the United States of America (31 December 2011: 34,523 thousands of Euros), 15,968 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Spain (31 December 2011: 14,507 thousands of Euros), 4,087 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Portugal (31 December 2011: 3,768 thousands of Euros), 874 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Brazil (31 December 2011: 896 thousands of Euros), 1,879 thousands of Euros for wind farms in France (31 December 2011: 1,622 thousands of Euros), 1,498 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Romania (31 December 2011: 1,165 thousands of Euros), 1,030 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Poland (31 December 2011: 886 thousands of Euros) and 348 thousands of Euros for wind farms in Belgium (31 December 2011: 327 thousands of Euros). EDP Renováveis believes that the provisions booked on the consolidated statement of financial position adequately cover the foreseeable obligations described in this note. Therefore, it is not expected that they will give rise to liabilities in addition to those recorded. As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the EDP Renováveis Group does not have any significant tax-related contingent liabilities or contingent assets related to unresolved disputes with the tax authorities. The movements in Provisions for dismantling and decommission provisions are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Balance at the beginning of the year 57,694 53,156 Capitalised amount for the year 3,092 452 Unwinding 3,366 2,995 Other and exchange differences -816 1,091 Balance at the end of the year 63,336 57,694 Capitalised amount for the year and other includes the impact of the update of dismantling provisions assumptions. The movements in Provision for other liabilities and charges are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Balance at the beginning of the year 288 631 Write back for the year -3 -266 Other and exchange differences -18 -77 Balance at the end of the year 267 288 32. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN US WIND FARMS This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Deferred income related to benefits provided 737,598 773,252 Liabilities arising from institutional partnerships in US wind farms 942,155 1,010,609 1,679,753 1,783,861 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 185 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The movements in Institutional partnerships in US wind farms are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Balance at the beginning of the year 1,783,861 1,632,418 Proceeds received from institutional investors 153,192 Cash paid for deferred transaction costs -176 -871 Cash paid to institutional investors -14,983 -11,966 Income (see note 7) -127,350 -111,610 Unwinding (see note 13) 68,431 62,538 Exchange differences -32,601 60,160 Others 2,571 Balance at the end of the year 1,679,753 1,783,861 The Group has entered in several partnerships with institutional investors in the United States, through limited liability companies operating agreements that apportions the cash flows generated by the wind farms between the investors and the Company and allocates the tax benefits, which include Production Tax Credits (PTC), Investment Tax Credits (ITC) and accelerated depreciation, largely to the investor. As referred in the note 2 a), EDPR Group change the presentation of Deferred tax equity costs to be deducted to the caption Institutional partnerships in US wind farms. Prior to 2012, amounts included in transaction costs related to institutional partnerships were included as a component of Other debtors and other assets non-current. In 2012, EDPR Group included these transaction costs as a reduction of Institutional partnerships in USA wind farms instead of an asset. In accordance with IAS 1, the Group has retrospectively reclassified amounts within 2011 comparative figures to conform to this change in presentation. The Group reclassified 12,948 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2011 from Other debtors and other assets non-current sundry debtors and other operations to Institutional partnerships in US wind farms. During 2011 EDPR Group, through its subsidiary EDPR NA, has secured 116 millions of USD (approximately 83 millions of Euros) of institutional equity financing from Bank of America Corporation and Paribas North America in exchange for an interest in the Vento IX portfolio and 124 millions of USD which 97 millions of USD (approximately 70 millions of Euros) were realized upfront of institutional equity financing from JPM Capital Corporation and Wells Fargo Wind Holdings in exchange for an interest in Vento X Portofolio. 33. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Trade and other payables from commercial activities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Trade and other payables from commercial activities Current: Suppliers 78,341 82,972 Property and equipment suppliers 579,540 582,280 Holiday pay, bonus and other charges with employees 14,999 20,584 Other creditors and sundry operations 31,730 21,754 704,610 707,590 Trade and other payables from commercial activities Non-current: Government grants / subsidies for investments in fixed assets 323,763 339,209 Electricity sale contracts EDPR NA 49,449 61,663 Other creditors and sundry operations 3,291 3,361 376,503 404,233 1,081,113 1,111,823 Government grants for investments in fixed assets are essentially related to grants received by EDPR NA subgroup under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act promoted by the United States of America Government (see note 1). At the moment of the EDPR North America acquisition, the contracts signed between this subsidiary and its customers, determined under the terms of the Purchase Price Allocation, were valued through discounted cash flow models and market assumptions at 190,400 thousands of USD, being booked as a non-current liability under Electricity sale contracts EDPR NA, which is depreciated over the useful life of the contracts under Other operational income (see note 8). 186 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 34. OTHER LIABILITIES AND OTHER PAYABLES Other liabilities and other payables are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Other liabilities and other payables Current: Success fees payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries 11,663 207 Derivative financial instruments 63,079 129,582 Other operations with related parties 37,700 37,891 Other creditors and sundry operations 45,434 21,439 157,876 189,119 Other liabilities and other payables Non-current: Success fees payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries 39,496 48,053 Payables Group companies 30,864 31,103 Derivative financial instruments 182,318 106,115 Other creditors and sundry operations 6,146 3,979 258,824 189,250 416,700 378,369 Success fees payable for the acquisition of subsidiaries current and non-currents includes mainly the amounts related to the contingent prices of the acquisitions of EDPR Italy, Relax Wind Group, EDPR Romania, Greenwind, Bodzanow, Starozreby, Wyszorod, Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy, Elebrás and solar photovoltaic companies held by EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L (see note 5). Derivative financial instruments current and non-current includes 128,493 and 41,369 thousands of Euros respectively (December 2011: 129,276 and 79,184 thousands of Euros respectively ) related to a hedge instrument of USD and EUR with EDP Branch, which was formalised in order to hedge the foreign exchange risk of the net investment held in EDPR NA, expressed in USD (see note 36). Other creditors and sundry operations current include 35,220 thousands of Euros (December 2011: 18,148 thousands of Euros) related with the estimated corporate income tax. Additionally, Other creditors and sundry operations current and non-current include the amounts of 3,572 and 4,213 thousands of Euros related with non-controlling interests, respectively (December 2011: 3,356 and 756 thousands of Euros). According to Spanish law 15/2010 of 5 July the Group disclose the details of payments made from Spanish companies to suppliers during the year 2012 (distinguishing those who have exceeded the legal limits of postponement), the average payments period, the outstanding balances that at 31 December 2012 and 2011 with an overdue greater than the legal period, are the following: Payments and outstandig payments at year end 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Thousands of Euros Value % Value % Within the legal deadline 197,375 82.28% 200,088 48.19% Rest 42,503 17.72% 215,150 51.81% Total payments for the year 239,878 100.00% 415,238 100.00% Average payment period (days) 66.55 31.76 Outstanding balances with an overdue greater than the legal period 16,212 27,873 At 31 December 2012, the outstanding balances with an overdue greater then the legal period includes 10,560 thousands of Euros regarding group companies (31 December 2011: 22,165 thousands of Euros). This law stipulates a maximum legal payment period of 75 days in 2012 and 85 days in 2011. The Company has applied this criterion when preparing the information required by the Spanish Accounting and Auditing Institute (ICAC) resolution of 29 December 2010 on disclosures in notes to financial statements of late payments to suppliers in commercial transactions, and as such the information for 2012 and 2011 is not directly comparable. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 187 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 35. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES This balance is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 State and other public entities: Income tax 17,283 8,838 Withholding tax 18,193 24,026 Value added tax (VAT) 17,877 15,320 Other taxes 3,490 3,232 56,843 51,416 36. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In accordance with IAS 39, the Group classifies the derivative financial instruments as a fair value hedge of an asset or liability recognised, as a cash flow hedge of recorded liabilities and forecast transactions considered highly probable or net investment hedge in foreign operations. As of 31 December 2012, the fair value and maturity of derivatives is analysed as follows: Fair Value Notional From 1 More than Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Until 1 year to 5 years 5 years Total Net investment hedge Cross currency rate swaps 3,646 -170,296 1,132,501 122,412 693,674 1,948,587 3,646 -170,296 1,132,501 122,412 693,674 1,948,587 Cash flow hedge Power price swaps 5,589 -3,316 230,797 98,354 329,151 Interest rate swaps -54,288 120,888 187,975 270,335 579,198 5,589 -57,604 351,685 286,329 270,335 908,349 Trading Power price swaps 3,233 -3,324 19,012 898 19,910 Interest rate swaps -172 470 1,881 470 2,821 Cross currency rate swaps -1,045 57,000 57,000 Currency forwards -12,956 428,744 9,290 438,034 3,233 -17,497 448,226 69,069 470 517,765 12,468 -245,397 1,932,412 477,810 964,479 3,374,701 As of 31 December 2011, the fair value and maturity of derivatives is analysed as follows: Fair Value Notional 1 to More than Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Until 1 year 5 years 5 years Total Net investment hedge Cross currency rate swaps 7,807 -208,460 1,132,501 77,008 693,674 1,903,183 7,807 -208,460 1,132,501 77,008 693,674 1,903,183 Cash flow hedge Power price swaps 5,961 -29 61,500 1,098 62,598 Interest rate swaps 5 -26,931 41,846 184,337 198,763 424,946 5,966 -26,960 103,346 185,435 198,763 487,544 Trading Power price swaps 2,251 -277 2,101 551 2,652 Currency forwards 2,056 38,803 38,803 4,307 -277 40,904 551 41,455 18,080 -235,697 1,276,751 262,994 892,437 2,432,182 The fair value of derivative financial instruments is recorded under Other debtors and other assets (note 24) or Other liabilities and other payables (note 34), if the fair value is positive or negative, respectively. 188 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The net investment derivatives are related to the Group CIRS in USD and EUR with EDP Branch as referred in the notes 38 and 39. The fair value is based on internal valuation models, as described in note 39. The net investment derivatives also include CIRS in PLN and BRL with EDP with the purpose of hedging EDP Renováveis Group's operations in Poland and Brazil. Interest rate swaps are related to the project finances and have been formalised to convert variable to fixed interest rates. Cash flow hedge power price swaps are related to the hedging of the sales price. EDPR NA has entered into a power price swap to hedge the variability in the spot market prices received for a portion of the production of Maple Ridge I project. Additionally, both EDPR NA and EDPR EU have entered in short term hedges to hedge the short term volatility of certain un-contracted generation of its wind farms. In certain US power markets, EDPR NA is exposed to congestion and line loss risks which typically have a negative impact on the price received for power generated in these markets. To economically hedge these risk exposures, EDPR NA entered into Financial Transmission Rights (“FTR”) and a three year fixed for floating Locational Marginal Price (LMP) swap. The trading derivative financial instruments are derivatives contracted for economic hedging that are not eligible for hedge accounting. Fair value of derivatives is based on quotes indicated by external entities (investment banks). These entities use discount cash flows techniques usually accepted and data from public markets. The changes in the fair value of hedging instruments and risks being hedged are as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Hedging Hedged Changes in fair value Changes in fair value Thousands of Euros instrument item Instrument Risk Instrument Risk Subsidiary accounts in Net Investment hedge Cross currency rate swaps USD, PLN and BRL 34,014 -33,410 -55,530 55,530 Cashflow hedge Interest rate swap Interest rate -33,953 -15,999 Cashflow hedge Power price swaps Power price -3,670 6,219 Cashflow hedge Currency forward Exchange rate 2,789 -3,609 -33,410 -62,521 55,530 The movements in cash flow hedge reserve have been as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Balance at the beginning of the year -24,458 -13,632 Fair value changes Interest rate swaps -33,659 -16,333 Power price swaps -5,449 6,110 Currency forward 2,789 Loans as hedging instruments for Green Certificates -4,487 Transfers to results -2,249 -4,502 Ineffectiveness 1 Non-controlling interests included in fair value changes 7,375 1,109 Effect of the sale without loss of control of Vento II -1,473 Balance at the end of the year -64,400 -24,458 During the 3rd quarter of 2012, EDPR adopted cashflow hedge accounting in order to hedge exchange rate risk in the future sell of green certificates granted to Cerdanova and Pestera windfarms in Roménia. The sell price is indexed to EUR/RON exchange rate for which EDPR elected as hedging instrument the project finance loans contracted in EUR for those projects. The gains and losses on the financial instruments portfolio booked in the income statement are as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Net investment hedge inefectiveness 604 Cash-flow hedge Transfer to results from hedging of financial liabilities 944 3,117 Transfer to results from hedging of commodity prices 1,305 1,385 Ineffectiveness -1 Non eligible for hedge accounting derivatives -12,363 2,653 -9,510 7,154 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 189 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The amount from transfers to results from hedging of commodity prices is registered in Revenues while the remaining gains and losses are registered in Financial income and Financial expense, respectively (see note 13). The effective interest rates for derivative financial instruments associated with financing operations during 2012, were as follows: EDP Renováveis Group Currency Pays Receives Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps EUR [ 1,36% 5,01% ] [ 0,18% 0,75% ] Interest rate swaps PLN 5.41% 4.22% Currency and interest rate contracts CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/USD [ 0,35% 4% ] [ 0,2% 3,9% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/BRL [ 5,38% 5,65% ] [ 0,19% 0,22% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/PLN [ 3,16% 3,84% ] 0.19% The effective interest rates for derivative financial instruments associated with financing operations during 2011, were as follows: EDP Renováveis Group Currency Pays Receives Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps EUR [ 2.68% 5.01% ] [ 1.43% 1.81% ] Interest rate swaps PLN 5.41% 4.90% Currency and interest rate contracts CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/USD [ 1,48% 2,83% ] [ 2,17% 3,47% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) EUR/PLN [ 3,91% 4,03% ] 1.39% 37. COMMITMENTS As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, the financial commitments not included in the statement of financial position in respect of financial, operational and real guarantees provided, are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Guarantees of financial nature EDPR NA Group 3,411 3,478 EDPR EU Group 2,178 3,411 5,656 Guarantees of operational nature EDP Renováveis, S.A. 762,197 655,213 EDPR NA Group 368,113 408,147 EDPR EU Group 69,285 36,954 EDPR BR Group 9,215 100 1,208,810 1,100,414 Total 1,212,221 1,106,070 Real guarantees 14,065 16,512 The Group has project finance financings that include the usual guarantees on this type of financings, namely the pledge or a promise of pledge of bank accounts and assets of the related projects. As at 31 December 2012, these financings amount to 815,562 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 670,840 thousands of Euros), which are included in the total debt of the Group. In addition, regarding the information disclosed above, EDPR NA is providing its tax equity investors with standard corporate guarantees typical of these agreements to indemnify them against costs they may incur as a result of fraud, willful misconduct or a breach of EDPR NA of any operational obligation under the tax equity agreements. As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, EDPR's obligations under the tax equity agreements, in the amount of 901,301 thousands of Euros and 942,123 thousands of Euros, respectively are reflected in the statement of financial position under the caption Institutional Partnerships in US Wind farms. 190 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The EDPR Group financial debt, lease and purchase obligations by maturity date are as follows: 31 Dec 2012 Debt capital by period Up to 1 to 3 to More than Thousands of Euros Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Financial debt (including interests) 4,881,982 278,215 537,579 735,867 3,330,321 Operating lease rents not yet due 978,488 37,759 77,249 76,600 786,880 Purchase obligations 686,894 369,037 144,244 43,511 130,102 6,547,364 685,011 759,072 855,978 4,247,303 31 Dec 2011 Debt capital by period Up to 1 to 3 to More than Thousands of Euros Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Financial debt (including interests) 5,184,933 326,786 545,454 515,460 3,797,233 Operating lease rents not yet due 918,874 35,694 72,745 70,520 739,915 Purchase obligations 1,619,040 906,488 669,351 23,917 19,284 7,722,847 1,268,968 1,287,550 609,897 4,556,432 Purchase obligations include debts related with long-term agreements of product and services supply related to the Group operational activity. When prices are defined under “forward” contracts, these are used in estimating the amounts of the contractual commitments. The Operating lease rents not yet due are essentially related with the land where the wind farms are built. Usually the leasing period cover the useful life of the wind farms. As at 31 December 2012 the Group has the following contingent liabilities/rights related with call and put options on investments: EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR FR, holds a call option over Cajastur for all the shares held by Cajastur on company Quinze Mines (51% of share capital). Cajastur holds an equivalent put option on these shares over EDPR FR. The price of exercising these options will be determined under an independent investment bank valuation process. This options can be exercised between 17 July 2014 and 17 July 2016, inclusively. EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR FR, holds a call option over Cajastur for 51% of interest held by Cajastur in the companies Sauvageons, Le Mee and Petite Pièce. Cajastur holds an equivalent put option on these shares over EDPR FR. The price of exercising these options will be determined under an independent investment bank valuation process. This options can be exercised between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2014, inclusively. EDP Renováveis holds, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, a call option of remaining 6.48% of the share capital of EDPR Itália, with an exercise price based on an independent process evaluation conducted by an independent expert. Energia in Natura, S.r.l. holds a put option for 6.48% of the share capital of EDPR Itália, whose exercise price over 85% of market value of participation. The exercise period of the options is 2 years after occurrence of one of the following events: ● Fifth anniversary of the execution of the shareholders agreement (27 January 2015); ● When EDP Renováveis Italy is able to build, develop and operate 350 MW in Italy. EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, holds a call option over the remaining shareholders of Re Plus (WPG, Galilea and Gant Partners) for 10% of its share capital. The price of exercising these options is 7,500 thousands of Euros. The options can be exercised (i) if a change occur in the shareholding structure of the remaining shareholders of Re Plus and (ii) always before the last project starts in operation. EDP Renováveis, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, holds a put option of 15% of the share capital of Rowy, over the other shareholders. The exercise price is 80% of equity value with a cap of 5,000 thousands of Euros. The exercise period is the earlier of (i) two years following the beginning of construction date or (ii) 31 December 2019. EDP Renováveis holds, through its subsidiary EDPR EU, a call option of the remaining 40% of the share capital of J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 191 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 38. RELATED PARTIES The number of shares held by company officers as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 are as follows: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 No. of shares No. of shares Executive Board of Directors António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 4,200 4,200 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 5,000 5,000 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 12,370 10,505 Gabriel Alonso Imaz 26,503 18,503 João José Belard da Fonseca Lopes Raimundo 840 840 João Manuel de Mello Franco 380 380 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 1,200 João Paulo Nogueira Sousa Costeira 3,000 3,000 Jorge Manuel Azevedo Henriques dos Santos 200 200 José Fernando Maia de Araújo e Silva 80 80 53,773 42,708 According to Article 229º of Ley de Sociedades de Capital (Spanish Companies Law), the members of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis have not communicated, or the parent company has knowledge, of any conflict of interests or incompatablity that could affect the performance of their duties. The board members of the parent company, complying with the article 229º of the Spanish Companies Law, declared that they and their related parties do not exercise positions of responsibility in companies with the same, similar or complementary activity of EDP Renováveis Group parent company, and they do not have exercised by their own or through third entities any activity in companies with the same, similar or complementary activity of EDP Renováveis Group parent company, with the following exceptions: Board Member Position Company António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Chairperson of the Executive Board of Directors EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Finance BV Representative EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España Permanent Representative João Manuel Manso Neto: Naturgás Energia, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Finance BV Representative EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España Permanent Representative EDP Gás.com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Elétrica de La Ribera del Ebro, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Hidrocantábrico Energia , S.A.U. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Energia Ibérica S.A. Member of the Board Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España Permanent Representative EDP Finance BV Representative EDP Estudos e Consultoria, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Imobiliária e Participacões, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Energia RE, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors SCS—Serviços Complementares de Saúde,S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Sãvida Medicina Apoiada, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. Member of the Board Balwerk Consultadoria Económica e Participacões, Soc.Unip.Lda Manager 192 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Board Member Position Company João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board EDP – Ásia Investimentos e Consultoria, Lda. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP – Ásia Soluções Energéticas Lda. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Servicos, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España Permanent Representative EDP Finance BV Representative Companhia de Electricidade de Macau CEM, S.A. Chairperson Manuel Menéndez Menéndez: Naturgás Energía, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. Member of the Board Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. Member of the Board EDP Renewables SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board EDPR PT Promocão e Operacão, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board Malhadizes – Energia Eólica, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Renewables Canada LP Ltd. Member of the Board EDPR Renewables Canada GP Ltd. Member of the Board SBWF GP Inc. Member of the Board South Branch Wind Farm Inc. Member of the Board Eolia Renewable Energy Canada Inc. Member of the Board 0867242 B.C. Ltd. Member of the Board EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd Member of the Board Relax Wind Park III SP. Z O.O. Member of the Supervisory Board Relax Wind Park I SP. Z O.O. Member of the Supervisory Board EDP Renewables Polska SP. Z O.O Member of the Board Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy I SP. Z O.O. Member of the Board Masovia Wind Farm I SP. Z O.O. Member of the Board Farma Wiatrowa Starozreby SP. Z O.O. Member of the Board Karpacka Mala Energetyka SP. Z O.O Member of the Board EDPR UK, Ltd Member of the Board Maccoll Offshore Windfarm, Ltd Member of the Board Stevenson Offshore Windfarm, Ltd Member of the Board Telford Offshore Windfarm, Ltd Member of the Board Moray Offshore Renewables, Ltd Member of the Board EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros S.L.U Member of the Board EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 193 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 João Paulo Nogueira Sousa Costeira: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. Member of the Board EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L.U Member of the Board Malhadizes – Energia Eólica, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Eólica da Serra das Alturas, S.A. Member of the Board Eólica de Montenegrelo, S.A. Member of the Board ENEOP 2 – Exploração de Parques Eolicos, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Renewables Romania, Srl Member of the Board Cernavoda Power, Srl Member of the Board Greenwind, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDP Renewables France, S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Centrale Eolienne Neo Truc de l’Homme, SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Parc Eolien des Vatines Chairperson of the Board of Directors Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille Chairperson of the Board of Directors Parc Eolien de Varimpre Chairperson of the Board of Directors Parc Eolien des Bocages Joint Director Parc Eolien des Longs Champs Joint Director Socpe de la Mardelle Joint Director Socpe de la Vallée du Moulin Joint Director Socpe de Sauvageons Joint Director Socpe des Quinze Mines Joint Director Socpe Le Mée Joint Director Socpe Petite Pièce Joint Director CE Canet Pont de Salars SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors CE Gueltas Noyal Pontivy Chairperson of the Board of Directors CE Patay SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors CE Saint Barnabé SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors CE Segur SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Monts de la Madeleine Energie SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Monts du Forez Energie SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Eolienne de Callengeville, SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Neo Plouvien, SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Parc Eolien de la Hetroye, SAS Chairperson of the Board of Directors Eolienne de Saugueuse, SARL Joint Director Eolienne des Bocages, SARL Joint Director Eolienne d’Etalondes, SARL Joint Director Parc Eolien d’Ardennes, SARL Joint Director Parc Eolien de Mancheville, SARL Joint Director Parc Eolien de Roman, SARL Joint Director EDP Renewables Polska SP. Z O.O Member of the Board Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy I SP. Z O.O. Member of the Board Masovia Wind Farm I SP. Z O.O. Member of the Board Farma Wiatrowa Starozreby SP. Z O.O. Member of the Board Karpacka Mala Energetyka SP. Z O.O Member of the Board Relax Wind Park I SP. Z O.O Member of the Supervisory Board Relax Wind Park III SP. Z O.O Member of the Supervisory Board EDPR UK, Ltd Member of the Board Moray Offshore Renewables, Ltd Member of the Board Maccoll Offshore Windfarm, Ltd Member of the Board Stevenson Offshore Windfarm, Ltd Member of the Board Telford Offshore Windfarm, Ltd Member of the Board EDP Renewables Italia, Srl Member of the Board Operação e Manuntenção Industrial, S.A. Member of the Board EDP Renewables SGPS S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors EDPR PT Promoção e Operação S.A. Chairperson of the Board of Directors Gabriel Alonso Imaz: EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd. Chief Executive Officer EDP Renewables North America, LLC and subsidiaries (see annex I) Chief Executive Officer American Wind Energy Association Chair-Elect and Executive Board Member 194 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Additionally the board members have comunicated that they do not own any interest in the share capital of any other company with the same, similar or complementary activity of EDP Renováveis Group, with the following exceptions: Board Member Number of shares Company António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 41,000 EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. 1 João Manuel Manso Neto: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 1,268 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 125,000 EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. 1 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 3,878 Gabriel Alonso Imaz: Gamesa Corp. Tec. S.A. 7,880 Iberdrola 27 Teresa Sancho, related person of Gabriel Alonso Imaz: Gamesa Corp. Tec. S.A. 7,881 Iberdrola 26 João Manuel de Mello Franco: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 4,550 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, S.G.P.S., S.A. 980 Jorge Manuel Azevedo Henriques dos Santos: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 2,379 Remuneration of company officers In accordance with the Company's by-laws, the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors is proposed by the Nominations and Remunerations Committee to the Board of Directors on the basis of the overall amount of remuneration authorized by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Board of Directors approves the distribution and exact amount paid to each Director on the basis of this proposal. The remuneration paid to the members of the Executive Board of Directors in 2012 and 2011 were as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 CEO 566,821 551,362 Board members 396,666 512,083 963,487 1,063,445 Mrs. Ana Maria Fernandes resigned as Chief Executive Officer of EDPR on 28 February, 2012 . The remuneration (variable and fixed) mentioned above refers only to the months when the prior CEO was still on duty paid in 2012 and adjustments paid on February 2013. On 28 February, Mr. João Manso Neto, was nominated Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Vice-Chairperson of the Board of Directors of EDPR. In order to increase transparency and healthy corporate governance practices, and also to treat Mr. João Manso Neto consistently with the other managers, the Nominations and Remunerations Committee proposed to the Board of Directors (which approved it) a modification of the Remuneration Policy in order to include the CEO compensation in the management fee of the Executive Management Services Agreement. EDPR signed an Executive Management Services Agreement with EDP, under which EDP bears the cost for the services render by its Executive Directors.This corporate governance practice of remuneration is in line with the model adopted by the EDP Group, in which the executive Directors of EDP do not receive any remuneration directly from the group companies on whose governing bodies they serve, but rather through EDP. Under this contract, EDP Renováveis is due to pay an amount of 1,295 thousands of Euros (variable and fixed remuneration) for management services rendered by EDP through 2012 (380 thousands of Euros in 2011, fixed remuneration). EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 195 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Additionally, the remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee that are also Officers and receive their remuneration as EDPR employees, not including the Chief Executive Officer, was in 2012, 1,231 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 1,857 thousands of Euros). The retirement savings plan for the members of the Executive Committee not including the Chief Executive Officer range betweeen 3% to 6% of their annual salary. As at 31 December 2012 and 2011 there are no outstanding loans and advances with company officers and key management. The Company has no pension or life insurance obligations with its former or current Board members in 2012 or 2011. Balances and transactions with related parties As at 31 December 2012, assets and liabilities with related parties, are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Net EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 7,027 14,500 -7,473 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 225,309 218,464 6,845 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 49,875 1,568 48,307 Associated companies 256,353 256,353 Other EDP Group companies 107,306 2,972,445 -2,865,139 645,870 3,206,977 -2,561,107 Liabilities includes essentially loans obtained by EDP Renováveis from EDP Finance BV in the amount of 2,956,758 thousands of Euros. As at 31 December 2011, assets and liabilities with related parties, are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Net EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 10,025 5,574 4,451 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 247,999 108,110 139,889 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 46,370 1,746 44,624 Associated companies 224,114 2,169 221,945 Other EDP Group companies 47,892 2,996,070 -2,948,178 576,400 3,113,669 -2,537,269 Liabilities includes essentially loans obtained by EDP Renováveis from EDP Finance BV in the amount of 2,986,433 thousands of Euros. Transactions with related parties for the year ended 31 December 2012 are analysed as follows: Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros income income expenses expenses EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 10,595 1,479 -3,310 -16,268 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 2,878 -12,196 -6,489 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 403,965 -4,470 -890 Associated companies 912 10,999 -1 Other EDP Group companies 149,877 19,458 -5,826 -186,361 565,349 34,814 -25,802 -210,009 Operating income includes mainly the electricty sales to suppliers of last resource in Portugal due to regulatory legislation and electricity sales to HC Group that act as a commercial agent of EDPR Group. Transactions with related parties for the year ended 31 December 2011 are analysed as follows: Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros income income expenses expenses EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 4,861 -11,285 -3,197 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Sucursal en España (EDP Branch) 15,633 -8,368 -2,174 Hidrocantábrico Group companies (electric sector) 358,814 -4,994 -700 Associated companies 1,533 6,820 -69 Other EDP Group companies 137,903 5,961 -6,992 -152,362 498,250 33,275 -31,639 -158,502 196 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 With the purpose of hedging the foreign exchange risk of EDP Renováveis and EDP Branch, the EDP Group establishing a Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swap (CIRS) in USD and EUR between EDP Branch and EDP Renováveis. At each reporting date, this CIRS is revalued to its market value, which corresponds to a spot foreign exchange revaluation, resulting in a perfect hedge (revaluation of the investment in EPDR NA and of the USD external financing). As at 31 December 2012, the amount payable by EDP Renováveis to EDP Branch related to this CIRS amounts to 169,862 thousands of Euros (31 December 2011: 208,460 thousands of Euros) (see notes 34 and 36). As part of its operational activities, the EDP Renováveis Group must present guarantees in favour of certain suppliers and in connection with renewable energy contracts. Usually, these guarantees are granted by EDP, S.A., through EDP Branch. As at 31 December 2012, EDP, S.A. and Hidrocantábrico granted financial (45,467 thousands of Euros, 31 December 2011: 57,272 thousands of Euros) and operational (375,772 thousands of Euros, 31 December 2011: 393,130 thousands of Euros) guarantees to suppliers in favour of EDPR EU and EDPR NA. The operational guarantees are issued following the commitments assumed by EDPR EU and EDPR NA in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, supply agreements, turbines and energy contracts (power purchase agreements) (see note 37). In the normal course of its activity, EDP Renováveis performs business transactions and operations with its related parties based on normal market conditions. 39. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value of financial instruments is based, whenever available, on quoted market prices. Otherwise, fair value is determined through internal models, which are based on generally accepted cash flow discounting techniques and option valuation models or through quotations supplied by third parties. Non-standard instruments may require alternative techniques, which consider their characteristics and the generally accepted market practices applicable to such instruments. These models are developed considering the market variables that affect the underlying instrument, namely yield curves, exchange rates and volatility factors. Market data is obtained from generally accepted suppliers of financial data (Bloomberg and Reuters). As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the following table presents the interest rate curves of the major currencies to which the Group is exposed. These interest rates were used as the base for the fair value calculations made through internal models referred above: 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Currencies Currencies EUR USD BRL EUR USD BRL 3 months 0.19% 0.31% 7.06% 1.36% 0.58% 10.41% 6 months 0.32% 0.51% 7.09% 1.62% 0.81% 10.15% 9 months 0.43% 0.69% 7.08% 1.79% 0.97% 10.04% 1 year 0.54% 0.84% 7.14% 1.95% 1.13% 10.04% 2 years 0.38% 0.39% 7.71% 1.31% 0.73% 10.48% 3 years 0.44% 0.48% 8.19% 1.36% 0.82% 10.75% 5 years 0.77% 0.83% 8.64% 1.72% 1.23% 10.98% 7 years 1.12% 1.27% 9.00% 2.07% 1.64% 11.05% 10 years 1.57% 1.81% 9.33% 2.38% 2.03% 11.22% Non-listed equity instruments, for which a reliable and consistent fair value estimate is not available either by internal models or external providers, are recognized at their historical cost. Available for sale financial instruments and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Listed financial instruments are recognized at fair value based on market prices. The financial instruments for which reliable fair value estimates are not available, are recorded in the statement of financial position at their cost (note 19). Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and suppliers These financial instruments include mainly short term financial assets and liabilities. Given their short term nature at the reporting date, their book values are not significantly different from their fair values. Financial debt The fair value of the financial debt is estimated through internal models, which are based on generally accepted cash flow discounting techniques. At the reporting date, the carrying amount of floating rate loans is approximately their fair value. In case of fixed rate loans, mainly the intercompany loans granted by EDP Group, their fair value is obtained through internal models based on generally accepted discounting techniques. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 197 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Derivative financial instruments All derivatives are accounted at their fair value. For those which are quoted in organized markets, the respective market price is used. For over-the-counter derivatives, fair value is estimated through the use of internal models based on cash flow discounting techniques and option valuation models generally accepted by the market, or by dealer price quotations. CIRS with EDP Branch (note 36) With the purpose of hedging the foreign exchange risk resulting from the net investment in EDPR NA, the Group entered into a CIRS in USD and EUR with EDP Branch. This financial derivative is presented in the statement of financial position at its fair value, which is estimated by discounting the projected USD and EUR cash flows. The discount rates and forward interest rates were based on the interest rate curves referred to above and the USD/EUR exchange rate is disclosed on note 28. See also notes 13 and 24. The fair values of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 are analysed as follows: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Carrying Carrying Fair value Difference Fair value Difference Thousands of Euros amount amount Financial assets Available for sale investments 9,407 9,407 9,618 9,618 Trade receivables 180,259 180,259 146,105 146,105 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 159,318 159,318 144,240 144,240 Other debtors and other assets 622,394 622,394 546,490 546,490 Derivative financial instruments 12,468 12,468 18,080 18,080 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 389 389 211 211 Cash and cash equivalents 245,837 245,837 219,922 219,922 1,230,072 1,230,072 1,084,666 1,084,666 Financial liabilities Financial debt 3,874,320 3,685,632 -188,688 3,826,122 3,398,053 -428,069 Suppliers 657,881 657,881 665,252 665,252 Institutional partnerships in US wind farms 1,679,753 1,679,753 1,783,861 1,783,861 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 99,469 99,469 107,362 107,362 Other liabilities and other payables 171,303 171,303 142,672 142,672 Derivative financial instruments 245,397 245,397 235,697 235,697 6,728,123 6,539,435 -188,688 6,760,966 6,332,897 -428,069 The fair value levels used to valuate EDP Renováveis Group financial assets and liabilities are defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets and liabilities; Level 2 Inputs other that quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices); Level 3 Inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Thousands of Euros Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Available for sale investments 9,407 9,618 Derivative financial instruments 12,468 18,080 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 389 211 12,857 9,407 18,291 9,618 Financial liabilities Liabilities arising from options with noncontrolling interests 7,785 4,112 Derivative financial instruments 245,397 235,697 245,397 7,785 235,697 4,112 198 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 The movement in 2012 and 2011 of the financial assets and liabilities within Level 3 are analysed was as follows: Available Trade for sale investments and other payables Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Balance at the begining of the year 9,618 18,380 4,112 271,338 Gains / (Losses) in other comprehensive income -211 2,070 Purchases 3,572 3,356 Fair value changes/Payments 101 -270,582 Disposals -10,832 Transfers into / (out of) Level 3 Balance at the end of the year 9,407 9,618 7,785 4,112 The Trade and other payables within level 3 are related with Liabilities arising from options with non-controlling interests. 40. RELEVANT SUBSEQUENT EVENTS EDPR agrees with CTG on the first investment in minority stakes in wind farms On 20 December 2012,EDP Renováveis S.A. (“EDPR”), 77.5% controlled by EDP, entered into an agreement with China Three Gorges International (Hong Kong) Company Limited (“CTGI HK”), a fully owned subsidiary of China Three Gorges (“CTG”), to sell a 49% equity shareholding and 25% of the outstanding shareholders loans in EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. (“EDPR PT”) for a total consideration of 359 millions of Euros. The transaction is subject to the customary regulatory approvals with closing expected to occur by the 1H13. The transaction scope covers 615 MW in operation, with an average age of 6 years, as well as 29 MW ready-to-build, remunerated under a feed-in-tariff regime in accordance to Decree-Law 33-A/2005, article 4. This operation corresponds to a non-controlling interests sale in 2013 according with the accounting policy 2 b). This transaction was agreed in the context of the EDP/CTG strategic partnership established in December 2011 and that entered into force on May 2012. Spanish Government publishes Royal Decree-Law with regulatory modifications for the electricity sector On 2 February 2013, the Spanish Government published in the Official State Gazette the Royal Decree-Law 2/2013 (“RDL 2/2013”) that encompasses a set of regulatory modifications applicable to the Spanish electricity sector and therefore affecting the wind energy assets. The main regulatory changes the RDL 2/2013 envisages vis-à-vis the Royal Decree 661/2007 that have an impact on EDP Renováveis S.A. (“EDPR”) from 1st of January 2013 onwards, are: The value of the premium in the economic regime of Market + Premium, has been set in 0c€/kWh. Operators of the facilities operating under Market + Premium regime had the option to select before 15 February 2013, and applicable since 1 January 2013 onwards, whether they would like to remain in the Market + Premium regime (this is to sell their electricity at market price). If an option has not been taken before that date, all the facilities currently included in the Market + Premium regime were automatically included in the Feed-in Tariff regime. Furthermore, RDL 2/2013 establishes that an operator that opts to sell the energy in the Market + Premium regime cannot later opt for the Feed-in Tariff regime. The index used to annually update all the regulated activities in the electricity sector will be the annual inflation excluding energy products and food prices, and any impact of tax changes. There were no changes introduced by Spanish Government regarding the 2020 Renewable Energy Target for Spain. At the closing of 2012 accounts, the Board of Directors of EDPR is evaluating the impact of the above mentioned regulatory changes in the cashflows of the Spanish portfolio. That being said, it is reasonable to expect that such unilateral changes introduced by the Spanish Government through the RD-L 2/2013 may have a significant impact from 2013 onwards via reduction of the cash flows of the projects and thence erode the profitability of the Spanish assets. As a result, EDPR will continue to promote a dialogue to achieve a negotiated solution while maintaining other avenues open. Preliminary sensitivity analysis to the impairment tests would not result in significant impacts in EDPR consolidated accounts. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 199 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Assets revaluation in Spain On 27 December, the Spanish Government published the Law 16/2012 that includes various taxation measures directed to public finances consolidation and to promote economic activity. Incorporates important changes in Income Tax, such as the establishment of the option, for taxable corporate income tax to conduct a revaluation. Group management is currently analysing the possibility and the potencial impacts of revaluate its assets in 2013. 41. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS USED The new standards and interpretation that have been issued and not effective for the Group on its consolidated financial statements can be analysed as follows: Annual Improvement Project In May 2012, IASB published the Annual Improvement Project that implied changes to the standards in force. However, the effective date of the referred changes is 1 January 2013, being early adoption allowed. ● Changes to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. This changes clarifies the difference between voluntary additional comparative information and the minimim required comparative information in cases of retrospective statements, reclassifications and changes in accounting policies. Generally, the minimum required comparative information is the previous period. No significant impact is expected in the Group from the adoption of this change. ● Changes to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. This amendement clarifies that if spare parts and servicing equipment meet with the definition of property, plant and equipment are not inventory. No significant impact is expected in the Group from the adoption of this change. ● Changes to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation. The amendment clarifies that income taxaes arising from distributions to equity holders are accounted in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes. No significant impact is expected in the Group from the adoption of this change. ● Changes to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting. The amendments aligns the disclosures requirement for total segment assets with total liabilities in interim financial statements, ensuring that interim disclosures are aligned with annual disclosures in relation to the changes of profit and losses account and other comprehensive income. No significant impact is expected in the Group from the adoption of this change. Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group IFRS 7 (Amendment) Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsseting Financial Assets The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in December 2011, amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures, with effective date of mandatory application of 1 January 2013, being early adoption allowed. With this change, the disclosures of financial instruments include information that will evaluate the effect or potential effect of the compensation arrangements, including the countervailing recognised as assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. The adoption of this amendement will only have impact on the financial statement disclosures. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in November 2009, IFRS 9 Financial instruments part I: Classification and measurement, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, being allowed its early adoption. This standard, changed in October 2010, has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This standard is included in phase I of the IASB's comprehensive project to replace IAS 39 and relates to issues of classification and measurement of financial assets. The main issues considered are as follows: the financial assets can be classified in two categories: at amortised cost or at fair value. This decision will be made upon the initial recognition of the financial assets. Its classification depends on how the entity presents these financial assets and the contractual cash flows associated to each financial asset in the business; 200 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 debt instruments model can be measured at amortised cost when the contractual cash-flows represent only principal and interest payments, which means that it contains only basic loan features, and for which an entity holds the asset to collect the contractual cash flows. All the other debt instruments are recognised at fair value; equity instruments issued by third parties are recognised at fair value with subsequent changes recognised in the profit and loss. However an entity could irrevocably elect equity instruments at initial recognition for which fair value changes and the realised gain or loss are recognised in fair value reserves. Gains and losses recognised in fair value reserves can not be recycled to profit and loss. This is a discretionary decision, and does not imply that all the equity instruments should be treated on This basis. the dividends received are recognised as income for the year; there is no exemption that allows unquoted equity investments and related derivatives to measure at cost. However, guidance is provided on the limited circumstances in which the cost of such an instrument may be an appropriate approximation of fair value; changes in fair value attributable to own credit risk of financial liabilities classified as fair value through profit or loss, shall be recognised in Other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value changes related to these financial liabilities shall be recognised through profit or loss. The amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income shall not be reclassified/transferred to profit and loss. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in May 2011, IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This standard introduces a new approach in determining which investments should be consolidated, replacing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation SPE. This standard establishes a single model to be applied in assessing the existence of control over subsidiaries, where an investor has control over a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has the right, to variable returns arising from its involvement in the subsidiary and has the ability to influence these returns because of the power over it. Additionally, the concept of de facto control was introduced. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in May 2011, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This standard superseded IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and introduces several changes for accounting jointly controlled investments, the main aspect is the elimination of the option to consolidate joint ventures by the proportional method, being the equity method mandatory. The structure of a joint agreement ceases to be the main factor in determining the accounting model to adopt. The classification of a joint agreement requires the identification and evaluation of the structure, legal form of the contractual agreement and other facts and circumstances. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in May 2011, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. The information disclosed has to help users of the financial statements evaluate the nature and risks associated with its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on the financial statements. The main issues considered are as follows: for the interests in subsidiaries, should be disclosed: (i) the composition of the group;(ii) non-controlling interests; (iii) significant restrictions on the parent's ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of its subsidiares; (iv) the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated with interests in consolidated structured entities; and (v) changes in its ownership interest that did or did not result in a loss of control during the reporting period; for the interests in joint arrangements and associates, it should be disclosed: (i) the nature, extent and financial effects of its interests in joint arrangements and associates, including information about contractual relationships with other parties; and (ii) the nature of, and the changes in, the associated risks with its interests in joint ventures and associates; EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 201 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 for the interests in unconsolidated structured entities, should be disclose: (i) the nature and the extent of its interests in unconsolidated structured entities; and (ii) the evaluation of the nature and changes in the risks associated with the interests in unconsolidated structured entities. The Group is evaluating the impact of adopting this standard. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in May 2011, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, being allowed its early adoption. This standard presents a revised concept of fair value and determines new disclosures requirements. The main aspects considered are as follows: (i) principles of fair value, (ii) appropriate valuations techniques and fair value hierarchy and (iii) additional disclosure requirements. No significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this standard. IAS 1 (Amended) Presentation of Financial Statements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in June 2011, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Presentation of items of other comprehensive income, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012, being allowed its early adoption. The principal changes are the following: the amendments retain the option to present profit or loss and other comprehensive income ineither a single continuos statement or in two separate but consecutive statements; items of other comprehensive are required to be grouped into those that will and will not subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss; and tax on items of other comprehensive income is required to be alocated on the same basis. The Group is evaluating the impact from the adoption of this change. IAS 28 (Amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in May 2011, IAS 28 (Amended) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment to IAS 28 (2003) describes the accounting treatment to be adopted by the investor in associates and joint ventures, defining the accounting requirements for applying the equity method for both associates and joint ventures. No significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this change. IAS 32 (Amended) Financial Instruments: Presentation The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued in December 2011, IAS 32 (Amended) Financial Statements: Presentation, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment clarifies the required conditions to be met in order to present the net position of the financial assets and liabilities in the financial position of an entity, as follows: (i) the entity currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts, and (ii) the entity has the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. No significant impact in the Group is expected from the adoption of this change. 202 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 42. ENVIRONMENT ISSUES Expenses of environmental nature are the expenses that were identified and incurred to avoid, reduce or repair damages of an environmental nature that result from the Group's normal activity. These expenses are booked in the income statement of the year, except if they qualify to be recognised as an asset, according to IAS 16. During the period, the environmental expenses recognised in the income statement refer to costs with the environmental management plan are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Environmental Expenses 3,174 1,910 3,174 1,910 As referred in accounting policy 2o), the Group has established provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of property, plant and equipment when a legal or contractual obligation exists to dismantle and decommission those assets at the end of their useful lifes. Consequently, the Group has booked provisions for property, plant and equipment related to electricity wind generation for the responsibilities of restoring sites and land to its original condition, in the amount of 63,336 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 57,694 thousands of Euros) (see note 31). 43. SEGMENTAL REPORTING The Group generates energy from renewable resources and has four reportable segments which are the Group’s strategic business units, Portugal, Spain, Rest of Europe and USA. The strategic business units have operations in different geographic zones and are managed separately because their characteristics are quite different mainly as a consequence of different regulations in each zone. For each of the strategic business units, the Group’s CEO reviews internal management reports on at least a quarterly basis. Other operations include the EDPR BR subgroup companies, the financial investments and remaining activities (biomass and mini-hydric generation plants) not included in the reportable segments. None of these segments meets any of the quantitative thresholds for determining reportable segments in 2012 or 2011. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as described in note 3. Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included in Annex 2. Performance is measured based on segment profit, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s CEO. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. A business segment is an identifiable component of the Group, aimed at providing a single product or service, or a group of related products or services, and it is subject to risks and returns that can be distinguished from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is an identifiable component of the Group, aimed at providing a single product or service, or a group of related products or services, within a specific economic environment, and it is subject to risks and returns that can be differentiated from those that operate in other economic environments. The Group generates energy from renewable sources in several locations and its activity is managed based on the following business segments: ● Portugal Includes essentially the EDPR Portugal Group companies; ● Spain Includes the EDPR EU Group companies that operate in Spain; ● Rest of Europe Includes the EDPR EU Group companies that operate in Belgium, France, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania and United Kingdom; ● United States of America includes the EDPR NA Group companies that operate in this country; ● Other Includes the EDPR BR Group, EDPR Canada Group companies, the financial investments and remaining activities (Biomass and mini-hydric generation plants) not included in the business segments. The segment Adjustments corresponds to the adjustments related to the consolidation of financial investments in subsidiaries of EDPR Group and to the other consolidation and intra-segment adjustments. EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 203 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. and subsidiaries Notes to the Consolidated Annual Accounts for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 Segment definition The amounts reported in each business segment result from the aggregation of the subsidiaries and business units defined in each segment perimeter and the elimination of the intra-segment transactions. The statement of financial position of each subsidiary and business unit is determined based in the amounts booked directly in the subsidiaries that compose the segment, including the intra-segment eliminations, without any inter-segment allocation adjustment. The income statement for each segment is determined based on the amounts booked directly in the subsidiaries financial statements and business units, adjusted by the intra-segments annullations. 44. AUDIT AND NON AUDIT FEES KPMG has audited the consolidated annual accounts of EDP Renováveis Group for 2012 and 2011. This company and the other related entities and persons in accordance with Law 19/1988 of 12 July, have invoiced for the year ended in 31 December 2012 and 2011, fees and expenses for professional services, according to the following detail (amounts in thousands of Euros): 31 December 2012 United States of Portugal Spain Brasil America Other Total Audit and statutory audit of accounts 177 634 68 791 411 2,081 Other audit services 40 54 31 12 137 217 688 68 822 423 2,218 Tax consultancy services 164 32 196 Other services 10 30 40 80 10 194 32 40 276 Total 227 882 68 854 463 2,494 31 December 2011 United States of Portugal Spain Brasil America Other Total Audit and statutory audit of accounts 166 639 83 688 308 1,884 Other audit services 180 61 31 13 285 346 700 83 719 321 2,169 Tax consultancy services 24 9 33 Other services 9 9 9 24 9 42 Total 355 700 83 743 330 2,211 204 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : ANNEX 1 The Subsidiary Companies consolidated under the full consolidated method, as at 31 December 2012 and 2011, are as follows: 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Group's parent holding company and Related Activities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. (Group's parent holding company) Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.A. Oviedo n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Europe Geography / Platform: Spain: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (Europe Parent Company) Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Acampo Arias,S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 98.19% 98.19% 98.19% 98.19% Aplicaciones Industriales de Energías Limpias, S.L. Zaragoza n.a. 61.50% 61.50% 61.50% 61.50% Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de la Terra Alta, S.A. Barcelona n.a. 48.70% 60.63% 48.70% 60.63% Bon Vent de Corbera, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Bon Vent de L'Ebre, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Bon Vent de Vilalba, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ceprastur, A.I.E. Oviedo n.a. 56.76% 56.76% 56.76% 56.76% Compañía Eólica Campo de Borja, S.A. Zaragoza KPMG 75.83% 75.83% 75.83% 75.83% Desarrollo Eólico Almarchal, S.A.U. Cádiz KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico Buenavista, S.A.U. Cádiz KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico de Corme, S.A. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico de Lugo, S.A.U. Lugo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico de Tarifa, S.A.U. Cádiz KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico Dumbria, S.A.U. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollo Eólico Rabosera, S.A. Huesca KPMG 95.08% 95.08% 95.08% 95.08% Desarrollo Eólico Santa Quiteria, S.L. Huesca KPMG 83.96% 100.00% 83.96% 100.00% Desarrollos Catalanes Del Viento, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Desarrollos Eólicos de Galicia, S.A. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Desarrollos Eólicos de Teruel, S.L. Zaragoza n.a. 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% 51.00% EDP Renováveis Cantábria, S.L. Madrid n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Energías Eólicas La Manchuela, S.L.U. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eneroliva, S.A. Sevilla n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Alfoz, S.L. Madrid KPMG 83.73% 83.73% 83.73% 83.73% Eólica Arlanzón, S.A. Madrid KPMG 77.50% 77.50% 77.50% 77.50% Eólica Campollano, S.A. Madrid KPMG 75.00% 75.00% 75.00% 75.00% Eólica Curiscao Pumar, S.A. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica de Radona, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Don Quijote, S.L. Albacete KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Dulcinea, S.L. Albacete KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Fontesilva, S.L. La Coruña KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Garcimuñoz, S.L. Madrid n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Guadalteba, S.L. Sevilla KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica La Janda, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica La Navica, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eólica Sierra de Avila, S.L. Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renovables España, S.L. (former Generaciones Especiales I, S.L.) Madrid KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Iberia Aprovechamientos Eólicos, S.A.U. Zaragoza KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Industrias Medioambientales Río Carrión, S.A. Madrid n.a. 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% Investigación y Desarrollo de Energías Renovables, S.L. León KPMG 59.59% 59.59% 59.59% 59.59% Molino de Caragüeyes, S.L Zaragoza KPMG 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% Eólica Muxía, S.L. La Coruña n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 205 : financial statements : 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights NEO Energia Aragón, S.L. Madrid n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic Coll de la Garganta, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic de Coll de Moro, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic de Torre Madrina, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic de Vilalba dels Arcs, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 60.00% 100.00% 60.00% 100.00% Parc Eòlic Molinars, S.L. Girona n.a. 54.00% 90.00% 54.00% 90.00% Parc Eòlic Serra Voltorera, S.L. Barcelona KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parque Eólico Altos del Voltoya, S.A. Madrid KPMG 61.00% 61.00% 61.00% 61.00% Parque Eólico Belchite, S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parque Eólico La Sotonera, S.L. Zaragoza KPMG 64.84% 64.84% 64.84% 64.84% Parque Eólico Los Cantales, S.L.U. Zaragoza KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parques de Generación Eólica, S.L. Burgos KPMG 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Parques Eólicos del Cantábrico, S.A. Oviedo KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rasacal Cogeneración S.A. Madrid n.a. 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Renovables Castilla La Mancha, S.A. Albacete KPMG 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% Sierra de la Peña, S.A. Madrid KPMG 84.90% 84.90% 84.90% 84.90% Sotromal, S.A. Soria n.a. 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% Tratamientos Medioambientales del Norte, S.A. Madrid n.a. 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% Portugal: EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A. Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% EDPR PT Promoção e Operação, S.A. Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Arcos de Eólica da Alagoa, S.A. Valdevez KPMG 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% 60.00% Eólica da Serra das Alturas, S.A. Boticas KPMG 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% Vila Pouca de Eólica de Montenegrelo, Lda Aguiar KPMG 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% 50.10% Malhadizes Energia Eólica, S.A. Porto KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% France: EDP Renewables France, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. NEO Truc L'homme, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Patay, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Saint Barnabe, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% C.E. Segur, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne de Callengeville, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne des Bocages, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eolienne D'Etalondes, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Le Mee, S.A. R.L. Toulouse KPMG 100.00% 49.00% 100.00% 49.00% Mardelle, S.A.R.L. Toulouse n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Monts du Forez Energie, S.A.S. Paris KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien D'Ardennes Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de La Hetroye, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Mancheville, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Roman, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien des Bocages, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien des Longs Champs, S.A.R.L. Elbeuf n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S. Elbeuf KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Petite Piece, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 100.00% 49.00% 100.00% 49.00% Plouvien Breiz, S.A.S. Carhaix KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Quinze Mines, S.A.R.L. Toulouse n.a. 100.00% 49.00% 100.00% 49.00% Sauvageons, S.A.R.L. Toulouse KPMG 100.00% 49.00% 100.00% 49.00% Vallée du Moulin, S.A.R.L. Toulouse n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 206 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Poland: EDP Renewables Polska, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy I, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Farma Wiatrowa Starozreby, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 60.00% 60.00% Karpacka Mala Energetyka, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Korsze Wind Farm SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Masovia Wind Farm I, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% MFW Gryf SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% MFW Neptun SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% MFW Pomorze SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park I, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 96.43% 96.43% 96.43% 96.43% Relax Wind Park II, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park III, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Relax Wind Park IV, SP. ZO.O. Warsaw n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Romania: EDP Renewables Romania, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Cernavoda Power, S.R.L. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Cujmir Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% EDPR-RO-PV, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Foton Delta, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Foton Epsilon, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Pestera Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% VS Wind Farm, S.A. (former Pochidia Wind Farm, S.A.) Bucharest KPMG 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Potelu Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% 85.00% Sibioara Wind Farm, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 85.00% 85.00% Studina Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Vanju Mare Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Great Britain: EDPR UK Limited Cardiff KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% MacColl Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff n.a. 66.64% 100.00% 66.64% 100.00% Moray Offshore Renewables Limited Cardiff KPMG 66.64% 66.64% 66.64% 66.64% Stevenson Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff n.a. 66.64% 100.00% 66.64% 100.00% Telford Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff n.a. 66.64% 100.00% 66.64% 100.00% Italy: EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. Milano KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Castellaneta Wind, S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Laterza Wind, S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Monts de la Madeleine Energie, S.A.S. Milano KPMG 100.00% 100.00% Pietragalla Eolico, S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Re Plus S.R.L. Milano n.a. 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% Repano Wind S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Villa Castelli Wind, S.R.L. Milano n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Belgium: EDP Renewables Belgium Brussels n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Louvain-laGreenwind, S.A. Neuve KPMG 70.00% 70.00% 70.00% 70.00% Holland: Tarcan, BV Amsterdam KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 207 : financial statements : 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights North America Geography / Platform: USA: EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. (USA Parent Company) Texas, USA KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 17th Star Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2007 Vento I, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2007 Vento II, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2008 Vento III, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2009 Vento IV, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2009 Vento V, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2009 Vento VI, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2010 Vento VII, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2010 Vento VIII, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2011 Vento IX, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2011 Vento X, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 2012 Vento XI, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Alabama Ledge Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Antelope Ridge Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arkwright Summit Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Arlington Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Aroostook Wind Energy, L.L.C. Maine n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ashford Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project II, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% AZ Solar, L.L.C. Arizona n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% BC2 Maple Ridge Holdings, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% BC2 Maple Ridge Wind, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Black Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Black Prairie Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Black Prairie Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blackstone Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Wind Power VII, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower II, L.L.C. Oklahoma KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower III, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower IV, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower V, L.L.C. Oklahoma KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Blue Canyon Windpower VI, L.L.C. Oklahoma KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Broadlands Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Broadlands Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Broadlands Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Buffalo Bluff Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Chateaugay River Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Clinton County Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cloud County Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cloud West Wind Project, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Coos Curry Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Cropsey Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Crossing Trails Wind, Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Dairy Hills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Diamond Power Partners, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% East Klickitat Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Eastern Nebraska Wind Farm, L.L.C. Nebraska n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDPR Wind Ventures X, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 208 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights EDPR Wind Ventures XI, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Five-Spot, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ford Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Franklin Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Gulf Coast Windpower Management Company, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Headwaters Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Hidalgo Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% High Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Minnesota KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% High Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illionois KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Chocolate Bayou I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Midwest IX, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest I, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest IV, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest VII, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest X, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest XI, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Panhandle I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest I, L.L.C. New Mexico n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest II, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest III, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest IV, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Energy Valley I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind MREC Iowa Partners, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures IB, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures IC, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures II, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures III, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures IX, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures VI, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures VII, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind Ventures VIII, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wind, Freeport Windpower I, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Horizon Wyoming Transmission, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Jericho Rise Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Juniper Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Lost Lakes Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Machias Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Madison Windpower, L.L.C. New York KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Marble River, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Martinsdale Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Indiana KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Meadow Lake Windfarm III, L.L.C. Indiana n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Mesquite Wind, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% New Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% North Slope Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Number Nine Wind Farm, L.L.C. Maine n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Old Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% OPQ Property, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pacific Southwest Wind Farm, L.L.C. Arizona n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Ohio KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 209 : financial statements : 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Paulding Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm IV, L.L.C Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Paulding Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Peterson Power Partners, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pioneer Prairie Interconnection, L.L.C. Iowa n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm I, L.L.C. Iowa KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Iowa n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Post Oak Wind, L.L.C. Texas KPMG 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Quilt Block Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wisconsin n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rail Splitter, L.L.C. Illinois KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rio Blanco Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rising Tree Wind Farm, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Rush County Wind Farm, L.L.C Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Saddleback Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Sagebrush Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington KPMG 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Sardinia Windpower, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Signal Hill Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Stinson Mills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Stone Wind Power, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Telocaset Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon KPMG 51.00% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% The Nook Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tug Hill Windpower, L.L.C. New York n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tumbleweed Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Turtle Creek Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Verde Wind Power, L.L.C. Texas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Waverly Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Western Trail Wind Project I, L.L.C. Kansas n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Wheatfield Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Whiskey Ridge Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Whistling Wind WI Energy Center, L.L.C. Wisconsin n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Whitestone Wind Purchasing, L.L.C. Illinois n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Wilson Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. Nevada n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Wind Turbine Prometheus, L.P. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% WTP Management Company, L.L.C. California n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Canada: EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 0867242 BC, Ltd. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renewables Canada GP, Ltd. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% EDP Renewables Canada LP, Ltd. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% Eolia Renewable Energy Canada, Ltd. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% SBWFI GP, Inc. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% South Branch Wind Farm, Inc. Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% South Dundas Wind Farm LP Ontario n.a. 100.00% 100.00% 210 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights South America Geography / Platform: Brazil: EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 55.00% 55.00% 55.00% Central Eólica Aventura, S.A. São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão I, S.A. São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão II, S.A. São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão III, S.A. São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijão IV, S.A. São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% Central Nacional de Energia Eólica, S.A. São Paulo KPMG 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% Elebrás Projectos, Ltda São Paulo n.a. 55.00% 100.00% 55.00% 100.00% The main financial indicators of the jointly controlled companies included in the consolidation under the proportionate consolidation method as at 31 December 2012, are as follows: % of % voting Company Share Capital Head Office Auditor of capital rights Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 6,701,165 € Zaragoza Deloitte 50.00% 50.00% Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios S.A. 15,025 € Las Palmas n.a. 49.90% 49.90% Evolución 2000, S.L. 117,994 € Albacete KPMG 49.15% 49.15% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. $522,818,885 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. $207,447,187 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Tebar Eólica, S.A. 4,720,400 € Cuenca Abante 50.00% 50.00% Non Current Current Non Current Current Total Total Total Net Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Equity Incomes Costs Results Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 43,999 9,885 11,605 6,815 35,464 17,995 -10,119 7,876 Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios S.A. 4 9 -5 Evolución 2000, S.L. 22,304 3,230 17,489 1,934 6,111 5,568 -3,570 1,998 Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. 147,901 2,304 1,308 130 148,767 11,170 -14,062 -2,892 Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. 59,348 568 504 34 59,378 2,388 -4,966 -2,578 Tebar Eólica, S.A. 12,872 6,349 11,141 2,498 5,582 4,398 -3,482 916 The main financial indicators of the jointly controlled companies included in the consolidation under the proportionate consolidation method as at 31 December 2011, are as follows: % of % voting Company Share Capital Head Office Auditor of capital rights Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 6,701,165 € Zaragoza Deloitte 50.00% 50.00% Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios S.A. 15,025 € Las Palmas n.a. 49.90% 49.90% Evolución 2000, S.L. 117,994 € Albacete KPMG 49.15% 49.15% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. $522,818,885 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. $207,447,187 New York E&Y 50.00% 50.00% Tebar Eólica, S.A. 4,720,400 € Cuenca Abante 50.00% 50.00% Non Current Current Non Current Current Total Total Total Net Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Equity Incomes Costs Results Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 47,204 9,709 19,424 6,826 30,663 17,986 -10,214 7,772 Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios S.A. 4 -5 9 Evolución 2000, S.L. 23,319 5,025 18,850 2,134 7,360 5,255 -3,578 1,677 Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. 158,942 3,125 1,265 28 160,774 11,565 -13,815 -2,250 Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. 63,658 863 487 68 63,966 2,740 -4,609 -1,869 Tebar Eólica, S.A. 14,607 6,095 13,063 2,220 5,419 4,108 -3,276 832 EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 211 : financial statements : The Associated Companies included in the consolidation under the equity method as at 31 December 2012 and 2011, are as follows: 2012 2011 % of % of Head % voting % voting Company Office Auditor of capital rights of capital rights Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. Barcelona n.a. 18.97% 38.96% 18.97% 38.96% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. Huesca n.a. 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% Blue Canyon Wind Power I, L.L.C. Oklahoma n.a. 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A. Burgos n.a. 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% 30.00% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. Gran Canaria KPMG 44.75% 44.75% 44.75% 44.75% ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. Lisboa Mazars 35.96% 35.96% 35.96% 35.96% Parque Eólico Belmonte, S.A. Asturias KPMG 29.90% 29.90% 29.90% 29.90% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. Soria Ernst & Young 42.00% 42.00% 42.00% 42.00% SeaEnergy Renewables Inch Cape Limited Edimburg Deloitte 49.00% 49.00% 49.00% 49.00% Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. Ciudad Real n.a. 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% 25.00% 212 A World Full Of Energy : financial statements : ANNEX 2 EDP Renováveis, S.A. Group Activity by Operating Segment Operating Segment Information for the year ended 31 December 2012 WIND ENERGY OPERATIONS EUROPE Rest of Other and Renováveis Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Europe* Others Adjustments Total U. S. A. Adjustments Group Revenues 149,333 434,424 182,986 24,066 -13,271 777,538 355,504 24,754 1,157,796 Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms 127,350 127,350 149,333 434,424 182,986 24,066 -13,271 777,538 482,854 24,754 1,285,146 Other operating income / (expenses) Other operating income 815 6,255 35,586 1,573 2,311 46,540 19,796 -3,220 63,116 Supplies and services -20,952 -75,477 -33,670 -19,121 24,124 -125,096 -116,456 -20,258 -261,810 Personnel costs -3,016 -7,142 -2,933 -11,451 -24,542 -29,016 -9,101 -62,659 Other operating expenses -7,513 -22,130 -9,891 -1,536 68 -41,002 -39,516 -5,694 -86,212 -30,666 -98,494 -10,908 -30,535 26,503 -144,100 -165,192 -38,273 -347,565 118,667 335,930 172,078 -6,469 13,232 633,438 317,662 -13,519 937,581 Provisions 3 3 3 Depreciation and amortisation expense -27,082 -180,244 -48,782 -4,032 -260,140 -233,458 -9,111 -502,709 Amortisation of deferred income / Government grants 779 115 225 1,119 14,112 15,231 92,367 155,801 123,521 -10,501 13,232 374,420 98,316 -22,630 450,106 Gains / (losses) from the sale of financial assets 2,766 2,766 2,766 Other financial income 563 16,742 163,436 -162,929 17,812 5,573 28,550 51,935 Interest income 11,000 7,161 2,020 174,635 -175,315 19,501 729 2,023 22,253 Other financial expenses -1,185 -2,064 -23,291 -527 763 -26,304 -78,354 -25,311 -129,969 Interest expense -35,185 -119,372 -75,560 -253,155 175,234 -308,038 -793 86,996 -221,835 Share of profit of associates 4,094 3,270 -531 6,833 6,833 Profit before tax 71,091 48,125 42,901 73,888 -149,015 86,990 25,471 69,628 182,089 Income tax expense -18,578 -11,581 -11,705 22,556 313 -18,995 -3,901 -23,143 -46,039 Profit for the year 52,513 36,544 31,196 96,444 -148,702 67,995 21,570 46,485 136,050 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP Renováveis 50,470 33,825 29,901 96,447 -148,702 61,941 16,657 47,668 126,266 Non-Controlling Interests 2,043 2,719 1,295 -3 6,054 4,913 -1,183 9,784 Profit (loss) for the period 52,513 36,544 31,196 96,444 -148,702 67,995 21,570 46,485 136,050 Assets Property, plant and equipment 507,691 2,941,560 1,733,352 160,612 5,343,215 4,991,866 201,826 10,536,907 Intangible assets and Goodwill 42,109 473,201 92,355 1 93,973 701,639 610,286 14,920 1,326,845 Investments in associates 8,567 12,136 2,638 22,291 45,632 1,840 1 47,473 Current assets 291,941 353,678 227,139 1,544,840 -1,727,712 689,886 129,095 118,176 937,157 Equity and Liabilities Equity and Non-Controlling Interest 113,873 1,247,542 249,839 218,993 -1,346,134 484,113 3,388,092 1,876,622 5,748,827 Current Liabilities 291,338 836,298 941,953 563,144 -1,439,737 1,192,996 277,131 -333,560 1,136,567 Other information: Increase of the period Property, plant and equipment 9,316 74,436 289,804 118,798 492,354 178,449 19,299 690,102 Intangible assets and Goodwill 177 177 11 188 * Rest of Europe includes the following countries: Belgium, France, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania and United Kingdom EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 213 : financial statements : EDP Renováveis, S.A. Group Activity by Operating Segment Operating Segment Information for the year ended 31 December 2011 WIND ENERGY OPERATIONS EUROPE Rest of Other and Renováveis Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Europe* Others Adjustments Total U. S. A. Adjustments Group Revenues 138,576 379,527 126,212 18,292 -27,744 634,863 302,890 19,464 957,217 Income from institutional partnerships in US wind farms 111,610 111,610 138,576 379,527 126,212 18,292 -27,744 634,863 414,500 19,464 1,068,827 Other operating income / (expenses) Other operating income 2,094 5,502 1,606 8,195 45,159 62,556 17,712 4,276 84,544 Supplies and services -21,481 -66,595 -23,138 -14,543 19,103 -106,654 -101,262 -17,153 -225,069 Personnel costs -2,988 -6,856 -3,948 -9,050 -22,842 -25,936 -12,054 -60,832 Other operating expenses -5,455 -16,459 -6,626 -1,238 1,130 -28,648 -34,839 -3,245 -66,732 -27,830 -84,408 -32,106 -16,636 65,392 -95,588 -144,325 -28,176 -268,089 110,746 295,119 94,106 1,656 37,648 539,275 270,175 -8,712 800,738 Provisions 266 266 266 Depreciation and amortisation expense -28,643 -133,675 -49,084 -5,338 -35,488 -252,228 -209,653 -6,612 -468,493 Amortisation of deferred income / Government grants 913 140 242 1 1,296 13,690 14,986 83,016 161,850 45,264 -3,681 2,160 288,609 74,212 -15,324 347,497 Gains / (losses) from the sale of financial assets 10,499 10,499 10,499 Other financial income 906 19,660 25,020 -23,842 21,744 8,299 756 30,799 Interest income 7,072 6,269 1,515 178,452 -179,101 14,207 539 16,010 30,756 Other financial expenses -280 -1,869 -33,548 -12,751 10,275 -38,173 -72,098 -9,091 -119,362 Interest expense -35,050 -114,724 -63,808 -247,094 179,057 -281,619 1,283 94,013 -186,323 Share of profit of associates 2,167 1,746 -7 889 4,795 1 4,796 Profit before tax 56,925 64,677 -30,924 -59,165 -11,451 20,062 12,235 86,365 118,662 Income tax expense -15,665 -16,277 2,759 30,805 2,365 3,987 -5,813 -26,212 -28,038 Profit for the year 41,260 48,400 -28,165 -28,360 -9,086 24,049 6,422 60,153 90,624 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP Renováveis 39,733 44,995 -26,586 -28,329 -9,086 20,727 6,422 61,455 88,604 Non-Controlling Interests 1,527 3,405 -1,579 -31 3,322 -1,302 2,020 Profit (loss) for the period 41,260 48,400 -28,165 -28,360 -9,086 24,049 6,422 60,153 90,624 Assets Property, plant and equipment 526,275 3,152,540 1,356,113 47,049 5,081,977 5,162,441 210,203 10,454,621 Intangible assets and Goodwill 42,494 97,172 90,416 69 470,034 700,185 618,437 15,042 1,333,664 Investments in associates 9,381 14,700 25,423 49,504 1,877 51,381 Current assets 133,706 445,113 144,866 1,430,075 -1,496,724 657,036 137,865 95,651 890,552 Equity and Liabilities Equity and Non-Controlling Interest 97,953 936,440 223,278 121,189 -935,817 443,043 3,332,379 1,678,303 5,453,725 Current Liabilities 229,146 1,005,260 554,386 463,909 -1,371,231 881,470 396,278 -194,569 1,083,179 Other information: Increase of the period Property, plant and equipment 10,119 168,898 155,079 28,771 362,867 407,894 59,949 830,710 Intangible assets and Goodwill 5 5 4 9 * Rest of Europe includes the following countries: Belgium, France, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Romania and United Kingdom 214 A World Full Of Energy : statement on compliance of financial infomation : EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 215 : statement on compliance on the system of internal control over financial reporting : 216 A World Full Of Energy : auditor’s report on the consolidated annual accounts : EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 217 : audit report on the system of internal control over financial reporting : 218 A World Full Of Energy : audit report on the system of internal control over financial reporting : EDP Renováveis 2012 Annual Report 219
