SHAPING THE FUTURE OF MOBILITY, RESPONSIBLY 2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUMMARY ABOUT THIS PUBLICATION We report on our corporate social responsibility (CSR) performance annually in the spring, in alignment with our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Data in this report covers the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Financial information is given in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified. To view our full online report, which was developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 and the GRI Principles for Defining Quality, please visit csr.bombardier.com. LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVE Since our founding in 1942 as the manufacturer Internally at Bombardier, 2012 was a year of of the 12-passenger B12 snowmobile to our innovation and integration. We are a large, position today as the world’s only manufacturer global company with practices that sometimes of planes and trains, we have again and again differ across our many locations. In 2012 we transformed the way people move. While our took a close look at some of the best practices product portfolio has evolved over the years, originating from different parts of our business our core values have remained the same. — from health, safety, and environmental management to development programs for managers and leaders — and identified those SHAPING THE FUTURE OF that could be shared across the business. By MOBILITY, RESPONSIBLY growing successful practices globally, we can operate more efficiently and make greater yearOur sixth corporate social responsibility on-year progress in our CSR performance. This (CSR) report, Shaping the Future of Mobility, is also part of how we will continue to fulfill our Responsibly, articulates our belief that to be a commitment to practice and progress against leader in the transportation industry of today the principles of the United Nations Global and tomorrow, we must dedicate ourselves to: Compact. Pierre Beaudoin •D elivering Innovation by creating President and advanced mobility solutions that provide IT’S ALL ABOUT WHAT’S NEXT Chief Executive Officer, safe, efficient, and environmentallyBombardier Inc. responsible air and rail travel to meet the We are proud of the progress we made against needs of the world’s growing population our CSR objectives in 2012 and proud that our and industry. progress earned Bombardier recognition on two Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the sixth •M anaging Responsibly by conducting consecutive year and, for the first time, as a our business ethically and transparently; Sector Leader. But there is still much work to applying manufacturing practices be done. Over the next several years we will: that continually improve the quality of our products and adhere to the highest • C  ontinue to focus on creating industryhealth, safety, and environmental leading products that address societal standards; and supporting the needs while reaching new levels of engagement and empowerment of environmental responsibility. We will our 71,700 employees. explore alternative fuels for use in our •S upporting Communities by partnering products and work toward our long-term with our employees, customers, local goal to manufacture 100% recoverable organizations, and all stakeholders to help products. build communities and improve quality • Ensure  we are providing our employees of life wherever we do business. with the best opportunities to grow and advance their careers. For us, 2012 was a year of great progress in Daniel Desjardins The Evolution of Mobility. While there were • A  ttract and retain more women engineers Senior Vice President, some challenges — as all members of our and leaders across our organization. General Counsel, industry still cope with heightened economic • W  ork to decrease our environmental Corporate Secretary, uncertainty — it was still a year of innovation impact while simultaneously growing and CSR Committee and achievements. We began the final stages our business. Chairman, of the development of the CSeries mainliner, Bombardier Inc. an aircraft with an unmatched environmental • F  ocus more closely on our approach to scorecard, in preparation for its first flight human rights, including how we guard in 2013. We also continued testing the against the use of conflict minerals in ZEFIRO 380, a very high speed train that sets our supply chain. a new, high standard for climate-friendly, • F  urther implement our Health, Safety, long-distance travel. We are excited about and Environment Preventive Culture in the environmental potential of these products, all of our operations. but also the promise they hold for communities. In this age of urbanization and globalization, • C  ontinue to develop communities and these products provide affordable and grow local roots in our key markets. environmentally-efficient mobility solutions for cities — large and small — to connect to Thank you for taking the time to read about one another. This brings new opportunities our CSR efforts. To read our full 2012 CSR and experiences to communities and businesses report and to provide feedback, please that may not have previously been connected visit csr.bombardier.com. We look forward to the global network. to continuing our conversation about the future of CSR at Bombardier and how we can work together to shape the future of mobility, responsibly. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 1 WHO Bombardier is the world’s only manufacturer of both trains and planes. We are committed to meeting the challenges of today and tomorrow by continuing to evolve the way WE ARE people move around the world. From high speed trains to commercial and business aircraft, our approach to product development is focused on improving people’s ability to connect with each other through safe and environmentally-responsible means of transportation. That is why we consistently invest in research and development, deploy innovative product development tools, and work directly with all of our stakeholders to ensure our progress in The Evolution of Mobility continues. In 2012, we continued to display leadership in aerospace with the industry’s most comprehensive portfolio of products and services, as well as in rail transportation, where our technological capabilities are unmatched. WHERE WE ARE As at December 31, 2012 1 37 Europe Revenues $6,864 million Workforce 31,400 1 14 Asia-Pacific Revenues $2,130 million Workforce 3,000 13 9 North America Revenues $6,265 million Workforce 36,500 1 4 Rest of the World Revenues $1,509 million Workforce 800 Number of Bombardier Aerospace production and engineering sites Number of Bombardier Transportation production and engineering sites 2 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. OUR APPROACH Our CSR approach is organized into six pillars SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP representing the six areas in which we believe IN 2012 CSR is a fundamental part of how we think we have the greatest responsibility and about and conduct our business and how opportunity to make progress. The world’s 2,500 largest companies (based we identify growth opportunities. on the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Products and Services Index) are invited to participate in RobecoSAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) We are committed to creating products and every year. The survey results determine services that meet the world’s mobility needs, OUR CSR MISSION inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability while upholding best-in-class standards of Indices (DJSI). safety and creating new, high standards in environmental responsibility. As the world’s only manufacturer of Our DJSI rankings for 2012 represent our sixth both planes and trains, we provide the consecutive listing on both the DJSI World and Governance transportation solutions of tomorrow DJSI North America Indices. that drive value by addressing mobility We are committed to strong and ethical needs, while respecting planet and corporate governance, embedded in our Following RobecoSAM’s CSA, we were also people. By conducting our business in promise, our core values, and our Code awarded Sector Leader, considered to be the collaboration with and to the benefit of of Ethics and Business Conduct. company within our sector best prepared our stakeholders, we create the conditions to seize the opportunities and manage risks for engaged talent, constant innovation, Employees derived from economic, environmental, and and eco-efficient products and services social developments. We are committed to our employees. Our that shape The Evolution of Mobility. This success depends on their full engagement is how we move forward, responsibly. and enablement. By listening to, developing, and rewarding our employees, we promote the success of our business worldwide. Operations We are committed to operating our business in a way that maximizes the safety and environmental efficiency of our workplaces and of our products. Supply Chain We are committed to working closely with our suppliers around the world to ensure the efficiency and sustainability of our supply chain. Responsible Citizenship We are committed to making a positive contribution everywhere we do business — starting in the communities where we operate. OUR PROMISE The Evolution of Mobility is about creating better ways to move the world. Transforming how millions of people get around every day, by train and by plane. We take the lead, and we deliver. We’re mobilizing the future in more than 60 different countries. Investing in communities around the globe to break new ground. After all, The Evolution of Mobility is all about what’s next. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 3 2012 The following are some of the goals we set for ourselves for 2012 and how we have tracked against those objectives. Our full 2012 goals and our goals for 2013 are available at CSR GOALS csr.bombardier.com. & PROGRESS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES What we said we’d do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Progress Sustain progress through our own and joint We have continued to reduce our use of hazardous industry initiatives to reduce or eliminate the substances by addressing requirements of Regulation on ON TRACK use of hazardous substances or regulated Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of chemicals in our products Chemicals (REACH), through the extension of the Railway Industry Substance List, a standard of the Association of the European Rail Industry (UNIFE), and by leading the International Aerospace Environmental Group's (IAEG) work to develop an aerospace voluntary standard for the reporting of dangerous chemicals. The IAEG is aiming to issue the standard by the end of 2013. Introduce the first-ever Environmental Product We have developed the EPD to help our customers ON TRACK Declaration (EPD) in the aerospace industry understand the environmental impact of the CSeries family by entry-into-service for the CSeries family of aircraft. We plan to issue it in 2014 to coincide with the of aircraft by 2014 aircraft’s entry-into-service. Launch Advanced Safety Planning across We instituted a new Advanced Safety Planning process ON TRACK Aerospace to more proactively identify and mitigate the root causes of product safety accidents/incidents. In 2012, we implemented this process with the CRJ fleet and plan to expand the process to other programs in coming years. Improve customer engagement to better At Transportation, we conducted a survey of 21 major ON TRACK understand customer needs and concerns customers with an external partner. At Aerospace, following a customer engagement survey, we focused on the key drivers of customer engagement: Parts Services, Supplier Management, and Service Centres. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 5 GOVERNANCE What we said we’d do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Progress Complete the second wave of ethics e-learning We completed our series of six training modules training and begin developing the next phase addressing various provisions of our Code of Ethics and ACHIEVED Business Conduct. We began development of the next phase of training, which will be focused specifically on anti-corruption. Generate increased employee awareness We published two B-ethics newsletters and around ethics began development of an ethics intranet. ON TRACK Complete external stakeholder assessment to We completed a third-party led external stakeholder revise current materiality matrix assessment and, through this process, held one-on-one ACHIEVED conversations with stakeholders including customers, investors, suppliers, regulators, labour unions, industry organizations, NGOs, and community partners. EMPLOYEES What we said we’d do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Progress Align the employee engagement survey process We completed a fully aligned survey across all locations across all company locations with an 82.9% participation rate. ACHIEVED Improve the current Performance Management The Performance Management Process was aligned Process to strengthen alignment with business introducing competencies, making it more efficient for ACHIEVED objectives and clarify desired behaviours and managers to conduct performance reviews. Eligible competencies employees completed the process entirely through BTALENT, our online talent management tool. Expand the “Making Great Leaders” leadership Originally active only at Transportation, we have expanded training program across the company “Making Great Leaders” to all groups. In 2012 alone, more ACHIEVED than 150 leaders, director level and higher, participated in the program. Increase women in management in our We increased the percentage of women in Aerospace Aerospace group to 25% by 2014 management from 18.6% to 19.1%. We continue to ON TRACK progress toward this goal by providing networking and development opportunities for women leaders. 6 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. OPERATIONS What we said we’d do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Progress Create additional tools and programs to We significantly enhanced our infrastructure to further the adoption of our Health, Safety, and support our HSE Preventive Culture by augmenting ON TRACK Environment (HSE) Preventive Culture HSE monitoring systems, improving HSE training, and increasing management's engagement in HSE issues. Strive to achieve our ultimate target of zero While our accident frequency and severity rates each occupational illness and injury decreased by more than 10% in 2012, we did unfortunately BEHIND have a fatality at one of our sites in France. Achieve a 10% reduction in energy consumption We have reduced our energy consumption by 15.1% and and greenhouse gas emissions between 2009 our greenhouse gas emissions by 24.4% since 2009, based ON TRACK and 2013, based on 2008 data on 2008 data. While these numbers exceed our goal, we anticipate that production levels will increase in 2013, which may lead to higher energy use and greenhouse gas emissions than in 2012. We therefore are continuing to work toward our 10% goal as our production increases. Reduce waste and hazardous waste by 9% In 2010 we expanded our definition of waste to include between 2010 and 2012, based on 2009 data all disposal streams (not just non-valorized waste as BEHIND we had done in 2009 and prior). Our reported waste therefore jumped between 2009 and 2010 due to the expanded definition. Between 2010 and 2012, using the 2010 definition, our waste increased by 12.6%. This goal has therefore not been achieved, but we are working to identify ways to improve our performance. Reduce water consumption by 3% between Since 2010, we reduced our water consumption by 2010 and 2012, based on 2009 data 12.6%, based on 2009 data, exceeding our goal. ACHIEVED Implement 2012 Green Fund projects, launch We selected 20 Green Fund projects for development in 2013 Green Fund campaign, and support best 2012 and implemented 12 of them. The remaining eight BEHIND practices across the organization projects as well as the 2013 Green Fund campaign have been postponed due to resource constraints. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 7 SUPPLY CHAIN What we said we’d do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Progress Train our high potential procurement managers Nearly all of our high-potential procurement managers on CSR received CSR training in 2012. Transportation managers ACHIEVED received training through the European Institute of Purchasing Management and Aerospace managers received training and information through internal meetings and external CSR events. Further implement the compliance program for We took several actions to enhance our monitoring of the Supplier Code of Conduct for Aerospace suppliers’ compliance with the Code, the most significant ON TRACK suppliers of which was training our procurement team to enable them to do CSR spot-checks as part of their regular visits to our strategic suppliers. We conducted spot-checks of nine Aerospace suppliers in 2012. Conduct more on-site CSR spot-checks of We conducted spot-checks of 13 suppliers. No violations Transportation suppliers of the Supplier Code of Conduct were discovered. ON TRACK Lead in the development of a common rail We worked with the Association of the European industry-wide approach to management Rail Industry (UNIFE) to move this forward and in 2013 ON TRACK systems and on-site audits of suppliers succeeded in finalizing a clear quality management auditing policy for the industry. RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP What we said we’d do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Progress Define common Key Performance Indicators We defined common KPIs to measure impact (KPIs) to measure our community involvement across our 3E focus areas (Education, Environment, ACHIEVED Entrepreneurship). KPIs to be measured include amount of cash contributions, value of in-kind contributions, and number of Bombardier employees volunteering. Align 80% of donations and sponsorships Contributions within our focus areas were increased budget with 3E focus areas by 2015 from 33% in 2011 to 45% in 2012. ON TRACK Update the Donations, Sponsorships, and We updated the Donations, Sponsorships, and Employee Employee Volunteering Policy to include Volunteering Policy to include program guidelines and ACHIEVED common Employee Volunteering guidelines HR criteria for employee volunteering. 8 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. DELIVERING INNOVATION SHAPING THE Bombardier’s most important role in FUTURE OF MOBILITY, society is to create products that safely RESPONSIBLY and efficiently move people across cities, Delivering Innovation countries, and continents. Managing Responsibly With this in mind, we have dedicated Supporting ourselves to delivering innovation. We Communities deliver innovation by creating advanced mobility solutions that provide safe, efficient, and environmentally-responsible air and rail travel to meet the needs of the world’s growing population and industry. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 9 PRODUCTS & Current estimates project that by 2025, the world’s top 600 cities will have more than two billion inhabitants and account for 60% of the world’s gross domestic product.1 SERVICES As we draw closer to that milestone, implementing effective and efficient transportation solutions becomes more and more critical. 1 McKinsey Global Institute (2012), Urban world: Cities and the rise of the consuming class. Mass urbanization is just one trend affecting All of these elements present a complex set Our ECO4 portfolio of technologies is paving transportation demand. Other factors having of opportunities and challenges. Our business the way for a new era in environmentallyan impact include: is responding to these challenges by bringing responsible rail technology. The ECO4 portfolio transportation solutions to market that are reduces overall energy consumption on trains • G lobalization and the continued increase shaping a new future for mobility. For example, by up to 50% compared to current solutions of business and leisure travel the CSeries commercial aircraft, scheduled for and reduces emissions by up to 80%, thereby its first flight in 2013, promises to deliver 20% minimizing carbon footprints. • Climate change fewer CO2 emissions1 than any in-production • S pace scarcity and congestion, especially aircraft in its segment. Our Learjet 85 business As we look ahead, we aim to continuously find in urban areas aircraft, scheduled to enter service in 2014, sets better ways to bring people together through a new standard in environmental performance responsible, safe, and reliable mobility solutions. • R esource scarcity and the growing need in the midsize category.1 for the recyclability of materials 1 Key performance targets, under certain operating • Aging infrastructure conditions, when compared to aircraft currently in production, for flights of 500 nautical miles. See the CSeries, Learjet, and Global aircraft programs disclaimer at the end of this report. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 11 BOMBARDIER PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY Our Design for Environment and Design for Safety processes help us consider all factors at the earliest stages of our products’ development. We work closely with suppliers to identify and source the best materials to bring our designs to life. DESIGN Our long-term goal is for our products to be 100% recyclable after their service is BOMBARDIER complete. END-OF-LIFE PRODUCT SUPPLY CHAIN PRODUCTION LIFECYCLE We manufacture our products with health, safety, and environmental aspects in mind and do extensive testing before first use. PRODUCT USE MANUFACTURING & MAINTENANCE & TESTING Once a product has been delivered to the customer, we stay closely involved to ensure that the product operates optimally. THE UP TO UP TO RESULTS1 The CSeries aircraft program: an affordable, efficient, and responsible mobility solution to 50% FEWER NOX EMISSIONS 20% FUEL BURN connect cities to each other. VERSUS CURRENT REGULATIONS ADVANTAGE 12 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY IN ACTION WITH THE CSERIES AIRCRAFT1 2008 2014 Program Launch Entry into Service The CSeries aircraft is a “clean sheet” design. We worked with Pratt & Whitney to We will work closely with our customers to We have taken advantage of this to make produce the PurePower® PW1500G ensure they get all of the benefits of the CSeries dozens of environmental innovations that Engine for the CSeries aircraft — a aircraft during use. This will include publishing include using the latest generation system breakthrough in engine technology that the aerospace industry’s first Environmental technology, state-of-the-art aerodynamics, will significantly decrease the aircraft’s Product Declaration in 2014 to communicate and advanced materials to reduce the aircraft’s fuel burn. the environmental impact of the aircraft and weight significantly — all of which leads to 20% how customers can maximize environmental fewer carbon emissions compared to benefits. competitors in the same category. We designed the CSeries aircraft for safe and comfortable use by operators and passengers. We worked with pilots to design the flight deck to give them enhanced vision to steer the plane Before the manufacturing ever began, safely in all conditions. The aircraft also features employees spent nine months simulating the more room for passengers and their luggage CSeries aircraft assembly process, building Right now, aircraft are about 75% recyclable. and newly designed lavatories accessible to a full-size wooden mock-up. Through this By the time customers begin retiring their CSeries passengers with reduced mobility. exercise, more than 800 improvements were aircraft, we expect to increase that percentage. made to the process — more than half of which We are conducting multiple research projects The new paint system used in the CSeries were made to specifically improve worker with partners to explore how to cost-effectively aircraft design reduces both hazardous material health and safety. recycle more of the aircraft — particularly parts use and contributes to reduced aircraft weight, made of composite materials, like the saving 40kg of fuel over the aircraft's lifetime. Prior to entry into service, the CSeries empennage, rear fuselage, nacelle, and wing aircraft will undergo extensive testing. This of the CSeries aircraft. will include both ground and flight tests, looking at takeoff and landing performance, aircraft handling characteristics, flying in various wind conditions, cold starts, and much more. At the end of this process, the aircraft will receive their Type Certificate from Transport Canada. 1 Key performance targets, under certain operating conditions, when compared to aircraft currently in production, for flights of 500 nautical miles. See the CSeries, Learjet, and Global aircraft programs disclaimer at the end of this report. UP TO TAKE-OFF NOISE FOOTPRINT UP TO Unrivalled passenger experience 20% 4x with more comfort, service, and efficiency, and greater accessibility for persons with reduced mobility FEWER CARBON SMALLER THAN ITS EMISSIONS COMPETITORS For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 13 THE RESULTS OF OUR PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY In addition to the CSeries family of aircraft, the following are several examples of the results of our product responsibility strategy on the rail transportation side of our business. PRIMOVE ZEFIRO As cities continue to grow at an exponential rate, they are forced to deal Globalization brings increasing demands for fast, comfortable, energywith countless mobility-related challenges, including increases in carbon efficient, and environmentally-responsible transportation solutions. emissions and noise and visual pollution. Our PRIMOVE transportation While congestion and pollution pose serious challenges to the growth system moves cities into the future responsibly, offering ways to charge of industrialized and developing nations, very high speed (VHS) trains all types of electric rail and road vehicles — including trams, buses, like the ZEFIRO present a low-carbon, ecologically-sensitive solution cars, and trucks — without the use of any overhead wires. It eliminates to connect to areas with high population density. the traditional constraints of cables, wires, and plugs, and makes urban transportation more flexible, convenient, and safe. The ZEFIRO train radically redefines VHS rail travel, setting benchmarks in performance and efficiency. It was designed with a scalable traction We designed PRIMOVE as a unique intermodal technology that allows power that allows for customized solutions and offers other options electric vehicles to be recharged either in motion or at rest without including train length, car body profile, interior layout, and front-end design. affecting driving habits. This enables mass transit networks, fleet operators, and car owners to benefit from e-powered mobility without The ZEFIRO train also has the highest capacity of any VHS train on the the range and recharging issues normally associated with electric market (up to 1,300 seats), with an open tube design that maximizes charging. And because all of the PRIMOVE components are underground interior space to ensure easy passenger flow. Due to its capacity, and will release zero emissions when powered by renewable energy, ZEFIRO consumes the lowest energy per seat of any VHS train in the the result is a cleaner, quieter, and prettier city. world, making it the most economical and environmentally-friendly train of its class on the market today. PRIMOVE technology is being tested and will be applied on trams, buses, minivans, and cars in various locations in Europe including Augsburg, Berlin, Braunschweig, and Mannheim in Germany, as well as Bruges and Lommel in Belgium. 14 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. MANAGING RESPONSIBLY SHAPING THE We cannot be profitable nor can we FUTURE OF MOBILITY, create great products if we do not RESPONSIBLY manage our business responsibly. Delivering Innovation We do this by conducting our business Managing Responsibly ethically and transparently; applying Supporting manufacturing practices that continually Communities improve the quality of our products and adhere to the highest health, safety, and environmental standards; and supporting the engagement and enablement of our 71,700 employees. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 15 Bombardier Senior Management at the 2012 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders GOVERNANCE Strong corporate governance begins with our Board of Directors. Our Board has a responsibility to set governance policies, identify priorities, and oversee the ethical implementation of all of our work. BOMBARDIER CODE RISK MANAGEMENT OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT Risk management is an essential part of ethical governance. The Board’s Finance and Risk B-ETHICS Bombardier’s expectations for high standards Management Committee evaluates risk and of ethical behaviour are laid out in our Code reports to the full Board on risk assessment Our B-ethics newsletter — circulated of Ethics and Business Conduct, which all and mitigation action plans. several times per year — is one of the ways Bombardier Board members and employees employees can stay up-to-date on how to are expected to follow. In 2012, in accordance with the UK Bribery conduct their work in accordance with all Act, we conducted an anti-corruption risk of our ethics policies and guidelines. We provide our employees with information assessment pilot project in five countries. and training to help them follow the Code and The results of this pilot project highlighted understand its provisions. We also offer further a few areas for improvement that we will training for management to help them develop address accordingly in the next several years. skills to handle ethical dilemmas in the context of their everyday activities. In 2012, Bombardier HUMAN RIGHTS management completed the final modules of While human rights considerations have always a three-year series of in-depth trainings on been implicitly part of our CSR approach, provisions of the Code, including bribery and in 2012 we began looking at them as an corruption; anti-trust laws; conflicts of interest; independent CSR issue. In early 2013, we employment practices; and fraud. developed a formal human rights statement for the company that better defines how In 2013, we will launch an ethics intranet to we address and respect human rights. give all employees access to ethics-related information through one, user-friendly resource. 16 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. EMPLOYEES Our 71,700 employees are the heart and soul of our category-leading planes and trains. Ensuring that our employees are highly trained, engaged, and enabled is essential for our viability as a business and our ability to shape the future of mobility. RECRUITMENT We work hard to recruit the right talent for our business everywhere we operate across the globe. This often means engaging closely with governments and universities to find — or train — local talent for the specialized jobs our sites require. For example, in 2012 Bombardier employees provided “train-the-trainer” sessions to teachers at the Institut des Métiers de L’Aéronautique in Casablanca to help them train local workers for jobs as aircraft assemblers at Bombardier's new site in Morocco. The four certified trainers completed 16 weeks of classes with the first cohort of 26 students, 18 of whom have already begun work in a Bombardier facility. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 17 ENGAGEMENT In 2012 we administered our annual Employee Engagement Survey. For the first time, we aligned the survey across all of our locations globally. This alignment will help us capture more comprehensive data and analyze it more holistically to identify changes that need to be made. Nearly 83% of employees participated in this voluntary survey in 2012. Bombardier’s overall engagement score is 72% and overall enablement score is 67%, exceeding the Hay Group Manufacturing norm and almost reaching the Hay Group High Performance Organizations norm of 76% for engagement and 71% for enablement. The results confirmed that employees continue to be highly engaged in their work and in the organization. 2012 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS (SAMPLE) High-performing Employees Manufacturing Organizations Agreed Norm Norm I feel proud of the products we produce 89% N/A N/A I feel proud to work for this organization 83% 79% 85% In my site/location, we take concrete steps to protect the environment 76% 73% 80% My job provides me with the opportunity to do challenging and interesting work 75% 68% 77% This organization is socially responsible (a good “corporate citizen”) 71% 74% 85% DEVELOPMENT We are wholly committed to supporting our employees in managing and developing their careers. In 2012 we significantly enhanced our programming to help employees become the strong managers and leaders that will move our company forward. Some of the programs launched or expanded in 2012 include: • Making Great Leaders: Originally active in only one business group, in 2012 we continued expanding the Making Great Leaders program across the organization. The program invites employees in leadership positions to a three-day session that explores various leadership styles and how those styles impact teams and work climate. More than 150 employees at the director level and above participated in 2012. • New Manager Integration Program: Launched in 2012, the New Manager Integration Program provides new managers within Aerospace with a personalized online introduction to the resources they will need to be successful managers. • T alent Champions: Launched in 2012 within our Transportation business group, the Talent Champions program provides managers with step-by-step support to move from the basics of managing employees to becoming Talent Champions — capable of engaging, coaching, and developing employees to their greatest potential. 18 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. OPERATIONS As a manufacturer of planes and trains, it is critical not only for our products, but also for our workplaces, to be safe and environmentally-responsible. At all of our sites, our aim is to operate to high standards of health, safety, and environmental (HSE) performance. Our HSE Policy, international standards like EMAS, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001, and our cross-company HSE Council guide our work. Our key long-term HSE goals are to: ADVANCING AN HSE 2012 HSE PERFORMANCE PREVENTIVE CULTURE • A  chieve zero occupational illness and injury We have a robust system in place to help • W  ork to achieve carbon-neutral us track, analyze, and improve our HSE æ 12.6% performance across all of our sites. This includes Decrease in accident frequency rate operations an HSE online management system to monitor since 2011 • D  ecrease the amount of natural resources and manage performance. Complementing that, such as water, energy, and raw materials our vast array of safety checks and site audits used in our production processes (including voluntary compliance audits) ensure • E  liminate the use of restricted substances all HSE legal requirements are met, and often æ 17.2% exceeded, and best practices are followed on a Decrease in accident severity rate since 2011 (i.e. material or substance classified daily basis. We also provide HSE training to help by Bombardier as restricted, but not all employees — and in many cases contractors prohibited by law) and visitors to our sites — understand and live by proper HSE values and actions. æ 1.5% Decrease in energy consumption since 2011 In 2012, we also took steps to increase engagement of Bombardier line management in our HSE approach by sharing more information on HSE performance and, in certain cases, æ 0.8% bringing management into the process to Decrease in greenhouse gas emissions recommend corrective actions. We believe since 2011 this will be an important step in the process to completely integrate an HSE Preventive Culture throughout the business. æ 7.2% We also made strides in improving our Decrease in water consumption since 2011 environmental performance in 2012. For example, through the Bombardier Green Fund — a program through which employees submit ideas, based on their day-to-day experiences ä 0.6% to improve our environmental operations — we Increase in waste generated since 2011 implemented 12 new projects in 2012. To date, the Green Fund has received more than 200 proposals and implemented 31. In 2012, these projects saved more than $1 million and 3,353 tons of greenhouse gas emissions. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 19 The quality of our products depends on integrating SUPPLY hundreds of thousands of well-designed and manufactured parts and advanced technologies from other innovators. As we grow as a company and create new, innovative, CHAIN and more energy-efficient products, our supply chain continuously evolves and suppliers become increasingly incorporated into our operations and our strategy. We are committed to maintaining transparent, respectful, and long-lasting relationships with our suppliers. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets our expectations for suppliers on legal compliance, labour, health and safety, environment, anti-corruption, ethics, and governance. The following are some of the ways we execute the Code. Supplier Selection Spot-Checks and Audits Performance Tracking and Self-Assessment Before Bombardier enters into contract In 2012, we provided tools and training to To understand our suppliers’ performance on negotiation with a potential supplier (Master our procurement professionals to conduct CSR and other areas, we have performance Vendor at Transportation), we look for both CSR spot-checks of our suppliers as part of tracking databases across our business. the ability to adhere to the Supplier Code of their regular on-site visits. In this pilot year, The data gathered from these sources help Conduct or equivalent code and the ability to our procurement managers and other trained us engage in more informed conversations help us manufacture products that meet high supply chain representatives conducted on social responsibilities. environmental and safety standards. spot-checks of more than 20 critical suppliers. No violations of the Code or any other causes for corrective action were found as a result of these checks. 2012 SUPPLIERS WORLDWIDE Europe North America 671 712 Asia-Pacific South America 202 19 Africa Region # of Suppliers located in region* 3 *Includes only Master Vendors from Transportation Master Vendors are major Transportation suppliers covering 80% of Transportation spend. WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS We are dedicated to working with our suppliers to help them improve their own CSR performance and grow as successful businesses. The quality of our products and the success of our own business depend on it. We do this in a variety of ways, such as collaborating with industry groups to promote supplier CSR development industry-wide and working closely with our own suppliers. For example, in 2012 we held workshops attended by 35 of our major suppliers in which we discussed how they could further integrate CSR into their business practices, manage risk, realize efficiencies, and create sustainable products. 20 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES SHAPING THE The Evolution of Mobility means not only FUTURE OF MOBILITY, making great products, but also supporting RESPONSIBLY great communities. We have a responsibility Delivering Innovation to be an active member of the communities Managing in which we live and work. This responsibility Responsibly is a social responsibility, but also a business Supporting Communities imperative. Without thriving communities with strong infrastructures, we cannot run a successful business. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 21 Employee Volunteers, Belfast, United Kingdom RESPONSIBLE We aim to annually contribute 1% of our earnings before tax (EBT)1 of the previous year, divided evenly between direct community investments and a contribution to the CITIZENSHIP J. Armand Bombardier Foundation — a private family foundation that advances the humanitarian work of our founder Joseph-Armand Bombardier and helps fulfill his vision of social responsibility. In 2012, we contributed more than $13 million to our communities, comprising 1.29% of the 2011 fiscal year EBT. This included $7 million to the Foundation to honour our founder’s vision and to support the needs of our home community in Canada. 1 Based on the national standard for excellence in corporate community investment of 1% EBT, as defined by the Imagine Canada Program, 2010. We gave $6 million of our corporate contributions directly to our GIVING WITHIN THE 3ES communities around the world. To make the greatest impact, we focus an increasing portion of our giving in three areas — the “3Es” — aligned with our core business. 80% Currently, approximately 45% of our giving is focused within the 3Es. By 2015, we aim to reach 80%. 45% To further enhance our impact within the 3Es, in 2012 we began the process of creating a formal employee volunteering program by holding pilot volunteer events in several markets to gather best practices. 2012 2015 Target The program will be officially launched in 2014. w Bombardier 2012 3E Giving EDUCATION $2,448,321 Supporting educational opportunities to build communities, as well as a sustainable workforce for the transportation industry ENVIRONMENT $173,769 Supporting programs and projects that protect and preserve the natural environment ENTREPRENEURSHIP $214,280 Supporting young entrepreneurs in developing their skills and launching their businesses COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IN 2012 Also in 2012, we partnered with In 2012, we contributed to dozens of projects Hürdenspringer+, a Berlin-based nonprofit around the world to support our communities. organization that provides mentoring for For example, we have partnered with the children from economically underprivileged Ulster Wildlife Trust for more than 15 years to families. Through this partnership, we help protect native habitats and local species invited teenagers to attend the “On Track to in areas adjacent to our facilities in Northern Success” workshop at our event at InnoTrans Ireland. As part of this work, in 2012 we in September 2012, engaging these students supported Flight in Nature, which teaches local in the different stages of our value chain and students how the “natural flight engineering” encouraging them to generate, implement, of birds, bats, bees, and other flying creatures and sustain their own innovative ideas. has contributed to the evolution of aviation technology. For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary 23 SHAPING THE FUTURE OF MOBILITY, RESPONSIBLY csr.bombardier.com SHARE YOUR FEEDBACK Thank you for taking the time to read about our CSR work in 2012. The purpose of this report — and our full online report — is to have a dialogue with our stakeholders. Please email us your thoughts on our CSR approach and performance at csr@bombardier.com. If you would like to contact Bombardier for any other matter, please visit bombardier.com/en/corporate/contacts. 24 Bombardier Inc. 2012 CSR Report Summary For more information on our 2012 CSR performance visit csr.bombardier.com. CSR.BOMBARDIER.COM TWITTER twitter.com/Bombardier twitter.com/Bombardier_Aero twitter.com/BombardierRail FLICKR flickr.com/BombardierAerospace flickr.com/BombardierTransportation YOUTUBE youtube.com/BombardierVideos youtube.com/BombardierAerospace youtube.com/BombardierRail FACEBOOK facebook.com/BombardierAero The CSeries family of aircraft, Learjet 85 aircraft, and Global 7000 and Global 8000 aircraft programs are currently in development, and as such are subject to changes in family strategy, branding, capacity, performance, design, and/or systems. All specification and data are approximate, may change without notice and are subject to certain operating rules, assumptions, and other conditions. This document does not constitute an offer, commitment, representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind. The printed version of this report summary uses paper containing 100% post-consumer fibres, Design: FFunction certified EcoLogo, processed chlorine free and FSC® certified recycled. Using this paper, instead of Printing: Transcontinental Acme Direct virgin paper, saves: Printed in Canada ISBN: 978-2-923797-22-9 Legal deposit, Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec All rights reserved. © 2013 Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries. 32 1,774 kg 52 GJ Bombardier, B12, CRJ, CSeries, ECO4, Global, Global 7000, Global 8000, Learjet, Learjet 85, of energy, equivalent to mature trees, equivalent of waste, or the contents PRIMOVE, The Evolution of Mobility, and ZEFIRO the energy used by to the area of 2 tennis courts of 36 waste containers are trademarks of Bombardier Inc. or its 241,131 60W light bulbs subsidiaries. in an hour Reproduced with permission of Yahoo! Inc. ©2013 Yahoo! Inc. The Flickr logo is a registered trademark of Yahoo! Inc. 4,612 kg 117,126 litres 14 kg of CO2, equivalent to of water, equal to of NOX, equivalent to the annual emissions one person’s consumption the emissions of a truck of 2 cars of water in 335 days in 42 days Data issued by the paper manufacturer. FSC® is not responsible for calculating resources saved when using this paper.
