SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Contents Message from our CEO..........................2 Current Global Challenges.....................4 Sustainability Strategy............................6 People.................................................6 Community.......................................10 Environment.....................................14 Partners...........................................18 Best Practice Case...............................24 Looking Ahead......................................26 This report maps out our part of the journey towards feeding a growing population in an increasingly changing world. Unless otherwise indicated, “Louis Dreyfus Commodities”, “ Group”, “Company” and related terms such as “our”, “we”, etc., mean the Louis Dreyfus Commodities B.V. Group as at 31 December 2012, i.e. excluding the Biosev Group which was indirectly upstreamed to Louis Dreyfus Commodities Holdings B.V. on 4 December 2012. Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 1 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Message from our CEO More recently, we have increasingly felt that will be required to produce greater commodities for their own processes, In many cases, the path on this journey compelled to adopt a more structured, output from reduced resource usage. to the farmers who supply our raw may be unclear. We are fully committed As a business with over 162 years consistent and uniform approach to sustainability across all our operations. We at Louis Dreyfus Commodities acknowledge that we have a significant materials, to the financial institutions that provide us with credit facilities, to a collaborative approach involving all stakeholders in our business as we of history, a culture promoting and That thinking has been driven by a role to play in addressing these challenges to the NGOs that we work with in the continue to seek the optimal path, and diverse set of factors: in a responsible, sustainable way, that various commodity roundtables, more look forward to ongoing dialogue as we supporting sustainable enterprise continues to enable future generations to attention is being paid to the sustainable work to ensure a more sustainable future Growth meet their own food needs. provenance of food in addition to the for all. In 2006 Robert Louis-Dreyfus more traditional parameters of quality prevails throughout Louis Dreyfus Finally, I would like to acknowledge restructured what was then a traditional Changing approach and price. the significant role that the different family business into a genuinely It is widely accepted today that scarcity stakeholders in our numerous value The way forward Commodities. global, diversified processing and of resources will be an increasing factor chains play in helping us build a more merchandising firm – Louis Dreyfus in future agricultural production. Fresh I am therefore pleased to present this sustainable future. Their advice and Commodities. Since then, the water and energy consumption, as well first stand-alone annual Louis Dreyfus engagement in regular dialogue with Company’s business activities have as the need to reduce the generation of Commodities Sustainability Report us, either directly or via institutions like To date that has involved grown dramatically. Louis Dreyfus waste and carbon emissions will feature as the next step in our vital task of the various commodity roundtables, is each business unit and region Commodities now handles more trade more and more in food production integrating a structured focus on an essential element of our collective volume across a more comprehensive methodology. Connected to this, sustainability into all our operations. concentrating primarily product range, and has generated Our approach draws on stakeholders’ learning process in this challenging field. governmental and private sector needs I would also like to express my personal on legal compliance, the more than a sixfold increase in the size for additional capacity in infrastructure views, covers the four pillars of gratitude to those stakeholders that requirements of clients and of its asset base. This expansion has and distribution networks will require Environment, People, Partners and have provided comment and testimony highlighted the need to monitor and enormous investment. Community, and tries as much to specifically for this report. markets, and the observation manage sustainability-related elements identify where we can improve as to of internationally accepted uniformly across our diverse portfolio. Stakeholders show where we already succeed. conventions. Changing demand More of Louis Dreyfus Commodities’ As we continue to grow as a business, stakeholders are engaging with the and the markets in which we operate Serge Schoen The pace of global evolution in food Company on sustainability issues. From evolve to cater for the growing needs Serge Schoen Chief Executive Officer demand will bring massive new the customers (processors, wholesalers and demands of a rising population, so Chief Executive Officer challenges. New stresses will come to and retailing brands) who buy our these challenges will require us to adapt Member of the Supervisory Board bear on existing supply chains – chains in order to meet those needs sustainably. 2 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 3 Current Global Challenges Key demands, for instance, in several Changing approach uprisings in the Arab Spring concerned All stakeholders are working towards food price inflation. In similar vein, feeding the world’s population in an Italy has witnessed protests over the cost increasingly changing environment. of flour and pasta following spikes in wheat prices. This can lead governments Changing weather patterns are CURRENT GLOBAL CHALLENGES to intervene to bring down prices in a leading to greater uncertainty for manner that discourages investment. food producers. Agronomic risk is While they may protect their people’s intensifying and yields are becoming short-term interests, such policies have increasingly unpredictable. The serious consequences for supply and problem is compounded by the fact prices in the long-term. Signals as to that the production of some crops is where investment to promote growth concentrated in only a few areas of the and efficiency should be made are world. This creates an over-dependence obscured, slowing progress towards the which can leave countries exposed if goal of getting enough food to where it yields are significantly affected in any is needed. one such area. Also at long-term policy level, there The other side of this issue is that has been chronic under-investment stakeholders across the whole of the food in inland and port logistic across the supply chain need to make efforts to globe. Combined with high fuel prices operate in as environmentally sensitive a this can make transport costs so high way as possible. Global food production that the ability to move food to where is estimated to contribute 29% of it is needed is restricted. For example, greenhouse gas emissions6. The aim must in some countries it costs more to get be to double the world’s food production food the relatively short distance from over the next four decades, but at the the farm to be loaded onto a ship than same time we must endeavor to alleviate to ship it to the other side of the world. the emissions impact that entails. Logistic efficiencies must be sought Similarly, the huge challenges we face amongst this complex of difficulties. should not be overcome at the expense High fuel prices also contribute, along of the people living and working in with a desire to find an environmentally and around the food supply chain. sustainable source of fuel, to governments’ The people who have stayed in farming decisions to mandate the growth of – and much of it is still conducted agricultural commodities for biofuels. by smallholders – deserve support to The obvious knock-on effect is greater, create richer, more sustainable lives for competing demand for agricultural themselves and their communities. An Increasingly Changing World areas, prompted to leave farming by more attractive earning prospects. to double over the next 4 decades to meet demand2. To put this challenge into products. This puts further strain on resources for food and on prices. Operators in this highly complex industry also face demands to make There is currently enough food produced in the world to feed People who once produced food for perspective, it will involve producing as all stages of the supply chain more themselves and others turn to work in much food in the next 40 years as in the Changing habits each and every person. At 7 billion inhabitants that is no small urban industries and in their turn need last 8 0003. That must be contrasted with transparent. More and more, consumers Other challenges in the task of feeding want to know how their food is achievement – in 1950 there were barely more than 2.5 billion. to be fed. Even if population figures stay recent reports showing that yields on everyone in an increasingly changing made and where it comes from. The Even now, however, many people go without even the minimum flat, the same amount of food needs to agricultural products have grown at only world come at the consumer’s end of the importance of meeting that demand be produced with fewer workers – as 2% per annum over the last 20 years4. supply chain. amount of food, and it is only going to become more challenging well as transported further to reach the Worryingly, that represents a 50% lower has also been highlighted by the recent On the one hand, the urbanization scandal in Europe where horsemeat to maintain a level of production that keeps pace with people who used to live near the source growth in yields than that achieved over of the world’s population and the found its way into various meat products population levels, and to get that food to the people that need of their food. the previous 20 years. illegally. Such practices are a global correlative change in eating habits has it at a price they can afford. Louis Dreyfus Commodities prides Thirdly, with urbanization comes a All stakeholders involved in the been accompanied by increased waste. concern – rising demand for food makes change in food culture. Trends show production, processing and distribution Current data indicates that 30% to 40% such practices more of a risk – and itself on having been engaged with that challenge for 162 years. that as a population’s income increases of food face the task of reversing trends of all food produced is wasted – mostly at transparency greatly assists in rooting As the challenge grows, so we want our engagement to grow. so does their demand for meat protein. on yield growth and generating greater the consumer stage5. If wastage continues them out. Meat protein is less resource-efficient to efficiency gains in the supply chain – to escalate, unchecked, with urbanization However, creating that transparency produce than other foodstuffs like grains a task that Louis Dreyfus Commodities then the task of ensuring food sufficiency Changing demand takes very seriously. is an enormous undertaking in a and pulses. More resources are therefore will only get harder. supply chain that spans a vast array of Three facets of this growing challenge going to be drawn from producing On the other hand, many countries partners, people and processes. There make finding a solution highly complex. food for people into producing food for Changing context is hope, of course, that in establishing are experiencing mounting problems First, the global population is animals. At present meat production The task set by changing demand has to with obesity. This suggests an greater transparency further goals can projected to reach 9 billion by 20501. levels 40% of world grain production be met within an ever-changing context increase in demand that may draw be identified and attained – precisely That is 2 billion more mouths to feed goes into animal feed. Meeting swelling of constraints on supply. a disproportionate amount of food the kind of goals that need to be met in in less than 40 years’ time. meat demand will lead this number to High prices – a necessary signal to resources to a concentrated portion of facing the challenges of our increasingly Secondly, the population is not only rise disproportionately. stakeholders across the whole supply the world’s population. This issue has changing world. growing but changing. People are These changes mean that, on current chain of the need for investment – received less attention, but may come to moving away from rural areas to urban projections, food production will need generate understandable public concern. represent more of an obstacle in future. 2. FAO, How to Feed the World in 2050 3. Jason Clay, WWF, interview, Momentum, Winter 2012, University of Minnesota 4. HSBC, The World in 2050 5. FAO, Global Food Losses and Food 1. UN, World Population to 2300 Waste 6. CGIAR Annual Review 2012, Climate Change and Food Systems 4 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 5 Sustainability Strategy Health & Safety The Company has historically had a good We met the target on the gravity of record of health and safety compliance. accidents and exceeded our goal on People However, we are always striving to improve. As the figures below show, the frequency of accidents… those efforts are reflected in continual improvement in our key safety metrics. Global Frequency and Gravity Indexes For 2012, we set ourselves the target of 18 month average reducing both the frequency and gravity 7.0 of workplace accidents by 20%, year-onyear. We met the target on the gravity 6.0 of accidents and exceeded our goal on 5.0 the frequency of accidents, reducing 4.0 the overall number of accidents causing 3.0 injury by 34%, as shown in Figure 1.1. 2.0 While we are content with the results in 1.0 2012, we are keen to keep progressing. 0.0 We have set even more ambitious targets TARGETS Louis Dreyfus Commodities has over 20 000 employees for the coming year – a 20% reduction Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY PEOPLE in frequency of workplace accidents and worldwide in peak season and engages many others on a joint a total elimination of any accidents that 2011 2012 venture, contract or temporary basis. As with our engagement lead to a person needing time off work. Frequency index Gravity index 2013: Reduce frequency with the communities our operations touch upon, we That means we aim for none of our Target frequency index Target gravity index of workplace accidents by recognize we have strong duties towards our people. We want people – across all of our business – to be Figure 1.1 involved in a workplace accident causing 20% year-on-year their work with us to provide the platform for the kind of lives an injury serious enough that they need The Frequency Index expresses the relation between the number of workplace injuries they want to live. time away from work in 2013. There is requiring medical attention and hours worked. The ratio expresses the number of 2013: Reduce lost time a case study illustrating the steps we are employees in every 100 that experienced an injury requiring medical attention during the The Company’s growth plans also taking to achieve these very challenging year. The Gravity Index is a subset of the Frequency Index and shows the relation between accidents to zero depend directly on our team members goals below. We hope to report back on the number of workplace injuries serious enough to result in time away from work and 2013: Establish and their enthusiastic engagement. Louis Dreyfus Commodities sees it …we recognize our success in our next report. hours worked. Behavior-Based Safety as fundamental to our business that we respect our employees and their we have strong Case Study: Focus Groups on specific risk areas duties towards program across all wellbeing as the Company grows more At our sister company Biosev, analysis and more into its role of meeting the locations challenges posed by our changing world. of health and safety data revealed our people. that a higher than average number of accidents occurred in the sugar 2013: Collect and analyze storage area at each of its facilities. A multidisciplinary team was formed more diversity data to assess and address the issue, with the power to shut down operations if that proved necessary. Its objectives were to: 2014: Identify potential Analyze the extent of the problem – strategies for improving the most common causal factors and diversity across metrics, risk activities involved business divisions Understand the issues involved – such as lack of understanding, training and regions or broader cultural issues Maracaju, Brazil Determine the existing preventative measures, what new measures might In meeting these objectives, the team be required and their cost visited all of Biosev’s sites over the first Encourage the recognition, across 5 months of 2013. There was a 28% the Company, that improving safety year-on-year reduction and, during the Develop and support last two months of the team’s work, no requires cultural change, with buy-in at all levels of seniority and accidents occurred in the sugar storage strategies for sharing Norfolk, US across all functions areas at all. Biosev is now treating best practice across the this as a pilot program which it will roll Raise awareness of the rules that out over the other areas of its business. business. apply to each task, in each area The program will be applied across Develop and support strategies for Louis Dreyfus Commodities globally sharing best practice across the in 2013. business 6 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 7 Sustainability Strategy As we expand People continued… and our workforce grows, we want it to be representative of the diverse communities we work in. Every year Douala, Cameroon since 2009, all Following the leadership of governments Our policies strictly prevent any form of Louis Dreyfus SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY PEOPLE and international institutions, discrimination in hiring employees and Commodities we have chosen to remain engaged contractors. In some regions, such as in with the country in order to have more Brazil where we have set up an Acesso Louis Dreyfus employees take leverage in our efforts to bring about program to help people with disabilities part in our real improvements. We believe that a gain valuable skills and prepare them for Commodities is Safety Day. collaborative, multilateral approach is the best way to drive reform, so we employment, we proactively encourage applications and seek to recruit from immensely proud are raising the issue with sellers and officials to keep it high up the agenda. under-represented groups. We are currently seeking to understand how we of all its people. For example, we helped to set up might expand such an approach across Mombasa, Kenya and participate in a working group the Company. of the European Cotton Merchants’ Safety Day Other SHE programs Association to deal with this and other Every year since 2009, all Louis Dreyfus Our Safety, Health and Environmental issues. That group has been pressuring Commodities employees take part (SHE) vision is to be a global leader in the government of Uzbekistan to 2012 TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY GENDER in our Safety Day. It was introduced SHE matters. This is a highly admit a delegation of the International % Our Safety, Health to focus everyone’s attention on the ambitious goal requiring long, Labor Organization (ILO) for a proper audit of the situation. We actively 100 Gender importance of operating safely in all sustained effort. In 2009 we and Environmental areas of business, and as we go about our introduced a new internal back this up through our own lines of 80 67 62 71 71 69 70 68 Male Female (SHE) vision is to lives outside work. The theme for 2012 SHE management system communication with the government 60 was “Safety is Everyone’s Responsibility”. modelled on ISO 14001 and and the ILO. be a global leader in 40 Events were organized in all Louis OHSAS 18001, and in 2011 we More broadly, we have approached a Dreyfus Commodities locations, and commenced an equivalent program for 20 SHE matters. number of trade associations which 33 38 29 29 31 30 32 even extended to many contractors’ contractors. Several of our facilities have deal with a range of commodities 0 facilities, to emphasize that safety must since attained ISO certification and we with a proposal to include a clause on Asia EBS MEA NAM N. Latin S. Latin Global be a core value for every single person continue to work to bring all of them up human rights and child/forced labor America America who works for and with our Company. to that standard. in their standard contracts for the sale and purchase of their respective Figure 1.3 Human and Labor Rights commodities. We will continue to work Violations of human and labor rights closely with all relevant parties to help 2012 TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY AGE are a serious issue in some value chains. bring about lasting change. % It is also a practice we unequivocally 0.1 3 2 10 3 1 condemn. Diversity 100 4 20 12 11 7 Age 15 60 and over An example illustrating the complexity Louis Dreyfus Commodities is 80 40 28 28 21 21 23 50–59 of this challenge can be seen in our immensely proud of all its people. 60 As we expand and our workforce grows, 41 26 33 39 40–49 dealing with cotton originating from 25 we want it to be representative of the 40 30–39 Uzbekistan, where there are concerns 40 21 about associated labor practices. diverse communities we work in. 20 30 20–29 28 18 15 32 under 20 We present here a view of the percentage 0 of people we employ by gender, age and Asia EBS MEA NAM N. Latin S. Latin region. We are publishing this data here, America America shown in Figure 1.3 and Figure 1.4, with a view to building a more proactive Figure 1.4 diversity strategy. Figures 1.3 and 1.4 show professional, production and agriculture Dakar, Senegal workers, including seasonal. Represents average for 2012. 8 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 9 Sustainability Strategy Community SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY COMMUNITY TARGETS Our operations touch thousands of communities worldwide. That makes us very conscious of our responsibility to ensure São Simão, Brazil our business strategy also strengthens those communities in Complete scoping of the face of the challenges of an increasingly changing world. However, we’re aiming higher. As part of our strategy to boost yields extended local knowledge in areas our current activities Our business is growing, and our strategy is ambitious – how A challenge posed by our approach to and meet the increased demand of such as increasing tree plantings per to enable us to set targets do we make sure that benefits others? We bring jobs to an date was that not directing activities our changing world, we research hectare, undertaking micro-soil analysis centrally meant we did not have a and implement various agricultural for optimum fertilizer application and for increasing our area – but are our workers’ communities getting as much out full picture of the scope of our work, improvements. To ensure our own carrying out varietal analysis to identify participation in of it as they should? We train our workers – but what about making it hard to set concrete targets strategy has the greatest possible the best variety to grow on each site. for improvement. With this in mind impact, we share those improvements community projects those outside our walls? These are questions we are constantly we established a structure to collect the with our local community of farmers. Our aspiration in assuming this kind of responsibility is that others can improve seeking better answers to. right information centrally in order to Communicating via local producers’ their business hand-in-hand with us as be able to set some ambitious targets for associations we keep a large network Create model Rather than set specific projects at a Our Brazilian operations provide a good improving existing projects and rolling of growers up-to-date on how to we improve ours. program based on global level, we see our local operations example of how this policy works in out new ones inspired by the work in farm more efficiently. As a result, as best placed to understand what is practice. A need was identified locally Zambia. Louis Dreyfus Commodities has Best Practice Case needed and how to accomplish it. for more training opportunities for Our sustainability policy therefore places people with disabilities to enable them to Community building Identify first group of responsibility on our operations at access the labor market. Louis Dreyfus through Citrus regional level to identify the best means Commodities therefore partnered with production farming communities for to support the communities around SENAI (a Brazilian public educational Louis Dreyfus Commodities is roll-out of Best Practice all our industrial and farming assets. institution) to set up a program called well-established as one of the world’s Guidance is provided by the policy Acesso to provide that training. To date, Case program in terms of broad aims and approach, 60 people have received training. largest producers of orange juice. Our but the actual projects are specifically Several have been offered jobs within production is largely situated in Brazil. tailored to meet local needs. our Company, while others have gone The 4 plants, 10 farms and contracted on to find employment elsewhere. land of 36 local farmers that we operate service consumer markets across the Louis Dreyfus Commodities is US, European and domestic Brazilian particularly concerned to ensure that markets. That still only gives us 30% our business operations directly benefit of our fruit needs, so we buy the the communities we work with as much remainder from a large number of third … projects are as possible. We think that the cotton party growers. growers’ program in Zambia that we specifically are involved in sets a great example – so Engenheiro Coelho, Brazil much so that it has its own section in this report (see page 24, Best Practice Case). tailored to meet It is an example we want to build on. Louis Dreyfus Commodities has some Our aspiration in assuming this kind of local needs. similar projects already, detailed below. responsibility is that others can improve their business hand-in-hand with us as we improve ours. 10 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 11 Sustainability Strategy Louis Dreyfus Commodities employees are also encouraged to bring their own time and fundraising Community continued… talents to bear on local projects. Community building Each facility has a development plan Encouraging in place from the start which provides through Palm Oil volunteerism support for local people to build small production and medium-sized businesses around Louis Dreyfus Commodities has a Louis Dreyfus Commodities is a relative our facilities. In some rural communities long-standing culture across all regions newcomer to this area. We operate in of encouraging our employees to bring SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY COMMUNITY the plan involves providing animal a number of locations in Indonesia breeding stock to allow the community forward their ideas and projects for through a joint venture company. to foster a self-sufficient food supply. work in the local community. We think In setting up new facilities we make In other cases we have provided tools that they are best placed to know where sure that we engage with the local to local blacksmiths and committed to support should be directed. We want to community and we establish plasma buying a certain quantity of their output listen and to act on that knowledge. Odessa, Ukraine schemes – schemes that seek to deal on a regular basis. It already happens, resulting in things with land use issues and to allocate like our building schools, creating We also help maintain local communities’ gardens and funding a rehabilitation collected donations of clothes and money and recreation in a carefully landscaped a proportion of the income from existing ways of life. Indonesia is culturally the facility to the local community. center for disabled people. to provide what was required. In 2012, setting. Volunteering played a big part as enormously diverse. Since our operations the Ukraine team delivered the clothes, a team of Louis Dreyfus Commodities The aim is always to promote the spread across a number of geographical Louis Dreyfus Commodities employees local community’s autonomy and are also encouraged to bring their own funds and food to the orphanage. employees managed the project from areas, we are engaged with communities start to finish. The school was opened in self-sufficiency. with a huge range of different cultures and time and fundraising talents to bear In Argentina we helped to build a school on local projects. For example, in our as part of our project to redevelop a September 2011. religions. We recognize the importance of respecting and building up these different Ukraine office, employees were moved piece of land lying between two of our The Company has also been involved in cultures. Accordingly, we contribute to assist an orphanage near Odessa after existing facilities in the Municipality supporting the USA’s National Multiple in various ways – providing food for a visit in late 2011. They approached the of Timbúes. As well as providing Sclerosis Society (NMSS) since 1992. festivals and feast days, and materials for director of the orphanage to discover the land, we invested US$700 000 As part of that support, employees in renovating temples and churches when what help was most needed. With his (70% of the budget) in what was an our Wilton, CT office have organized the need arises. instructions, they announced the project ambitious project to provide a fully themselves to participate in the annual across our European operations, and equipped school with areas for sport West Connecticut MS bike ride. Each In conducting our business this way year, around 50 employees take part as a we hope to make possible the steps team, often led by our North American that local communities want to take to regional CEO, raising in the region of improve their livelihood. US$50 000 annually. There are numerous projects of a similar nature in each of our regions. We also want to do more. As our Company grows, with our ambitious In Argentina we investment and expansion plans, we will touch the lives of more people and helped to build communities. We want not only to grow our investment in those communities, a school as part Balikpapan, Indonesia but also to make sure that the culture of our project to of commitment to volunteer projects continues to deepen as we grow. Our redevelop a piece systematic scoping will enable us to optimize, enhance and focus these of land… Over 100 individual projects efforts. currently invested in and supported around the world. Timbúes, Argentina 12 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 13 Sustainability Strategy PLATFORMS Grains & Oilseeds Environment Rice Coffee Cotton Sugar Juice Dairy Fertilizers & Inputs Metals OTHER Office ASSETS WHERE WE OPERATE Farming Processing asset Logistic asset – storage SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT TARGETS Louis Dreyfus Commodities has a big part to play in working Logistic asset – transport Mining towards the goal of sustainably producing enough food for all Under construction and ensuring it is available where it is needed. As our business x Tolling agreement, off-take contract, 2012: collect data grows and world food demand increases and evolves, we need minority stake, land lease across relevant to remain focused on resource efficiency so that growth is not OTHER OTHER PLATFORMS PLATFORMS ASSETS ASSETS WHERE WHERE WE OPERATE WE OPERATE metrics to establish achieved at the expense of the environment. Figure 2.1 OfficeOffice GrainsGrains Rice Rice & Oilseeds & Oilseeds Farming Farming Processing Processing asset asset baseline CoffeeCoffee Logistic Logistic asset asset – storage – storage CottonCotton Logistic Logistic asset asset – transport – transport SugarSugar MiningMining We realize that one of our key This data gathering was conducted by We set out that high level data Juice Juice UnderUnderhere, and construction construction ENERGY EMISSION FACTORS x Tolling x Tolling responsibilities is to set ambitious, our Safety, Health and Environment toFertilizers do will continueFertilizers so withcontract, each year’s Dairy Dairy agreement, agreement, off-take off-take 2013: harmonize & Inputs & Inputs contract, minority minority stake,stake, realistic goals for the efficient use of (SHE) team throughout our 6 regions, data in future reports. Our installations MetalsMetals land lease land lease Conversion factors: data collection across resources while minimizing emissions. and covers the more than 200 processing are diverse and range across many Natural Gas .0388 GJ/M3 Natural Gas 2.053 Kg CO2e/M3 Previously, Louis Dreyfus Commodities and logistic assets in the Louis Dreyfus global value chains from agricultural all business divisions has used a site-by-site, division-byCommodities portfolio. The map on the production to international transport. Anthracite Coal 29.16 GJ/MT Coal 2331.50 Kg CO2e/MT division approach of trying to produce following page (Figure 2.1) illustrates This means that they present very Bituminous Coal 28.91 GJ/MT Diesel Fuel (No. 2) 2.706 Kg CO2e/Liter and deliver as much as possible using those locations where our environmental different environmental profiles, so 2014: fold individual as little as possible. That has generated key performance indicators (KPIs) the evolution of these KPIs over time Diesel Fuel (No. 2) .0385 GJ/L Gasoline 2.342 Kg CO2e/Liter 5-year plant optimization significant efficiency gains – such as in were measured. The only facilities not will be easier for readers to follow than Gasoline .0306 GJ/L Wood / Wood Residuals 1623.68 Kg CO2e/MT the case studies below. included in the study are those locations absolute numbers. plans into a single marked with the x symbol, representing Wood / Wood Residuals 17.88 GJ/MT Liquefied Petroleum Gas 1.537 Kg CO2e/Liter However until 2012, there was no single, With these metrics we can form an global plan uniform measurement system across tolling agreements, off-take contracts, ambitious, realistic, co-ordinated Liquefied Petroleum Gas .0256 GJ/L Bagasse 0.000 Kg CO2e/MT all our installations. We have therefore minority stakes, and land leases. The approach to sustainability. Over the begun the process of establishing a KPIs comprise energy used, greenhouse next 3 years we will continue to analyze 2015: set global gases emitted, water consumed and Figure 2.2 Source: US Environmental Protection Agency single policy and our first series of all the information collected so that, in time-bound targets for goals. All divisions of Louis Dreyfus waste produced. Figure 2.2 quantifies the 2015, we are in a position to set global relative efficiency of various fuels used in reducing resource usage Commodities’ business started collecting our calculations. as well as individual plant targets for the information needed in 2012. reducing our consumption and impact and emissions on the environment in a single co-ordinated plan. We have therefore begun With these metrics the process of establishing we can form an a single policy and our first ambitious, realistic, co-ordinated series of goals. approach to sustainability. A barge convoy sailing in the Paraná River 14 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 15 Sustainability Strategy WATER consumption As with energy consumption, water Our water consumption index presents Environment continued… consumption is higher in older industrial the ratio of water used for each metric facilities. We have implemented several ton of feedstock crushed or processed. The water recycling and reuse projects to ratio is given in cubic meters per metric deal with this. In some locations local ton (m³/MT). water supply is strained, making water consumption our highest priority for WATER CONSUMPTION INDEX M³/MT analyzing and identifying strategies to reduce consumption at those locations. 0.250 Energy consumption Across our fruit juice division, for 0.200 instance, we use water that is extracted 0.150 At our facilities, the level of energy crushed, in the case of an industrial has slightly higher energy consumption from the oranges during the juice 0.100 consumption tends to be determined by facility, or feedstock processed, in the case per ton of feedstock crushed or handled, Yorkton, Canada manufacturing process to meet some 0.050 the age of the industrial plant, with newer of a warehouse or logistic facility. The unit presenting opportunities for efficiency of our water needs and reduce our 0.208 plants being more efficient. Production of measurement is gigajoules per metric gains. Compared to Brazil and the consumption of local water resources. 0.000 Global improvements and replacement of ton (GJ/MT). US, Argentina has considerably fewer Figure 2.5 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT equipment reduce demand for energy. logistic assets relative to industrial We are also exploring opportunities to Energy Consumption: assets, which largely accounts for the Case study reuse energy within our plants. Main Observations higher ratio of energy consumption per At our canola crushing facility in Yorkton, Saskatchewan, Canada we explored Our energy consumption index shows In line with our industrial profile, the unit of feedstock. opportunities to reduce water consumption. A team of employees identified that In some locations our steam condensate recovery system could be made more efficient by installing the average ratio of fossil fuel energy majority of our energy consumption an iron filter. Improving the effectiveness of the filtration system enabled more local water supply is consumed by each of our processes per unit of feedstock processed. Depending occurs in the Americas. Brazil is the highest energy consuming area, followed ENERGY CONSUMPTION INDEX steam to be captured, condensated, filtered and returned to the process, thus strained… reducing demand for water at the facility. on the particular facility, the feedstock by the US and Argentina. However, data GJ/MT element of that ratio represents feedstock collection has revealed that Argentina 0.600 0.500 WASTE PRODUCTION Case study 0.400 0.300 By the nature of our business, our our Europe and Black Sea processing WASTE INDEX Many of our plants have identified and implemented energy savings opportunities. 0.200 facilities tend to produce little solid operations is, in some instances, less For example, at our grain export facility in Port Allen, Louisiana, US we upgraded MT/MT 0.100 waste since we are able to use secondary efficient than in other regions. We are the facility’s lighting system by switching to energy-saving LED lights throughout. 0.594 0.060 0.000 components of commodities to produce therefore now focusing waste reduction This resulted in a 33% reduction in energy consumption for plant lighting. 0.040 Global useful by-products. efforts on this issue and hope to show Figure 2.3 0.020 Indeed, we have already specifically improvements in future reports. 0.041 0.000 Greenhouse gas emissions designed most of our processing The ratio given here shows the amount Global facilities so that they either generate little of waste produced for every ton of Figure 2.6 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission produced the highest level of emissions GHG EMISSION INDEX or no waste, or transform any waste into feedstock crushed or processed, in metric levels are determined by fuel type and – and for the same reasons referred to Kg CO2e/MT a useable by-product. A good example tons of waste produced per metric ton of consumption. Regions with significant above. By way of comparison, GHG of how we have done this is given in feedstock (MT/MT). 40.000 numbers of industrial assets therefore emissions in our Europe and Black Sea the case study below. We therefore drive this data. A lack of economical operations are lower because we have a 30.000 already aim to extract maximum value higher ratio of logistic installations and Case study renewable or clean fuel types in many 20.000 from raw materials. By co-ordinated regions means that we must rely on at our largest industrial unit we have data collection and analysis we hope to In the 1980s our sugarcane mills in Brazil identified the need to dispose safely fossil fuels. We are making progress by the opportunity to use steam from a 10.000 identify more opportunities to further of vinasse – the main waste product of sugar refining. To give an idea of the scale reusing waste heat and improving boiler neighboring plant, rather than produce 32.626 this aim. of the problem, producing 1 liter of ethanol generates 12 liters of vinasse. 0.000 efficiency. Using the data we gather, it on site. We investigated and found that vinasse could be used as a fertilizer on agricultural Global For example, collecting consolidated data land. We established a plan to apply the vinasse as a fertilizer and worked with we are identifying the highest emitters in Figure 2.4 has already revealed that the mechanisms the relevant state authorities to get the plan authorized. Years on, this innovation the Company and focusing on reduction for capturing and reusing grain dust in opportunities over the next few years. has meant that the use of industrially produced fertilizer has been greatly reduced Case study with significant environmental and cost benefits. Our greenhouse gas emissions index Our sister company Biosev operates cogenerative boilers with turbines using bagasse shows the quantity of GHGs emitted (the solid waste from sugarcane production) as a fuel source in 8 of its 12 sugarcane per ton of feedstock either crushed or processing facilities. Another is coming on-line in 2013. These units supply each Biodiversity We engage transparently with our robust internal policy on environmental processed. This is measured in kilograms facility with electricity and send surplus electricity into the local power grid, using a various stakeholders about the findings compliance. Ultimately, as indicated The challenge of producing more food of carbon dioxide-equivalent per metric renewable, carbon neutral fuel source from the sugar production process. of such assessments and our responses in the Partners section of this report, in an increasingly changing world brings to them. that will also include setting a timeton of feedstock (kg CO2 e/mt). Recently we have been increasing our use of biodiesel in order to reduce the with it a potential threat to biodiversity bound goal for securing Roundtable for emissions from our operations. Using biodiesel reduces emissions of a range of if production is not increased sensitively. In this context, palm oil presents a Greenhouse Gas Sustainable Palm Oil certification. harmful air pollutants. It can be far more sustainable to produce since it can be Louis Dreyfus Commodities is very particular challenge. Our first concern is Emissions: Main made from waste products such as cooking oil. It is therefore both potentially mindful of this as we consider our always to work with partners to ensure Observations renewable and also avoids conventional waste disposal. In our North Latin America expansion, especially in Africa and Asia. we are complying with all relevant …work with partners to Since our GHG emissions profile operations, along with Biosev, we have seen significant reductions in emissions by We proceed with new projects only after laws – an occasionally challenging task relates directly to fuel consumption, this process. Across both entities, we used 109,091,988 liters of diesel in 2011 to careful consideration of credible social in an often opaque area. In addition, we ensure we are complying emissions again were highest in Brazil. 2012. By ensuring that 5% of that diesel was composed of biodiesel – 5,454,599.44 and environmental impact assessments when a sensitive area is concerned. are implementing a plan to ensure that all our palm oil operations comply with a with all relevant laws… As with energy consumption, Argentina liters – we were able to reduce the resulting CO2 emissions by 1,165,102.43 kg. 16 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 17 Sustainability Strategy Bonsucro Bonsucro brings together a range of stakeholders in the sugarcane industry to design and set a certificated standard Partners for sugar producers and processors. The standard requires operators seeking certification to adhere to international and domestic labor and human rights laws, track and improve usage of inputs and emissions, actively manage biodiversity and ecosystem impacts, and to have systems in place with a view to continuously improving on each of these counts. Biosev achieved certification for all of the operations of its first sugar mill Puebla, Mexico in 2012. It is currently working on achieving the same certification for Louis Dreyfus Commodities takes its role in tackling the the other 11 mills and aims to be in a TARGETS SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY PARTNERS East Asia grows, there is a high risk that Sugar surpluses will dwindle. That may leave position to set a time-bound goal for enormous challenge of feeding people in our changing world Africa with a significant shortage. Targets: certification of more of those mills in the very seriously. Our business and the way that it is conducted Complete production mapping and next 12 months. We are in a unique position to bring that benchmarking to be in position to set Actively engage affects millions of people worldwide. We deal with a huge concern forward in a market focused a target date for Bonsucro-certifying all Through our participation in this on other issues. The Sustainable Rice in process of setting number of smallholder farmers in this process – they need Platform is therefore the perfect forum the Group’s sugar mills scheme, we are looking to ensure that our sugar operations – and consequently up a new grain sustainable growth. We process and merchandise large volumes to channel our efforts – to increase Set a plan with Bonsucro for how we a significant portion of the world’s sugar yields and promote production in Africa promote their activities with growers roundtable of key commodities like rice, sugar and cotton – everyone – where they are most needed. whose sugar we buy value chain – are as resource-efficient needs those supply chains to operate sustainably. and as respectful of participants in the Sustainable Rice Platform (SRP) Sugar is a major commodity. In 2011, value chain as possible. Complete production The SRP is a new roundtable initiative global sugar production exceeded Multi-stakeholder We are active members of the This is a major challenge since Bonsucro mapping and benchmarking Roundtable for Sustainable Palm conceived by the United Nations 168 million metric tons. Brazil is the is still relatively unknown in many approach Environment Program (UNEP) and the largest producer and by far the largest to be in a position to create Oil (RSPO) and the Roundtable for International Rice Research Institute exporter of sugar in the world1. sugar-producing countries. We are We have a 162-year history of conducting Responsible Soy. To explain more fully therefore consulting with them as a time-bound plan for business with integrity and we carry that how we use this approach and why it is (IRRI). Its purpose is to enable growers Louis Dreyfus Commodities is one of to how Louis Dreyfus Commodities RSPO-certifying palm oil integrity wherever we do business. the best means to meeting sustainability to improve yields – something our own the world’s largest sugar merchandisers can best assist in promoting their We also have a great deal of know-how challenges, here are some focal examples growers tell us is crucial to enable them and through our sister company Biosev organization and standards worldwide. production that we can bring to the issues facing from less well-known projects in key to improve their livelihoods, as well is the second largest sugarcane processor One of the main issues is how we, as a food producers. Still, on most of these commodity markets. as being crucial to feeding a growing by volume. Biosev operates 12 sugar buyer of sugar, can introduce the scheme goals there remains plenty to be done population – incomes and livelihoods, mills in Brazil, giving the Group a strong to the growers whose sugar we buy and and we cannot act effectively if we act Rice protect the environment and create safer position in the world’s largest sugar prompt them to seek certification. alone. We believe best-practice on working conditions. producing and exporting country. We Target: solving many such issues involves solving Assist the Sustainable Rice Platform to also operate mills through joint venture As a new initiative, the SRP aims to them multilaterally and collaboratively. projects in China and Indonesia, and establish effective scientific assessment develop its scientific assessment tools in 2012 we acquired one of the leading Biosev achieved Consequently, we focus strongly on and outreach mechanisms certification for all of for setting and achieving standards participating in multi-stakeholder sugar refiners in North America – Rice is the staple food for the majority of for cleaner, cheaper, more sustainable roundtables and projects. Our policy the world’s population. Rice production rice production. It also has significant Imperial Sugar. This makes us well-placed to promote and implement the operations of its first is to participate in multi-stakeholder roundtable initiatives across all our main is also responsible for 40% of all the work to do in setting up an effective mechanism for reaching out to actors in good, sustainable business practices. sugar mill in 2012. water used in producing food. commodities. If a roundtable does not the rice market and providing them with exist we work towards setting one up While the vast majority of all rice access to its assessment tools. – as was the case with the Sustainable produced is consumed where it is Rice Platform (SRP), of which we were grown, Louis Dreyfus Commodities is Continuing from its role as founder a founder member, and as we hope to one of the world’s largest merchandisers member, Louis Dreyfus Commodities be the case with the grain roundtable of the share that is merchandised drives that work from its seat on the we are currently actively promoting. internationally and so we have a major inaugural SRP steering committee. This is an approach we want to roll out role to play in promoting sustainable In particular, we bring our perspective further across our business over the practices in rice production. We can also on African rice consumption to the coming years, and we aim to take up bring a distinctive perspective to any table. Our proposals focus not only every opportunity to engage in such discussions on the issue. A large portion on improving rice yields in the key roundtables. of our rice business involves bringing production areas in South East Asia, but surplus rice from South East Asia to also on the need to increase production markets in Africa. That is a trade flow in Africa to reduce reliance on imports. rarely focused on by any commodities In this vein, we are currently developing company. As the population in South rice production projects in West Africa. Rio Brilhante, Brazil 1. USDA, November 2011 18 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 19 Sustainability Strategy Partners continued… Demand for certificated coffee is growing and is projected to more than double over the next 3 years. Cotton However, in many areas, cultivation We hope, through such projects, relies heavily on irrigation and so uses to improve the lives of a considerable Targets: substantial water resources. Market proportion of the millions whose Promote knowledge and use of Better conditions are also made more difficult livelihoods depend on cotton. Cotton Initiative standards among for growers in developing countries by Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) brands, retailers and producers government subsidies for growers in the SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY PARTNERS Varginha, Brazil All cotton merchandised by We are a member of this new developed world. Louis Dreyfus Commodities companies multi-stakeholder initiative, which Louis Dreyfus Commodities is a aims to help farmers move towards to be Better Cotton Coffee services and experts to educate small Demand for certificated coffee is major merchandiser of raw cotton. more efficient, socially, financially and Cotton is perhaps the world’s most coffee growers. This enables farmers to growing and is projected to more We deal with many cotton farmers and environmentally sustainable cotton Targets: important natural fiber. Approximately improve returns through better farming than double over the next 3 years. recognize our responsibility to work production. Better Cotton is cotton Increase volume of certificated coffee 2.5% of the world’s arable land is techniques and more efficient resource As a participant in such schemes, towards globally and locally sustainable traceably produced according to 6 core we purchase to 12.5% of our total volume dedicated to cultivating it, across 80 management. Louis Dreyfus Commodities recognizes production. That recognition has led BCI principles. As well as participating by 2013 countries, to produce some 25 million to our involvement in a number of in the knowledge-sharing aspects Certificated sustainable coffee the important concerns that motivate Increase volume of certificated coffee them and we want to be ahead of the metric tons per year2. It is estimated that best-practice initiatives and we are of the program, we were part of a represents approximately 7.4% of the we purchase to 22.3% of our total volume market in increasing the amount of 300 million people depend on cotton currently looking to use these initiatives BCI sub-group tasked with defining total volume of coffee produced. by 2015 certificated coffee we buy in order to for their livelihoods. as models across our cotton operations. a chain-of-custody standard that Even that level of demand is a relatively guarantees the necessary transparency Unofficial figures put world green coffee recent phenomenon. Accordingly, as support their efforts. We have therefore and insight to ensure full traceability production at close to 8 million metric the graph in Figure 3.1 below illustrates, set ourselves targets to purchase 12.5% of all Better Cotton in future. We are tons per year. It is cultivated across the the volume of certificated coffee that of our volume in 2013 from certificated working towards making all cotton globe, from Columbia to Papua New we have sold has increased significantly sources, and to be purchasing 22.3% we merchandise Better Cotton or Guinea. However, there are considerable since 2009. by 2015. from schemes which are equivalent in concerns about labor practices in coffee sustainability terms. farming and growing worries about the TOTAL SALES high water usage required to grow coffee 60kg bags volumes by certificate Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) – as high as 140 liters to grow enough Louis Dreyfus Commodities has directly beans for one cup3 – often in countries Quantity funded this aid-by-trade initiative. that suffer from water shortages. 800,000 Certification Louis Dreyfus Commodities is one 700,000 RFA of the world’s largest merchandisers ORG 600,000 of green coffee by volume. We are 500,000 FT + ORG therefore concerned to ensure that our FT purchasing power is directed towards 400,000 UTZ It is estimated that responsible, sustainable goals. We 300,000 C.A.F.E Practices Greenville, US are in a position, for example, to help 200,000 4C farmers learn to grow coffee using 300 million people 100,000 fewer resources more efficiently. We have engaged in numerous projects in 0 depend on cotton various locations spanning Asia, Africa 2009 2010 2011 2012 and Central America to achieve this and for their livelihoods. hope to expand such projects across our Figure 3.1 coffee business. Coffee certification Our efforts to date have focused on taking part in various certification Unofficial figures put world green coffee production at close to schemes in order to help improve the Paraguaçu Paulista, Brazil livelihood of farmers and help them move to more sustainable practices. Through these schemes we have invested 8 million metric tons per year. in providing agricultural extension 2. International Year of Natural Fibers 3. New Scientist, 2006 20 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 21 Sustainability Strategy Smallholder coffee farmers, South-East Asia understanding quality parameters…that is the key to improve living conditions.” certification program of Louis Dreyfus Commodities (4C, UTZ) I do not know Partners continued… However, they don’t have access to this about any other certification programs.” Vietnam without our assistance so he asked for However, the market – ultimately the Indonesia “regular farm visits and on-site training” consumer – at this stage still does not from Louis Dreyfus Commodities to offer a premium sufficient to satisfy learn what they need to do to produce the farmers’ expectations in terms of what the coffee buyers want. financial return on their produce after Indonesia Vietnam engaging in certification schemes: We gathered the views of five farmers from across the Tanggamus and We work with a number of farmers in the Stakeholder Testimony West Lampung regencies of Sumatra, Krong No district of Dak Nong province, Indonesia. They explained that their Vietnam. The five we interviewed were In coming to the decision to produce this report as the next step in our journey to making our business unanimous on the main disadvantages primary concern is to improve their best-in-class sustainable, Louis Dreyfus Commodities was determined to involve stakeholders in the process. income and livelihood. At the moment they face – unpredictable and more At this stage we sought guidance in deciding what our priorities should be as we set out on that journey. yield-size is the priority – as Fikri from extreme weather, especially hotter, We therefore asked key stakeholders for their views on (i) the main issues and challenges that the food Tanggamus put it, “more weight means drier conditions causing drought; price SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY PARTNERS more cash.” They see learning more volatility and; the ever increasing cost of industry faces in the years and decades to come and; (ii) the sorts of issues, topics and programs that a inputs such as fuel. about good agricultural practice as Mr Pham Van Dap, coffee farmer, company like ours should be engaging in from a sustainability perspective. This is what 4 of them had to say. central to this – Sunarto said he really Until they were offered a chance to Daknong Province, Vietnam wanted to understand “proper, good participate in our sustainable farming agricultural practice simultaneously with training and certification program, several “Also, up till now I and the farmers WWF NESTLÉ had not heard of such schemes. Others participating in the sustainability said take-up was not as high as it could be program have not received any benefits and China are the latest economies Marco Goncalves, Global Head of in terms of economy, namely selling since many farmers did not understand to grow so rapidly, they will certainly Procurement, Nestlé coffee and not yet receiving bonus.” what benefits they could gain. The main not be the last. In fact, there is no end Mr Pham Van Dap. “‘How the food is being made?’ and concern was that they wanted clear in sight for global consumption. This ‘where does it comes from?’ are the two financial benefits to come from dealing Mr Vu Doc Tho, of the same commune, requires supply chain management to biggest concerns of Nestlé consumers, with us and going through our program: echoed those thoughts but added that be built on relationships with suppliers rather than transactional purchases. usually in developed countries. “I have participated in training the “benefits of the program for farmers In many other areas of the world, Mr Sunarto, coffee farmer, sessions and have a lot to learn and and their gardens would clearly show up “An unintended consequence of food security is still what matters: Tanggamus, Sumatra Indonesia apply in my garden. Apart from the from the second year.” the expansion of our current food Affordable and safe food is a Dr. Jason Clay, Sr. Vice President, production system is that supply chains pre-requisite in these locations – good contain increasing amounts of illegal Market Transformation, product. It is no longer sufficient quality has to be a given for any of Citi World Wildlife Fund these food products. Safe drinking that a product is exported legally; water and sustainability in water Resource efficiency (land, water, security and safety, Citi encourages “When it comes to sustainability, the it also needs to be produced legally. resource management come as the energy and soil loss) Louis Dreyfus Commodities to engage food and agriculture industry has to Illegal products present legal and third and one of the biggest challenges Sustainable supply chain management, with its stakeholders in the debate deal with a variety of challenges that reputational risks. Traceability will be of agriculture and communities including operational efficiency around the technologization and genetic are evolving rapidly. The issues are key to addressing these risks. It will living from agriculture. As the biggest modification of food to minimize also help those along the supply chain Participation in external initiatives, unforeseen risk in its supply chains. still about supply and demand, but the nutrition, health and wellness company understand the impacts production has including sustainability roundtables conditions have changed. Look at the Nestlé, together with its suppliers, has a “These challenges also present an on the environment. Such an effort has and third-party certifications such as speed and scope of increased demand. role to play in tackling these challenges opportunity. If Louis Dreyfus With the industrial revolution, the UK numerous implications for commodity the Sustainable Agriculture Network globally and locally. Commodities is able to apply its took 155 years to double the per capita traders, considering commodities were “This data is important for evaluating expertise in product development and created to create efficiency by stripping “Nestlé expects Louis Dreyfus GDP in a country of 9 million people. sustainability program impacts and innovation to global challenges like land out all information about who produced Commodities to become: stronger in The US took 53 years with 10 million. also can affect risk profile and financial and food security, it can significantly a product, how it was produced, where tracing back ingredients to the source; Courtney Lowrance, Director, In recent history, India took 17 years performance. contribute to sustainable development or with what impacts. more reactive in regards to Nestlé Environmental and Social Risk and China took 12 years to achieve the “Three key challenges that we see for – a win-win for the planet and for Louis responsible sourcing requirements Management and Val Smith, Director, same, each with about a billion people. “In an uncertain world, forwardLouis Dreyfus Commodities are risks Dreyfus Commodities’ business. and; more involved with smallholders Corporate Sustainability, Citi No one has predicted how rising looking companies will want longassociated with increased land pressure and farming communities regarding “We commend Louis Dreyfus incomes increase consumption. term contracts with suppliers to lock “Louis Dreyfus Commodities asked and conflict, climate change, and food sustainability practices.” Commodities for building stakeholder “It is not as if the planet is stable. In in access to finite resources. LongCiti, as its banking partner, to advise security and safety. Regarding land dialogue into its strategy to stay on top 2012, four of the eight largest exporters term contracts with producers in on two questions: What should its pressure, the challenge for this sector of trends and stakeholder perspectives. of cereals and oilseeds experienced different regions are part of a strategy sustainability report contain, and what will be balancing diverse and competing We know that pressure is coming from drought linked to climate change. On a to anticipate the impacts of weather future sustainability challenges do we demands on land as we approach a all sides to be more sustainable – from finite and warming planet where people variability and supply uncertainty. see for its sector? As a financial services planet of nine billion people. customers, civil society, and financial have better incomes and consume more “Sustainability is a precompetitive issue. institution, Citi believes in using metrics “Climate change impacts also present institutions. How Louis Dreyfus (in particular more animal protein), We must work together to manage the to drive performance, including for challenges, and we look forward Commodities manages that pressure how we manage natural resources planet’s resources while providing for the deriving business value from effective to learning how Louis Dreyfus will be critical to its success. This and prepare for weather variability improved standards of living that are long risk management and innovation. Commodities is addressing risks external engagement is also important will determine our success meeting overdue in many parts of our world.” “Data is at the core of a strong report. associated with changing weather to its continued innovation and consumer expectations. While India Material information includes data on: patterns and water scarcity. On food business development.” 22 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 23 Best Practice Case The initiative In 2009 the Zambian cotton operation started the Competitive African Cotton Compaci, Zambia Initiative (COMPACI) under the aegis of Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) in association with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and other stakeholders. At launch, the aim was to increase revenues for 68 000 cotton farmers who work with the operation by 34% over 3 cropping seasons, while simultaneously: …increase Ensuring productivity is increased in an economically, ecologically and socially sustainable manner revenues for Improving management capacity for community-based agricultural services provided to the farmers 68 000 cotton Setting up a sustainable credit scheme for all farmers Strengthening sustainable operational links between the farmers and cotton farmers… ginners, traders and retailers That 3 year phase has been completed with all targets exceeded. The second phase is now ongoing, aiming to increase the net income and food security of 100 000 additional farmers by 2015. It has also added two further focal points: Empowering female farmers and training farmers in business skills. Cotton is Zambia’s second largest crop In practice by volume. At the start of the growing season, Zambia the cotton operation provides farmers with bags of cotton planting seed and puts clear instructions on the bags for soil preparation, planting times and other good agricultural practices. The bags are provided on open credit terms – repayment coming in cotton Introduction at harvest time. This helps farmers with cash-flow and reduces the risks Louis Dreyfus Commodities has a relationship with a Zambian BEST PRACTICE CASE associated with what has historically cotton operation. We observed this best-practice initiative and been a cash-only business. have been enormously impressed with the approach and what The cotton operation also provides Myooye, Mumbwa District, Zambia it has achieved. It is therefore something that we seek to learn further information and education on yield optimization. In the course from and replicate across more of our business sectors. of the year, it gives farmers fertilizers, being set up as part of the initiative – to Wider community pesticides and other inputs on the bring the items farmers need closer to Alongside the farming-specific aspects Cotton is Zambia’s second largest same credit terms, and trains them their doorstep. Farmers are presently of the initiative the cotton operation, crop by volume. Farmers tend to be so that they can use them safely being consulted on the products they in partnership with stakeholders and smallholders, farming small parcels and appropriately. There are formal want to see stocked in the centers. local communities, develops schools allocated to them by their local tribal training sessions where staff from the The hope is that the time saved will give (currently nine are being built or chief. This Zambian cotton operation business and farmers gather to share the farmers more time to dedicate to planned), wells for clean water and has long been one of the biggest information and ideas on things like their work as well as giving them more health programs. The latter has involved participants in that market. It deals market developments and best practice. space to enjoy better quality of life. participating in an HIV/AIDS program with 1 700 distributors and 164 000 Not only do the staff use this additional which educates, tests and treats people farmers in the country, putting it in an opportunity to train farmers on good in the communities that work with the excellent position to make a significant practice, but farmers who have obtained business. It is also working with difference to farmers’ lives and higher yields through such practices also Harvard University on a trial scheme to sustainable practices. build up their peers by sharing their own reduce the incidence of malaria among Indeed, it is in a position to run the experiences. cotton workers. initiative precisely because better yields for farmers mean better business for Trade Centers The cotton operation also provides the operation itself. It aims to convince Farmers had expressed major concerns Choombwa, Mumbwa farmers that adopting better farming about the amount of time they have District, Central Province, Zambia practices will improve their livelihoods. to spend away from farming to get to places where they can buy essential further information and education on yield optimization. This initiative was set up to carry that aim forward. items. The distances involved and the difficulties in local transport can lead to many hours being wasted. In response, a network of trade centers is currently 24 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 25 Looking Ahead Generating efficiencies However, we are grappling with how we can leverage those efforts across the parts Louis Dreyfus Commodities is part of an of the value chain we do not control. It is abundantly clear that all industry which generates its share of the How can we make sure that the rest of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions. It is chain is transparent? What can we do to also an industry which faces challenges encourage others to adopt good practices stakeholders in the food value of operational efficiency in getting enough food to everyone at a price they can afford. and seek certification? Through working with partners such as Bonsucro and chain face enormous challenges by listening to the response this report We have been driving for efficiency stimulates, we hope to learn and to teach for some time on an issue-by-issue, as we progress along the way to more over the coming decades. location-by-location basis. That is sustainable business. changing, and within a few years we intend to have a set of reduction goals which our stakeholders can hold us accountable for meeting. These kinds of efficiency efforts may only get us so far. If infrastructure and government We hope that, in this inaugural report, we have mapped out the Encouraging farmers policies make it impossible to transport Comments path we are looking to take on our part of the journey towards This report emphasizes the importance food to the right places, for example, As our CEO explained at the outset, this of smallholder farmers but recognizes report tries as much to identify where feeding a growing population in our increasingly changing that more and more people (particularly then that will limit the effectiveness of our work. Again, we invite our we can improve as to show where we world. In doing so, we are deliberately making our efforts younger generations) are moving away stakeholders to help us see where we already succeed. This evolution is taking transparent to all stakeholders. If we should have different from this traditional way of life. We might move such issues forward. place in a context where no one has all have highlighted some of our efforts to the answers to a vast array of complex goals, we want to hear alternatives. We welcome constructive make sure that smallholders get the best Protecting people questions. We will continue to work criticism as well as praise to help us steer the right course. deal they can. There is, doubtless, more Louis Dreyfus Commodities has to think proactively with all our stakeholders to work to be done. That is another reason about both the people it works with and ensure that we determine together Increasing yields full potential extent of the scheme will why we want to roll out the best practice the consumers at the end of the value the optimal path to take. Since it is the necessarily come gradually. Our goal for approach from Zambia. chain. We can and we will keep working next step in a journey, any comments To meet increasing demand we already this year is therefore an achievable, It is also part of the reason why to ensure that our people are safe and or feedback on this report will be have programs in place to increase but still ambitious one of scoping out we recognize our obligation to the happy. We have a role to play in creating gratefully received. yields in our own production, and we how that can be implemented. communities that are touched by our transparency in the bid to eliminate have been sharing that with growers who supply us. Our goal is for this There are aspects of this problem which operations. While we think that we illegal and unsafe products from the supply chain. We are also working with Please send any feedback to: sharing process to become wider and we would like to act on, but which we have done well in supporting individual more systematic. We are aiming over struggle to find a way meaningfully projects on the basis of local need, other stakeholders to build up our Guy Hogge the next few years to roll out schemes to contribute to. Changing consumer we see that we need to expand and use of certified products that provide Global Head of Sustainability such as the Zambian cotton program eating, purchasing and wastage habits, focus our approach. Again, we are at guarantees of sustainable sourcing. guy.hogge@ldcom.com set out in the previous section of this for example, is an issue we may be able the beginning of a journey and so our LOOKING AHEAD report. Though we want to apply this as to play a part in but needs to be driven immediate goals are to build up our widely as possible, as soon as possible, by other institutions. We welcome input information and strategy on this front. we acknowledge that achieving the on how we can get involved. 26 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 27 Regional Head Offices HEAD OFFICE LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES B.V. Westblaak 92 3012 KM Rotterdam Netherlands Phone: + 31 10 20 624 40 www.ldcom.com EUROPE AND BLACK SEA ASIA LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES SUISSE S.A. LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES ASIA PTE. LTD. Swissair Center 501 Orchard Road 29 route de l’Aeroport – P.O. Box 236 19-01 Wheelock Place 1215 Geneva 15 238880 – Singapore Switzerland Singapore Phone: +41 22 799 2700 Phone: +65 6735 9700 NORTH AMERICA MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES LLC LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES MEA TRADING 40 Danbury Road Tiffany Towers 3801, Level 38 Wilton, Connecticut 06897-0810 Jumeirah Lake Towers United States of America P.O. Box 215148 – Dubai Phone: +1 203 761 2000 United Arab Emirates Phone: +971 4 447 5737 SOUTH LATIN AMERICA LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES ARGENTINA S.A. Olga Cossettini 240, 2° Piso Buenos Aires C1107CCF Argentina Phone: +54 11 4324 6900 NORTH LATIN AMERICA LOUIS DREYFUS COMMODITIES BRASIL S.A. Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima 1355, 13° Andar 01452-919 – São Paulo – SP Brazil Phone: +55 11 3039 6700 Louis Dreyfus Commodities B.V. (the “Company”) has made every effort to ensure accuracy of the information contained in this report. However, the Company cannot guarantee the completeness and accuracy of all information contained herein. The copyright to this report and its content are, except where otherwise indicated, held by the Company. Unauthorized use, reproduction or conversion is strictly prohibited. Design and production by Reluctantly Brave (London, UK) All photos Copyright © Louis Dreyfus Commodities unless otherwise indicated. All rights reserved. Credit for photography that illustrates this sustainability report: Photographers: Cristiano Burmester / Calvin Fehr / David Hundley / Oliver O’Hanlon / ©Mark Wilson ©Shutterstock.com / Anthony Brown Printed by a CarbonNeutral® print company in the UK on 100% recycled paper using its alcofree® and pureprint® environmental printing technology, and vegetable inks throughout. Both the manufacturing paper mill and the print company are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. 28 Louis Dreyfus Commodities | Sustainability Report 2012 Louis Dreyfus Commodities B.V. Westblaak 92 3012 KM Rotterdam Netherlands www.ldcom.com
