Profile of SEKEM’s Report on Sustainable Development 2012 The reporting period of the Report on Sustainable management and quality management systems. We aimed Development 2012 is January to December 2012. We continue to ensure that the data and information provided in this the Sustainable Development story that started in the year report is as accurate as possible. Wherever data is based on 2007 to publish the first report. estimations and/or other limitations apply, this is indicated. In cases of significant changes, these are described directly in If not otherwise stated, the scope includes all SEKEM companies the context. A detailed index of the information requested as of page 18-19, excluding SEKEM Europe. Where stated, the by the GRI 3 and the Communication on Progress (CoP) of SEKEM Development Foundation was included into the data. the UN Global Compact is provided at page 84 to 92. The basis for this report is mainly deduced from certified 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sustainable Developement Balance ECONOMIC LIFE Score Card Evaluation Product Portfolio Responsibility to Customer and Consumer In order to assess its overall performance of continuous sustainable development and regeneration, SEKEM uses the Innovation Sustainable Development Balance Score Card (SDSC). The Organizational Process evaluation steps are represented in the traffic light colors Partnerships – green stands for excellence, red for no action or negative Economic Value Distribution impact and yellow means that awareness exists and actions SOCIETAL LIFE have been taken, but that there is room for improvement.The Labor Rights * * concrete explanations for the classification and annotations Health and Safety concerning changes are presented in the Annex (see page 83). Diversity Employee Loyality and Motivation * For more detailed information, see from page 48 into the Governance and Compliance Advocacy for Sustainable Development “Performance Report for 2012” CULTURAL LIFE Training and Education Research and Development * Employee Self-fulfillment and Vitality n.a. n.a. Values and Spirituality ECOLOGY Soil Quality SOIL Soil Use Seeds PLANTS Biodiversity Animal Husbandry ANIMALS Natural Habitats Energy Use ENERGY Energy Sources AIR Emission Reduction Water Use * WATER Water Sources Positive impact 20 17 17 19 Initiatives for positive impact 5 8 9 7 No actions / negative impact 0 0 0 0 Not relevant / not available 2 2 1 1 * The evaluation of these performance aspects has been revised, the color of the asterisk indicates the previous evaluation I 1) 2) 3a) 3c) 3b) EGYPT SEKEM Local and Export Markets SEKEM Locations AMERICA EUROPE 1) SEKEM Farm, Bilbeis SEKEM Farm is the founding site of the SEKEM United States of America, Austria, Belgium, initiative and does not only refer to the farmlands Canada France, Germany, that are cultivated there. It is also the main site for Greece, Hungary, Italy, all SEKEM Group companies including production AUSTRALIA The Netherlands, facilities. Furthermore, it is the base for the Norway, United educational and medical institutions of the SEKEM Australia, New Zealand Kingdom, Slovenia, Development Foundation and offers eco-tourism Sweden, Switzerland opportunities at the SEKEM guesthouse. AFRICA Egypt (local market), South Africa GULF Region 2) Headquarter, Salam City, Cairo The SEKEM Headquarter premises host the SEKEM ASIA United Arab Emirates Holding as well as some management functions Kuwait, Qatar, Oman of the SEKEM Group companies, the Heliopolis Japan, South Korea, China Kingdom of Saudi University for Sustainable Development and the Arabia Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA). SEKEM Europe SEKEM Europe, Bochum, Germany 3) New Farm Sinai 4) New Farm Minya 5) New Farm Bahareya II The Concept of the Sustainability Flower What is the Sustainability Flower? The Sustainability Flower represents a management, assessment and communication tool symbolizing the concept of sustainable development in its four dimensions (economic life, societal life, cultural life and ecology with its six sub dimensions). It was developed within a network of international organizations from the organic / biodynamic movement cooperating under the umbrella of the „International Association of Partnership for Ecology and Trade“ (IAP). Each dimension consists of several performance aspects, defined in detail through performance indicators. These are, wherever possible and applicable, linked on the international standard for sustainability reporting, the GRI G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative. In the last years we learnt a lot through applying this concept to our work; also which performance aspects are easy to assess and which are not. In a thoroughly review process we adapted the Sustainability Flower framework according to our learnings, so that also other companies can make better use of the tool. This year we use for the first time the redefined framework to How does SEKEM use the Sustainability Flower? assess our performance (comments on mergers and reformulation can be found at page 81). In order to make In the operations of the SEKEM companies, the the provided data more accessible we separated the Sustainability Flower is fully applied in its three functions detailed status and target overviews filled with hard facts as a management, assessment and communication tool. from the general information about SEKEM. In the dimension ECONOMIC LIFE, SEKEM reflects what kind of products it sells and in which way it distributes values along the value chain. In SOCIETAL LIFE, the Why does SEKEM use the Sustainability Flower? protection and regulation of human rights is in the focus. The Sustainability Flower supports SEKEM in: CULTURAL LIFE concentrates on the question of how to support the development of the individual. These • Understanding all important development three areas of society are surrounded by the six subprocesses, setting targets and taking action dimensions of ECOLOGY: SOIL, PLANTS, ANIMALS, accordingly ENERGY, AIR, and WATER; to understand the positive • Making development transparent for all and negative impact on the environment. stakeholders of SEKEM (clients, employees, For our annual evaluation process, we formulated customers, investors, business partners, media strategic, tangible targets aligned with SEKEM’s vision, etc.) mission and policies. The continuously ongoing data • Giving a platform to disclose SEKEM’s selfcollection on SEKEM’s economic, social, cultural concept as a responsible company and, thus, make and ecological performance results in a Sustainable it possible that SEKEM serves as a role model Development Balanced Score Card that we use for for other organizations that aim at sustainable improvement and communication purposes e.g. for our development annual Sustainable Development Report. ACTION Sustainability Performance Performance Flower Goals Targets Measurement Evaluation Communication Aspects Indicators Dimensions implementation and regular review process annual evaluation process III Table of Contents SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 I Report Profile II Export and Local Market Sustainable Development Balance Score Card III The Concept of the Sustainability Flower 2 CEO Statement 45 Water 3 SEKEM Idea 46 Chairman’s Epilogue 4 Heliopolis University 6 Promoting the Social Innovation Process INTRO PERFORMANCE REPORT APPROACH 48 Introduction 8 Our Vision, Mission,Values 49 Sustainable Development Organization 9 Our Goals within the Sustainability Flower 50 Sustainable Development Balance Score Card Framework 10 Timeline PERFORMANCE REPORT ECONOMIC LIFE ECONOMIC LIFE 52 Status and Target Overview 11 Management Approach 55 News from the SEKEM Companies 12 Focus Topic 56 Performance Graphs 14 Product Portfolio of SEKEM 58 Consolidated Financial Statement 16 Partnerships 17 Suppliers of SEKEM 18 The SEKEM Group of Companies 20 Economic Value Distribution PERFORMANCE REPORT SOCIETAL LIFE SOCIETAL LIFE 60 Status and Target Overview 21 Management Approach 62 Awards and Memberships 22 Focus Topic 63 Organizational Structure of the SEKEM Group 24 Human Rights and Code of Conduct 64 Performance Graphs 26 Workforce 66 SEKEM’s Board of Directors 27 Health and Safety 67 SEKEM’s Advisory Board 28 Advocacy for Sustainable Development 68 Stakeholder Approach PERFORMANCE REPORT CULTURAL LIFE CULTURAL LIFE 70 Status and Target Overview 29 Management Approach 72 Performance Graphs 30 Focus Topic 32 The SEKEM Cultural Institutions 33 Children and Youth Education 35 Employee Training 37 Holistic Research: Heliopolis Academy becomes Heliopolis University 38 Self-Fulfillment 38 Values and Spirituality ECOLOGY Performance Report EcoLOGY 39 Management Approach 76 Status and Target Overview 40 Focus Topic 79 Performance Graphs including Carbon Footprint 42 Soil 83 SDSC Evaluation Methodology 43 Plants 86 GRI Indicator Overview and Level Approval 43 Animals 92 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 44 Energy 93 Independent Auditor’s Report 44 Air 94 Glossary and Abbreviations 97 Imprint CEO Statement SEKEM Idea SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Dear Readers, SEKEM was founded by Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish in 1977 and is companies of the SEKEM Group to create high quality food, located about 60 km northeast of Cairo in rural Egypt. In 2003, clothes and medicines, which are sold on the national and Egypt still finds itself amidst an environment of political change and uncertainty the SEKEM Initiative was honored with the Right Livelihood international market.The returns of these companies are partly about the future. While the January 25 revolution had its first peak over two years Award for its holistic business model which integrates societal reinvested into the social and cultural activities. ago, the political as well as the economic situation in the country remains fragile. and cultural dimensions and thereby successfully supports Today, the SEKEM Development Foundation runs a school, a Egypt is facing severe socio-economic challenges such as plummeting investment sustainable development. Other international recognition came medical center, a vocational training center, various programs rates, dropping living standards, as well as energy, food, and water shortages. amongst others through the Schwab Social Entrepreneurship for socially disadvantaged children and several research and All of us are aware of the fact that these problems are intertwined and deeply rooted Award in 2004 and the Business for Peace Award in 2012. training programs. Furthermore, the Heliopolis University in today’s Egypt; they will not be solved overnight. The current situation requires With the practices of biodynamic agriculture, Dr. Abouleish for Sustainable Development has been finally established. structural reforms that, unfortunately, will be related to unpopular measures. At the turned desert land into fertile soils. Today, these soils form SEKEM`s approach to sustainable development unites social, moment, Egyptian politics are not in the right position to introduce these measures the very basis for the successful cultivation of herbs, fruits and cultural and economic components interacting in harmony as fast as we would like them to see. We hope that the new interim leadership of vegetables. The raw materials are further processed by the with nature. Egypt will learn from the challenges and mistakes of the recent past. Most important in our opinion is that the next steps to a better future will be build on inclusiveness Cultural Societal of all of Egypts diverse people. Life Life One of the unpopular decisions to be made is the drastic reduction of national energy subsidies. This will directly affect industrial and agricultural production. • The SEKEM Development Foundation (SDF) • SEKEM engages with all its stakeholders in a Rising prices will be felt by all sectors of the country’s economy and society. operates a broad range of educational holistic and transparent way. Water Scarcity is another burning issue in Egypt today. Not only will the problem of institutions, provides health services • In 2012, the SEKEM Group of companies and insufficient water resources become more severe due to climate change and rapid and supports the cultural and artistic the Foundation employed 1,702 people. development of SEKEM employees and population growth. Water scarcity in the Nile Basin is more and more becoming an • SEKEM actively endorses the UN Global members of the surrounding communities. international issue as riparian countries further upstream are demanding a larger Compact principles and promotes human • SEKEM established the Egyptian Biodynamic rights using its Code of Conduct as a basis. share of the Nile’s waters. Association (EBDA) to spread knowledge Also, food insecurity prevails in Egypt and is becoming more severe. The country • SEKEM was awarded a prize by UniFem for about biodynamic agriculture. providing all its female employees with equal heavily relies on food imports and is therefore prone to price fluctuations on the • SEKEM established the Heliopolis University opportunities in 2009. international market. for Sustainable Development for holistic • SEKEM is at the forefront of national and In short, these problems pose enormous challenges for Egypt that cannot be solved human development and societal international initiatives for sustainable transformation. by politics alone. SEKEM stands up to these challenges. The company embraces a development. private-economic and civilian approach to tackle the aforementioned problems. In the long run, there is no other form of agricultural production that is more efficient in using water and energy resources than organic and biodynamic Cairo, 15th of July 2013 agriculture. You see that SEKEM does not only promote this kind of agriculture Helmy Abouleish Managing Director of SEKEM Group to do something good for the environment. It is also a strategy to build up our resilience toward increasing resource scarcity. Economic Ecology This sets the foundation for sustainable competitiveness. Proof of this Life competitiveness is the fact that SEKEM started growing only one year after the • The core businesses of the SEKEM Group • SEKEM cultivates 1,628 feddan (ca. 605 Egyptian revolution and has been showing increasing revenues. are land reclamation, organic farming, ha) of farmland and its suppliers from Into this sustainable approach toward value creation we integrate the education food, phytopharmaceuticals and textile the EBDA cultivate 6,977 feddan (ca. of our employees. We increasingly provide publicly accredited education in our production. 2,930.34 ha). kindergarten, schools as well as in our recently founded Heliopolis University for • SEKEM companies include the largest • SEKEM constantly monitors and Sustainable Development. producer of organic herbal teas in the improves the efficiency of water usage Middle East. and energy consumption. Indeed, the founding of the Heliopolis University has been one of last year’s • SEKEM companies are compliant with 14 • One of the major priorities of SEKEM highlights for us. We are excited to enter this new adventure together. Nothing is international standards and certificates is caring about the fertility of soil, the more exhilarant than seeing a young generation of future “change agents” mingling (Demeter, Fairtrade, ISO, etc.). biodiversity of plants and the related on one campus with our enterprises, creating a space for social innovation – a ecosystem. • The SEKEM Group has implemented much needed type of innovation which demonstrates that sustainable development a comprehensive management system, • Animal husbandry at SEKEM includes can only be achieved through a holistic approach, beyond disciplinary and societal integrating the four dimensions of cattle, sheep, bees and pigeons, all boundaries. sustainable developmentand annually living according to Demeter standards. reports on progress and achievements. The Sustainability Flower has provided proof of our commitment to this holistic approach. With the indicators along the flower’s dimensions you can assess our performance and we encourage you to enter into a dialogue with us.. 2 3 Heliopolis University Heliopolis University SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 2012 – BIRTH YEAR OF THE HELIOPOLIS UNIVERSITY FACULTIES STUDENT’S VOICE for Sustainable Development Supporting the holistic worldview promoted by SEKEM and HU, the university integrates different fields of study Interview with Afdal Farid into the students’ curriculum.The faculties of Engineering and Technology, Business and Economics for Sustainable SEKEM’s approach to sustainable development During the introductory opening week in September Development, and Pharmacy all offer Bachelor degrees Afdal (19) is a member of the first 2012, the first HU students were given the possibility of in their specific fields of expertise. cohort to study at HU. She is enrolled at includes a holistic worldview – seeing the world a comprehensive visit to the SEKEM Farm. 146 students the Faculty for Business and Economics as an integrated whole rather than a dissociated for Sustainable Development. collection of parts. This means striving for a future started their first year in 2012. In addition, the trans-disciplinary Core Programme where all human beings can unfold their potential, is an integral part of all Bachelor curricula. The Core where humankind lives together in social forms Programme aims at educating future change agents Asking Afdal about where she sees reflecting human dignity, and where all economic VISION holistically, providing practical experiences, skills in herself in the future, she answered activity is conducted in accordance with ecological Heliopolis University strives for sustainable development entrepreneurship and innovation, as well as academic that she will support societal change in of individuals, communities, and nature in Egypt and qualifications. It is designed to awaken the individual Egypt, potentially as an entrepreneur: and ethical principles. around the world. student’s creativity, develop the ability for teamwork and the capacity to innovate, as well as to foster a sense for “I love the way of sustainability & In September of 2012, the Heliopolis University social responsibility and the desire to serve in society. sustainable development and I’ll help for Sustainable Development was founded by Dr. MISSION The programme comprises the fields of the society to safe its resources!” Ibrahim Abouleish and in cooperation with SEKEM Heliopolis University empowers its students to be in order to take the next step toward this future champions of sustainable development in different spheres • Arts, culture and development; marked by equality and sustainability.The Heliopolis of life. It provides a place where new ideas meet fertile During her first year at HU, she ground for further research and teaching. Its education • Science and Innovation; took courses in Arts, Sustainable University (HU) engages in the process of finding combines interactive learning, interdisciplinary research • Nature and Community; Development, History, Culture, English solutions to society’s burning issues like poverty, and German. Studying these different and practical experience with a unique humanistic core population growth, climate change, and food • Language, Communication, and Enterprise. subjects provided Afdal with insights programme, developing curious and creative minds. This insecurity by educating a young generation of future will educate the leaders of tomorrow to completely act into “how the world goes around”, change agents. and reflect the decisions shaping the future. she says. She has also been exposed to STUDENT LIFE practical experiences within numerous Students enjoy an active and eventful community life projects and was able to meet new involving students, practitioners and professors as the people on campus, giving her confidence HU’s physical proximity to SEKEM and the SEKEM about her skills and knowledge about Development Foundation fosters communication and sustainable development. collaboration. A PLACE FOR SOCIAL INNOVATION The SOCIAL INNOVATION LAB designs and navigates the key transfer processes within the university. The role of the lab is to enhance integration between the core program and the specialised sciences as well as to connect research, learning and action to create a space for social innovation. Furthermore, it promotes curriculum design and ensures a faculty spirit of sustainable development and academic quality. While all faculties conduct research in their respective field of specialisation, the social innovation lab brings together and embeds these research projects into a humanistic context. 4 5 Sustainable Development Sustainable Development SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 PROMOTING THE SOCIAL holistic and constructive society. While Business Innovation has often been beneficial for humankind, idea must be initiated by one – the agent of change and societal transformation, a social entrepreneur. Heliopolis University is adding a major institution to accelerate this. We call this Social Innovation INNOVATION PROCESS it is merely focused on profit-maximization. Such an agent must be supported through a Process that follows four distinct phases that build Social innovation is a participatory multi-stakeholder strong network. In the case the SEKEM initiative, on and reinforce one another: Problem Analysis, process of addressing a burning issue in society the whole surrounding ecosystem is aiming to Solution Finding, Solution Testing, and Solution The idea behind a Social Innovation, like mainstream sustainable development in the Up-Scaling. through integrated research leading to innovative, addressing water and energy shortages or solving transformative action that moves a society in the different spheres of the Egyptian society and the food insecurity, is shared by many, yet the process direction of becoming a more sustainably just, of identifying, promoting, and implementing that PHASE 3: TESTING AND A PROTOTYPING PHASE 1: The CHALLENGE set of societal, IDENTIFICATION challenge which economic, cultural as well the innovation process as environmental indicators shall address is to be identified should be established to critically and well understood. Therefore, assess and compare different solutions different perspectives from diverse and match them to local capacities. If cultures, different societal sectors, the identified solutions prove to be different academic and technical unsustainable or unrealistic, the disciplines, and different layers process has to start over again of organization need to be at one of the previous involved to assure a holistic phases. understanding. This is the heart of any innovation process: Frameworks find unconventional, potentially and action plans disruptive solutions to identified are to be developed to problems by shedding light on those scale up and transfer the problems from new angles. New solutions to other contexts and impulses and external inspiration is hence leverage social innovation. needed at this stage of co-creation This last phase is crucial to and creativity – no matter if promote the holistic, largethe solutions will be finally scale societal change that PHASE 4: PHASE 2: implemented or not. we strive for. SOLUTION SOLUTION UPSCALING FINDING AND TRANSFER 6 7 Sustainable Development Sustainable Development SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 SEKEM was founded with the idea of sustainable development and building of a prosperous future for Our Goals within the Sustainability Flower framework the surrounding communities and Egypt. The vision that brought Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish to dig the first well in the The Sustainability Flower (also see “The concept of the Sustainability Flower” in the fold out cover) builds the vast desert land still resounds in SEKEM’s approach of framework for our performance monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Therefore, the structure guides the reader conducting business. Like a compass, the vision, mission through this report. It reflects the fourfoldness of sustainable development, with the ecological dimension broken and values guide the employees in the everyday work in down into separate elements and spheres.Throughout this report, we communicate the basic philosophy, our hands-on all SEKEM companies. The Code of Conduct of SEKEM management approach as well as a detailed performance evaluation for the separate flower petals. For each of them, builds the ruling framework (see page 24). we defined an overall goal as depicted below. Our Vision Sustainable development towards a future where all Securing of animal humans can unfold their individual potential; where Efficient usage of energy welfare, humankind is living together in social forms reflecting and application of natural habitats and human dignity; and where all economic activity is alternative energy wildlife diversity conducted in accordance with ecological and ethical principles. Economic Life Our Mission Fair and ethical value creation in Societal Life Equal opportunity (along human harmony with the environment, rights), respect and human dignity To realize our Vision for Sustainable Development in and societal and cultural for every stakeholder Egypt… development ...we establish biodynamic agriculture as the competitive solution for the environmental, social and food security challenges of the 21st century. ...we support individual development through holistic education and medical care. ...we create workplaces reflecting human dignity and Biodiversity and organic seeds of Improving air quality and supporting employee development. highest quality avoiding Greenhouse Gas ...we build successful business models in accordance with emissions ecological and ethical principles. ...we innovate for sustainable development through research in natural and social sciences. ...we locally and globally advocate for a holistic approach SelfIntegration to sustainable development. assertion Enhancing and Expansion sustaining the Efficient and Conservation responsible usage Our Values fertility of soil of water Competition Cooperation In nature, every organism is independent and at the same Cultural Life time systemically inter-connected to other organisms. Quantity Quality Holistic continuous Inspired by ecological principles, representing the development of values, wisdom of nature and the universe, we continuously knowledge, capacities and strive to gain and sustain a harmonious balance between Sovereignty Partnership consciousness for individual the following polarities and to integrate them into our empowerment development: 8 9 Time Line SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 ECONOMIC Life Modern societies around the world are mainly characterized by the division of labor into economic activities.Through cooperation, values are created and then exchanged as products and services. In 1977 Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish establishes SEKEM on and the Cooperative of SEKEM Employees this exchange, it is essential that those creating the values be rewarded for their efforts with a fair an area of 70 hectares of desert sand. (CSE) is founded. income. This income must enable them, within their social environment, to achieve and to improve 1981 First medicinal herbs and food ingredients are 2001 SEKEM Holding is established. such results in the future, too.Therefore, the establishment of a worldwide cooperative network of shipped to the U.S.A. 2003 SEKEM and Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish receive the value creation, accumulating values for fair interchange relations, is fundamental for a sustainable 1983 The two brands SEKEM HERBS and ISIS are Right Livelihood Award; SEKEM Academy development of the economy. established. introduces Eurythmy training at the workplace 1983 The Society for Cultural Development in 2004 Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish is selected as Egypt (SCD) is founded (later renamed as «Outstanding Social Entrepreneur» by SEKEM Development Foundation, SDF). Schwab Foundation; higher education activities start with participation in EU project Management Approach Finally, every element in the value chain that is part of the production has to receive the appropriate share of 1984 Employee training in arts and science begins “DOPSE-TEMPUS”. economic value created. A fair price policy applies to under the umbrella of The Egyptian Society for We take a long-term perspective towards our our purchases and a salary allowing for a decent living is Cultural Development (SCD). 2005 LOTUS starts work as a company processing development and give high priority to the preservation the minimum for our employees. 1986 ATOS Pharma is established. organic herbs and spices; SEKEM Europe is of nature for future generations. This is why we aim, founded to support the goals of the 1987 The SEKEM Kindergarten and the Mahad amongst others, for the highest product quality based Adult Training Institute open their doors. Holding to process and market healthy and ethical products made from biodynamic exclusively on organic raw materials that have a low Impact, Risks and Opportunities impact on the environment. The certification of our 1988 LIBRA is founded and specializes in packing ingredients. products according to a wide range of standards such as Our economic activities are based on nature and the and exporting fresh fruit and vegetables to 2006 EL-MIZAN for organic seedlings is established. cultivation of organic raw materials, which form the Fairtrade, International Demeter standards and Global Europe. basis for all subsequent steps of value creation. Our core 2007 LOTUS Upper Egypt and the Water Research Gap shows our commitment to not thinking in financial 1989 Primary and secondary SEKEM schools open. department at Heliopolis Academy start figures only. businesses, including food, textiles and pharmaceutical 1990 LIBRA exports fresh organic produce to work; LIBRA cooperates with Soil & More production, depend on our capability to assure that Process improvements Europe; SEKEM encourages the foundation of Egypt to produce compost from organic The quality management systems of the SEKEM our products are organic and compliant with the seepage53/54 the Center of Organic Agriculture in Egypt matter (2008 also in Alexandria). companies are certified according to the ISO 9001 International Demeter standards and, as far as possible, (COAE), an independent certification body. standard. The requirements for this certification include Fairtrade. We are aware of the risk of non-compliant 2008 SEKEM for Land Reclamation is established behavior of our suppliers that we try to compensate the continuous improvement of control and of all 1993 LIBRA for Organic Cultivation is established. (North Sinai, Bahareya Oasis and Minia; in through certification by independent certifiers and quality relevant processes, as well as the enhancement total 6000 feddan [= 2,630ha]); support of the EBDA (our pool of suppliers) that helps 1994 CONYTEX (later NATURETEX) and the of customer satisfaction. The standards ISO 14001 and Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) are Heliopolis Academy establishes Sustainable OHSAS 18001 guide us in proper environmental as well its members assure compliance. Due to a general surge founded. Entrepreneurship Center. as health and safety management. Any operational of health awareness and a growing customer base, 1996 HATOR is established; the first Nature’s 2009 Heliopolis University for Sustainable planning or product related decision is evaluated for we expect the global demand for organic products to Best Shops open in Cairo, SCD opens the Development receives its acknowledgement its influence on SEKEM’s sustainable development path increase, especially in Egypt. To satisfy this demand, we Medical Center; the International Association by the Presidential Decree No. 298; First and discussed in the weekly management meetings of extended our farmlands by three further sites in 2008, of Partnership in Ecology and Trade (IAP) is “Heliopolis Academy Innovation Award”. all companies. where we started to reclaim over 6000 feddan (= 2,630 established by SEKEM and many of its business We measure success throughout all dimensions of ha) of desert land. For irrigation and hygienic matters, 2010 The joint venture “PREDATORS” for the Sustainability Flower. This extensive performance the responsible and efficient use of water and energy partners. breeding insects for organic pest control is evaluation framework used to monitor our key is not only in our interest because of reduced costs, 1997 SEKEM, ATOS Pharma, CONYTEX and HATOR founded. performance indicators is our way to incorporate the but also because of the reduced negative impact on the are ISO 9001 certified; SCD opens a Vocational 2011 ATOS Pharma builds a new factory and starts precautionary approach (Article 15 of the Rio Principles) environment, which is the basis for our competitive Training Center (VTC), an art school and implementation of a subsurface irrigation into our business model. advantage. Literacy Program for disadvantaged children; system. Our ambitious goals can only be achieved by building ISIS is founded to manufacture long-lasting partnerships throughout our value chain. organic foodstuffs. 2012 Foundation of the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development. This is why we are committed to supporting our suppliers How can we design sustainable products and 2000 SEKEM Academy for Applied Arts and in satisfying our qualitative, social and environmental services? Science (medicine, pharmacy, agriculture and requirements and cooperate with peer companies to How can we build partnerships with our suppliers? arts, later Heliopolis Academy) starts work; share practices and learn from each other. How can we share the created value in a fair way? 10 11 Economic Life Economic Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Background on Egypt’s Economic SEKEM Group’s Integrated Value Chain Situation In the aftermath of the 2011 revolution, the economic consolidation plans. Later on, SEKEM will focus again on situation in Egypt stayed unstable.The 2012 elections led strong growth.To achieve this we will apply the following to a rise to power of Mohamed Mursi and his Freedom strategies: and Justice Party, which then found itself confronted with massive economic challenges. In the course of 2012 1) optimal usage of available capacities, 2) increase the government was not able to fight the structural in efficiency, 3) lowering borrowed capital and 4) problems underlying the most severe problems of investigations on new options for financing like equity the Egyptian society like poverty and unemployment. capital, mezzanine capital and long-term credits for the Moreover the short-term decisions of the government holding and its subsidiaries. again caused protests and scared away investors because of the unpredictability of the long-term developments. Financial Highlights in 2012 International Association for Partnership SEKEM’s sustainable business model • SEKEM Holding obtained an upstream loan of $7million from Oikocredit in the Netherlands in 2012 With its sustainable business model SEKEM was able to • In mid-November the remaining bonds amounting generate a decent growth in spite of the circumstances to €5million were paid back to Triodos Bank in Egypt 2012. Besides our export activities a lot more • The Baraka Bank in Egypt gave a long-term loan of effort was put into getting more shares of the local EGP10million to the SEKEM holding markets. This went especially well in context of the current phase of consolidation, in which we center our activities around the optimization of internal processes to gain a better understanding of our customer Financial perspective for 2013 groups. In the local market SEKEM achieved a sales increase of 25% while keeping export figures stable. • We expect again a positive growth for the company These activities enabled us to re-enter into a new in 2013 growth phase in 2012. Sales revenues are manly due • SEKEM received the second tranche of the DEG to groceries (50%), agricultural primary products (20%) credit amounting to $2million in June 2013 and biopharmaceuticals and natural textiles (15% • SEKEM presented the new business strategy 2020 each). with plans, strategies and goals for the SEKEM companies in April 2013 Investments from the previous years were made possible by our long lasting cooperation with the GLS stakeholders and were used for capacity building and further growth. With their help, we were able to cover additional business without major new investments. NATURE Our aim for SEKEM in 2013 is to strengthen our cooperation with Egyptian customers and to grow further by acquiring new customers for export. In the local market we want to stick to our strategy and further extend our achieved growth. In order to reach these goals we will use our resources more effectively and make only small investments to stay aligned to our 12 13 Economic Life Economic Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Product Portfolio of SEKEM Vital Efficient Organizational Processes Fair Prices for Suppliers We recognize the effect of the sun, the moon, the The prices for raw materials are set according to planets and the signs of the zodiac on the plant Fairtrade principles and assure a fair distribution of development. Using this knowledge and biodynamic Packaging the value generation to our suppliers. We foster preparations, we can harmonize and connect our For the packaging of our products, we continuously % of recycled input, our long-term relations with our suppliers through farming operations with nature and cosmos and maximize the share of recycled input material. We strive see page 54 guaranteeing purchase of certain amounts of raw achieve a significant vitalization of our plants. to solely use reusable or recycable materials. The largest material and helping to pre-finance the cultivation amount of packaging comes from boxes and paper that (see also page 17). offer the possibility for recycling. Due to the missing infrastructure in Egypt, we cannot From Healthy Soils offer a refund and recycling-system for bottles. SEKEM We started to grow on desert land. With the help plans to cooperate with major customers in order to Affordable of compost, we built up organic matter in the first We offer products in all pricing categories. Humane 30 cm of the soil, which is now full of life. The improve the situation. Customers of all income groups can afford at Our strong commitment to the UN Global water holding capacity increased as well as the least some SEKEM products, for example ATOS Compact and ILO Conventions underlines the carbon sequestration capacity, while the risk of Transport Pharma medicinal tea. We also strive to adapt our respect we pay to basic human and labor rights in erosion sank. Driven by this success, we are now pricing policy according to factors like differences our operations and along our supply chain.Through The distribution fleet of SEKEM consists of 80 vehicles, reclaiming further land in different regions of Egypt in purchasing power. Also, a study by Soil&More our Code of Conduct we hold all our employees mainly transportation cars. They distribute mostly ISIS (Sinai, Minya and Bahareya). showed that organic agriculture will soon be accountable (see also page 24). products to grocery stores and supermarkets but also cheaper than conventional agriculture. deliver ATOS Pharma products to pharmacies. The export shipment is mainly done by shipping and the Healthy and Safe Certified total food exports measured in sales value via airplane Accessible The most tangible benefits of our products are A large amount of our purchased raw materials do not exceed 5%. In Egypt, most ISIS products can be found in all their health advantages, along with their story of are certified according to Demeter – one of the hypermarkets and in many supermarkets. ATOS positive impact on human development. The ban highest organic standards world-wide – Fairtrade Waste Pharma phytopharmaceuticals and SEKEM health of pesticides and genetically modified organisms and other standards. This way we, as well as our Waste numbers, see page 53 products such as medicinal teas are available in our production avoids any negative impact on customers, can be sure that the suppliers comply in 80% of the pharmacies in Egypt. Our sales with certain rules and receive their fair financial At its main site close to Belbeis, SEKEM has set up the human body. The raw materials arriving at personnel continuously works on the extension share. a waste sorting facility processing the companies’ Coverage in %, ISIS, LOTUS, ATOS Pharma and NATURETEX are of the distribution area. Though 94%* of our products are of organic origin output of waste materials. Waste produced during the see page 52 checked in physical, chemical, microbiological and come mainly from farms which are compliant processing and production within the SEKEM companies and pesticide tests. During production, we do not with the Fairtrade principles, we only print the is sorted into glass, plastics, carton, paper, organic waste use additives like flavor enhancers. Demeter and Fairtrade label on the packaging and remaining non-recyclable materials, such as metals Environmentally Fair Prices In fact, the fruits, vegetables, spices, teas and other or hazardous waste from the Medical Center, which Conventional cultivation ignores the negative foodstuffs enrich the consumers’ diets while the when our customers ask for it. This is simply because labeling license fees are high. Inspectors gets either landfilled or transported to special end-of-life long term impact on soil and biodiversity. textiles are pleasant for the skin. from COAE, FLO-CERT, ICEA and TUEV regularly treatment centers. All organic waste is composted on Consequently, we consider the cheaper nonassesses our premises and operations (see page site by LIBRA and valuable non-organic waste is sold for organic products as “unfairly” priced. The hidden 18 and 19 for all certifications per company). recycling. costs lay in environmental degradation, cleaning Biodynamic of contaminations and the burden for future We apply biodynamic agricultural methods. This Innovation generations. Through our commitment to organic means we use compost, resilient (not genetically Innovative numbers, see page 53 products and environmentally friendly production, modified) crops and natural predators instead As a pioneer for organic products, we constantly we face extra costs in the production that do not of external inputs such as chemical fertilizers expand into new markets in Egypt. We were the accrue directly for conventional producers but and pesticides. The application of biodynamic first to introduce organic cotton, teas and a broad avoid the so called external costs. agriculture means thinking about agriculture in variety of other products. closed nutrient cycles, including livestock. SEKEM We continuously do research on various produces its own compost, grows cereals to feed subjects concerning agriculture, medicine, Positive for the Community the livestock and enhances the soil fertility through pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and other 10% of the profits go to the SEKEM Development crop rotation. Soil, plants, animals and humans scientific areas and translate our findings into Foundation which realizes educational, health together create a holistic and living organism. products, e.g. herbal medicine of ATOS Pharma, *The remaining 6% come from conventional sources. This remains in and research projects to benefit the surrounding The contracted farmers of SEKEM use biodynamic case of ISIS limited to our honey production or results from shortages which spends 2% of profits per year for studies communities of SEKEM in particular and Egypt in growing methods as well and from season to in organic raw material supply for spices or teas and nuts. Some of at the Heliopolis University. Furthermore, we general. The private SEKEM school offers a gradual season are able to show an increase in productivity the ingredients for ATOS Pharma products are not avaible as organic. support our customers in realizing new ideas like Of course, we state this on the package. This motivates us even more fees scale so that all children can afford to receive and superior food quality. various baby clothing and toys in NATURETEX. to enlarge the capacity for our own raw material production. quality education. 14 15 Economic Life Economic Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Partnerships Responsibility to Customer Supplying Partners of SEKEM Innovation for Sustainable Building partnerships based on mutual trust is not only important in private but also in economic life. and Consumer The reliability of SEKEM’s production depends, apart Development Business is not possible without good relations to other from our own cultivation (SEKEM for Land Reclamation: stakeholders, may they be businesses, consumers or 1,628 feddan [ca. 684 ha]), on the supply of high quality, suppliers. SEKEM would not have been possible without The most responsible way of dealing with biodynamically grown produce, cotton and herbs. In 2012, Sustainable development can only have a lasting longstanding partnerships that have been developed clients consists of two parts: education and 93% of all raw materials come from external sources. impact if it takes all four spheres of societal life listing nutritional information. In Egypt, there Our suppliers are members of the Egyptian Biodynamic into account, that is the economic life, social life, over the years to the strong foundations of today. We is still a need to spread information about the cultural life, and ecology. Therefore, there must keep on striving for reliable and value driven partners. Association (EBDA) which cultivated an area of 6,977 health impact of organic food. We see it as our be an institution within the Heliopolis University feddan (2,930.34 ha) in 2012. Approximately one smallthat observes that the principles of sustainable responsibility and are convinced of the positive scale farmer works on 5 feddan (2.1 ha). That means we The International Association of Partnership impact on the community when we provide health related information and advice on are dealing with around 1400 farmers organized in 137 development are respected in every aspect of teaching, learning, and life of the faculties. The products, on our websites, Facebook pages and farms. Social Innovation Lab will be at the heart of Arguably, the most important partnership network through our customer service. Furthermore, our In order to guarantee the suppliers’ compliance with the university and aim to fulfil just that role. It is the International Association for Partnership in product information and labeling is compliant our expectations, we implemented a supply chain will observe that all ventures of the university Ecology and Trade (IAP). In 1996, it was established by at least with country-specific regulations, and management throughout the SEKEM Group. Each SEKEM are in line with the principles of sustainable SEKEM and several of its long-term European business even beyond. company is responsible for its own suppliers. Our goal development, and will guide research and partners to create a dynamic interaction between A new customer service department has been is to continuously improve our local and exporting education in order to pursue social innovation farmers, producers, and traders with the goal to established for ISIS in order to be in direct activities. Our approach combines the control of clear that benefits enterprises, communities, and provide consumers with high quality organic products. contact with end consumers and to answer society in its entirety alike. requirements based on international management and The IAP is a cooperation forum for organic agriculture all kinds of questions, inquiries or complaints. technical standards with building vital partnerships with that enhances commitment to nature and a higher Through the new websites of ISIS and SEKEM, the farmers. clients and users can easily find information food quality. The partners have cooperated since 1984 about our products, ingredients and benefits, to strengthen the basis for biodynamic and organic as well as organic and sustainable development agriculture world-wide. topics and are lead to the hotline, email form or Certification of Raw Materials Capacity Building in the Supply Chain certified purchase value IAP members exchange market information, plan Facebook page for further information. see page 54 strategic initiatives for marketing of organic products, In order to ensure long-term customer satisfacFollowing the principles of transparency, we implement finance new projects and strengthen existing ones.These Like our own companies, all our suppliers are Demeter tion, all SEKEM companies regularly refer to an honest and fair collaboration throughout the whole actions are taken to facilitate the development of organic customer feedback through standardized quescertified or in transition. Next to the International Customer supply chain (see previous page). The prices for raw satisfaction cultivation movements across the world. The partners tionnaires, which are part of their Integrated Demeter standards, we ask our suppliers for compliance see page 52 materials are set according to Fairtrade principles and try to meet four times annually to evaluate progress, Quality Management System. While differenwith additional standards depending on the product assure a fair distribution of the value generation to our implement decisions, and discuss new strategies. tiating between local and export customers, and on clients’ demands (e.g. EU regulations on organic suppliers. For some of our products, customers ask for Currently, there are 14 constant members who are all topics such as quality, communication, annual farming, Kosher, Hand-in-Hand by Rapunzel, Bio Suisse, a Fairtrade certification; e.g. for oranges, potatoes, rice, planning, deliveries, prices and financials are Global Gap and US National Organic Program). high-level businessmen in their respected companies. hibiscus, chamomile, mint, lemon grass and cotton. analyzed. After inspection by technical engineers in physical, Long-Term Relationships with Suppliers chemical, microbiological and pesticide tests, ATOS Our supply chain management approach ensures that we contribute to the improvement of living Pharma, ISIS, LOTUS, LOTUS Upper Egypt or While IAP partners are mostly buyers from SEKEM conditions and the development of our supplying NATURETEX process the raw materials. The SEKEM companies, SEKEM Group also has an extensive farmers throughout Egypt. In 1990, we established the Group Compliance Manager works in close cooperation network of suppliers (see next page). The network independent Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) with the companies’ quality departments. It is under of suppliers consists of both the SEKEM companies, in order to offer training, technical assistance to farmers his responsibility that the SEKEM companies are themselves being the suppliers of other companies and conduct research on biodynamic agriculture. Our all certified according to the standards mentioned such as LIBRA (compost) for SEKEM for Land suppliers are becoming more and more aware of the before, or to manage successfully the transition to get Reclamation or EL-MIZAN, and external suppliers. All advantages of biodynamic agriculture and promote it certified. Furthermore, we evaluate all suppliers annually agricultural suppliers are members of the Egyptian within their own community; usually rural areas. according to our own quality evaluation methods in the Biodynamic Association. SEKEM Group provides their The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization form of surveys and assessments. In this way, we reduce suppliers with inputs (such as compost or biodynamic (FAO) states that organic agriculture can provide over the number of complaints and have less return. preparations) and knowledge, offers pre-financing for 30% more jobs per hectare than non-organic farms and, their activities (depending on the case) on a seasonal thus, create employment opportunities. Supplier figures basis and a buying guarantee for the pre-financed see page 54 harvest. SEKEM knows about the importance of these mutually beneficial relationships and tries to nurture them as much as possible. International Association for Partnership 16 17 Economic Life Economic Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 The SEKEM Group of Companies • • Fairtrade criteria by FLO National Organic Program of the USA LOTUS, was originally founded in 1977. It was the first company of Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish and started with • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 • Food safety management ISO 22000 the name of SEKEM. It produces, imports and exports The SEKEM Group of Companies forms an integrated value chain based on biodynamic agriculture, which starts with organic and biodynamic, thus natural and chemical free, • Environment management acc. to agricultural production and ends with the delivery of products to the end consumer. This vertical integration helps us 14001 herbs, spices and seeds for its sister companies ISIS and to ensure adherence to our standards and requirements along the value chain, as well as to secure the availability of • Health and safety management acc. to ATOS Pharma, as well as for the export market according high-quality raw materials. The SEKEM Holding supervises, evaluates and supports all its subsidiary ventures and acts OHSAS 18001 • International Demeter Standard to International Demeter processing guidelines. Taste, as an investor and money lender to them. • Kosher aroma and their natural medicinal effectiveness are the • Bio Suisse highest priorities. • International Demeter standards ATOS Pharma, founded in 1986 as the UPPER EGYPT • Fairtrade criteria by FLO LOTUS Upper Egypt, established in 2007, is mainly • Good Management Practice • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 phytopharmaceutical branch of SEKEM, manufactures • Food safety management acc. to ISO concerned with drying the herbs and spices of the • Environment management acc. to and markets an array of natural medicines and healthcare 22000 SEKEM farms in Upper Egypt. ISO14001 products of superior quality for effective causal treatment • Environment management acc. to • Health and safety management acc. to 14001 OHSAS 18001 combined with maximum tolerability. ATOS Pharma • Health and safety management acc. to • Laboratory tested acc. to ISO 17025 products are marketed and distributed nationally as well OHSAS 18001 as in the Middle East/North Africa region. El-MIZAN, also referred to as MIZAN, was founded in 2006 as a 50/50 joint venture between Grow Group • Fairtrade criteria by FLO (Fairtrade ISIS, founded in 1997, produces healthy food from Holland and SEKEM Group Egypt and offers grafting and Labeling Organization) • International Demeter standards carefully selected raw materials, free of artificial plant cultivation services for fruit and vegetable plants. • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 additives and preservatives. The foodstuffs processed Healthy, profitable inand outdoor grafted seedlings are • Food safety management acc. to ISO and packed by ISIS include organically grown cereals, provided to Egypt’s vegetable producers and SEKEM for 22000 • Environment management acc. to rice, vegetables, pasta, honey, jams, dates, spices, herbs, Land Reclamation. 14001 edible oils, beverages such as herbal teas, coffee and • Health and safety management acc. to juices as well as other multi-ingredient products. ISIS also OHSAS 18001 sells biodynamically grown fresh produce to local and PREDATORS, was founded in 2010 as a joint venture • Kosher international markets, mainly in Europe. between LIBRA, Envision and Bioproduction (Denmark) to professionally breed insects that serve as a natural NATURETEX, founded originally under the name substitute for toxic and hazardous chemical pesticides • Fairtrade criteria by FLO • International Demeter standards of CONYTEX in 1998, is a high quality producer of • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 fabrics, fashionable home textiles, dolls and colorful • Environment management acc. to • Fairtrade criteria by FLO SEKEM for Land Reclamation (SLR), was baby wear based on organic cotton. The products • Global GAP (for Adleya and Sinai farm) 14001 established in 2008 for reclaiming and cultivating new are produced and sold on national and international • National Organic Program of the USA • Health and safety management acc. to for Land Reclamation • International Demeter standards pieces of land according to biodynamic principles. OHSAS 18001 markets under its own brand named Cotton People • Global Organic Textile Standard • Bio Suisse In the first place, therefore, it was responsible for Organic (CPO), NATURETEX or under private labels enlarging the cultivation area in Sinai, Bahareya and such as “Under the Nile” or “PWO People Wear Minya and for supplying high-quality raw materials Organic”. from these farms to the SEKEM companies. In 2010 SLR overtook, additionally, the whole land cultivation Farming of LIBRA. SLR engages in assuring fair prices, securing the supply of organic quality raw material, practicing crop rotation, as well as planning and producing for the LIBRA, founded in 1988, forms the agricultural Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) members and • International Demeter standards foundation of the SEKEM supply chain following • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 stakeholders. biodynamic principles and producing milk, eggs, beef, • Environment management acc. to 14001 sheep, chicken and compost. LIBRA launched with Soil • Health and safety management acc. to & More International BV a commercial compost project • International Demeter standards SEKEM Europe, located in Bochum, Germany, is a OHSAS 18001 in 2007 that has today two compost sites, one in Sharkia • Bio (Europe) subsidiary of the SEKEM Holding. SEKEM Europe GmbH • TÜV CO2 Compost and Crop • Fairtrade criteria by FLO and one in Alexandria. Since 2010, LIBRA has begun to EUROPE operates in the areas of import and sales of SEKEM’s concentrate on cattle management only and has handed ready-made consumer goods and fresh produce, raw over its agricultural cultivation responsibilities to its materials and ingredients.The entity provides services to sister company SEKEM for Land Reclamation. SEKEM in the field of customer care, export marketing, market development and public relations for Europe. 18 19 Economic Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Economic Value Distribution Financial Our goal is to create economic value and ensure its fair shareholders. In 2010 dividends have been distributed. SOCIETAL Life distribution see page 54 and sustainable distribution amongst all stakeholders. 2011 no distribution took place due to the absence of Our suppliers receive their appropriate share in the profits. However, in 2012 the shareholders decided to same way as our employees. Within SEKEM, certain reinvest the possible dividend with regard to the political investments for new machinery, infrastructure and the and economic situation in Egypt into the company’s employees are made. SEKEM was born with the idea operations. The place of the individual in society shapes our social relationships, while the laws of a society of giving back to the community, which includes an determine individual opportunities. In a fair and just society, the individual human being is affordable price for our products but also investment into our surroundings, and therefore into our future and Employees recognized to have innate rights, is equal to all others in front of the law and is granted equal opportunities for participation. A just cooperation of human beings worldwide can be regarded as the common welfare of Egypt. the main prerequisite for peaceful development, today as well as in the future. In Egypt, the differences between the living standards of the social classes is drastic. While the upper class lives Supplying Partners according to Western standards, the public minimum wage of 600 EGP as of 2010 is too low to ensure a decent We established a fair price policy for our suppliers. An increasing amount of our purchased raw materials living for the lower classes.After the ‘revolution’ in spring Management Approach 2011, debates put new pressure on the government to come from Fairtrade certified suppliers. In this manner, develop a fair minimum wage for private companies. we want to assure that the price paid is not below the Assuring an environment and conditions that contribute a healthy and safe working environment is essential for Until this is realized, SEKEM does not use the official average production price and that the suppliers receive to the development of our employees and the the continuity of our operations and for the respect and numbers as guidance for its compensation policy. In 2012, an additional premium payment which can be used for a cooperation with farmers and their communities is one dignity of our employees. We see employee diversity the minimum entry-level salaries started at 750 EGP per development project to enhance any of the aspects of of the predominant goals of the SEKEM Initiative. and gender equality as essential because this enriches month, depending on the educational background of the sustainable development. We regard as a basic necessity the strict adherence the working environment and reflects our core values. person and based on individual performance. to and enforcement of the international standards for We support and benefit from all initiatives aiming The ratio between lowest and highest salary is around Company 1:57. Though SEKEM tries to keep the salary scale as human rights, especially labor rights, health and safety regulations and general working conditions. As guidance towards sustainable development. We see it as our duty and opportunity to get involved in this momentum on a narrow as possible, it reflects the societal reality of very % nonfor our employees and business partners we created our national and international level. monetary SEKEM’s role as an organic agriculture producer in Egypt different qualification levels and the nationwide income benefits see page 61 forced the company from the first day on to follow an inequality. The lowest salaries are earned by unskilled Code of Conduct, based amongst other guidelines on the innovation strategy. young women. ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It Thanks to the diverse product portfolio (see page 14SEKEM provides all full-time employees with benefits, defines the corridor in which we conduct our activities 15 and 18-19), the internal value chain and a healthy including optional medical insurance (see page 25), life so that all SEKEM companies follow a responsible and balance of export and local market, SEKEM proved to insurance in case of disability and retirement plans. ethical path. be economically resilient (see page 12-13). Contribution to the latter two amounts each to 2% of With respect to our employees, we focus on equal SEKEM will continuously invest into the companies, the salary, paid equally by one of the SEKEM companies treatment (especially regarding women’s rights), employees and cultural activities. One focus in the next and the employee. A cash box for emergency cases like loyalty and motivation through non-monetary benefits. years will remain desert land reclamation. The second severe injuries or death but also for rather joyful events We established a medical center under the SEKEM main investment project is the start of the Heliopolis like marriages and births is filled with money coming Development Foundation that aims to promote and University. mainly from salary deductions (due to absence etc.). offer health care not only for our employees but also for the broader community. Shareholders Community To advocate our position on sustainable development, for example on the fatal misjudgment of genetically To improve the common welfare in our community, modified organisms or the essentiality of individual SEKEM founded the Egyptian Society for Cultural development, we use our expertise and participate SEKEM Holding is a joint stock company. With 76%, Development in 1984 – which was later renamed SEKEM in several international initiatives. We strive to have the main part of the shares belongs to the Abouleish Development Foundation (SDF). Today, it offers many positive impact far beyond the corporate borders. family. The remaining 24% are split evenly between GLS social and cultural services, usually for a very low price Bank and Triodos Bank and a symbolic share of less then or for free: medical care, education, training, research, 1% to the Abouleish Foundation and the Oikocredit and arts (more at page 29ff).The SEKEM Group fills with Impact, Risks and Opportunities bank. Oikocredit currently has the option to turn 10% of its profits the financial gap which the foundation their convertible loan into shares at SEKEM in 2014. In cannot cover.This way, all running costs can be broken To apply transparency and enforce human rights How can we assure equal opportunities for all general, we try to keep the external participation as low even by own means. Some projects are financed by the throughout our value chain is challenging but important. stakeholders? as possible. The dividend distribution does not happen SEKEM Friends network that is very active in fundraising The same high priority lies with anti-corruption and Which obstacles do we have to overcome to cherish on a regular basis but depends on the approval of the in Europe. fair business relations. Furthermore, the guarantee of the human dignity of every stakeholder? 20 21 Societal Life Societal Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 The Code of Conduct as the centerpiece of corporate action The leadership of employees at SEKEM is based on the Code of Conduct (CoC), which was introduced in 2009 and updated in 2011. According to the conventions of the UN and the ILO it frames the guidelines that oblige the workers to comply with the law, ethical business, fight against corruption, employee and human rights as well as environmental awareness. This CoC applies to all SEKEM activities and business partners and is reviewed and updated on a regular basis. Relation to the employees Every SEKEM company has a special employee, whose focus is on the compliance to the Code of Conduct and the communication of its contents on all levels. It’s his responsibility to convey the complaints of employees to the management. Furthermore we elect employee representatives every twelve months, who advocate the interests of the workers and support the Code of Conduct commissary. To steadily improve the working environment of The cooperative of SEKEM employees (CSE) continues SEKEM employees, SEKEM wants to conduct a survey its work by providing services in the field of health and i.a. for employee satisfaction, social environment and social insurance. Together with the social workers of interpersonal relations. By these means we try to make the companies and the medical center a nursery for improvements, which are directly related to the wishes the babies of working mothers was further developed, of the individuals. This is also meant to strengthen the cultural programs were offered and the transport of relationship with the company itself. employees to work was optimized. Number of employees The number of employees from the companies decreased slightly from 1669 in the previous year to 1536 in 2012. This was mainly due to the rationalization of processes in connection with the economic challenges of the country. In the future employee training and adult education will continue to be a vital part of the SEKEM concept. It is implemented regularly (e.g. Mondayforum and employees meeting with Dr. Abouleish). 22 23 Societal Life Societal Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Human Rights and Code of Conduct Monitoring Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored Respect and dignity for every individual within our and enforced by the compliance and technical auditing Promoting a Peaceful Society companies and in the broader community are the guiding managers of the SEKEM Group. The department also principles that we use to create human relationships. provides guidance and information on the application of The SEKEM Code of Conduct explicitly states our the code and serves as an internal and external contact Through its business model, SEKEM promotes commitment to protect and advocate for human rights point for concerns about non-compliance, which can also a peaceful society. On 7 May 2012 Helmy in all our activities and spheres of influence. be raised anonymously. The SEKEM CoC is provided in Abouleish, on behalf of his father and SEKEM, English and Arabic to all SEKEM employees in the SEKEM received the “Business for Peace Award” In all the steps of our value chain, we strive to provide Information System (SIS). Furthermore, we will start in in Oslo, Norway. The prestigious award for and support fair salaries (see “Economic Value 2012 to train our employees regularly and hand out the entrepreneurship, which is given each year Distribution”, page 20), as well as healthy and safe work CoC to each newcomer. to a number of internationally renowned places (see “Health”, page 27). To ensure human rights entrepreneurs who have distinguished adherence along our supply chain, we strictly apply themselves in peace building, was presented Since the official Fairtrade standard certification also to Helmy at a ceremony in the Norwegian Fairtrade principles within our purchasing practices (see includes social development as one of its common capital.The award is presented by the “Business page 17). In the SEKEM Development Foundation, we principles we use this certificate as an orientation if our for Peace Foundation” in cooperation with the have started a community school to prevent child labor suppliers comply with the core standards of labor rights. International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). (see „Children and youth education”, page 33). Where applicable, the SEKEM companies purchase up We consider literacy as a human right. All illiterates at to 100% from Fairtrade and likewise Demeter certified SEKEM have the opportunity to receive reading and farmers and farmer associations. writing lessons. Furthermore, together with our project partners and our main investors, we monitor human rights adherence and consider human rights clauses in our investment decisions. Corporate Governance Core standards of labor rights Corporate Governance defines the structure in which Topics of SEKEM’s Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct SEKEM conducts its business. The reliability of an organization depends on the way decisions are taken and The SEKEM Code of Conduct (CoC) forms, together • Freedom of association: workers are opinions with stakeholders are exchanged. The Board with the Corporate Governance Index, the framework encouraged and allowed to join trade of Directors (BoD) advises and supervises the SEKEM • Legal compliance of values guiding the operations of the SEKEM Group unions which are independent of Group Management in regards to sustainable economic • Human rights of Companies. This basis refers to the SEKEM Vision government and employer influence; prosperity, business development and strategy. The for Sustainable Development, the ten principles of the composition, current members, voting rights, access to • Child labor / young employees • The right to collective bargaining: workers United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which we information, responsibilities, meeting procedures, duties • Forced or compulsory labor have the right to negotiate with employers and tasks are defined in the Corporate Governance Code. joined in 2004, and the relevant United Nations and collectively, as opposed to individually; • Freedom of association and International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, All provided information is considered confidential and collective bargaining • The prohibition of all forms of forced principles regarding any conflict of interest are in effect. e.g. ILO Labor Standards and the Universal Declaration labor: includes security from prison labor The operational management, led by the Managing • Disciplinary measures for Human Rights (UDHR). Accordingly, the CoC and slavery, and prevents workers from formulates explicit commitments regarding legal Director Helmy Abouleish, takes the advice and • Health & Safety being forced to work under duress ; compliance, business ethics and anti-corruption, labor propositions of the BoD originating from their meetings, • Anti-discrimination • Elimination of the worst forms of child where upon these expectations are directly translated standards and human rights, as well as environmental • Compensation responsibility. The code applies to SEKEM operations labor: implementing a minimum working into action plans and achievements. Any following • Working hours and all associated business partners and is subject to age and certain working condition shortcomings are assessed in the next meeting. The • Work ethics regular review and development. requirements for children; quarterly financial report, sent out for review to the • Non-discrimination in employment: equal BoD members, provides constant updates on new • Literacy pay for equal work. investments, products, volume analysis and risks. Six • Environmental protection members of the BoD, all except Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish • Bribery and corruption and Helmy Abouleish, are nonexecutive members; three • Management systems are totally independent from SEKEM’s operations. 24 25 Societal Life Societal Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Workforce Hiring Procedures …for the disabled 32 disabled persons are integrated into the workplaces Health and Safety of the group of SEKEM companies. Most of them first The provision of a safe environment and access to Human dignity is precious. Our daily mission is to cherish took part in our special education project that takes health services are some of the main requirements for a the dignity of each of our 1,702 employees. Our goal is to six years (see page 34). According to their capabilities humane workplace. We differentiate between two levels establish a long-term relationship with all employees by After assessing the applications, and the state of health, the graduate afterwards starts a of action: First, health and safety at the workplace, and, Benefits and turnover treating them fairly and satisfying their needs. In return, promising candidates are interviewed by three year qualification phase for example at the cattle second, a broader approach towards health promotion see page 61 we hope for their loyalty. the Human Relations department and farm, the nursery, the paint or sanding workshop. These in the community. SEKEM tries to create as many jobs as possible for the are particularly safe spaces. During the first weeks of low qualified villagers in the surroundings. On the one the direct manager. The final candidate work, a teacher accompanies the student in his new hand, biodynamic agriculture creates significantly more is also interviewed or approved by the environment. The amount of work gradually increases From Certified Management… workplaces then conventional approaches (according to Managing Director of the company. If until the student feels confident in the new work. After UN Food and Agriculture Organization 30% on average any changes in the senior management this period, during which the student learns skills and In all organizational processes, health and safety aspects for organic agriculture). On the other hand, SEKEM at holding level occur, the Board of experiences besides the continual educational process, have to be taken into account.To follow-up on, for deploys technical solutions in the processing design only everyone receives a certificate of qualification. example, any reported safety problems or accumulations where manual work is not feasible, especially in ISIS Directors must give its consent. During of incidents, a precise documentation is needed. Tangible production. a probation period of three months, any targets have to be set, and trainings on all relevant health contract can be cancelled immediately Transparency and Co-Determination and safety issues have to be carried out and repeated from both sides. In line with the Egyptian regularly. To make sure that our health and safety Working Hours All essential information (salary levels, cost evaluations, management system works according to internationally labor law, the minimum notice period minutes of manager meetings) are accessible through the recognized standards, all our companies have been In comparison to the nationwide average, the weekly is one month for terminations and all intranet. Regular meetings with the management foster certified according to the well-known OHSAS 18001 working hours at SEKEM are a little higher. But they also other operational changes. information exchange and offer free space for questions standard since 2005. In every company, a health and include several events per week for self-development for all employees. Furthermore, SEKEM publishes the safety team is responsible for ensuring that standards and training as well as cultural activities (around 10% of Sustainable Development Report with extensive data. are met. The team meets annually to discuss the related working time). The compliance officer monitors the ILO Each company has put up suggestion boxes for employees, company statistics and to formulate action plans for Injury statistics, seepage60/65 requirements concerning working time, minimum age, hand, we strengthen the women’s position in the for either contributing ideas or complaints regarding prevention if needed. % of part time, etc. which are also part of the external certifications like outer community through microcredit and education topics such as health and safety, working conditions and see page 61 Fairtrade. Almost 3.5% of our workplaces are part time programs. Due to traditional rural habits, the majority personal or community well-being. This opportunity for jobs, mainly for physicians, teachers and researchers. of women marries early and concentrates on family employees to raise their voices is not yet used as widely …to the Individual Level During the lunch break, the employees receive a warm life. Therefore, the average salary differs from the male as SEKEM had planned. In the future, the involvement of and healthy meal and can enjoy the green surroundings average. NATURETEX offers the opportunity for female employees in having a hand in their working environment Nonetheless, only by keeping the workplace safe, the of the main premises and the head office, which also employees to continue their work at home, especially needs further improvement. For direct conversation, all challenge of a healthy lifestyle is not addressed. Each impress the visitors. Long working hours because of during production peaks. This allows married women employees have the opportunity to contact the social working day, we serve our employees a warm and production peaks occur only rarely. Whenever the to contribute to the family income and keep their workers in their company who is responsible for the healthy lunch including organic vegetables. Furthermore, order situation is suitable we engage new employees. independence. Furthermore, we offer childcare for improvement of critical issues raised by the employees, our small sporting club uses the football field, which we women who continue the work at the SEKEM main as well as for communicating any kind of proposals to the built for the school at the main premises. Even more important is the individual medicinal support for all Workforce Diversity and Equal Treatment premises. management. Furthermore, employees’ representatives are elected for three months to act as the spokesperson employees, which they receive at the Medical Center. For SEKEM’s efforts in supporting women, World Bank and UN Women granted the SEKEM Group of companies for a certain number of employees. Working hand in hand at the different SEKEM premises, we seek to give all our employees the same chances no the “One Business Community, Equal Opportunity Seal” The SEKEM Medical Center Diversity matter if they are male or female, disabled or healthy, which is valid until the end of 2012 numbers, Visit numbers, see page 61 notwithstanding their religion or nationality. The main The SEKEM Medical Center is part of a comprehensive see page 60 premises are located in Sharkeya, so are most of our …for people with different cultural backgrounds plan for community development for offering health care employees. The SEKEM group of companies complies SEKEM is aware of intercultural and religious differences services to SEKEM employees and the general public. with a hiring procedures to secure equal rights during between employees, especially between Muslim and It was established under the umbrella of the SEKEM the recruiting process but does not follow a policy for Christian rituals, and addresses them with awareness Development Foundation in 1995. Education and health local hiring. raising and dialogue, mainly during the weekly morning awareness programs for patients are designed to meet lectures with Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish or in some of the the needs of the local community. People are told about …for women Monday forums at the head office (further information sanitation and hygiene, provided with information on To support women’s empowerment, we engage in on page 38). In Egypt, the population consists of around health, nutrition, disease prevention and environmental activities inand outside the company. On the one hand, 90% Muslims (mostly Sunni), 9% Copts and 1% other issues, and are motivated to use the services of the our social workers support SEKEM female employees Christians. Most of the SEKEM employees are of Islamic Medical Center for preventive and curative treatments. in any work-related or personal issues. On the other belief. Our team consists of 23 doctors, eight nurses, three 26 27 Societal Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 administrators, four technicians and chemists. In 2012, we treated 2.855 cases from SEKEM employees and 23.669 Advocacy for Sustainable cases from people of the surrounding communities. Development CULTURAL Life The service portfolio encompasses: Bone`s Clinic, cardiology, dentistry, dermatology, ENT (ear, nose and In 2011, Helmy Abouleish withdrew from numerous throat), general medicine, gynecology, internal medicine, committees and boards in the course of refocusing his medical analysis, neurology, ophthalmology, orthopedics, energy and time on the initiatives that are most promising pediatrics, pharmacy, physiotherapy, surgeries, and and time-efficient. Among others, he was particularly urology. In our radiology department, we offer X-Rays engaged in the World Future Council’s (WFC) activities, Sustainable cultural development means individual human development. The people need to be and ultrasonic examinations. the International Foundation for Organic Agriculture guided to their individual inspirational sources, whether these are sciences, philosophy, religion, arts Employees have the choice to opt for a basic Movements (IFOAM), Demeter and UN Global Compact or beauty. This can only be achieved through freedom in cultural life through the establishment of governmental health care insurance, or add a private to provide his expertise in climate change policies. connections with other local cultures through a global network. insurance provider that is jointly paid by SEKEM and Together with IFOAM and several other key players the employees. The employee’s contribution to medical in organic agriculture, we pushed the establishment of insurance depends on the level of the individual wage the Sustainable Organic Agriculture Action Network and can be extended to the family of the employee. (SOAAN) to develop activities that positions organic For the children in our SEKEM School, the health care services are free of charge. agriculture and its related supply chains as a holistic, sustainable approach to agricultural production for all of Management Approach Impact, Risks and Opportunities human society. Humanity creates the world from ideas. All learning, With our trainings and artistic activities, we stimulate Egyptian National Competitiveness Council researching, inventing and artistic activities are ideally human development and people’s consciousness as free and not influenced by material benefits. It is only being integrated into community and nature. through holistic thinking and acting that a materialistic We aspire to have a culture of learning, then leading Cooperative for SEKEM Helmy Abouleish is the co-founder of the Egyptian society can be transformed into a cultural society guided to innovation. This is the main driver for growth and National Competitiveness Council (ENCC). The ENCC by meaningful values. Therefore, free education and development for us and for Egypt. We also focus on Employees has created a National Competitiveness Strategy for spiritual development of all human beings must be the different research and development topics with high Egypt, with the pillars of Innovation, Green Transformation highest priority. practical relevance and want to send out an impulse of and Education, as focus topics. In this respect, he worked knowledge and development, ultimately benefiting from The Cooperative for SEKEM Employees closely together with different governmental authorities The advancement of every individual is a continuous the stimulus that is returned. (CSE) was founded in 2000 to and ministries to drive agendas and priorities into challenge in the fields of education, science, art, religion promote meaningful work in a healthy, the direction of sustainable development. In 2011 he and spirituality. Without a sound understanding of the safe and humane environment. The withdrew from his previous very active involvement as a world around them, people will not be able to live in governmental Cooperative Union of chairman due to changing national political circumstances unity with nature and fellow human beings. Lifelong and refocused on single initiatives as a normal member learning enables the individual to improve living Social Affairs oversees its activities. of the ENCC. conditions and contribute to the development of the The goal is to achieve social justice and community and country. Children who have been decent human life for everyone in the International Engagement given the opportunity to receive a holistic education SEKEM Initiative. The current activities are likely to become free-spirited and responsible of the CSE are the pharmacy at the Internationally, Helmy Abouleish worked together with individuals. main SEKEM premises, the library, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), Bund Oekologischer Lebensmittelwirtschaft SEKEM’s approach to sustainable development the cafeteria that provides healthy and therefore embraces culture as a fourth, equally treated, (Federation of Organic Food Industry), the UN Food and warm meals for the employees every Agriculture Organization (FAO) and many organizations petal of the Sustainability Flower. SEKEM contributes day and the transfer of workers to and such as universities, research institutions, NGOs and to the cultural development of its employees and the from the companies. Currently, the associations. broader community through its constantly growing CSE has 220 members based on the cultural institutions like the SEKEM School, Heliopolis How can we develop consciousness for sustainable Together with the International Association of University and other projects in different fields.The development? distribution of shares. On top of this, range of activities spans from music, theater and fine How can an individual achieve the stadium of selfPartnership (IAP, see page 16), a cooperation forum for all SEKEM employees are encouraged to international SEKEM business partners, SEKEM engaged arts to education, teacher trainings and scientific fulfillment? take part in a labor union, which is in the active development of sustainable agriculture, research. Our approach is based on the belief that only welcome to promote its activities on food quality, environmental sustainability and social the combination of feeling, willing and thinking, all company premises anytime. responsibility. One central outcome is the concept of human senses can be addressed and developed. the Sustainability Flower (see “Approach to Sustainable SEKEM is exposed to a multitude of cultural and religious Development”, in fold out cover). influences and supports this cultural and spiritual diversity. 28 29 Cultural Life Cultural Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Heliopolis University red tape. In the preceding years, a boom in private concludes 10-year university education had spread in Egypt and formed a landscape of highly commercialized education that was development phase characterized by low quality and high tuition fees. Cairo had enough educational institutions of this kind, it was felt, and approval was initially refused to SEKEM despite The young students attending the first courses now the favourable interest the innovative concept met with. being offered at the Heliopolis University must have felt excited during the inaugural ceremonies of their orientation week. Many of their comments show just Partnerships Helped Lay Foundations that. For it is not just any university they have just begun attending, but a unique institution, founded and realised In parallel, the awarding to SEKEM of the Schwab in an integrated way directly building on the vision of Foundation Award for Outstanding Entrepreneurship truly comprehensive sustainable development. The and the Alternative Nobel Prize in 2003 had led to a Heliopolis University has now been constituted as a nonsignificant expansion of international renown of the profit institution and fully independent organization. initiative. This development stimulated representatives On 23rd of September the first group of students learned everything they need to know about the initiative, of the global education sector to take greater interest began their regular study programmes. They begin its beginnings and its history, the global challenges that it in SEKEM’s ideals and the concept of a „Eurotheir studies at the first three faculties of pharmacy, aims to help solve, and the importance of sustainable Mediterranean“ educational institution on a non-profit engineering and business administration. Within these, development for the development of Egypt and manbasis. In the following years a close friendship with the further concentration on subjects such as marketing, kind in general. University of Witten-Herdecke resulted in a substantial accounting, economics and environmental studies, internal development process, a lively exchange of renewable energy or water management is available to practical knowledge, discussions with several other them. The university had cleared the last administrative hurdles only on 1st of August. After that, everything universities and a first exchange of know-how and „best During their first week of study, the young men and practice“. Leading European business schools quickly women aged 19 to 21 enjoyed several days of orientation went very quickly. But it had taken nearly 10 years of planning to get there. became partners of the newly proposed facility. Among not only to the university’s premises but also to their others, the Alanus University Alfter (Germany) and teaching staff and the SEKEM Initiative itself. Here they At the beginning of the last decade the idea had arisen within SEKEM to round off the existing educational other prestigious institutions from the USA to Australia institutions by an institution dedicated to higher rapidly joined. Out of these emerged some long-lasting education with a view to educating specialists of friendships. the future versed in comprehensive sustainable First talks were also held with international funding development practice. agencies such as the World Bank. From 2004 to 2007 the European Commission supported several projects In 2003, with the assistance of professionals from Europe dedicated at developing the content for multiple study and Egypt, a „university team“ was formed for the first programmes. time, which set itself the goal of producing an initial set of documents for formal approval by Egyptian authorities. These not only had to include an educational concept, but also elaborated curricula, a financing plan, and information on the institution’s infrastructural dimensions. Even though the plans underwent many changes in the following years, at that time, the university buildings were in fact planned to be erected in the exact same place where they were eventually built. A first attempt to obtain approval was made in 2004 but followed by years of struggling with bureaucratic 30 31 Cultural Life Cultural Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 The SEKEM Cultural Institutions Children and Youth Education Student All institutions involved in providing cultural services act under the umbrella of the SEKEM Development In 2012, 38 children were enrolled in the SDF SEKEM Community School: The Chamomile statistics, see page 70 kindergarten, 165 students in the elementary school, 86 Foundation (SDF): the Vocational Training Center, in the middle school, 55 in the high school, and 28 in the Children the schools, the SEKEM Medical Center and the Adult Child labor is a widespread social problem in Egypt and special education program “Fassl el Fagr” (class of dawn). Training Center. There are 27 employees working for other developing countries. Many poor families cannot Additionally, 13 children benefitted from the Day-Care the SDF at the Head Quarter and 149 at the farm. The afford to send their children to school and instead let Center which was run by two teachers. 240 trainees total expenses of the SDF in 2012 were over 5 mio EGP. them work. So, they grow up illiterate. were enrolled at the Vocational Training Center. These educational institutions are embedded in the SEKEM To alleviate the child labor problem and to provide Community with its societal, economic and ecological as many children as possible with the most essential activities. education, the SEKEM Community School was designed with small classes and intensive pedagogic supervision. The goal is that the children graduate at least from SEKEM Kindergarten primary school to be able to find their place in society. The curriculum at the Community School in SEKEM Young children live in a rich world of play and discovery. encompasses subjects like English, Mathematics, Arabic, They are completely open to and deeply influenced Overview of all entities of the SEKEM Development Foundation by their surroundings. These young spirits learn by Religion and Arts. Afterwards, the children have the possibility to attend a one-year vocational training. touching, smelling, listening, moving and imitating what The educational part is coupled with an opportunity to they see. Unconscious imitation is the natural mode of gain some experience and income through adequate SEKEM Development learning for a pre-school child. work, mainly related to the harvest of flowers and leaves Foundation Accordingly, the SEKEM Kindergarten is a world of of medicinal plants (at the beginning most of the flowers harmony, beauty and warmth. In the Kindergarten, the where chamomile which is why those children are called main goal is to give each child the opportunity to develop “Chamomile Children”). Vocational Adult Training Schools Medical Center soundly at his or her own individual pace. Training Center Center The program is officially approved by the Egyptian government and covered by the Egyptian law that Kindergarten Electrical Technician Clinics Theater The SEKEM School allows light work for children between 12 and 16, especially in the agricultural sector, if it is coupled with Primary School Industrial Mechanics Radiology Music The private SEKEM School is accredited by the Egyptian adequate training and the right working conditions. Preparatory School Textile Technican Operation Fine Arts Ministry of Education and follows the Egyptian state To improve health care and hygiene, the SEKEM Medical curriculum. Nonetheless, we believe that education Center conducts awareness programs and offers Secondary School Office Eurythmy Creative Arts medical services free of charge for the children. Warm, Administration Health Education consists not only in teaching abstract knowledge, but also Vocational in training students in practical skills, crafts and artistic nutritious meals and adequate clothing are provided for SEKEM Agricultural the children as well. Pharmacy Training Center for Environmental Mechanization Employees exercises such as eurythmy, painting and playing music. Science Center The goal is to awaken students’ creativity and critical Carpentry Health Center thinking and to create a generation that enjoys learning. Special Education Foreign The SEKEM School aims at graduating independent Plumbing Community Consultants young persons who are interested in world issues and in School developing their country. To prevent that only students whose families can afford to pay the school fee enroll in the school, we established a social payment scale that is linked to the parents’ income. 32 33 Cultural Life Cultural Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 SEKEM Environmental Science Center (SESC) Employee Training The SEKEM Environmental Science Center offers interactive science classes on environmental topics to In addition to cultural activities offered to employees students from the SEKEM Community, as well as from in the form of artistic courses as well as weekly local and international schools. The one-day field trips presentations and meetings, the SEKEM Holding takes consisting of practical activities cover a wide variety care of the personal development of its employees. of subjects including chemistry, biology, physics and They participate in weekly meetings to discuss critical geography. issues about their everyday and work life, led by the founder of the SEKEM Initiative Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish who portrays, explains and passes on the basic vision of holistic development (see page 8). Furthermore, the employees are involved in constant development and specific trainings directly related to their work tasks and processes. Communication skills help us to link creative Vocational Training Center challenges. On average 10% of their working time is used for the individual development. and conceptional activities and integrate them into social life. The Human Relations department develops and The more we embed these competences in our feelings The Vocational Training Center (VTC) provides young optimizes appropriate trainings and personality and our way of thinking, the more we can inspire our people with abilities that are needed in the local labor development programs for the employees. work life with a forward looking attitude. Unfolding a market. Given the current lack of opportunities in lively spirit, art enables us to develop an encompassing the Egyptian labor market, the curriculum prepares and emphatic perception of the world as well as an students for self-employment. Through training courses, enthusiastic approach to life. The development of these the apprentices are guided through every aspect of Professional Training competences is addressed through artistic activities their chosen trade. In line with the SEKEM philosophy (active and observing) for all employees at all levels under “learning by doing and doing by learning”, on-the-job SEKEM Holding takes care of the personal development the umbrella of the SEKEM Development Foundation. training is emphasized and practical skills are judged to be just as important as theory. Trainees participate in a of its employees. Based on a Personal Performance Due to the unstable situation after the popular uprising three-year program, taught by both local and foreignAgreement (PPA), managers and supervisors, which in Egypt in 2011, we could not realize the planned trained staff. Since 1999, the VTC has been accredited by make up about 10% of our employees, receive incentives international arts projects but continued the intensive the Initiative for Industrial Schools for Vocational Training directly related to their work tasks and challenges. In work with the employees. (former the Mubarak-Kohl-Initiative), a highly successful regular performance review meetings, individual goals German technical assistance project in Egypt. Accredited and training needs are discussed. Other employee levels courses include: mechanics, plumbing, ready made receive a similar performance report from their direct Fine Arts – Perceiving and Painting garment, carpentry, agriculture machinery mechanics, manager. general administration and electronic technology (incl. Colors have an immediate effect on a person’s soul and computer maintenance). In 2006, an organic model farm We differentiate between two types of training. Firstly, mood (either positive or negative); be it while perceiving was established for education in agriculture. During training for soft skills, such as presentation and speech an artist’s work or painting oneself. The eyes learn to Training figures 2011, a community service helper from Germany helped skills, which is mainly done for the management and sales admire the colors and through that the beauty in nature see page 70 significantly in structuring the work and instructing the personnel. Secondly, training for vocational skills, which and the environment. students. is tailored to the practical needs of each company, such In all SEKEM offices, along the corridors and in public as production standards and procedures, and therefore areas of SEKEM, we display fine arts from different foremost directed towards manual labor workers. artists. Regular exhibitions are shown in the public areas Additionally, the teachers of the SEKEM Schools receive of SEKEM. Most of the painters are our employees or SEKEM Special Education one hour of training each day in order to enlarge friends whom we offer to use the painting atelier of the their knowledge and skills needed in everyday work SDF. All colors have been carefully selected to enhance The SEKEM Special Education program provides a variety with children; amongst others English language classes, the dynamic quality of the buildings’ architecture. The of educational and therapeutic programs for children painting courses and speech skills. pictures in their bright colors give each space an inspiring and young adults with special needs, such as physical and exhilarating atmosphere. and mental disabilities and serious learning difficulties. Arts Training The students gain independence and self-confidence by Music: Joyful, Smart and Healthy learning how to master practical, everyday life activities To develop entrepreneurial competence, three main and basic skills in reading, writing and mathematics. skills are important: Creative, conceptional and Music is a storage and treasure for cultural heritage. Furthermore, for those who are adults and need to communication skills. Creative skills enable us to develop Playing music and especially singing lead to the roots work in a sheltered environment, we provide adequate ideas and lead to new thoughts. Conception skills give of people’s cultures. As rhythm and tone, like fine arts, placements within the SEKEM institutions (see page 27). us the possibility to structure old concepts into new touch the inner life and soul of human beings, music can 34 35 Cultural Life Cultural Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 trigger a change in people’s way of thinking, feeling and representatives, teachers of SEKEM Schools. The training willing. was specially directed for presentation tools and how The close ties to the SEKEM companies enable the In the SEKEM Holding, companies and cultural institutions, arts can be integrated in business life. A play “Naguib The Magic Flute different science centers to come up with practical and all major meetings, lectures and festivals open either Mahfouz and his characters” was performed at SEKEM marketable innovations (see also Infobox). The Special & with classical European live music or traditional Arabic Academy Theater with a group of representatives of Sponsored Programs Department (SSP) was established live music. This prepares the participants for a successful SEKEM companies. in 2008 under the umbrella of Heliopolis Academy for In March a grand eurythmics performance meeting, as they start to listen actively and carefully, took place during the annual spring festivities Sustainable Development to assist in the fundraising which is the basic skill for an interactive process. The activity of story telling was present through an at SEKEM. 80 participiants of all ages took process for the research projects and to act as the central The teachers receive music lessons for singing and Academy Forum event with the story teller M. Lewerenz part in the preparation of the event. coordination point for all grant proposal submissions. playing instruments, so that they can pass on these skills including the launching of her fairy tale book. Children and students from the SEKEM Furthermore, to maximize synergies between the to their students. A SEKEM choir for advanced voices Kindergarten and School, trainees from the projects, the SSP supports all entities of the Heliopolis performs on stage during many internal celebrations. VTC and eurythmics teachers couldn’t wait to Academy in the strategic alignment of research activities. Each year, young students from different countries, present their interpretation of W. A. Mozarts including students from the SEKEM School come together classic. at the main farm for one week to intensively work The applause of the audience rewarded them for their hard work and left the SEKEM on a hand-picked program, supported by professional employees with a beautiful impression of this musicians from Cairo. As a highlight, the group goes from true masterpiece. Continuous Research factory to factory as “Choir and Orchestra Caravan” and also performs directly in the working areas of e.g. Program LOTUS, ISIS and NATURETEX and at the Adleya Farm. Department of Agricultural Research • Breeding of medicinal and aromatic plants, Holistic Research: Heliopolis acclimatization of imported plants and production of seed and seedlings Eurythmy Integrated in Social Life Academy for Sustainable • Implementation and production of successful research in species varieties Eurythmy at the working place contains courses in the companies of SEKEM Group and institutions of SDF. Development becomes • Scientific support Department of Biotechnology and The courses are aiming of personal development and enhancing social skills, such as teamwork, communication, Heliopolis University Microbiological Research • Producing substances from micro-organisms coordination and leadership. In the field of pedagogic and metabolites like bio-fertilizers, bio-control Project statistics In 1999, the SEKEM Development Foundation (SDF) all students of the SEKEM Schools are supported with Eurythmy on the Banks of established the Heliopolis Academy for Sustainable agents, bio-treatment of environmental see page 71 pollutants and others Eurythmy lessons provided by the SEKEM Eurythmy the Green River Development as a major independent research • Analysis services Students. On a base of professional training, Eurythmy institution. In the Academy, A network of scientists Department of Market Studies students do their educational training. The integrative and artists, national and international, collaborates and • Marketing research training of studying and practicing Eurythmy at the same The SEKEM eurythmy ensemble participates works on practical solutions for challenges encountered • Development of marketing plans, providing time makes it possible, that the teacher students are in the world-wide project „Eurythmy Caravan“ during the development process. Through a number of training programs and other marketing providing the Eurythmy lessons in all classes and ages that was founded in 2012 on the occasion of activities, the Academy’s program aims to improve Egypt’s consultation activities to the SEKEM Group of the SEKEM Schools. Eurythmy as an performing art a symposium on social eurythmy at Alanus and other stakeholders. capacity to conduct, publish and disseminate relevant mediate experiences which will change our life if we University Alfter, Germany. scientific research in the areas of medicine, pharmacy, Department of Medical Research allow for it. Artistic work means a permanent reflection Under the title: „Eurythmy on the banks of the biodynamic agriculture, sustainable economic, social • Medical research on the own action.Therefore, it supports the continuous green river“ Arabic poetry by Jalal el Din Rumi sciences, community development, and arts. With the • Clinical trials and Khalil Gibran was performed under the process of development, which will enable to an artistic establishment of the Heliopolis University, the Heliopolis • Scientific support open sky in a dusty plot of desert as a stage. action. SEKEM so brings eurythmy to the remote Academy became fully part of the university. Department of Pharmaceutical Research deserts of Upper Egypt. • Developing pharmaceutical products from medicinal plants The departments of the Heliopolis Academy mainly fulfill three tasks. First, they conduct funded research projects Department of Water Research • Research on wastewater treatments and Theater, Storytelling, Recitation, Literature from different programs and frameworks. Second, the medical, pharmaceutical, agricultural and biotechnology implementation • Drinking water disinfection and treatment research departments provide services to the SEKEM • Monitoring of water quality The way of artistic speaking expresses our personal group of companies.Third, the training department offers authenticity. Different courses of “Communication and Arts Department capacity building and job-specific knowledge transfer for • Eurythmy book in Arabic Creativity” with D. Walter from Germany took place all SEKEM employees. over a period of 6 months for employees working as Support of Research Activities 36 37 Cultural Life SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Self-Fulfillment The development of a meaningful community that is working consciously on the overcoming of social and ecological problems, on the development of personality as well as on the whole country, forms one of the main elements of SEKEM’s identity. For the individual, this community builds the basis to find the path of selfECOLOGY fulfillment. To many new employees, the extra cultural activities of SEKEM seem unusual at first, but they generally start to see the added value soon. Each morning, the employees of all SEKEM companies and SEKEM Development Foundation institutions meet in a circle to start the day together. At the end of the week, on Thursday afternoon, the employees of all SEKEM institutions located at the SEKEM main farm gather in Management Approach a big circle in order to celebrate the achievements of the previous week. In the symbol of the circle, many are All major religions share the idea that man is appointed the production cycle. Higher temperatures will lead to included in one unity. as a steward on earth who has to sustain and develop increased costs for air conditioning to protect products Cultural activities like choirs and eurythmy support it. In accordance with this approach, our governing during their growth, processing and transport. The further team building, especially, eurythmy at the work principle is not only to reduce our ‘ecological footprint’, changing climate will influence consumption patterns, place. Trust and reliability link the employees to each but to spread life and to contribute towards a better which can be a great opportunity for SEKEM, resulting in other (see more at page 35). and healthier condition of the land and the people a different product portfolio. that we work with. This is the only way to create and SEKEM, as a biodynamic agriculture company, Twice a week, the employees meet during working sustain conditions for a planet with more than seven has inherently reduced CO2 emissions and water hours for presentations and discussion panels with billion people. We thus commit ourselves to sustaining consumption compared to conventional producers. Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish. Amongst others, each Monday and further developing all ecological spheres. Through Environmentally friendly production will provide great at the head office, the Heliopolis University offers biodynamic agricultural principles, quality standards competitive advantages in the future when governments a cultural program for all employees. Experiencing literature, eurythmy, music and poetry gives an Values & Spirituality and efficiency improvements, the application of new implement stricter environmental regulations on technologies and education of all our stakeholders, companies. Therefore, the subsequent risk of negative understanding of culture and society. Next to Dr. we wish to achieve “eco-literacy.” This means keeping impacts of new regulations is currently low for SEKEM. Ibrahim and Helmy Abouleish, SEKEM employees and The values of SEKEM (see page 8) are reflected in all the environment in balance and taking the scarcity guest lecturers enrich the Monday forum. In 2012, the our activities. In addition, religion and spirituality are of all resources into consideration. To assure that our event took place 40 times. recognized in SEKEM as a central pillar of personal environmental management system works effectively, development, while tolerance, reflection and dialogue we have aligned it with the ISO 14001 standard. The are fostered throughout SEKEM’s institutions. This responsibilities related to corporate environment SEKEM’s Microcredit includes, for instance, a mosque on the farm grounds, 10 protection (e.g. water, energy, waste) are organized Program official praying rooms and the communal celebration of centrally under the General Compliance Manager. religious holidays. Being originally part of a three-years project Those people living at the farm meet each morning except Friday to read and speak about various topics Impact, Risks and Opportunities in our surrounding community, our microcredit such as Sufism, biodynamic basics or Egyptian poetry. program has been a continuous success story Based on a biodynamic approach of cultivation, we since it was established in 2007. We offer the constantly monitor our impact on soils, plants, animals, Since 2008 the youth of SEKEM meets regularly under initial financing to independence. As of 2012, energy, air and water. Our existence and success are the umbrella of SEED the SEKEM Entrepreneurship we have helped 363 men and 339 women to Development Program to discuss how SEKEM’s values closely linked to the quality of these natural resources. build up their own existence for example with workshops, raising animals, or little grocery can be transferred to the unknown future. We do not only take from nature but also strive to give stores.Today the total credit sum counts almost back. How can we reduce our direct and indirect ecological 3,4 mio EGP. For visitors, Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish annually holds a Global warming affects harvesting patterns due to footprint along the organization´s value chain? seminar on a holistic understanding of Islam, including gradual shifts in heat and cold periods. This can lead to How can we integrate our operations within the artistic expressions such as Islamic poetry reading, higher costs of raw materials and, eventually, changes in ecological system? Arabic script, Qur‘an recitals and Arabic songs. 38 39 Ecology Ecology SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Global governance Economic disparty failures The Challenges The Solution 41% of Egyptians are classified by the World bank as either Political instability poor (22%) or near poor Energy security: Green policies in agriculture can lower proand difficult (19%). Within those classified After decades of plentiful energy sources, such as the duction costs, improve productivity, result transition towards as poor, 6.7% were classified in higher-value products, and improve water democratization as living in extreme poverty in Aswan dam and the discovery of oil and gas, Egypt is now 2008/9. facing a future of energy scarcity. Egypt became a net and energy efficiency. With the agricultural sector importer of oil in 2008, and has supplemented its decline employing 30 percent of the workforce but generating in oil production with greatly accelerated natural gas only 13 percent of GDP, productivity could be far higher. production and export (EIA 2011). As a result, natural gas Some 57 percent of the population and 70 percent of is rapidly depleting while demand is rising sharply. If this Egypt’s poor live in rural areas where food insecurity is trend continues, Egypt will lose its energy independence often an issue, making the prosperity and sustainability of in the coming years, and Jordan and Lebanon will lose agriculture an important national priority. their current source of supply. Accounting for more than 85 percent of Egypt’s water consumption, agriculture could Water security: be far more water-efficient. Much of Egypt’s land Egypt has already crossed the line into water-scarcity conditions as defined by the United Nations (UN), has old irrigation systems and water is viewed as a free Food security Water security good. There is little incentive for water conservation, Water intensity and is predicted to hit a water deficit around 2017 • Agricultural Land of food • Egypt lies below the official and water is used inefficiently. In 2010, Egypt had about per person sunk water poverty line with only (Gehlen 2010). Egypt has one of the highest per capita production 140,000 feddan (56,000 hectares). of organic farms This from 923 m²/ 800 m³/year per capita consumptions of household water usage, and water stress represents only 1.67 percent of the total cultivated area person in 1960 • Agriculture consumes about is already a driver of regional conflict. As water scarcity in Egypt. to 456 m²/person 85% of Egypt’s water with low increases, so does the threat of regional conflict and in2005 efficiency instability. Egypt needs to immediately begin to make the • Egyptians tend to • Egypt suffers from delayed Agriculture could be far more energy-efbe less healthy , implementation of water pricing changes in policy, technology, pricing, and consumption ficient, with lower carbon emissions. The obese, and suffer policies and production patterns to ensure the efficient and sustainable use of water resources and reduce the risk sector is characterized by high fertilizer use, encourfrom poor calorie Geographical diversity of a serious domestic water crisis. aged by subsidized energy prices, which are among the water intensity of energy production Conflict lowest in the world. Rationalizing the use of synthetic fertilizer would have another significant impact on Energy security • Conflict on • Egypt became a net importer Nile water Food security: energy efficiency and CO2 emissions, and improved of oil in 2008 usage recently Rising world food prices and limited water and agricultural water management would contribute to the carbon • Egypy is facing regular energy arouse with Nile land in Egypt, combined with population growth, climate abatement goal. Energy intensity of cuts Energy intensity of basin countries change, and continued desertification, are creating food production • Egypt suffers from high Energy water production andvbecome a growing pressures on Egypt’s ability to provide food for Sustainable agriculture is cost-effective, subsidy set at around LE 100 national security better for the environment, better for hubillion per year risk. its people in the future. The high rate of subsidies for basic commodities like wheat, flour, cooking oil, and sugar man health, and will help Egypt conserve makes the Egyptian government especially vulnerable to its scarce energy resources. Effective techniques Population & Environmental Economic Growth Pressures external price shocks. Under the current circumstances, include location-specific organic resource input and the food riots and social disruptions related to food security use of natural biological processes such as composting • Population growth rate is • Egypt is the second most to restore and improve soil fertility. Yet another benefit around 2% which means 2 affected country from can only be limited by constantly increasing spending on million more individuals to climate change in terms of subsidies.There is a need for systemic change to address of sustainable agriculture is that it is more employmentfeed every year sea level rise this problem. intensive than conventional agriculture.The UN Food • Egypt’s food trade deficit • Egypt is currently using more and Agriculture Organization estimates that organic exceeds $8 billion in resources and ecological farms provide 30 percent more jobs per hectare than 2010/2011 which makes it services than its ecosystem Climate change: non-organic farms.These transitions will require focusing vulnerability to changes in can sustain within its borders Egypt is among those countries most affected by climate international prices R&D and extension together to enable farmers to utilize change. Changing precipitation and weather patterns and appropriate inputs and practices. rising sea levels in the Nile Delta are slowly but steadily making a difficult situation worse, especially with regard to food and water. 40 41 Ecology Ecology SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Soil Plants organisms (GMO). We follow a strict “No GMO” policy. The reasons for this can be found on our website. SEKEM holds 136 organic seed varieties in its own seed Soil is a living organism.The solid and limited surface of the Earth is Plants constitute the dress of the Earth. In many parts of the bank and in its botanical garden at the Adleya farm. The the habitat of countless organisms and offers stability for the roots planet, they reflect the seasons. More than 500,000 species are agriculture department of the Heliopolis University (see of the plants. Soil is the fundamental basis for food production. In enrooted in the Earth, building their substance through sunlight, Seed figures, page 37) continuously works on their improvement. In see page 76 the future, the global surface can only produce enough food for all carbon dioxide and water. Generating the necessary oxygen, forests human beings if we preserve its fertility, avoid erosion and enable an can be regarded as the lungs of the Earth. With all their parts, addition, SEKEM actively researches the acclimatization adequate water storage capacity. plants provide nourishment and serve as medical remedies, as well of foreign plants to the Egyptian environment. The as multifunctional raw materials. They can be preserved in their optimal living conditions of the plants like lighting diversity and further developed in their effectiveness through diligent and temperature are simulated in order to create the Vital Soils care. possibility to grow certain organic plants in Egypt. Each feddan cultivated by SEKEM has to be turned Plants and their fruits are the essential ingredients of Soil numbers, see page 76 from desert land into vital soil. Today, the top layer of the products of the SEKEM Group of companies; be it Animals SEKEM’s first farm soils (varying between 0 to 30 cm in herbs for medicine or oranges for juice. According to Animals populate and enliven the Earth with several millions of depth) is rich of organic matter and a broad spectrum of the Demeter requirements, we do not use any chemical species.They live in almost all regions of the Earth and play a crucial microbiological life; a main requirement for an increased fertilizers or pesticides to grow them. Instead, we rely role in the balance of all ecosystems. They are capable of different water holding capacity. Furthermore, the microorganisms on natural solutions for pest control and growing a large patterns of behavior and even show emotional life in their higher are essential to make nutrients such as potassium, variety of plants for keeping up the natural balance. stages of development. Like human beings, they are sensitive to pain. Treating animals in a species-appropriate way means to respectfully phosphate or nitrogen available to plants. For creating this vitality in the soils, three techniques help us: First, the Composting at SEKEM Each plant has its own task in the soil and ecosystem. For example, beneficial organisms and predators at deal with life itself. application of compost, compost tea and other organic different types of plants. To keep the natural balance, it is Under the umbrella of LIBRA, SEKEM produces its own fertilizers, second, the rotation of crops and, third, the use of biodynamic preparations. compost, mainly from cow manure and plant residues. important to avoid monocultures and, instead, combine different plants at a farm, also through green corridors Animal Husbandry The two production sites in Adleya and close to between single fields. In SEKEM’s Demeter based understanding of farm and Alexandria each have a capacity of approximately 200 To build-up the first organic matter in empty desert soils, At all our farms, we planted different types of shrubs cattle management, animals are not only raised in ways tonnes of input material per day. The aerobic conditions we use compost that we produce at our own premises as well as about 200,000 Casuarina trees along the appropriate to the species, but also with the physical throughout the composting process are the basis of Husbandry (see below). The continuous treatment of the field with field borders. In the working and living areas, trees and requirements of their natural development. statistics acquiring methane avoidance based carbon credits, a see page 77 compost tea (a mixture of compost with molasses and colorful gardens give delight to employees and visitors. In We keep cattle, sheep, bees and pigeons. The cattle live project which LIBRA developed together with Soil and water aerated for 16 hours) maintains and accelerates an agroforest experiment in Bahareya, we planted 5,300 unbound in an open space covered by a shading roof. More International. In 2011, SEKEM produced 64,847.12 the activity of the microorganisms in the compost. In palm trees and 1,500 other trees on the same field as Their nutrition consists of corn-silage, clover, straw, tonnes of compost compared to 66,916 tonnes in 2010. some cases, we have to add further organic fertilizers. the legume licorice. Looking at the main farm and Adleya, fodder beat, corn, soya, cotton seeds and wheat bran. 7.6% (= 20 feddan [8,4 ha]) are covered by forest and The average milk production per cow per day is around In order to constantly monitor and improve soil quality, By rotating nitrogen consuming with nitrogen enriching gardens; on ground that was desert before. 23 liters. The sheep nutrition consists of clover and % of legumes, SEKEM conducts soil and compost analysis in its see page 77 crops like legumes, we prevent the depletion of soils. regularly grazing, with a production of around 1000 kg of Biotechnology and Agricultural Microbiology Research Instead, the roots of e.g. clover and beans built more organic matter. In general, we plan to always cover at Department (see page 37). Natural Pest Control wool in 2011. The two other animal species kept on the main farm and in Adleya are flying in the skies: bees for least 20% of the cultivated area of a farm with legumes honey and pigeons for meat. We use the extract of neem trees to stop the growth and at least every fifth season in the same plot or green Apart from cow and pigeon meat, milk, wool and honey, of cankers and others and also apply pheromones to house. the most important product is the manure of the cows, catch or irritate insects. In 2010, we started to produce beneficial organisms under the name of “Predators sheep and pigeons that goes directly to the compost A distinctive difference to other organic agriculture production in LIBRA. Manure from animals adds vital Production Company”, in cooperation with the Danish methods is the use of eight biodynamic preparations in parts to the mixture with green residue. companies EWH Bio Production and Envision. The the cultivation. SEKEM uses horn manure (cow manure organisms are used on SEKEM’s own fields, but are also filled into cow horns and buried in our soils during winter) and horn silica (silica filled into cow horns and sold on agricultural markets as an efficient alternative to regular pesticides or other artificial chemical products Natural Habitat buried in our soils during summer). Both are sprayed which are harmful to soil, plants, air and humans. on the field. For the compost, SEKEM uses six different Animals close the cycle of eating and being eaten. To medicinal plants prepared in a special way by building a keep the natural balance around the farm, animal wildlife connection to cosmic powers that vitalizes the plants. All GMO Free Organic Seeds and Seedlings diversity has to be realized through opportunities for preparations function as fertilizers. nestling and living. Over the years, we built up a habitat With regard to the question of food security in the for wild life such as foxes, mungos, hedgehogs, lizards, future, conventional food companies often justify chameleon, mice, snails, rats, a variety of reptiles and the development and usage of genetically modified birds, of which 11 are rare species. 42 43 Ecology Ecology SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Energy Air Water The sun lights life and grants human beings their physical The air of our atmosphere is vital for all aerobic creatures. Water constitutes the basis of all life.The hydrological cycle of and spiritual strength. Sunlight, wind and hydropower are Only in an environment with clean air, humans and animal planet Earth is similar to the human blood circulation system: natural sources of energy – infinite, at least from a human perspective. Physically, energy can be neither generated can live in a healthy way. Global warming drastically illustrates the importance of balanced conditions and temperatures of Water evaporates, falls back down as rain and runs from fresh water rivers into the salty oceans.Without the influence Sub-Surface Irrigation nor consumed. The human way of using energy, however, the atmosphere. Stabilizing these temperatures is the best of human beings, the water clears and cleans itself along the contributes substantially to climate change. Through carbonway to avoid natural disasters related to climatic conditions. way. 71% of the surface of the Earth is covered by water, neutral power generation from renewable energies, the mainly salt-water. Potable water is a scarce resource and At the end of 2011, we started a project to emission of dangerous greenhouse gases can be reduced must neither be wasted nor polluted any further. analyze the water efficiency of subsurface significantly. The climate above the surface of the soil is one factor that irrigation under local conditions. Together determines how fast soil degrades and water evaporates. with the Austrian company Hydrip GmbH, By planting trees (see page 43) around the fields, we SEKEM needs water to irrigate the plants on the fields and we directly compared drip irrigation and SEKEM maintains on-going small scale renewable achieve several effects, on top of a pleasant scent: The green corridors, for processing and for the employees. subsurface drip irrigation in combination with Water statistics, trees break the wind so that it cannot blow away the top We use three sources of water: Nile water, governmentdifferent soil conditioners which are meant to see page 78 energy projects, such as a small photovoltaic station at increase the moisture holding capacity of the the headoffice, several hybrid solar dryers for herbal soil; the shade brings cooler and more humid air, which distributed water and well water. In all companies and creates a micro climate among the surrounding tree lines all farms, certain rules for water usage apply though soil and thereby save water. Initially tomatoes production, two Sheffler mirrors to produce steam for and rosemary were planted on a test field of production processes at the main farm and several solar of a field; the photosynthesis of the trees uses carbon they are not yet enforced through a written policy. Such 1.7 feddan (0.71ha) at SEKEM’s Adleya farm. water heaters on the roof of production sites. In the field dioxide and emits the needed oxygen instead; and in the a written policy is planned for 2012. The waste water After the harvest, zucchini and eggplant were of energy savings, we continue to make slow progress, long term, the groundwater level slowly rises because from all companies is reused after treatment as irrigation cultivated. In addition to water consumption, mainly due to insufficient data of ongoing energy usage. It of the cooler surface and brings additional microclimatic water for the trees at the main SEKEM farm. parameters such as crop yields, amount of is necessary to implement an energy flow analysis on the change. weeds, plant health and soil composition are Energy company level in order to improve the current energy We support the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global monitored and have shown some promising Compact Initiative. As Egypt will be hugely impacted by Green Waste into Carbon Credits results in the subsurface plots so far.The project statistics, see page 77 usage situation. the world’s water scarcity, we regard it as one of our which is funded by the DEG Invest (German highest priorities to raise awareness for the careful and Investment Corporation) and will run until the By processing the green waste of SEKEM and of efficient usage of the country’s water sources. autumn of 2013. surrounding farms into compost (as opposed to Carbon conventional waste management methods), greenhouse Waste water treatment with EM footprint, seepage78/81 gas emissions are decreased substantially. In 2011, a total amount of 79,500 VERs (Verified Emissions Reductions) was issued by the TUEV certification body for our EM stands for effective microorganisms in a watery mix Solar Thermal Energy methane avoiding composting method. One credit (= of 84 aerobic and anaerobic varieties such as the family one VER) offsets one tonne of CO2 emissions. We then of yeast, lactobacilli and photosynthesis bacteria. When trade those received carbon credits internationally. applied to waste water, two effects can be observed. Due to the activities of the microorganisms, the odor is In summer 2011, SEKEM and Heliopolis drastically reduced and sludge in the sewage treatment University, together with partners from plant is decreased by 50%. We get our high quality EM Austria (SEKEM Energy, GREENoneTEC solar from a company in Germany and rebreed them only industry and PINK GmbH), started a project twice to avoid uncontrollable mutations. for developing a market for high-quality solar thermal systems in Egypt. Austrian technology was adapted to the climatic conditions found in Egypt, to solve the dust, corrosion & maintenance problems found in current solar thermal energy systems installed in Egypt. Key stakeholders have received training in dimensioning & system design, quality criteria, installation & maintenance. A demonstration system with a collector area of 42 m2 has been set up to provide pre-heated water for a steam boiler supplying three companies (ISIS, ATOS Pharma and NATURETEX) located at SEKEM’s main farm. 44 45 Chairman`s Epilogue Chairman`s Epilogue SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Dear readers cosmos as a whole, it becomes clear that ecological awareness is spiritual in its We are faced with a whole series of global deepest essence. problems that are harming the biosphere We opened Heliopolis University and human life in alarming ways. The which evolves around its central more we study the major problems of our value: sustainable development. While time, the more we come to realize that students, of course will obtain degrees they cannot be understood in isolation. in engineering, pharmacy and in business They are systemic problems, which & economics, the main orientation and means, that they are interconnected and ultimate achievements of the students interdependent and must be seen as just will be to contribute to the sustainable different facets of one single crisis, which development of the country. is a crisis of perception. It derives from the fact that most of us subscribe to the concepts of an outdated worldview, Sincerly, a perception of reality inadequate for distinguishes between “shallow” and dealing with our overpopulated, globally “deep” ecology. Shallow ecology is interconnected world. There are solutions human centered; it views humans as of the major problems of our time, some above or outside nature, as the source Prof. Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish of them even simple. But they require a of all values. Deep ecology does not Chairman of the Board of Directors radical shift in our perception, our thinking, separate humans or anything else – and our values. Indeed we are now at from the natural environment. It sees the beginning of such a fundamental the world not as a collection of isolated change of world views in business and objects, but as a network of phenomena society. From the systemic point of that are fundamentally interconnected view the only viable solutions are those, and interdependent. The essence of deep which are “sustainable”. The concept of ecology is to ask deeper questions. sustainability has become a key concept When the concept of the human spirit is in the ecology movement and is indeed understood as the mod of consciousness, crucial for business. in which the individual feels a sense of The Norwegian philosopher Arne Naess belonging of connectedness to the 46 47 ORGANIZATION Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Sustainable Development PERFORMANCE Report Organization 2012 The Sustainable Development Center (SDC, former Sustainable Entrepreneurship Center (SEC)) supports the internal management of the SEKEM Group in questions of sustainable development topics. The team The concept of the Sustainability Flower guides the work of the SDC. Together with the Group Compliance Manager and the relevant departments, the team collects the needed data for measuring the performance is situated under the umbrella of the Heliopolis Academy of SEKEM and its companies and translates the results for Sustainable Development and works together with into the Sustainable Development Balance Score Card all management divisions of the SEKEM Holding as well (SDSC, see next page). Additionally, the performance as the general managers and relevant departments of the is evaluated with regard to the targets in the near Introduction group companies. future. The results are discussed internally in regular management meetings and published annually in the In this fifth Sustainability Development Report, some use the reviewed performance aspects and the newly SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development. changes were made regarding the structure. We have defined performance indicators as basis for evaluation separated the descriptive part of our approach to on the Sustainable Development Balance Score Card sustainable development from the annual hard facts. This (SDSC). Due to the on-going review process, some was done to make the information more accessible for indicators may change next year. The result of the SDSC all readers. For those just getting to know what SEKEM of both the group level and the company level can be is all about, reading the first part will be a good start. found at the next page. For those who already know SEKEM quite well, the hard The explanations of the abbreviations used in the table Sustainable Development Structure facts in the Performance Report will update them on the are shown in the description below. The evaluation newest developments. of the performance indicators are aligned only to the The core of the Performance Report are the status and current target, not to the overall performance which is target overviews in the sequence of the dimensions reflected in the SDSC. Order SEKEM Holding Sustainable Development of the Sustainability Flower (see page 9 and fold-out In general the targets in the status and target overviews cover): ECONOMIC LIFE, SOCIETAL LIFE, CULTURAL are set for 2013. Managing Center Service LIFE and ECOLOGY with its six sub-dimensions. We Director Delivery Sustainable Development LOTUS Strategy & Reporting (incl. LOTUS Upper Egypt) NATURETEX ISIS Performance Analysis & LIBRA SEKEM for Land Reclamation SEKEM Development Improvement Foundation Total 2012 Communication Performance Total EvaluaPA Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT SDF Indicator Total Target 2011 tion Indicator x Stakeholder Target 2013 Dialogue Target for entities EL-MIZAN ATOS Pharma Total 2012/2011 and total target Included is the sum for the applicable entities only. Not PA = Performance Aspect incl. applicable is marked with “-”. evaluation from the SDSC First steps First results Half the way Almost there Achieved 48 49 Performance Report SDSC SDSC Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Sustainable Development Balance Score Card Evaluation 2012 n.a. 20 7 0 1 Total 2011 * * n.a. * 18 9 0 1 In order to assess its overall performance of continuous have been taken, but that there is room for improvement.The 2010 * * 18 8 0 2 sustainable development and regeneration, SEKEM uses the concrete explanations for the classification and annotations Sustainable Development Balance Score Card (SDSC). The concerning changes are presented in the Annex (see page evaluation steps are represented in the traffic light colors 53). 2012 n.a. 10 12 0 6 – green stands for excellence, red for no action or negative 2011 n.a. 13 impact and yellow means that awareness exists and actions Naturetex * 9 0 6 2010 13 8 0 7 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 n.a. 11 11 0 6 ECONOMIC LIFE Target Evaluation ATOS Pharma 2011 * n.a. * 13 9 0 6 Product Portfolio Responsibility to Customer and Consumer ECONOMIC SOCIETAL CULTURAL ECOLOGY 2010 15 6 0 7 Innovation Organizational Processes 1 1 0 0 2012 n.a. 13 9 0 6 Partnership 2011 * * n.a. * 14 8 0 6 Economic Value Distribution SOCIETAL LIFE 0 0 2 4 Isis 2010 14 7 0 7 * The evaluation of these performance aspects has been revised, the color of the asterisk indicates the previous evaluation Labor Rights * * 3 2 3 2 2012 n.a. 12 10 0 6 Health and Safety Workforce Diversity 2011 * n.a. * 15 7 0 6 Employee Loyalty and Motivation Governance and Compliance * 6 3 4 3 Lotus 2010 14 7 0 7 Advocacy for Sustainable Development CULTURAL LIFE 13 6 7 6 2012 n.a. 15 8 1 4 2011 * * n.a. * 16 8 0 4 14 8 9 17 Training and Education Research and Development * Libra 2010 * 16 6 1 5 Employee Self-fulfillment and Vitality n.a. n.a. Values and Spirituality 2012 n.a. 2012 Developments at company level 11 11 1 5 ECOLOGY 2011 * * * n.a. * * 11 11 1 5 Soil Quality SOIL Compost Quality On the overall performace of the SEKEM group on El-Mizan 2010 * * 13 9 0 6 Soil Use the level of different Sustainabilty Flower aspects Seeds two improvements have been done at “energy use” 2012 n.a. 10 13 1 4 PLANTS and “emission reduction”. Both performance aspects Biodiversity are interrelated and have been influenced greatly by 2011 * * n.a. * 13 10 1 4 Animal Husbandry SLR ANIMALS the reduction of the activities of the ISIS distribution 2010 14 9 0 5 Natural Habitats fleets of cars and small trucks. Otherwise, SEKEM Energy Use remains stable on its general performance level but No actions / negative impact Not relevant / not available Initiatives for positive impact Positive impact ENERGY Energy Sources steadily increased its achievements of targets that Responsibility to Customer and Consumer AIR have been set for 2013. The majority of targets Advocacy for Sustainable Development Emission Reduction Animal Husbandry Emission Reduction Employee Self-fulfillment and Vitality already have been achieved and we are looking Compost Quality Workforce Loyalty and Motivation Water Use * Natural Habitats Energy Sources WATER Water Sources Water Sources forward to tackle the open ones and to work out Soil Quality Biodiversity Governance and Compliance Energy Use Water Use Economic Value Distribution Research and Development Positive impact new targets in the period thereafter. Soil Use 19 18 18 20 Organizational Processes Seeds ECONOMIC LIFE CULTURAL LIFE Training and Education Values and Spirituality Initiatives for positive impact 7 8 9 7 Product Portfolio SOCIETAL LIFE Health and Safety Workforce Diversity No actions / negative impact 0 0 0 0 Labor Rights ECOLOGY PLANTS ANIMALS ENERGY WATER Not relevant / not available 2 2 1 1 Partnership SOIL Innovation AIR * The evaluation of these performance aspects has been revised, the color of the asterisk indicates the previous evaluation 50 51 52 Total 2012 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT Comments Total Target 2011 tion % of sales value of organic products % 100 0 100 89 16 12 100 67.5 Last years calculation was not ac75.4 curate, recalculation was done for Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 90 71.5 100 94.3 2011 and 2012 figures SEKEM Report on Sustainable % of sales value of products that have We only print the Demeter / % 100 0 60 42 85 0 54 a Demeter certificate 49.9 Fairtrade logo on the product Target 2013 100 100 61 82 55 when requested from customer, Product Portfolio % see page 14-15 Development 2012 % of sales value of products that have % 7 0 1 0 0 16 2.4 a Fairtrade certificate 1.6 Performance Report Target 2013 % 3 10 7* 5 13 % of raw materials assessed** for % 100 100 100 100 100 100 health and safety impact 100 Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 100 % of final products assessed** for % 100 100 100 100 100 100 health and safety impact 100 Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 100 % of sales value with representitive Carbon Footprint estimation % 45.1 81.5 47.3 10 64 product carbon footprints partly based on representative 31.8 Target 2013 product groups with similar car% 100 50 50 100 67 bon emissions Number of customer claims number n.a. 0 20 45 5 30 100 136 Customer claims do not reflect % increase of customer claims % -100 -48 -38.4 -50 +3 -22.25 -13.9 those from end consumers but from major clients Target 2013 Number 0 10 40 5 25 80 % fulfillment of orders to customer % 88 100 74 96 64 99 86.83 92.5 Target 2013 % 95 100 99 98 70 100 93٫6 Status and Target Overview for ECONOMIC LIFE (1) % of orders delivered to customer on % 92 100 74 96 63 89 85.67 the committed date 92.3 Target 2013 % 97 100 80 100 70 97 99 % of hypermarkets coverage of ATOS Pharma: SEKEM Herbs % 100 100 100 SEKEM products in Egypt Target 2013 % 100 100 100 average % of available assortment per % 50 30 40 hypermarket Target 2013 % 60 30 45 Responsibility to Customer and Consumer (1) % of supermarkets coverage of % 90 90 90 SEKEM products in Egypt Target 2013 % 60 20 40 * Export Market ECONOMIC LIFE ** ISIS fruits and vegetables: physical plus pesticide analysis for organic products; ISIS (raw material except fruits and vegetables), LOTUS raw materials, ATOS Pharma herbs raw materials and SLR outgoing raw materials: physical, chemical, microbiology analysis plus pesticide analysis for incoming organic products; NATURETEX raw materials: physical analysis plus pesticide analysis for outgoing raw cotton Total 2012 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT Comments Total Target 2011 tion Average % of available assortment per ATOS Pharma: SEKEM Herbs % 25 10 17.5 supermarket Target 2013 % 30 10 20 % of groceries coverage of SEKEM % 15 15 15 products in Egypt Target 2013 % 15 15 15 ECONOMIC LIFE Average % of available assortment per % 5 5 grocery Target 2013 % 10 10 Number of boutiques with SEKEM number 96 96 products in Egypt 28 Target 2013 number 80 80 % of pharmacies with SEKEM prodATOS Pharma: SEKEM Herbs; % 72.73 72.73 ucts in Egypt [NATURETEX coverage target for Responsibility to Customer and Consumer (2) Target 2013 2013: 200 pharmacies] % 70 70 Average % of available assortment per ATOS Pharma: SEKEM Herbs % 15 30 22.5 pharmacy Target 2013 % 20 30 25 % of sales going into research % 0.21 0.04 2 0.34 Target 2013 % 1 1 2 1 % of sales from new products % 0.6 80.8 0 0.2 2.0 2.9 80 15.5 18.4 Innovation Target 2013 % 2 50 2 2.0 5 16 15 Number of internal quality and susEach month an internal quality and number 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 tainability audits per year 12 sustainability audit takes place Target 2013 number 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 x of y improvement points of ISO 87 % of sales come from ISO x/y 0/0 4/4 2/2 0/2 1/2 0/1 7/11 (64%) 14001 program solved 11/13 14001 and ISO 9001 certified Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 processes (see page 18-19) x of y improvement points of OHSAS 89.7% of employees work in OHx/y 0/0 2/2 7/8 2/2 11/12 2/8 23/32 (72%) 18001 program solved 29/32 SAS 18001 certified environment Target 2013 (see page 18-19) Organizational Processes (1) % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 SEKEM Report on Sustainable Total weight of waste ‘000 tonnes 265 19.2 7.5 30.2 199.7 11.6 18.7 551.8 700.6 The main part of the waste of SLR, kg/ I000 3.56 LOTUS and EL-MIZAN is organic EGP sales 0.97 0.74 0.29 1.16 7.7 0.44 0.72 2.12 and goes directly into the compost; see page 56 for waste graph Development 2012 Target 2013 kg/ I000 EGP sales 10 9 0.4 2 2 0.06 0.1 3 incl. categories Performance Report 53 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE ECONOMIC LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Status and Target Overview for ECONOMIC LIFE (2) News from the SEKEM Companies ISIS Without taking the Medical Center Fairtrade certificates do exist only All organic waste is composted on Investments into SEKEM CompaLOTUS: In case of seasonal conSum of companies’ sales is higher LIBRA Difference due to redefinition of = % of shares owned by founder More certifications on page 15 = raw materials only from own In the year 2012 ISIS laid its focus on the optimization tracts the committment to purfor a limited range of products. In than total sales because the latter of its processes and getting closer to customers by Comments Libras main concern in 2012 stayed on the animal improving is communication. By doing so, ISIS managed chase next year is agreed orally; husbandry of SEKEM. The foot-and-mouth disease had general the suppliers are compliant to boost its business despite the poor national economic site by LIBRA and lab waste into consideration nies; without Heliopolis University is consolidated, companies sales indicator a major impact on us and claimed the life of 53 calves. and 18/19. farm soils For more about partnerships with situation. The strategy to work internationally as well Furthermore 70 dairy cows had to be sold. Since then the as locally paid out and the revenues from the export with the Fairtrade principles. not. livestock has recovered and is now healthy. Another 180 business partners see page 16 market remained stable. Above all, ISIS teas are rooted bee colonies of the genus Apis Mellifera Lamarckii have deeply in the market.Their contribution to the economic been acquired and contribute to SEKEMs honey as well stability of the company is strong. For ISIS, 2013 is still as to the environment. For 2013 no larger investments Evaluacharacterized by process optimization. More efficient have been planned. The compost production remained tion work will lead to a better use of resources and an stable, we acquire new customers and the administrative Total integrated marketing strategy will also contribute to the work remains small. 100 50.4 3.53*** 9.4 65.7 209.4 -7.9 76.03 16.3 1:55 achievement of our goals. 84 1 20 10 2011 LOTUS Total Target ATOS Pharma Total 2012 17.65*** 100 100 47.80 55 10 96.71 90 11.97 15 33.80 70 237 13.2 375 0.63 15 26 76.03 76.03 6.84 20 1:57 1:50 10 4 0 In 2012 Lotus primary concern was the struggle for Although the pharmacy sector is one that is less sufficient amounts of raw materials for the processing, affected by the effects of the revolution, Atos Pharma because the demand was very high. Nevertheless we NT 100 100 43.42 27 36.1 37 100 55 33.97 100 37 7.6 39 1:36 n.a. n.a. n.a. had to fight some inconveniences in 2012. This were able to achieve our goals but raw materials will 0 can be attributed to the GMP-certification (Good stay the main topic for 2013. AT 100 100 0 100 17.97 26 100 100 44.58 16.2 78 37 4.5 56 0.12 5 1:38 n.a. n.a. n.a. Manufacturing Practices) in 2011, which obliges us to give three batches of a certified product to the Ministry of Health for examination. The restructuring of the LOTUS Upper Egypt ISIS 100 100 100 13.31 100 100 0.12 138 162 17.95** 1:57 n.a. n.a. n.a. 34 15 8 63 62 24 40 government led to delays and latencies. Therefore Atos Pharma was not able to work at full capacity as it was In 2012 the new strategy for convenience products has LU 100 100 100 45 2.75 15 77 90 41.79 27 77 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 5.98 1:22 n.a. n.a. n.a. been further fostered under the name Lotus Upper 6 6 planned in the beginning of 2012, but nearly one year later. Since all our products have finally been reviewed Egypt. Lotus U.E. has successfully established 15 products LI 100 100 34 16 n.a. 100 95 4 4 2.52 1:12 n.a. n.a. n.a. and approved for marketing, Atos Pharma will focus all in the market. These products are not certified organic, 84.2 -11.2 118 its efforts in 2013 on the achievement of its goals with because the raw materials that are used originate in large MI 100 100 5 28 n.a. 100 100 0 1:9 n.a. n.a. n.a. its new sales team that was set up in 2012. parts from farmers that are in the transitional phase to biodynamic farming. In 2013 we will continue this * raw materials: ATOS Pharma only herbs SLR 1:28 strategy and additional products will be added to the 100 100 n.a. 100 n.a. 100 100 75 75 0 n.a. n.a. n.a. NATURETEX assortment. mio EGP mio EGP mio EGP mio EGP Main topics for NatureTex in 2012 were the new Unit % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % ratio ratio % % SEKEM for Land Reclamation partnerships in the export business and the focus on ** only ISIS Food and Vegetables; no data avaible for ISIS Herbs the local market. The export of baby clothing made The national crisis affected the SEKEM farms mainly Average % of purchase of raw materiHighest salary times the lowest salary % of purchase value of raw materials* % of purchase value of raw materials* of organic cotton stays one of the main pillars and % of suppliers with whom we have a % net profit invested into community generates a constant income, especially with regard to through the fuel shortages. They have been through % recycled input material of total % of non-organic waste recycled Total amount of annual net sales the exchange rate movements. However, potentials in the difficult times when it comes to continuing the operations. % of organic waste recycled Total amount of investments local market increased significantly due to the growing However, quick reactions and the optimization of Performance Indicator % increase of annual sales processes enabled SEKEM for Land Reclamation to Net Profit margin in % awareness on the benefits of organic cotton. The new *** Redefinition and -calculation results into different number achieve its expansion targets. with Fairtrade certificate with Demeter certificate als from SEKEM for Land Reclamation development line of socks made from organic cotton, that was created packing material used purchasing committment >1 year in 2012 develops very well. There are only two major There are no plans for the cultivation of new agricultural Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Equity ratio Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 Target 2013 manufacturers for socks in Egypt, which reveals the large land in 2013. Our main concern is the fostering of the market potential. In 2013 NatureTex will continue to existing soil structure. By planting new varieties and strengthen its partnerships and continue to develop the the optimization of processes, SLR wants to achieve its local market. targets for 2013. PA Organizational Processes (2) Partnership Economic Value Distribution 54 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE ECONOMIC LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Waste Production from SEKEM Group Waste produced during the processing and Planned investment amount by business Fixed Assets production within the SEKEM companies is sorted sector for 2013 (Property, Plants & Equipment and Biological Assets) 250 into glass, plastics, carton, paper, organic waste and 16 15.9 2010 remaining non-recyclable materials, such as metals 520 14 502 200 195 2011 or hazardous waste from the Medical Center, 500 2012 which gets either landfilled or transported to special end-of-life treatment centers. Kitchen 9.4 480 EGP (Million) EGP (Million) 150 143 137 145 137 464 Tonnes waste, stickers and juice packages are difficult 460 98 102 100 to separate and are not accepted by recycling 442 100 companies; egg packages are polluted and cleaning 440 53 60 them is too costly; the waste from the Medical 2.9 2.6 50 420 35 28 Center refers to cotton contaminated with blood, 1 20 20 18 test tubes and used syringes. ATOS Pharmas lab 1 3 6 400 0 waste results from the manufacture of rivets or Farming FMCG Pharma Textile Total (EL-MIZAN, (Fast Moving ATOS Pharma NATURETEX 2010 2011 2012 Other Glass Organic* Paper Card board Plastic chemical materials. LIBRA, LOTUS, Consumer Goods) Tonnes * All Organic waste is used for composting SEKEM FOR LAND ISIS RECLAMATION) Packaging Material used in SEKEM Group 1400 1303 SEKEM net sales by business sector 1200 1055 2010 1000 885 2011 160 Tonnes 138 2010 800 2012 140 120 EGP (Million) 110 2011 600 552 120 503 100 400 409 100 2012 84.2 400 79 255 262 80 200 104 104 192 60 128 42 51 70 36 37 34 37 32 14 10 18 2 32 40 35 0 Boxes, Glass Stickers Plastic Metal Natural Others 20 Paper& 0 Carton Farming FMCG Pharma Textile (EL-MIZAN, LIBRA, (Fast Moving Consumer ATOS Pharma NATURETEX SEKEM Holding Financial Highlights Export Share 2012 LOTUS, SEKEM FOR LAND RECLAMATION) Goods) ISIS (Consolidated) Export Sales 300 Local Sales 237 2010 250 235 The sum of all revenues of the companies is higher than the consolidated revenues for the 209 2011 22% EGP (Million) 200 2012 group as there are revenues within the group. That is why the percentages below do not mirror the total net sales numbers. 150 126 113 107 100 50 0 15 0 1.5 78% Net Sales Gross profit Net profit 56 57 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE ECONOMIC LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Consolidated Financial Statement Income Statement SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. Balance Sheet SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. for the year ending on 31st December 2012 on 31st December 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011 EGP EGP EGP EGP CURRENT ASSETS Cash and bank balances 9,529,603 10,922,027 Revenues 237,688,561 209,235,005 Other assets 81,191,842 81,767,499 Export subsidy – incentive on export sales 3,232,621 4,409,757 Trade and other receivables 88,825,824 73,809,058 Credit interest 167,057 Trade inventories 150,855,264 130,969,102 Cost of sales (123,217,950) (117,532,937) Biological assets inventory 4,816,703 4,944,726 Gross profit 117,870,289 96,111,825 Total current assets 335,219,236 302,412,412 (Loss) on disposal of fixed assets (705,542) CURRENT LIABILITIES (45,948,693) (38,480,750) Marketing and distribution expenses Trade and notes payable 29,009,170 20,793,801 (24,381,270) (22,813,936) Administration expenses Bank overdrafts 266,890,748 245,695,833 (45,143,600) (29,728,805) Finance cost Provisions 6,172,063 6,239,063 (109,218) Board of Directors allowances Other liabilities 28,414,853 22,437,886 (9,134,589) (9,370,281) Foreign exchange losses Current portion of long-term loans 12,410,660 46,900,275 (33,000) (2,354,242) Provisions Current portion of obligations under finance lease 13,658,837 14,735,578 1,000,000 2,750,000 Provisions no longer required Total current liabilities 356,556,331 356,802,436 (945,142) (1,045,468) Fair value (loss) arising on forward foreign Working capital (21,337,095) (54,390,024) exchange contracts NON-CURRENT ASSETS Other income 10,422,205 6,164,736 Fixed assets 424,906,824 401,144,670 Profit before tax 2,891,440 1,233,079 Biological assets 4,086,056 5,534,157 Goodwill 53,867,282 53,867,282 Income tax (782,005) (262,227) Long term Investments 19,347,500 Deferred tax (550,146) (883,734) Investments available for sale 93,500 93,500 Profit for the year 1,559,289 87,118 Advances for purchase of fixed assets 1,008,000 1,008,000 Total non-current assets 503,309,162 461,647,609 Profit for the year attributable to: TOTAL INVESTMENT 481,972,067 407,257,585 Equity holders of the company 1,502,911 (87,086) Non-controlling interest 56,378 174,204 Financed as follows: NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1.01* (0.06) Term loans 159,075,896 134,849,093 (Loss)/Earnings per share Notes Payable – Non current portion 1,767,356 Obligations under finance lease 34,998,317 32,762,295 Share Holders Current Account 7,070,475 3,680,982 Shareholders convertible loan 56,103,876 18,247,332 Deferred tax 8,552,200 8,002,054 Total non-current liabilities 267,568,120 197,541,756 EQUITY Reserve for shareholders convertible loan 5,896,076 1,752,668 Share capital 149,509,000 149,509,000 Legal reserve 9,794,321 9,575,739 Foreign currency translation reserve (9,189) Retained earningsa 37,903,813 37,331,901 Total equity attributable to equity holders 203,103,210 198,160,119 of the company Non-controlling interest 11,300,737 11,555,710 Total equity 214,403,947 209,715,829 TOTAL FINANCING 481,972,067 407,257,585 * This year’s divident has not been distributed on shareholders’ request because of the tense political and economic situation in Egypt. The possible dividend was reinvested into the company’s operations. 58 59 60 Level Total 2012 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Comments HO SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT SDF Total Target 2011 tion % of purchase value of raw mate% 41.79 0.12 44.58 33.97 11.97 rials* with Fairtrade certificate 9.4 Target 2013 % 1,5 4 0 100 10 SEKEM Report on Sustainable Number of social workers per More about social Labor Rights number 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 11 company 8 workers at page 26 Target 2013 number 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 8 Development 2012 % employees with private health Share of employee deinsurance partly financed by % 0 13 8 19 22 57 79 10 46 35.61 pends on the salary level; Performance Report SEKEM 33.9 Pupils of SEKEM School Target 2013 % n.a. 10 10 20 25 67 88 10 25 38 receive free health care Number of sick leave days for all number 152 210 0 20 119 599 401 120 66 1687 employees Health and Safety 1440 Target 2013 tendency decrease decrease hold decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease Number of employees visiting In general we want our number n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 2.855 3.996 Medical Center employees to be healthy % increase of visits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 28.5 42.5 so that they do not need % to see the doctor. More Target 2013 tedency n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. decrease about health at page 27. Number of other visitors of the Less patients because of number 23.669 23.669 29.527 Medical Center the circumstances % increase of visits % -19.8 -19.8 -2.7 during and after the revolution. Target 2013 % decrease Number of injuries See page 67 to injuries Status and Target Overview for SOCIETAL LIFE (1) number n.a. 0 0 7 8 4 0 0 n.a. 19 22 according to risk level % increase of injuries % n.a. n.a. n.a. 40 33.3 -33.3 -100 -100 n.a. -13.64 -15.4 Target 2013 number 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of fatal injuries number 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Target 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 number SOCIETAL LIFE Level Total 2012 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Comments HO SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT SDF Total Target 2011 tion Number of employees number 215 92 25 63 79 519 202 340 167 1.702 1.840 The high decrease was % increase of employees % 0.46 34.3 21.9 11.3 7.7 2.8 13.6 -5 -5 7.8 not caused by lay-off but rather through the special Target 2013 -13 circumstances while and % +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 after the popular uprising SOCIETAL LIFE % share of females % 6 2.2 24 3.2 9.7 17.9 26 27 31.7 19.1 18.3 Target 2013 Workforce Diversity % 12 6 35 8 16 23 35 35 37 23 % share of females in % 5.88 11.11 0 33.33 0 15.79 8 83.33 0 16.67 managerial position 13.9 Target 2013 % 15 13 5 20 23 20 18 33.3 10 18 % of employed disabled % 0 0 0 3.17 0 2.7 4.95 1.17 0 1.77 persons from all employees 2.9 Target 2013 % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 5 % employee turnover % 12.6 14.3 6.9 2.2 2.3 17.3 24.7 27.3 9 19.86 Incudes only employees 22 which leave after a period Target 2013 % n.a. 15 0 8 10 12 20 20 n.a. 18 longer than a year. Number of part time workers numbers 0 0 0 0 0 2 5 0 50 57 70 % share of part time workers % 0 0 0 0 0 0.4 2 0 29.9 3.35 3.8 Target 2013 % 0 0.7 0 0 0 0.6 1.3 0 35.8 3.8 % of non-monetary benefits Worker: 13.89% % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 9.26* against overall salaries 4.7 Middle Management: Workforce Loyalty and Motivation Target 2013 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 4.7* 9.03% % % of new employees received 100% of the SEKEM % postponed to 2013 0 introduction to the CoC Group of companies is 0 Target 2013 covered by a Code of % 100 Conduct (CoC) Number of training hours on Every Sunday (in the HQ)/ number 96 every Thursday (on the CoC per employee 0 Farm), all workers have a Target 2013 CoC related meeting with Dr. number 96 Abouleish Number of events with Code of Every Monday there is number 5 Governance and Compliance Conduct related topic a Monday Forum at the 21 headoffice with different Target 2013 SEKEM Report on Sustainable number 20 speakers. Some of them are CoC related * partly based on estimations (includes catering and transport) Development 2012 Performance Report 61 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SOCIETAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Status and Target Overview for SOCIETAL LIFE (2) Organizational Structure of the SEKEM Group We merged the two Though travelling was Awards and Memberships Comments indicators on scientific reduced during 2011, we Overview of most important Memberships (selection): SEKEM Holding Board of Directors In 2011, SEKEM won the IMPACT Business Award 2011 articles from last year upheld our engagement from the GIZ and the German Ministry for International SEKEM Holding BOD Cooperation and Development. SEKEM also became into one indicator. from Egypt Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (Chair) one of 16 New Sustainability Champions which were Mr. Helmy Abouleish (M.D.) Mr. Rafik Georg Costandi presented by the World Economic Forum and the Boston * Last year we reported seperately on articles that were written by SEKEM and those that were written by others. In this years report these two indicators were merged for reasons of Mr. Hans Schut EvaluaMr. Gerhard Waterstradt Consulting Group. Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish won the Special Mr. Christophe Floride tion Mr. Nehad Ragab Award in the category “International” from the German Mr. Stephan Rivoir Total ecological economic initiative B.A.U.M. for his life’s work 2011 60 13 revolving around SEKEM. In 2012 he was awarded the Business for Peace Award by the Norwegian Business for Board of Directors Total Target Peace Foundation. Total 2012 61 70 13 13 Chairman Advisory Board Board of Trusties: (Helmy Abouleish) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish Committee • The Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB) Mr. Zakaria Shams (Shams) Mr. Peter Blom (Triodos) SDF Mr. Thomas Jorberg (GLS) 61 70 Mr. Karl Weinfurtner (DEG rep.) Managing Director Board member in (Helmy Abouleish) Mr. Volkert Engelsman (Eosta) Mr. Christoph Werner (DM) Mrs. Ragnhild Nilson (Global Fairtrade) NT • Chair of the Egyptian National Competitiveness Mr. Helmy Abouleish Mr. Stefan Harpe (Oikocredit) Mrs. Elfrieke van Galen (TheRockGroup) Council (ENCC) AT • Egyptian Energy Saving Council for Industry • Arab Sustainability Leadership Group (ASLG) • Science and Technological Development Fund ISIS (STDF) Human Resources Chief Financial Officer Organizational Development Director Director • The Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI) LU • Egyptian German High Joint Committee for Mr. Morsy El-Shayeb Mr. Hatem A. Shafie Vacant Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency and simplification. LI Environmental Protection Information Technology Director Compliance Business Development R&D Supply Chain PR & Media • Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) Communication MI SEKEM is a member in Mr. Wael Kamal Mr. Gharieb Abdelhamid Mr. Maximilian Abouleish Vacant Vacant Mr. Thomas Abouleish • Social Entrepreneur Council (Schwab Foundation) SLR • Schwab Fellow of the World Economic Forum (WEF) Board of Directors of SEKEM Group Companies HO 13 13 • World Future Council (WFC) – Climate and Energy Commission ISIS BOD ATOS Pharma BOD FARMING NATURETEX BOD • Ashoka Foundation Selecting Panel in Egypt Unit number number number number • International Association of Partnership (IAP) with leaders of international organic movement Number of articles in renowned Since 2007, the GLS Bank and the Triodos Bank, each hold Number of active memberships SEKEM is collaborating with and participating in Distribution of SEKEM Holding Shares a share of 2.5 million EUR. Both banks are specialized • United Nations Industrial Development Performance Indicator publications on SEKEM and <1% <1% in ethical-ecological financing with headquarters in Organization (UNIDO) in ILO and/or Millenium Goals Germany and the Netherlands respectively.The Abouleish • United Nations Economic, Social and Cultural 12% Foundation was established to hold the Abouleish family sustainable development per Organization (UNESCO) 12% capital of SEKEM in the future. Oikocredit joined the Target 2013 Target 2013 • United Nations Development Fund for Women related organisations group of shareholders in 2012 with a symbolic share of year* (UNIFEM) Oikocredit less the 1%. Their convertible loan of $7million has the • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 76% option to be turned into shares in 2014. PA Advocacy for Sustainable • United Nations University via the Regional Center Development of Expertise (RCE) on Education for Sustainable Development within Heliopolis University 62 63 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SOCIETAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 SEKEM Holding 2010 2010 Employee Turnover The overall employee turnover is 19.86% Employee Distribution by Category 2011 SEKEM Holding Number of Employees by Age 2011 (2011: 22%) taking into account those 2012 employees that have worked for SEKEM for 2012 1120 Turnover rates 2011 2012 more than one year. The rate decreased by 1025 979 Entity turnover turnover 9.72% in comparison to the preceding year Number of Employees Number of Employees 927 960 899 due to the following reasons. ATOS Pharma 29% 25% 706 678 The public uprising brought change into 577 ISIS 17% 17% the life of our employees and caused some LIBRA 8% 2% turnover. Furthermore, employee groups 247 279 276 289 that typically face a higher rate of turnover, 180 183 LOTUS 15% 2% 154 173 102 60 129 128 145 like the sales department from ATOS 4 13 7 23 46 29 26 39 11 17 24 LOTUS U.E. 60% 50% Pharma and ISIS, have a significant share Senior Middle Specialists Labourers Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of employees employees employees employees employees employees employees EL-MIZAN 0% 7% in the overall workforce and therefore Managers Managers aged 14-15 aged 16-17 aged 18-21 aged 22-35 aged 36-45 aged 46-60 aged>60 NATURETEX 35% 27% increase the average rate. Another reason for the rather high fluctuation can be the SEKEM L.R. 22% 14% fact that the SEKEM main farm and SEKEM Headquarters are far from the city and employees spend a lot of time in Cairo’s Number of Injuries traffic. The previously introduced fiveNo. of injuries 2011 In 2012, the SEKEM Group had 21 women days-week was extended again by one Number of Employees 25 No. of injuries 2012 in managerial positions; a share of 16.67% day and the working hours were evenly 20 within this employee category. The amount distributed over the days. 15 of female employees grew proportionally with the growth of the workforce. 321 10 21 19 women were employed, with an increase in 5 8 7 their share only slightly from 18.3% in 2011 6 6 6 4 0 4 00 00 00 00 00 to 19.1% in 2012. NATURETEX is, with ing NA DF TU RE S S ISI Lo s tu Lib ra ZAN SLR Totl a 31.7%, still the company with the highest Ho share of female employees. Number of employees and gender distribution ld ATO EX T MI SP ha ELrm a At SEKEM, the average annual female 2011 2012 salary of 17,467 EGP lies below the annual Men average male salary of 21,102 EGP. The gap Number of Employees between the two averages originated from Women Employee Distribution by Region a lower share of highly educated or longtime experienced female employees. Due 444 421 2% 2% to traditional rural habits, the majority of 1% women marries early and concentrates on 248 245 family life. The distribution of age among 165 146 Belbeis (SEKEM Farm) females shows that females older than 200 194 138 114 93 Salam City, Cairo (Headquarter) 21 are under-proportionally represented 70 53 90 68 64 5 6 69 60 110 92 22 19 89 0 53 27% 16 13 10 7 2 2 10 6 2 2 compared to male employees. Assiut (ISIS) Holding Atos ISIS Lotus Lotus U. E. Libra Naturetex El-Mizan SLR SDF Pharma 68% Delta (ISIS) Alexandria (ISIS) 64 65 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SOCIETAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 SEKEM’s Board of Directors SEKEM’s Advisory Board Dr. Ibrahim Ahmed Abouleish Mr. Helmy Ibrahim Abouleish Karl Weinfurtner is representing the Thomas Jorberg is representing the GLS Chairman Deputy Chairperson and Managing Director DEG, member of KfW Bankengruppe Bank as CEO, which focuses on cultural, (KfW banking group), as the director social and ecological projects that try Right Livelihood Award Laureate and Founder of the SEKEM Initiative for Africa, which finances investments to tackle challenges in our society by Helmy Abouleish (*1961), in addition to serving as of private companies in developing developing creative solutions. Loans Deputy Chairperson and Managing Director of the and transitioning countries. As one of are offered to projects like independent Dr. Ibrahim A. Abouleish (*1937) is chairman of the SEKEM Group, also is a Schwab Fellow of the World Europe’s largest development finance schools and kindergartens, organic Board of Directors of the SEKEM Holding. Besides Economic Forum as well as board member of the institutions, it promotes private business farms, institutions using therapeutic the eight firms operating under the umbrella of the Arab Sustainability Leadership Group (ASLG) and the structures to contribute to sustainable pedagogy, nursing homes, projects for SEKEM Holding, he founded several non-governmental economic growth and improved living the unemployed, health-food stores German-Arab Chamber of Industry and Commerce conditions. and communal living projects, as well as organizations such as the SEKEM Development (GACIC). Helmy Abouleish also is a member of the sustainable businesses. Foundation, the Heliopolis University for Sustainable International Federation of Organic Agriculture Development and the Egyptian Biodynamic Mr Peter Blom is representing the Movements (IFOAM), the International Demeter European Triodos Bank as CEO, which Association. He received the Right Livelihood Award Organization (IDO) and Social Entrepreneur Council finances companies, institutions and in 2003, in 2004 he was chosen as Outstanding Social (Schwab Foundation). projects that add cultural value and Entrepreneur by the Schwab Foundation and in 2012 benefit people and the environment, Elfrieke van Galen is representing the he was awarded the Business for Peace award. with the support of depositors and ThRockGroup, which offers tailor-made Mr. Gerhard Waterstradt investors who want to encourage solutions with focus on mainstreaming Member corporate social responsibility and a sustainability in corporations and sustainable society. Triodos Bank has organizations, commercializing young Mr. Rafik Georg Costandi Gerhard Waterstradt (*1940) was a manager in the won the Financial Times Sustainable ventures, and creating solutions for finance department at a German subsidiary of a large US Bank of the Year Award 2009. complex societal issues. Member company. After that he was appointed as treasurer and Since 1990, Rafik Costandi (*1960) has been Head member of the committee at a nonprofit organization. Volkert Engelsman is representing Eosta as founder and CEO, which is Europe’s Teacher and founding member of the SEKEM school Since 1995 he was a member of the Board of Directors leading distributor of organic fresh on the premises of the SEKEM farm. Before that he of the GLS Bank. In 2007, he retired from the GLS board produce and serves major retailers and Stefan Harpe is representing Oikocredit managed the purchasing department for all companies. and is now working among others as freelancer for the natural food stores in Europe, the USA, as Portfolio Investment Manager, GLS bank. Canada and the Far East. Eosta was the first which works towards sustainable to obtain carbon credits on composting development by providing capital Mr. Hans Schut and on organic farming practices and Mr. Stephan Rivoir to offer TÜV certified Climate Neutral to business undertakings that create Member Member jobs and income for underprivileged products in the European food market. people. Oikocredit is one of the world’s The company has been awarded various Hans Schut (*1953) is a senior manager of Triodos largest sources of private funding to the Hans Rivoir GmbH was established by Hans Rivoir over entrepreneurial prizes among which microfinance sector, providing credit Investment Management, part of the European 50 years ago in the famous gold and gemstone city of the Dutch Innovation Award 2011, the and equity to trade cooperatives, fair Triodos Bank group. His focus is on renewable energy German EcoCare Award 2012 and the Pforzheim in Germany. Hans started his career in the European Sustainable Entrepreneurship trade organizations and small to medium investment funds. Before joining Triodos Bank, he jewelry industry, supplying specialist retail jewelers in Award 2013. enterprises. worked in different industrial and energy utility Germany, Austria and Switzerland with contemporary companies. and classical designs. In 2002 Stephan joined Hans Zakaria Shams is representing Al Shams agro group as chairman, which is one Rivoir GmbH as co-partner to become the second of the leading companies in Egypt generation of the family to run the business. Stephan With more than 1.400 stores across Mr. Nehad Ragab offering the ability to export fresh citrus Germany and sales of more than EUR Member had studied economics and trained as a diamond around the world. The group is currently 6.8 bn in the current financial year, dmspecialist. managing over 2,400 acres of cultivated drogerie markt is Germany’s largest ground raising citrus fruits, mangos, Eng. Nehad Ragab holds a Bachelor of Science in guavas and grapes. drugstore chain by turnover. Since its Civil Engineering from Cairo University (1984), MA in founding in 1973, dm-drogerie markt Mr. Cristophe Floride has remained true to its focus on people Management of Construction Companies from the Member customers, partners, and staff. Reflecting Bartlett School, College of London, United Kingdom Ragnhild Nilsen, one of Scandinavia`s this commitment, the company has (1987), in addition to numerous management Christophe Floride (*1959) is Managing Director of bestselling authors within the field been counted among one of Germany’s of leadership, negotiation-skills top job-creating businesses as ranked certificates from top business schools. He is the LOTUS and since 1986 serving as Technical Manager and psychology, is representing by Wirtschaftswoche magazine. dmChairman and CEO of SIAC Industrial Construction for the SEKEM Group. Before joining SEKEM, GlobalFairTrade Ltd as founder and drogerie markt employs about 46,600 and Engineering Company, in addition to being the Christophe Floride was head of CNC department of CEO, which focuses on bringing more people and operates more than 2,800 chairman and board member in several affiliated Feinmechanische Werkstaetten Baumgaertel GmbH in consciousness around the issue of fair stores in Germany, Austria and ten other trade into Scandinavia and the world. European countries. companies as well as public and private associations. Malsch/Karsruhe, Germany. 66 67 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SOCIETAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Stakeholder Approach When referring to our stakeholders, we include all groups of people who are affected by SEKEM in any form and regulators or certification bodies and monitor their demands. The identification process of the stakeholder Stakeholder Approach continued on any level of cooperation. Stakeholder management at groups is ongoing and is ensured through a close SEKEM consists of dialogue and empowerment through interaction with all these groups. Stakeholder Needs Our management approach Ways of cooperative development. Although we only disclose our management approach group engagement related to the primary stakeholders here in the report, we are aware of the secondary stakeholders such as • Excellent performance to ensure a With our internal performance management, Shareprofitable investment we are not only ensuring our business case Quarterly board meetings holders • Reliable forecasting and long-term profitability but we also set the foundation sustainable development of the for the identification of gaps and the need for company improvements. Stakeholder Needs Our management approach Ways of Banks • Payment of interest and payback of With our internal performance management, we Partly through principal from loan ensure that our business creates enough value to quarterly board group engagement pay back loans meetings and mandatory reporting Employees • Feeling of respect and esteem The Cooperative of SEKEM Employees (CSE) • Weekly meetings requirements through organizational culture is assigned with providing supportive working • Regular dialogue • Clear job framework and jobconditions, trainings on human rights as between related contact point for personal well as health and safety issues. It is a forum managers and development for collective bargaining or other interest social workers of Retailers & • Excellent quality meeting the By constantly applying general and specific Regular planning • Contact point for social issues discussions of the employees. To nurture all companies customers’ standards quality standards and guidelines we cooperate meetings and • A forum to discuss grievances and close relations with SEKEM employees and Wholesalers • On-time and on demand delivery with our retailers and wholesalers by monitoring satisfaction possible remedies farmers, founder Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish meets • A story to tell the consumer and improving quality, availability and on-time questionnaires regularly with all employees to deepen their delivery of our products. once a year knowledge in specific topics or to address ways how to improve SEKEM’s contribution to the community at large. End• Excellent quality of healthy products In order to react to our consumers’ wishes and Customer Farmers • Fair and reliable contracting Our approach to supply chain integration Weekly meetings consumers with benefits for social and inquiries in the most personal and flexible way satisfaction surveys conditions and prices means fair prices and Fairtrade regulations for and regular dialogue environmental development possible, we have established a free customer every 1-2 years • Cooperative future planning of all our 350 contracted farmers. Consulting and with the FDA and • Easy availability and access service hotline which helps to answer any companies’ needs training along the way of organic and biodynamic the EBDA questions and notes complaints for adjacent • Training enabling to apply the cultivation characterizes the close collaboration. improvement. organic and biodynamic agricultural Within the quality management, supplier profiles method help us to clarify quality, communication, planning, delivery and pricing issues with the individual suppliers via regular ratings and Broader • Benefit from the companies’ profits The surrounding and broader community • Dialogue through in kind contribution of SEKEM is the basis for our sustainable through service reviews. community • Support of deficient areas like development approach. Therefore, we provision education, health care and other engage with our associated NGO, the SEKEM • Weekly meetings development needs Development Foundation, in development • Outreach projects aligned to the communities’ needs. programs Sub• Fair and reliable contracting Our subcontractors are companies that • Regular planning conditions and prices cover certain pre-processing activities for our meetings contractors • Cooperative future planning of companies ISIS and NATURETEX. In general, we • Regular quality companies’ needs apply the same technical standards as in our own certification • Support in applying technical and production facilities and try to foster long term process National/ A project and development partner With our associative approach, we facilitate • Regular quality standards cooperation. A future goal is to encourage these International collaborations inside and between networks engagement in companies to comply with our management and and organizations in the different fields of conferences Partnership economy, human rights, politics and culture. • Strategic human rights standards to ensure an even higher quality. Organizations Nationally and internationally, we benefit from cooperation these relationships and try to give back as much knowledge and commitment as we can. 68 69 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE CULTURAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Status and Target Overview for CULTURAL LIFE Total 2012 Total EvaluaTotal 2012 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Group SDF Comments PA Performance Indicator Unit Group SDF Comments Total Target 2011 tion Total Target 2011 tion Total man hours of vocational For detailed data see Number of ongoing science Research and Development Training and Education number 14924.24 14924.24 11954 number 11 11 training page 72 projects 14 Target 2013 number 71.000 71.000 Target 2013 number 10 10 Total man hours of soft skills See page 72 Number of science project number 14566.24 * 14566.24 371 number 28 28 training proposals in evaluation 7 Target 2013 number 32.000 * 32.000 Target 2013 number 7 7 Total man hours of manageE.g. for our health and Number of science project number 10861.7 10861.7 1629 number 2 2 ment system training safety management system proposals accepted 3 Target 2013 acc. to OHSAS 18001 Target 2013 number 6 6 number 15.000 15.000 Total man hours of arts For detailed data see Number of science projects 2010: n.a. number 7762.33 * 7762.33 6130 number 6 6 training page 72 successfully completed 2 2011: Two projects 2012: Four projects Target 2013 number 13.000 * 13.000 Target 2013 number 10 10 Average hours of arts and soft Total number of direct benefiLast year we published number 355* 355 255 number 27128 27128 skills training for teachers ciaries from all social projects this indicator to be 1389. 34214 This was due to a wrong Target 2013 number 255* 255 Target 2013 number increase increase calculation. Updates in this Number of children in SEKEM years report. number 55 55 47 Kindergarten Total number of loans in micro Average credit volume per Target 2013 number 50 50 number 105 105 credit program 129 person: EGP 5,000 Number of students in SEKEM For detailed data splitted Target 2013 tendency increase increase number 306 306 295*** School according to school level see page 75 Total number of established Results range from bio% increase of student number % +3.7 +3.7 +4.9 and sustained products / serfertilizer and development Target 2013 % >0 >0 vices / expertise / social links number 22 22 methods to curricula and through research & developn.a. builiding up infrastructure. Total number of SEKEM number 169 169 148 ment projects School graduates since 1998 Target 2013 number 168 168 Target 2013 tendency increase increase Number of students in For detailed data splitted Employee analysis on values, Planned for 2013 number 240 240 249 Self-Fulfillment Vocational Training Center according to section see motivation and perception of number 0 0 0 % increase of student number % -3.6 -3.6 30 page 75 the workplace 0 Target 2013 % >0 >0 Target 2013 number 1 1 1 Total number of VTC number 501 501 423 graduates since 2000 Values and Spirituality Target 2013 number 583 583 Number of prayer rooms number n.a. n.a. 11 Number of students in SEKEM 10 number 28 28 28 Special Education Target 2013 number n.a. n.a. 11 Target 2013 number 30 30 % of employees who can reach Total number of Chamomile The project started earlier a prayer room within five % 100 100 100 number 1492 1492 1480 but the project was full-time Children since 1987 minutes since 1987, the number was 100 Target 2013 number 1490 1490 estimated Target 2013 % 100 100 100 Number of students in profesSix SEKEM teachers are number 6 6 8 involved in professional sional training for eurythmy Eurythmy training at the moment. There is also Target 2013 number 8 8 integrated class Eurythmy in SEKEM schools. Number of art events per year number n.a. n.a. 2 3 Arts events = International and/or high scale events in Target 2013 tendency n.a. n.a. increase music, eurythmy, fine arts exhibitions and/or theater % of agricultural suppliers with % 100** 100** 100 membership in the EBDA Target 2013 % 100 * SDF: Teachers receive daily training in soft skills and arts; stated in seperate indicator for training in the companies ** The compost of Libra Company is not only from EBDA members *** The numbers published last year were wrong, they were updated for this years report 70 71 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE CULTURAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 The reason for the strong decrease of training Number of employees in the SDF hours can be found in the difficult situation 18 1 7 SEKEM found itself in the aftermath of the 35.0 Egyptian ‘revolution’ when the staff focused 26 30.3 on short-term crisis management instead of Administration 30.0 improvement of long-term qualifications. 35 Medical Center SEKEM School 25.0 The categories in the graph below refer to VTC the different training types provided to the 20.0 SEKEM employees. Carpentry Heliopolis 15.0 11.4 10.1 10.0 8.3 7.3 8.9 88 6.7 4.0 4.7 Number of students enrolled in SEKEM Primary School, class size and student/teacher 5.0 1.7 0.7 1.6 ratios during the period 2003-2012 0.0 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.0 Management Management Management Management Number of children Average Vocational Soft Skills Vocational Soft Skills Vocational Soft Skills Vocational Soft Skills Cultural Cultural Cultural Cultural Year No. of classes No. of teachers Student/Teacher ratio System System System System class size Males Females Total Senior Management Middle Management Specialists Laborer 2003 5 10 72 52 124 24.8 12.4 to 1 2004 5 10 71 50 121 24.2 12.1 to 1 2005 6 10 80 72 152 25.3 15.2 to 1 Share of total hours of vocational training by Share of total hours of soft skills training by 2006 6 10 90 64 154 25.6 15.4 to 1 employee category employee category 2007 6 10 89 66 155 25.8 15.5 to 1 2008 6 10 90 70 160 26.6 16 to 1 Laborer Specialists Middle Managment Senior Managment Laborer Specialists Middle Managment Senior Managment 2009 6 10 90 73 163 27.1 16.3 to 1 2010 6 10 92 73 165 27.5 16.5 to 1 1% 5% 10% 2011 6 11 92 75 167 27 15.1 to 1 13% 32% 2012 6 6 92 73 165 27.5 27.5 to 1 Number of students enrolled in SEKEM Preparatory School, class size, and student/ teacher ratio during the period 2003-2012 49% 98% Number of students Year No. of classes No. of teachers Average Student/Teacher ratio Males Females Total class size Share of management system training by employee Share of cultural training by employee category 2003 3 9 20 37 57 28.5 6.3 to 1 category 2004 3 9 41 30 71 23.6 7.9 to 1 2005 2 9 26 23 49 24.5 5.4 to 1 Laborer Specialists Middle Managment Senior Managment Laborer Specialists Middle Managment Senior Managment 2006 2 9 27 27 54 27 6.0 to 1 5% 6% 2007 2 9 24 25 49 24 5.4 to 1 9% 2008 3 9 42 33 75 25 8.3 to 1 32% 27% 2009 3 9 41 39 80 26.6 8.8 to 1 2010 3 9 42 43 85 28.3 9.4 to 1 62% 2011 3 9 44 46 90 30 10 to 1 95% 2012 3 9 45 41 86 28,7 9.5 to 1 72 73 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE CULTURAL LIFE Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Number of students enrolled in the SEKEM Secondary School, class size, and student/ Number of children enrolled in SEKEM Kindergarten from 2003-2012 teacher ratio during the period 2003-2012 Number of children Number of students Year Total Year No. of classes No. of teachers Average Student/Teacher ratio Males Females Males Females Total class size 2003 22 24 46 2003 3 9 19 15 34 11.3 3.8 to 1 2004 23 24 47 2004 3 9 27 16 43 14.3 4.8 to 1 2005 22 22 44 2005 2 9 28 14 42 14 4.7 to 1 2006 21 22 43 2006 2 9 27 15 42 14 4.7 to 1 2007 21 22 43 2007 2 9 22 23 45 15 5 to 1 2008 23 25 48 2008 3 9 10 17 27 13.5 3 to 1 2009 22 26 48 2009 3 9 12 16 28 14 3.1 to 1 2010 24 22 46 2010 3 9 20 11 31 15.5 3.4 to 1 2011 30 17 47 2011 3 9 21 17 38 12.7 4.2 to 1 2012 33 22 55 2012 3 9 28 27 55 18.3 6.1 to 1 Number of children with special needs 28 28 28 26 24 22 22 17 Number of graduates Note on low number of graduates in 11 11 comparison to total number of students: 18 In general, many students leave the 16 secondary school without graduating and 15 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 decide to continue vocational training 14 14 14 13 instead. The preparatory school certificate 12 (successful graduation of 9th class) is Number of students at SEKEM Vocational Training Center in the 11 11 sufficient for this. 10 10 years 2003-2012 9 In 2010, we had no graduates because the 300 Egyptian primary school was extended by one year in 2004. 250 34 36 200 32 31 28 19 22 2 150 10 28 21 34 32 18 31 33 16 20 28 19 32 33 22 9 19 19 22 0 100 10 10 34 18 21 46 40 42 43 41 39 20 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 10 28 26 26 36 47 50 34 36 37 38 33 24 25 24 36 33 34 34 34 35 35 36 35 35 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Iron & Mechanic Plumbing Textile Production technology Carpentry General Administration Electricity, Computer, Maintenance & Electronic Technology Agricultural Machinery 74 75 Performance Report ECOLOGY ECOLOGY Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Status and Target Overview for ECOLOGY (1) Total 2012 DimenTotal 2012 Total EvaluaDimenTotal EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Comments PA Performance Indicator Unit Comments sion Total Target 2011 tion sion Total Target 2011 tion Area not-compliant to planting Adleya: 45.09 % PLANTS (2) Biodiversity Size of reclaimed land feddan 1.628 1.628 % 7.28 45.09 SOIL Soil Quality legume every fifth cycle Minya: n.a. (3 seasons: % of reclaimed land of total land 100.0%) % 26 26 10.9 -15.3 owned (6,000 feddan) Bahareya: n.a. (3 seasons: Target 2013 % <10 7.28%) Target 2013 % 1.628 Sinai: 0% * % Organic matter of farm soils % 0.3 1.6 Minya: 0.5-1.5% Bahareya: 1.2-1.6% % of reclaimed land not used for SEKEM SEKEM 1,2,3 & Adleya: 7.6% 0.8 7.5 cultivation categorized* by increasing % 2.*+4.*=4.62% 1,2,3 Minya: 0.77% Adleya: 1.01-1.4% Target 2013 % 1.72 5.1 biodiversity Adleya Bahareya: 5.48% Sinai: 0.3-1.2% 2. *+ 4.* Target 2013 % 7.6 = 7.6 Sinai: not yet assessed Minya: 0.2-0.8% * % of soil organic carbon (0-50 cm) % 0.17 0.9 Bahareya: 0.6-0.9% % of animals that are kept according ANIMALS Animal Husbandry 0.43 4.4 % 100 Adleya: 0.5-0.8% to Demeter standards 100 Target 2013 % > 4% Sinai: 0.17-0.6% Target 2013 % 100 % organic matter of produced Compost Quality % 25-30 Mortality rate of cows % 3.23 Death of many cows due to compost 30 32 % 2.4 aphtous fever Target 2013 % 25-60 Target 2013 % 1.2 Amount of beneficiary nematodes in Mortality rate of sheeps % 0.15 juv/100g 0-10 0.7 produced compost 105 300 Target 2013 % 0.35 Target 2013 juv/100g 2000 3000 Average number of days between givnumber 484.2 Amount of micro-organisms per gr of ing birth of cows 420 CFU/g 2.1x106 2.8x107 1.5x103 produced compost 4.2x107 Target 2013 number 400 Target 2013 CFU/g 1.5x103 4.2x107 Average number of lambs per number 1.5 Amount of compost produced tonne 22.298 64847.12 mothersheep in two years 3 % of tonnes sold to conventional Target 2013 number 3 % 90 81.25 customers Constant: 4 Number of seldom birds which Energy Use Natural Habitats Target 2013 % 90 number 11 Visitor: 7 found space at SEKEM farms 11 Soil use Non-organic fertilizer application kg/ha 0 0 Target 2013 number 11 Target 2013 kg/ha 0 Amount and volume of significant Diesel spill-over while filling Total amount of electricity usage ‘000 kWh 4.490 4020 100% of organization entiliter ENERGY 200 spills or other impact on soil 0 the generator in Minya Farm ties under full energy kWh/1,000 Target 2013 0 Relative amount of electricity usage EGP sales 18.9 19.2 assessment and monitoring; % of seeds used by SLR from own % of increase of relative electricity PLANTS (1) Seeds % 82 % -1.3 2.4 production 73.6 usage Target 2013 % 100 Target 2013 % -5 % of our seeds varieties that we equals approx. 75% of the Total amount of gasoline Increase mainly due to % 30 ‘000 liters 1.237 1.659 improved during reporting year 25 seed production consumption gasoline use at the new Target 2013 % 25 Relative amount of gasoline farms. For more details see liters/1,000 5.2 7.9 page 77 Number of varieties in own seed bank number 174 consumption EGP sales 136 Target 2013 number 220 % of increase of relative gasoline % -34.3 102 consumption % of used seeds that are organic and % 100 Target 2013 % -5 untreated 100 The performance aspect Energy Sources Target 2013 % 100 Proportion of clean(er) / renewable “Energy Sources” is discussed % <1 NA * the values reflect an average, but the sample size was not large enough to be representative for all the farms resource usage in the energy mix on page 44. Target 2013 % Increase * Categories with increasing biodiversity: 1. green grass, 2. flower and plants, 3. different types of shrubs, 4. trees 76 77 Performance Report ECOLOGY ECOLOGY Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Status and Target Overview for ECOLOGY (2) Number of animals (husbandry) on the farm DimenTotal 2012 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Comments sion Total Target 2011 tion 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total amount of emissions tCO2e 7.283 7.896 100% of organization AIR Emission reduction entities under full emission Relative amount of emissions kgCO2e/1,000 EGP sales 30.7 37.9 assessment and monitoring Fattening bulls 57 29 64 61 45 % of increase of relative emissions % -18.9 + 1.2 Dairy cows 236 276 403 271 280 Detailed carbon footprint Target 2013 % -5 on page 81 Calves 220 189 63 59 175 Number of successfully audited carVERs 81.832 VERs = Verified Emissions Sheep 464 396 492 423 480 bon credits for compost production 79.500 Reductions Laying hens 27,000 25,000 35,500 0 0 Target 2013 VERs 80.000 Total amount of water usage for 100% of organization entiBroilers 0 12,000 0 0 0 WATER Water Use ‘000 m3 134 104.3 company and personal use ties under full water usage Pigeons 600 600 600 600 600 Relative amount of water usage for m3/1,000 assessment and monitoring 0.14 0.5 Bee colonies 45 65 82 85 80 company and personal use EGP sales % of increase of relative water usage % -72 14.1 Target 2013 % -5 Total amount of water usage for agricultural use ‘000 m3 4.708 3.334 Gasoline consumption by end usage (‘000 liters) 1800.0 Relative amount of water usage for 2010 m3/feddan 2892 2048 1659.5 agricultural use 1600.0 2011 % of increase of relative water usage % 41 -26 1400.0 2012 Target 2013 % -5 1231.4 1200.0 % recycled water in litres of total % 100 water used (as watering for trees) 100 1000.0 922 Target 2013 % 100 800.0 762.8 Minya: rise of water level Water Sources % difference from actual to old level 576.7 576.7 % -3.3* (8.9%**) 600.0 of ground water in last 3 years 0 500.1 Bahareya: decrease of water level (-15.5%**) 400.0 Target 2013 % 0 303.8 257.5 223.4 Amount of significant spills in litres or 200.0 140.6 150.1 liters 0 69 94.4 84.1 other impact on water 0 7.5 15.1 0.1 24.9 7.2 20.4 0.0 Target 2013 liters 0 Po we V (ne ehic Tot l (ol Genr V (ol ehic w les (co Vehi a TDS in Adleya and main farm wells d f era arm tio d f les far m) mp cle Monitoring of salinity of wells 909.69*** ) n arm Po ppm** are analysed regularly; wells Po we (ne r Gen ) we (co Ger an s ies w era mp ner an atio ) 863.58 in Minya and Bahareya are far ti m) on ies n ) Improvement of consistency of tested organoleptic Target 2013 well water analysis * Figures based on average. Data available only for Minya and Bahareya. Adleya, SEKEM 1,2,3 and Sinai have no Electricity consumption from bills (‘000 kWh) analysis on ground water levels implemented. 4620 4490 ** TDS = Total Dissolved Solids, ppm = parts per million. These units are used to measure the electric conductivity of 4020 water from which follows the salinity of water. *** This figure is based on an average of data on Minya and SEKEM 1,2,3 farms. Sinai, Adleya and Bahareya had no 2010 conclusive reporting on the salinity of their wells, because they are mainly fed with nile water. kWh(‹000) 2011 2012 990 994 1055 984 732 885 850 718 745 605 714 602 289 616 261 459 493 279 245 3 148 12 23 19 0 182 203 ma S arr ISI LIBRA LOTU ZA N RE EX SDF HQ TOTA Ph S MI T L ATO ELNA RE FOM S TU CL R L AM A SE AT ND KEION 78 79 Performance Report ECOLOGY ECOLOGY Performance Report SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Entity Electricity Diesel* Commuting* Waste Total % Corporate carbon assessment 2012 Unit tCO2e** ATOS PHARMA 496.800 217.494 169.113 6.642 890.049 12% Electricity consumption related ISIS 491.800 215.305 432.363 114.793 1.254.261 17% Greenhouse Gas emissions In order to calculate the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 31st 2012 were collected and multiplied with the generic grid LIBRA 73.754 32.289 52.483 4.298 162.824 2% related to the electricity consumption at the SEKEM Holding’s emission factor, as provided by UNEP. The individual entity LOTUS 300.974 131.763 65.812 17.385 515.934 7% facilities (factories, farms and offices), the documented consumption results from a distribution based on head counts. consumed kWh’s for the period from January 1st to December EL-MIZAN 122.520 53.538 20.827 11.038 208.023 3% NATURETEX 372.300 162.989 283.243 10.749 829.281 11% kWh-consumption and kgCO2e* SEKEM FOR LAND RECLAMATION 9.528 2.469.842 76.642 152.346 2.708.358 37% 2012 kWh kgCO2e* ` Electricity consumption by company ATOS PHARMA 993600 496800 HOLDING (HEADQUARTERS) 130.679 3.192 179.110 312.981 5% ISIS 983600 491800 LIBRA 147508 73754 ATOS PHARMA SEKEM DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION 246.680 4.171 139.123 11.701 401.675 6% LOTUS 601948 300974 ISIS Total 2.245.035 3.290.684 1.418.717 328.951 7.283.387 100% EL-MIZAN 245040 122520 11% NATURETEX 744600 372300 0% 6% 22% LIBRA * Diesel emission factor is 2.66 according to Defra 2009 SEKEM FOR LAND REC19056 9528 ** For an explanation of CO2e see Glossary on page 94 LOTUS LAMATION** SEKEM DEVELOPMENT 261358 130679 17% EL-MIZAN FOUNDATION 22% NATURETEX Water consumption for company and personal use HEADQUARTERS 493360 246680 2,245,035 6% Total 4,490,070 13% SEKEM DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION * For an explanation of CO2e see Glossary on page 94. 136.3 134 ** In 2011 SEKEM for Land Reclamation has been established, which 3% SEKEM FOR LAND RECLAMATION formerly was a part of Libra. HEADQUARTERS 104.3 Fuel consumption related GHG emissions 92 2010 incl. employee commuting. 74.8 2011 70.3 m3(‘000) In order to calculate the GHG emissions related to the fuel 2012 (diesel and petrol) consumption at the SEKEM Holding’s facilities (factories, farms and offices) including employee 33 commute, the documented consumed liters of diesel and fuel Emissions from diesel and fuel consumption 28.5 19.7 18 22.4 15.9 for the period from January 1st to December 31st 2012 were by area of use collected and multiplied with the generic fuel specific emission factor, as provided by the IPCC. 13% Q) 18% r (H ) ) l Tot Power generation (new farms) ms ms a 7% ate far far (old tw (old Fuel consumption by end use Power generation (old farms) nt wa m en water n Diesel Emissions ver ter We Vehicles (old farms) me Go ll (Liters) (kgCO2) Gover 62% Vehicles (new farms) n Power generation (new farms) 224.446 597.026 Power generation (old farms) 731.004 1.944.470 Vehicles (old farms) 84.141 223.815 Vehicles (new farms) 197.509 525.373 Total 1.237.099 3.290.684 Water consumption for agricultural use 2010 The agricultural activities were Total travel/commuting of employees 2150 To calculate the employee commute, the following interrupted for one season at the farms Total km Total fuel Total emissions 2011 assumptions were taken into account: 1,099 employees at in Minya and Bahareya in 2011 travelled consumption (liters) (kgCO2e) 2012 SEKEM Farm, 567 employees in the head office (this includes SEKEM Farm 1592 also employees from the SDF), 300 working days per year, 100 Public transport (farm) 997942.8571 223268.5714 593894.4 m3(‘000) 1288 1452 Private cars (farm) 1776000 177600 422688 1242 km daily travelled distance (return trip) for farm employees Total 2773942.86 400868.57 1016582.4 981 except for 15% of the farm employees who walk to work or 786 840 come by bike, 50 km daily travelled distance (return trip) for Total km Total fuel Total emissions 619 travelled consumption (liters) (kgCO2e) 462 515 head office employees using public transport and 20 km daily SEKEM Headquarters 326 308 travelled distance (return trip) for head office employees Public transport (HQ) 331,789 53,661 142,738 0 0 Private cars (HQ) 1,089,900 108,990 259,396 using private cars. The different passenger capacities to use Total 1421689.29 162,651 402134.18 SEKEM 1,2,3 Bahareya Minya Sinai Adleya public transport and the different fuel consumption amounts Total 4195632.143 563,519 1418716.58 80 81 Performance Report ECOLOGY ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Waste treatment and transport related Emissions related to waste treatment and transport Sustainable Development Balance Score Card Evaluation Methodology GHG emissions 1% To calculate the GHG emissions related to the transport 2% 2% The aim of the Sustainability Flower is to be a facilitating The targets presented in the Status and Target and treatment of waste at the SEKEM Holding’s facilities framework for building up a corporate strategy, Key Overview sections are related to the SEKEM Sustainable Recycling treatment emissions (factories, farms and offices), the total amount of Performance Indicators (KPIs) and a rough measurement Development Scorecard (SDSC) but are evaluated waste occurring during the period from January 1st to Recycling transport emissions tool to classify performance statements according to a independently. A ‘green’ SDSC evaluation does not December 31st 2012 was assessed regarding its transport Landfilling treatment emissions red, yellow, green scheme as detailed on the following necessarily mean that we have achieved all our targets and treatment and the total tonnage was factored in Landfilling transport emissions pages. It is important to know that the criteria given in and vice versa. with the applicable emission factors for recycling or solid 95% the tables express minimum requirements for a specific The comments in italic are concerning any changes waste disposal. classification. While ‘green’ stands for excellence, ‘yellow’ from the old sustainability flower to the new (more covers a potentially broad range from initial steps up to information at the fold-out cover). significant engagement. Waste Waste Treatment Transport Total Tonnes of emission emission Emission Waste (kgCO2e*) (kgCO2e*) (kgCO2e*) Initiatives for Treatment No Action / Comprehensive Recycling & composting 171.02 855 2,849 3703.461 Positive Impact Negative Impact Positive Impact Landfilling 138.26 111,631 2,202 113833.604 (below: min. requirements) Performance Aspect Total 309.28 112,486 5,051 117537.065 ECONOMIC LIFE * For an explanation of CO2e see Glossary on page 94 Product Portfolio No assessment / negative First single issue initiatives Ecoand socio-friendly (merged from “Ecoand Socioeco-effect and socio-effect to improve eco-and socioproduct portfolio proven by Note: Recycling has only waste transport related emissions. The waste treatment related emissions from recycling are friendly products”) of products friendliness labels and certificates out of our scope and belong to the subcontractors that do the recycling. Responsibility to CusBasic product informaSingle issue CRM (at cosComprehensive CRM (at tomer and Consumer tion but no engagement tumer and end-consumer costumer and end-consum(added end-consumer) in Costumer Relationship level), consumer research er level), consumer research Management (CRM); rather and moderate distribution and high distribution rates Overall Carbon Footprint by type (tCO2e*) low distribution rates rates Innovation No innovation and therefore Random innovations without Comprehensive innovation 9000 7.851 2010 no sales revenues from new a specific strategy and strategy and constant reve8000 7.896 products process nues from new products 7.283 2011 7000 Organizational Process No waste management nor Single issue waste manComplete, continuous man(was before partly “Eco-effective 2012 initiatives for efficiency in agement and efficiency in agement of waste; manage6000 Packaging and Transportation”; material use; no proper material use; management ment systems for quality, “Sustainable Waste Managemanagement systems for systems implemented environmental, health and 5000 3.600 ment”, “Sustainability Strategy quality, environmental, health safety issues implemented 4.412 Performance Management”) 4000 and safety issues 3.291 3000 2.601 Partnerships No long-term commitments Some long-term agreements Long-term commitments 1.937 1.540 (is completly new) with suppliers towards suppliers 2000 2.245 1.383 1.419 Economic Value 1000 109 Distribution Negative economic developEconomic growth, single isHealthy economic growth 162 329 ment without good reason, sue management improveand plan for next 20 years, 0 (was before “Economic Developno specific management of ment, fair distribution of fair distribution of created ment and Growth”; partly “Supsupply chain or transparency value created partly assured value along the value chain ity ply Chain Management”; partly about fair value distribution and within the companies tric Diesel tin g Wa ste TOTA “Company’s cultural developCo L Ele c mm ment strategy”) u * For an explanation of CO2e see Glossary on page 94 82 83 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Initiatives for Initiatives for No Action / Comprehensive No Action / Comprehensive Positive Impact Positive Impact Negative Impact Positive Impact Negative Impact Positive Impact (below: min. requirements) (below: min. requirements) Performance Aspect Performance Aspect SOCIETAL LIFE Values and SpiritualNo tolerance of religious Tolerating religious practices Spiritual work; religion supLabor Rights ity (was before “Religious and activities ported in the employee’s No social workers at all and Few social workers, single Sufficient amount of social Spiritual Activities”) (was before Human Rights no consideration of labor issue human rights initiaworkers, full compliance work environment adherence and impact over the conditions or Fairtrade tives implementation partly with ILO and UN Global company’s value chain) ECOLOGY certification consideration of Fairtrade Compact requirements and certification Fairtrade certification for all Soil Quality No assessment of criteria Testing single criteria for Testing comprehensive products (includes “Impact on soil for soil or compost quality; soil and compost quality; No criteria catalogue for soil quality and fertility”) heavy depletion of soils impact on soil quality and compost quality; Raising Health and Safety No consideration of health Assessment and action plan Labor conditions support soil quality (before: work force and the SOIL and safety risks at employee for the reduction of risks for employees’ development, company’s impact on labor conand community level employees fully implemented and Soil Use ditions and health & safety) Heavy use of non-organic Single issue risk assessment; Comprehensive risk assessreviewed H&S management. (before: “Environmenpesticides and fertilizers; single use of non-organic ment; no use of non-organic Provision of health services tal compatibility” and significant spills pesticides and fertilizers pesticides or fertilizers; no to the community “Impact on non-renewable significant spills mineral resources”) Diversity No diversity, discrimination Identified lack of diversity, Diversity and tolerance Seeds Use of genetically modified Committment not to use Participation in seed banking; (was before Work force diversity of certain groups / minoridiscrimination issues, action throughout the company and equal treatment) (GMO) and/or treated seeds GMO and treated seeds “No GMO” policy ties plan for improvement regarding all aspects Employee Loyalty and PLANT Biodiversity Negative impact / no Single actions for assessAssessed, positive contribuLow employee loyalty Moderate loyalty with some High loyalty and low fluctuaMotivation assessment on plant ment, no visible positive tion through building up biowith high fluctuation and fluctuation and majority extion level with a healthy mix biodiversity impact diversity next to cultivation no intrinsic motivation at trinsic employees motivation of intrinsic and extrinsic employee level mechanisms employees motivation Animal Husbandry mechanisms Inappropriate treatment Improvement initiatives for Completely species-appro(before: “Species-appropriappropriate treatment priate treatment according ate treatment”) ANIMALS Governance and Comto Demeter Standards Anti-compliance issues Code of Conduct developImplemented value managepliance recorded ment / efforts to minimize ment system; no anticompliNatural Habitats Negative impact / no assessSingle actions for assessCreation of new habitats anticompliance ance issues (before: “Impact on animal issues ment ment, no visible positive and advancement of seldom diversity and habitats”) impact endangered animals Advocacy for SustainNo activities Awareness and slight Heavy involvement able Development Energy Use No assessment; no initiatives First pilot assessments, Full assessment, compreinvolvement (includes “Energy saving”) (Policy work for sustainable to save energy single issue projects hensive saving goals and development and world implementation challenges) ENERGY Energy Sources No action First single initiatives to Carbon neutral company CULTURAL LIFE (before: “Proportion of implement carbon reducwith highly energy efficient Training & Education clean(er) / renewable tion; monitoring of energy operations and significant No training plan; no developSingle issue training initiaTarget driven training plans (was before Company’s cultural resource usage i. t. energy efficiency in operations and share of renewable energy ment in the educational tives with plans for some for all employees; good prodevelopment strategy) mix”) usage of some renewable sources branch of the SDF employees; moderate develvision of education to the opment in education community energy sources Research and Emission Reduction No action First single issue initiatives Comprehensive reduction No research activities Single issue research activiComprehensive and long(includes “Emission offsetDevelopment ties term research goals and goals, complete carbon (was before Scientific research AIR ting” and partly “Ecofootprint of the company at implementation effective Packaging and engagement) all scope levels Transportation”) Employee SelfNo assessment Single activities to enable Comprehensive program Water Use fulfillment and Vitalemployees for self-fulfillment with measurable success (includes “Reduction of Implemented action plan for ity Water Usage and ImNo assessment / action First single issue initiatives comprehensive reduction (is completly new; “Health” was provement of Water Life and re-usage goals WATER merged in SOCIETAL LIFE) Cycle”) Water Sources Comprehensive analysis, (before: “Sustaining of No assessment and action / First single source analysis goals and implemented Water Sources”) potential depletion and action action plan 84 85 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 GRI Indicator Overview The Report on Sustainable Development 2012 of transparency and renders the Group’s sustainability Profile Comment Status REF. the SEKEM Group of Companies is guided by the performance comparable with that of other companies. II. Corporate Governance, Commitments and Engagement internationally recognized G3 Guidelines of the Global Further information can be found on the website at 4.1 Governance structure 25, 66 67 Reporting Initiative (GRI). www.globalreporting.org. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the Supervisory These guidelines require the disclosure of information on 25 Board is also an executive officer management approach, strategy and goals with respect With regard to the application of GRI’s G3 guidelines 4.3 Number of independent members of the highest to sustainability, as well as of numerous performance the Report on Sustainable Development 2012 of the 25 governance body indicators in the categories of Economy, Product SEKEM Group of Companies attains Level B. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Responsibility, Labor Practices, Environment, Society 68 69 provide recommendations and Human Rights. Applying these guidelines boosts 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the No general linkage, only in case of highest governance body distributing dividents by the company Profile Comment Status REF. 4.6 Ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 24 I. Strategy and Analysis 4.7 Qualifications and experience of members of the 64 1.1 CEO Statement 2 highest governance body 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 11, 21, 29, 39 4.8 Internal mission or value statements, codes of 8, 24 conduct and principles II. Organisational Profile 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s sustainability FC, 25 2.1 Name 96 performance 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 14 4.10 Evaluating the highest governance body’s own No general process in place 2.3 Operational structure 63 sustainability performance 2.4 Headquarters FC 4.11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or 11 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates FC principle is addressed by the organization 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 24, 63 4.12 Externally developed sustainability charters, 28, 62 2.7 Markets served FC principles or other initiatives 2.8 Scale of the organisation 18-19, 56, 64 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy 62 organizations 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2, 63 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged 68-69 regarding size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards 62 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 68-69 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 68-69 III. Report Parameters 4.17 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 68-69 3.1 Reporting period January-December 2011 FC dialogue 3.2 Date of most recent previous report August 31st, 2011 FC 3.3 Reporting cycle Yearly FC Management Approach and Performance Indicators 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 96 EC: Economic Performance Indicators 3.5 Process for defining report content acc. to Sustainability Flower framework FC Management Approach 11, 14-17 3.6 Scope of the report FC EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20, 56-59 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the FC EC2 Financial implications for the organization’s report 39 activities due to climate change 3.8 Basis for reporting on enterprise entities with FC EC3 Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 20 significant affect on comparability 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of EC4 Significant financial assistance received from FC 59 calculations government 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of EC5 Local minimum wage 20 FC information EC6 Locally-based suppliers 17, 54 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods FC EC7 Locally-based employees 26, 64 3.12 GRI content index 84 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided 3.13 External assurance for the report Audit only of Financial Statement 92-93 20, 32, 70-71 primarily for public benefit Legend EC9 Indirect economic impacts 11, 21, 29, 39 : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator Legend : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator Black: Core Indicator : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator : Partially reported : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number 86 87 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 GRI Indicator Overview, Part 2 Performance iNDICATOR Comment Status REF. Performance iNDICATOR Comment Status REF. EN: Environmental Performance Indicators LA: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Management Approach 15, 39-45 Management Approach 26-27, 35 EN1 Materials used 56 LA1 Total workforce 26, 60-61, 64 EN2 Materials used that are recycled input materials 54 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 65 EN3 Direct energy consumption 77 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees only 20, 61 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 77 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 24, 26, 68 EN5 Energy saved and energy efficiency 40-41, 44, 77 bargaining agreements EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 14, 44, 77 26, 68 products and services changes EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 40-41, 77 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in management–worker health and safety commit28 EN8 Total water withdrawal 78 tees EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 78 LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and of water 60, 67 absenteeism EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 78 LA8 Health care and consulting 27 and reused EN11 Land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, SEKEM is not situated in or next to LA9 Health and safety agreements with trade unions No agreements existing protected areas and areas of high biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 77 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 70, 72 value LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong 35, 38 EN12 Impacts of activities, products and services on Not relevant (see EN 11) learning biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforbiodiversity 35 mance and career development reviews EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not relevant (see EN 11) LA13 Diversity in the workforce and governance bodies 61, 64 EN14 Strategy, aims and measures for managing impacts Not relevant (see EN 11) LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women 26, 64 on biodiversity EN15 Endangered species in areas affected by operations Not relevant (see EN 11), no species at risk EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 44, 79-80 HR: Human Rights Performance Indicator EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 44, 79-80 Management Approach 24, 26, 34 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 44 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights 24 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not relevant as no ozone-depleting clauses substances are released HR2 Suppliers and contractors that have undergone 17, 54 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Not relevant as no NOx, SOx and other screening on human rights significant air emissions are released HR3 Employee training on aspects of human rights 24, 61 EN 21 Total water discharge 45, 76 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and No incidents 26 EN 22 Waste by type and disposal method 15, 53, 56 actions taken EN 23 Significant spills No significant spills HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and No operations identified 27 collective bargaining may be at risk EN 24 Waste deemed hazardous transported 15, 56 HR6 Child labor 17, 24-25, 34 EN 25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly No siginicantly affected water bodies and affected by the reporting organization’s discharges habitats through water and runoff HR7 Compulsory labor 17, 24-25, 34 of water and runoff HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human 24 EN 26 Mitigate environmental impacts of products and rights 14-15 services HR9 Incidents of violations of the rights of indigenous No incidents EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging people 15 materials that are reclaimed Legend EN 28 Significant fines and sanctions for noncompliance No fines with environmental laws and regulations : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator EN 29 Environmental impacts of transport activities : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator 79-80 : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures Legend : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number 88 89 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 GRI Indicator Overview, Part 3 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 SEKEM joined the Global Compact initiative of The UN Global Compact principles are based on: the United Nations (UN) in 2003. The company • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Performance iNDICATOR Comment Status REF. is commited to the ten principles of the UN • The International Labour Organization’s SO: Society Performance Indicators Global Compact concerning human rights, labor Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Management Approach 24, 26, 34 standards, environmental protection as well as anti-corruption and their implementation in all at Work SO1 Programmes and practices that assess and manage No comprehensive impact assessment of 17 business processes. • The Rio Declaration on Environment and the impacts of operations on communities operation in the community SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to No risk analysis Since its foundation in 2000, the UN Global Compact Development 25 has been and continues to be an international leadership • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption corruption SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies/ network for business, government, labor and civil society The Report on Sustainable Development 2012 forms 24, 61 through a common goal: to realize the implementation procedures the newest Communication on Progress (CoP) that SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of of the ten UN Global Compact principles in day-to-day gives detailed insights into how the UN Global Compact 2 business and to enforce broader UN goals, including the corruption principles are implemented at SEKEM. The table below SO5 Participation in public policy development and Millennium Development Goals. refers to the relevant pages in this report. 28, 62 lobbying SO6 Contributions to political parties and politicians No contributions UN Global Compact principles Relevant content Page SO7 Number of legal actions for anticompetitive No relevance fo a niche market company, Human rights behaviour no actions taken Principle 1 – Businesses should support and • International human rights adherence along our value chain including risk 17, 24 SO8 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with laws No fines respect the protection of internationally and impact assessments 2 proclaimed human rights • Code of Conduct of SEKEM; refers to international conventions and other 24, 25 and regulations Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure international instruments (e.g. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights they are not complicit in human rights (UDHR)) PR: Product Responsibility Performance Indicators abuses • Employee Health and Safety 27, 66 Management Approach 14-15, 24-25 • Inclusion of minimum human rights standards in contracts with suppliers 24 and other relevant business partners PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts • Process for dealing with incidents 24 17, 52 of products are assessed Labour PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations No incidents concerning health and safety impacts of products Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold • Support employee community organization 24, 27 and services the freedom of association and the effec• Reflection on the relevance of the labor principles for the company 21-23, tive recognition of the right to collective 26 PR3 Product and service information required by bargaining 14-16 procedures Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold • International human rights adherence along our value chain 24 PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations No incidents the elimination of all forms of forced and • Impact on the community 11, 21, concerning product and service information compulsory labour 29, 39 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 16, 53 Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the • Performance related to adherence of the International Labor Organization 60ff PR 6 Responsible advertising Only engagement in general effective abolition of child labour Standards advertisement Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the • Performance related to work force diversity and equal treatment 26, 61 PR 7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and No incidents elimination of discrimination in respect of • Salary for decent living and benefits 20, 54 voluntary codes concerning advertising employment and occupation • Hiring procedure that secures equal rights 26 • Rate of employee turnover 65 PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of No collection of customer data customer privacy and losses of customer data Environment PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations No fines had to be paid Principle 7 – Businesses should support a • Biodynamic agriculture, environmental stewardship and biodiversity 39ff concerning the provision and use of products precautionary approach to environmental • Environmental risk and impact assessments 39, 76ff challenges Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake • Product and customer responsibility 14-15 Legend initiatives to promote greater environmen• Saving of natural resources 42ff : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator tal responsibility • Partnerand Membership in initiatives for environment protection 16, 62 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage • Audits/screenings for compliance in the value chain 17 : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work • Code of Conduct of SEKEM; refers to Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery 24, 25 against corruption in all its forms, including • Risk and impact assessments in the area of anti-corruption 25 extortion and bribery 90 91 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Independent Auditor’s Report Basis of Qualified Opinion As mentioned in Note (19) to the consolidated financial statements, the group accounted for the sale and lease TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF back arrangements in accordance with the International Accounting Standard No. 17 Leases, instead of the SEKEM HOLDING FOR INVESTMENT COMPANY S.A.E. Egyptian Accounting Standard No. 20 “Accounting for Finance Leases”. This resulted in an increase in profits for the current year before tax and retained earnings by an amount of L.E. 6,649,465 (2011: L.E. 4,863,300) and L.E. Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements 14,590,093 (2011: L.E. 7,940,628) respectively. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Sekem Holding for Investment Qualified Opinion Company S.A.E., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 2012, and the consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and cash flow for the year then ended, and a In our opinion, except for the effect of the matter referred to in the preceding paragraph on the consolidated summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. financial statements, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Sekem Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. as of 31 December 2012, Management’s responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements and its consolidated financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Egyptian Accounting Standards and in the light of relevant Egyptian laws and regulations. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s Management as Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial Emphasis of Matter statements in accordance with Egyptian Accounting Standards and in the light of relevant Egyptian laws and regulations. The Management’s responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the three subsidiaries of the Group namely “Lotus Upper internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements Egypt for Organic Products Co., Organic and More Co., and Predators Co.” had accumulated losses exceeded that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. This responsibility also includes 50% of their issued capital resulting in a deficiency of assets which indicates that these subsidiaries may not selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making accounting estimates that are be able to meet their liabilities as they fall due. However, the financial statements have been prepared under reasonable in the circumstances. the going concern concept as the parent company agreed to provide adequate financial support to the three subsidiaries to meet its liabilities as they fall due. Auditor’s Responsibility According to Article No. 69 of the Companies Law No. 159 of 1981, an Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit; will be held to decide on the continuity of the subsidiary companies operations. we conducted our audit in accordance with Egyptian Standards on Auditing and in the light of relevant Egyptian laws and regulations. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control Taha M. Khaled relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in Fellow of ICAEW order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of Fellow of ESAA expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating RAA No. 5136 the appropriateness of accounting policies used and reasonableness of accounting estimates made by EFSA No. 28 management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Cairo, 16th of June, 2013 92 93 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Glossary Abbreviations AA1000 BOD Board of Directors The AA1000 Framework is a standard for measuring and reporting of ethical behaviour in business. It includes the principles CEO Chief Executive Officer of accountability, transparency, materiality, stakeholder engagement and reporting. CO2 Carbon dioxide Biodynamic agriculture CPO Cotton People Organic Biodynamic agriculture is a method of organic farming that treats farms as unified and individual organisms, with emphasis CSE Cooperative of SEKEM Employees on balancing the holistic development and interrelationship of the soil, plants, animals as a closed, self-nourishing system. DEG Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft EBDA The Egyptian Biodynamic Association Carbon Footprint EGP Egyptian Pound The total amount of greenhouse gases produced to directly and indirectly support human activities, usually expressed in ENCC Egyptian National Competitiveness Council equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2e). EU European Union CO2 equivalent emissions (CO2e) FAO Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Carbon dioxide equivalents provide a universal standard of measurement against which the impacts of releasing (or avoiding FDA Famers Development Association the release of) different greenhouse gases can be evaluated. Feddan 1 feddan = 0.42 hectare FLO Fairtrade Labeling Organization Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GDP Gross Domestic Product The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application GMP Good Manufacturing Practice worldwide. GRI Global Reporting Initiative HQ Headquarters Low-carbon economy HR Human Relations A low-carbon economy is a concept that refers to an economy that has a minimal output of greenhouse gas emissions (e.g. IAP International Association for Partnership carbon dioxide) into the biosphere. ISO International Organization for Standardization IT Information Technology Stakeholder A stakeholder is a person, a group, organization, or system who affects or can be affected by an organization’s actions. kg Kilogram kWh Kilowatt hour Sustainability Flower L.E. Livre égyptienne (Egyptian Pound) The Sustainability Flower is a framework for a holistic perspective on sustainability performance and communication for mio Million food and agriculture-related companies. Its design is based on the GRI principles and was developed in cooperation with NGO Non-Governmental Organization the IAP companies. OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Standards Threefold order PR Public Relations The threefold order is a sociological theory developed by Rudolf Steiner. It distinguishes between three realms of society: R & D Research & Development the economy, politics & human rights and cultural institutions. According to Steiner the three can only function together SDF SEKEM Development Foundation in harmony if each is granted sufficient independence. SDSC Sustainable Development Balanced Score Card SESC SEKEM Environmental Science Center “True cost” prices TUEV Technischer Überwachungsverein / Technical Inspection Association True cost pricing attempts to include negative externalities (e.g. environmental, economic and social costs) of products and services into the price for the consumer and thereby arrive at the “true costs”. UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization UNEP United Nations Environment Programme Turnover (Employment) WEF World Economic Forum Employment turnover is the rate at which an employer gains and loses employees. WFC World Future Council UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary agent driving globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies. 94 95 ANNEX ANNEX SEKEM Report on Sustainable SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2012 Development 2012 Imprint Issuer/Publisher SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. Responsible for Content Helmy Abouleish, Managing Director, SEKEM Group Consultancy Services and Scientific Guidance Sustainable Development Center at the Heliopolis Academy for Sustainable Development; Compliance Manager, SEKEM Group of Companies Concept and Realization: Maximilian Abouleish Layout Ahmed Mokhtar, Senior Graphic Designer, SEKEM Group Photos Ahmed Mokhtar, Senior Graphic Designer, SEKEM Group Anne Mordhorst, Heliopolis Academy Evelyn Schindler, SDF Yvonne Floride, SDF SEKEM Photo Archive Printing This report is published digitally and will be printed only on demand in order to save paper. Please consider the environment before printing this report. Publication Date 1st of August, 2013 Contact SEKEM Group 3, Cairo-Belbeis Desert Road, El-Salam City. P.O. Box: 2834 El-Horreya, 11361 Cairo, Egypt Tel.: (+20) 2 265 64 124/5 Fax: (+20) 2 265 66 123 3, Cairo-Belbeis Desert Road, Hotline: 19792 El-Salam City. P.O. Box: 2834 El-Horreya, 11361 Cairo, Egypt Mail us: cs@sekem.com Tel.: (+20) 2 265 64 124/5 Visit us: http://www.sekem.com Fax: (+20) 2 265 66 123 Join Us: http://www.facebook.com/sekemgroup Email: cs@sekem.com Follow Us: https://twitter.com/#!/sekemgroup www.sekem.com Watch Us: http://www.youtube.com/sekemgroup facebook.com/sekemgroup Subscribe to our newsletter: http://news.sekem.net/ 96
