SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 5 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE 7 01 ABOUT AKBANK 10 02 ABOUT THE REPORT 20 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 22 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK 35 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE 39 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS 45 07 OUR EMPLOYEES 63 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 78 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 87 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX 93 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX 99 CONTACTS AND CREDITS 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN SUZAN SABANCI D‹NÇER Chairman, Board of Directors Dear Stakeholders, We, as Akbank, have proudly issued the 4th Sustainability current account deficit in parallel with the fast growth rates Report of Akbank in accordance with the Global Reporting recorded in the previous two years, existing levels can be Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Having issued the first Report in evaluated as “more sustainable”. The ratio of current account 2010, which set an example for the deposit banks in Turkey, deficit to GDP is expected to have decreased from 10% to this year we are again presenting our environmental, social 6% by the end of 2012. In line with these developments, and economic performance and achievements realized international credit rating agency Fitch Ratings increased within the framework of our sustainability vision. Turkey’s credit rating to investment grade in 2012. Looking at the global developments witnessed in 2012, we While the problems in the global financial system prevail, see that initial concerns regarding the global crisis scaled the Turkish banking system differentiated itself positively down significantly. Especially following the measures taken against the crisis in the Euro Region, the perception that the While the problems in the global financial system prevail, worst part is over together with the 3rd round of monetary the robust structure and high growth potential of the Turkish easing programs by the FED improved global prospects to a banking system succeeded in drawing attention of the whole certain extent. While the Euro Region could not be released world. from recession, the US has shown weak growth. When we look at the latest macro data announced in the USA and The strong banking sector played an indisputable role China, we see some improvement. in the increase in Turkey’s credit rating to investment grade . Among the factors that enabled this increase in the Despite the weak outlook of the global economy, it is rating are the robust balance sheets of banks, low levels of estimated that the Turkish economy recorded a relatively leverage, and the strong positioning of the banks’ capital in strong growth of 3% in 2012. Considering the increase in the Turkish banking sector. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN With a target-oriented high performance, we focused on our Bank’s core way of doing business. We put our signature becoming a leader both in Turkey and in the global arena under leading achievements in terms of sustainable business development. In line with these targets, we continued to We, as Akbank, continue our leadership in the sector with support the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is one of the our strong growth and profitability performance. Last year world’s largest awareness and development projects to we exhibited high performance with the support of over prevent the adverse effects of climate change on the Earth. 16,000 Akbank employees and thus covered a significant distance in terms of reaching our sustainable leadership . We initiated an extensive “Savings Campaign” to support We are proud to be carrying Akbank to the future with such the Turkish economy an important target. In order to raise the bar for success, we continue to discuss “how we do the things we do and In 2012, we paid attention to taking steps for “Sustainable how we can do them better” in a transparent manner. This Development” in issues related to our sector as well. We approach and our dynamic working environment based upon initiated an important project to improve the tendency open communication improve our performance. According to for savings, which is fairly low despite the high savings 2012 results, we grew more than the market average while potential in our country. In order to increase the ratio of also improving our profitability. Our annual consolidated domestic savings to national income (which has decreased net profit increased 18.5% to exceed TL 3 billion. Despite from 24% to 12%) and to support the government’s efforts the negative developments in almost all of the developed to encourage growth in savings, we initiated a “Savings economies mainly Europe and the USA that represent Campaign”. Within the scope of the “Akbank Volunteers the major part of the banking sector we, as Akbank, Explain Banking and Savings” project, Akbank Volunteers maintained our strong and high-quality growth performance including our senior management have reached 3,500 in 2012. In a number of segments of the banking sector, we children since May 2012. We aim to reach at least 5,000 grew more than the sector average and thus increased our more children by the end of 2013. market shares. We continue our commitment to the United Nations Global With our target of sustainable leadership , we will continue Compact (UNGC) that we signed in 2007. In line with UNGC’s incessantly to work for becoming a leading and strong global efforts in human rights, labor, environment, and antiplayer not only in Turkey, but also in the region. We possess corruption areas, we continued to base our operations on the robust capital structure and the strong team of well10 principles in 2012 and we will continue to do so in the trained employees required for this aim. coming period as well. Akbank International Advisory Board drew attention to the In this Report prepared in accordance with the Global fact that the credit rating increased to investment grade Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Principles, we believe that you will be interested in the information In our 2012 meeting with the new members of Akbank about our sustainability performance in 2012. As Akbank, International Advisory Board, we discussed and evaluated we pay attention to achieving sustainable development in the current opportunities for the Turkish economy in the all of our projects and operations as well as supporting global context. In the recent meeting of Akbank International similar efforts in our country. We are aware that the path to Advisory Board chaired by former Minister of State, the target of sustainable leadership is parallel to the path Mr. Kemal Derviş, PhD, it was emphasized that the increase that our country walks to become a leading economy and in the credit rating of Turkey will reduce the cost of therefore we attach importance to develop and implement borrowing. Such evaluations by the International Advisory business processes that increase our competitiveness. Just Board form a significant reference point to help us take the as we did in the last 65 years, we, as Akbank, will continue to right steps at the right time. We believe that the increase in support sustainable development in Turkey and to lead the the credit rating of Turkey will also support efforts to make changes in our sector and country for this purpose. İstanbul a globally important financial center. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer We care about preventing the adverse effects of climate Chairman, Board of Directors change “Sustainable Development” can be defined as “achieving economic growth and increasing the level of welfare while protecting the environment and quality of living in the society” and this kind of development is one of the building blocks of 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL CEO Dear Stakeholders, As Akbank, we are aware that our strength and resources and throughout the year we held “Why Not” meetings confer other responsibilities to do more for the benefit of with around 16,500 Akbank employees in all branches our society and the Earth. We primarily use this strength and regional headquarters all around Turkey and thus we to continue with the investments that we make as a team encouraged the adoption of “sustainable leadership” as in our society and the future of our planet. In line with this a common target for us all. With this aim, we covered a understanding, we continuously review and improve all distance of 21,000 kilometers together with our General of our operations, business processes and values in a way Directorate team to reach more than 16,000 employees. In that allows for further sustainability. order to be able to co-evaluate our performance to reach the target of “sustainable leadership”, we held live meetings We share the activities we performed within the framework with all employees to simultaneously share financial of this responsibility in this 4th Sustainability Report outcomes of each quarter. written in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Principles. Our Report We developed products and services for entrepreneurs consists of 7 main chapters; namely, “Our Approach to who are important components of the Turkish economy Sustainability”, “Corporate Governance”, “Risk Management and Compliance”, “Value Added to Our Customers”, “Our In 2012, we continued to pay attention to special products Employees”, “Our Operations and the Environment”, and and campaigns to support entrepreneurs whom we define as “Our Community Investment”. With this Report that covers important components of the Turkish economy. By offering data and practices for the operational year 2012, we aim to entrepreneurs who contribute substantially to solving explain our sustainability performance in detail. employment problems an “Entrepreneur Support Package”, we positioned our Bank not only as a financing institution, We started 2012 with the target of “sustainable leadership” but also as a business partner to these entrepreneurs. 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO With the “Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program” held projects. In line with our related targets, the number of with the Sabancı University, we provided 5 full-day trainings projects increased and the total of Akbank Volunteers rose for 44 entrepreneurs in 2012. Also supported by Endeavor, to 2,026 from 1,489 in one year. KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) and Inovent, the program provided support for entrepreneurs in We, as Akbank, closed the year 2012 with more than 70 designing, implementing, and managing the business they prestigious awards – both local and global. Euromoney, wish to establish. The Banker, Global Banking & Finance Review and Global Finance some of the most reputable economy publications Our awareness on environmental and social issues steered in the world selected Akbank “Turkey’s Best Bank”, us in our business processes and corporate initiatives whereas Stevie International Business Awards recognized based upon volunteerism our Bank as one of the Top 10 International Companies”. These successful outcomes reflect not only our strong Today it is a widely accepted fact that carbon emissions financial performance, but also our efforts to improve social must be reduced to struggle against global climate change, welfare and to create lasting values. which is one of the most important problems that the Earth faces. In transition to a low carbon economy, it is vital that As we did in the past, we, as Akbank, will continue to be in a energy efficiency and renewable energy sources increase. leading position and to offer practices that contribute to the We steer our policies in line with such developments and society, economy and a sustainable world. support various initiatives. In our credit evaluation processes for project financing, we take environmental impacts into Hakan Binbaşgil consideration. In addition, we continue to successfully CEO implement the Environmental and Social Management System that we created for loans within the scope of International Finance Corporation (IFC). We continue to support the implementation of The Carbon Disclosure Project in Turkey (CDP), which aims to create transparency in carbon emissions and to improve awareness among the society. With all of its sustainability activities integrated in all its functions, Akbank has been the only Turkish institution operating in the service sector to reach the finals in “Management” category of the “Innovation for Sustainability –European Business Awards for the Environment (EBAE)” of the European Commission. The Management category mainly evaluates contributions to sustainable development and having a sustainability vision, strategies and an environmental management model. Our employees at all levels from branch managers to security staff are given practical sustainability trainings since 2011. Trainings that focus on the UN Global Compact (to which we are a signatory party) principles regarding environment, anti-corruption, human rights, and labor principles increase the awareness of our employees and enable us to integrate sustainability into our business processes. Akbank Volunteers increased their participation in projects for the environment, the disabled, education, and entrepreneurship in 2012 and continued to work for various 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE Continuous Development of Akbank January 1948 Established in the city of Adana to finance cotton producers in the region. 1950 First branch in İstanbul opened in Sirkeci. 1954 Akbank Head Office moved to İstanbul. 1963 Automation of all banking operations. 1964 First representative office opened in Frankfurt, Germany for bank transfers of Turkish workers. 1981 All banking operations computerized and online transactions started. 1990 Akbank shares offered to public. 1996 AkSecurities established. 1996 Investor Relations Group established to manage relations with shareholders. 1998 With a secondary public offering, Akbank shares started trading in international markets as an American Depository Receipt (ADR). 1998 Akbank Representative Office in Frankfurt transformed into a branch. 1999 Akbank Internet Banking started. 2000 Ak-Portfolio Management and Private Banking Business Units established. 2000 Akbank Malta branch opened. 2001 Akbank N.V. established in the Netherlands. 2001 Akbank Call Center started operations. 2005 Akbank became the first bank to repurchase its founders shares. 2005 AkLease incorporated. 2009 Akbank International Advisory Board established. 2009 Akbank (Dubai) Limited as the first Turkish bank established in Dubai International Finance Center. 2010 Akbank Banking Center put into service with a capacity of approximately 5,000 people. 2011 Send Money and Pay Mobile –the first of its kind in Europeoperations facilitated customers’ access to financial services. 2012 “Akbank Direkt” brand that combines the Internet and Mobile Banking services launched. 2012 Akbank N.V. in the Netherlands ceased operations and merged with our 100% subsidiary in Germany: Akbank AG. 00 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE Akbank and Sustainability 2000 Akbank Information Technologies obtained ISO 9001 Quality Certificate. 2003 Became the first bank to publicly declare its dividend policy. 2003 Became the first bank to announce Corporate Governance Principles in the annual report. 2004 Became the first bank to publish Corporate Governance Principles in its website. 2005 Became the sponsor of the “Make a Wish” foundation, established to fulfill the wishes of children aged 3-18, fighting against life-threatening diseases. 2007 Became the first Turkish bank to sign the UN Global Compact. 2007 Started cooperation with Endeavor – an international non-governmental organization aimed to contribute to economic development by supporting active entrepreneurs in developing countries. 2007 Akbank Customer Complaint Management System obtained ISO 10002 Quality Certificate. 2007 Supported entrepreneurs with its “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” program. 2008 Established “Akbank Thinking Club” with the aim of thinking together with the young and co-creating values for the future of Turkey. 2009 Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC) established under the Board of Directors. 2009 Women’s Development Center “BİZ”, established by KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) with the aim of helping women improve their individual productivities, opened with Akbank as the main sponsor. 2010 Became the first Turkish bank to publish UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report. 2010 Drew attention to environmental transparency by supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey. 2010 Became the first Turkish deposit bank to publish a Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI standards. 2010 Became the first and only Turkish institution to take place in the CDP 2010 Global 500 reporting and received scores that carry the Bank to the World Sector Leaders category. 2010 “Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan” put into effect. 2010 A loan pool with favorable terms launched for entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey. 2010 and 2011 Signed the Cancun and Durban Communiqués prepared prior to the United Nations 2010 and 2011 Climate Change Summits. 2010 Supported the “Before They Disappear” Project implemented in Turkey in coordination with the Regional Environment Center (REC) with the aim of drawing attention to regions at risk due to climate change. 2011 Akbank Volunteers System put into effect. 2011 Akbank supported Global Student Entrepreneurs Awards. 2011 Akbank employees started to attend Sustainability trainings. 2012 Became one of first companies in the world to sign the “Carbon Price Communiqué” prepared by The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change (CLG) to draw attention to the need to develop a clear and transparent pricing policy for carbon emissions. 2012 To struggle with savings deficit which is an important barrier against the development of Turkey, Akbank initiated a social responsibility program named “Savings Campaign” to complement its banking products and services. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE Akbank and Arts 1972 Akbank Children’s Theatre started performances. 1991 Akbank Jazz Festival started with the aim of creating a well-established musical culture in Turkey, by bringing world’s most famous jazz performers to large audiences. 1993 Akbank Art Center established. 1998 2000 Ottoman Calligraphy Exhibition “Golden Letters”, containing numerous valuable works, exhibited in New York Metropolitan, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and Paris Louvre with the sponsorship of Akbank. 2003 Akbank Art Center restructured itself towards modern arts and accelerated artistic dynamics of our country by drawing attention to the local and international qualities of globalizing tendency of arts with its exhibitions. 2003 2007 Became the sponsor of Rock’n Coke Festival where world-famous rock stars meet the youth. 2004 Akbank Short Film Festival was initiated. 2004 Akbank started to support the International İstanbul Film Festival and later became the main supporter. 2006 Rodin’s works were exhibited at Sakıp Sabancı Museum with support from Akbank. 2007 Sponsoring the modern and contemporary arts event “Contemporary İstanbul”, Akbank contributed to the realization of Turkey's most important contemporary arts fair. 2008 With the sponsorship of Akbank, art fans had the opportunity to see the works of Salvador Dali -one of the most important artists of the surrealistic movementat the Sakıp Sabancı Museum. The exhibition has been the largest Salvador Dali exhibition outside Spain. 2008 Akbank Children’s Theatre got on Hürriyet Newspaper’s “Human Rights Train” to once again carry the excitement, gloom, and beauties of theatre to 45 cities in Turkey. 2008 Rock legend Metallica came to Turkey with the sponsorship of Akbank and 37,000 fans had the opportunity to watch the band live on stage. 2009 Latin Rock legend Carlos Santana gave a concert in İstanbul with the sponsorship of the Wings. 2010 Around 75,000 people participated in the Sonisphere Festival that brought world-famous heavy metal bands with the sponsorship of our exi26 brand. 2011 Akbank became the prominent supporter of Turkish National Youth Philharmonic Orchestra. 2011 Akbank sponsored the “Cirque Du Soleil – Saltimbanco” show. 2012 Akbank Children’s Theater celebrated its 40th anniversary by performing the first musical version of the Oscarwinning animation Shrek in Turkish. 9 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 NOT ONLY OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, BUT ALSO ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR FUNDAMENTAL BUSINESS STRATEGIES. WE HAD FULL CONFIDENCE THAT THESE VALUES WOULD BE CREATED WITH CONTRIBUTION AND PARTICIPATION FROM ALL AKBANK EMPLOYEES – FROM OUR BRANCH MANAGERS TO SECURITY STAFF. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Akbank in Brief Akbank has succeeded in being one of the most notable, Through a strong and widespread domestic delivery network reliable and valuable brands of Turkey since 1948. Our with a total of 961 branches, over 16,000 employees and Bank’s corporate culture includes finding fast and longmore than 4,000 ATMs, Akbank operates via its Head lasting solutions to ever-changing needs, continuously Office in İstanbul and 23 regional directorates throughout renewing itself, creating sustainable values for employees, Turkey. The Bank offers banking services to around 12 customers, country and itself. million consumers, more than 700,000 commercial and SME customers, and over 6,000 corporate customers via Our Bank offers consumer banking, commercial and Alternative Delivery Channels such as internet and telephone SME banking, corporate banking, private banking, foreign banking. exchange, money markets and securities (treasury transactions), and international banking services. Non-bank As of the end of 2012, our Bank’s consolidated net profit financial services as well as capital markets and investment is TL 3,005 million (approximately USD 1,690 million). Our services are provided by Akbank's subsidiaries. total consolidated current assets reached TL 163.5 billion (approximately USD 92 billion) with an approximate growth Akbank preserved its leading position in the Turkish banking of 17% compared to 2011 year-end. Akbank’s consolidated sector with its robust capital, consistent deposit structure, capital adequacy ratio of 17.9% is one of the highest in the ability to acquire cost-efficient foreign exchange funding, and Turkish banking sector. strong asset structure. Number of Branches* Number of Employees* 926 Number of ATMs 16,315 4,026 Number of Credit Cards 5.8 millions Number of Debit Cards 6.4 millions Number of POS 308,084 * Including the Malta branch. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Main Brands Our Bank’s Vision, Mission and Values Vision: To become the permanent leader by providing the best banking experience and supporting the growth of Turkey. Mission: To become the most admired Turkish company, with the best-quality human resources constantly delivering outstanding value to stakeholders. Values: Integrity, Credibility, Non-Discrimination, Compliance, Confidentiality, Transparency, and Sustainability. Our Strategic Goals and Strong Foundations Strategic Goals Strong Foundations • To achieve a long-term sustainable return on • Turkey’s most valuable Banking Brand equity of at least 16-18% • One of Turkey’s most valuable companies • To be the leading bank in Turkey in terms of • Long-term strategic management with successful implementations critical market shares • 961 branches and high-tech delivery channels throughout Turkey • To be the best bank in Turkey in terms of • Turkey’s innovative force with countless “firsts” in the sector customer experience and satisfaction • Permanent and extensive funding base • To be Turkey’s most valuable bank • Sustainable profitability as well as high return on equity and assets • A robust capital structure with 17.9% capital adequacy ratio • A superior asset quality with a very low non-performing loans ratio of 1.2% • High level of efficiency with an operational expense/assets ratio of 2.0% • Stronger growth advantage in loans thanks to its low leverage rate • The highest individual and financial strength ratings to be assigned in Turkey* * For detailed information on our ratings by independent international rating agencies, please visit: http://www.akbank.com/1317.aspx. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Akbank in Figures Our Extensive Network of Branches We increased the number of domestic branches from 926 as of the end of 2011 to 961 in 2012 and thus improved our network even more. u Kırklare li Kastamon Sinop Artvin 1 4 5 3 3 Bartın 1 n Ardahan Edirne bük Sa msu 9 6 6 Tekirdağ İstanbul 318 Kara 11 Rize 5 k 2 Ordu Trabzon Kars 17 Kocaeli Zongulda 5 Giresun 24 a Çankırı Amasya 5 1 Saka ry 2 11 Bolu 1 Çoru m 3 t 1 Erzurum Iğdır 1 To ka Yalova 4 4 6 Bayburt 3 Ağrı Bilecik 3 e Bursa 2 Erzincan Çanakkal 41 Ankara Kırıkkale 1 5 86 2 Yo zgat Sivas ng öl Bi Balıkesir Eskişehi r 2 4 1 Muş 16 7 Kırşehir 1 Kütahya 1 Van 5 Malatya 1 Elaz ığ 3 Manisa nkarahis ar Nevşehir Kayseri 3 11 Afyo 3 ır irt Uşak 6 15 Diyarbak Si 1 2 Aksaray 4 Batman İzmir 1 araş 1 Şırnak 78 Kony a de Ka hram anm an Niğ Adıyam 1 Denizli Isparta 19 2 3 Mardin Aydın 4 1 9 3 11 rd ur Ad an a aniy e Şanlıurfa Bu m 2 27 Os 2 Gaziante p 6 Muğla Karaman 15 16 Antalya 1 39 Mersin 18 Hatay 10 Our Customers In accordance with our understanding of providing services tailored to target customer segments, Akbank continues operations in four core business units: Corporate Banking, Commercial and SME Banking, Consumer Banking, and Private Banking. Our investments and policies in 2012 enabled us to increase the number of our customers in target segments compared to the previous year. BUSINESS CORPORATE COMMERCIAL & SME CONSUMER PRIVATE UNITS BANKING BANKING BANKING BANKING CORPORATE COMMERCIAL, SME, AND PRIVATE BRANCHES BANKING BRANCHES CONSUMER BANKING BRANCHES BANKING BRANCHES 8 944 9 NUMBER OF 6,150 725,000 11,415,000 6,600 CUSTOMERS COMMERCIAL, CUSTOMER SMALL &MEDIUM CORPORATE CONSUMER PRIVATE SEGMENT SIZED ENTERPRISES, MICRO 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Our Financial Performance Key Financial Indicators Key consolidated financial indicators of Akbank are presented in the table below, covering data from the last three years. Key Consolidated Financial Indicators (TL million) 2012 2011 2010 Total Assets 163,478 139,907 120,070 Loans 92,360 74,356 57,733 Deposits 90,688 80,771 71,708 Funds Borrowed 15,598 18,045 11,497 Shareholders’ Equity 22,476 18,131 17,948 Net Profit 3,005 2,535 3,010 Return on Equity (ROE) 15.1% 14.3% 18.90% Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS) 17.9% 16.8% 19.90% Market Capitalization (USD million) 19,802 12,748 22,320 Loans The distribution of loans we provided to our customers is listed in the table below, based upon customer segment and currency. Loans 2012 2011 Corporate TL Loans (TL million) 5,964 4,400 Corporate Foreign Currency Loans (USD million) 13,473 12,714 SME TL Loans (TL million) 17,015 10,790 SME Foreign Currency Loans (USD million) 6,061 4,928 Consumer (TL million) 20,808 15,516 Credit Cards (TL million) 12,884 9,550 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Economic Value Generated for Stakeholders We generate economic value for our stakeholders via our operations in banking services. Annual economic value that we generated as of the end of 2011 was approximately TL 11.7 billion. This figure increased almost 23% by the end of 2012 and reached TL 14.4 billion. Distribution of the economic value among various stakeholders, from employees to community investment, government, investors, and suppliers is given in the table below. Economic Value Generated and Distributed (TL million) 2012 2011 2010 Direct Economic Value Generated 14,410 11,696 10,995 a) Revenues 14,410 11,696 10,995 Economic Value Distributed 10,853 9,324 8,465 b) Operating costs 1,601 1,375 1,451 c) Employee wages and other benefits 1,205 1,002 917 d) Payments to providers of capital 7,027 6,167 5,318 e) Payments to the government 1,010 773 769 f) Community investment 9 8 11 Economic Value Retained 3,557 2,372 2,529 a) Gross revenue in the Bank’s income statement is taken into consideration. (Interest income, received fees and commissions, dividend income, commercial profit-loss and other income) b) Covers all operating costs of the Bank, excluding employee expenses. c) Covers employee wages, bonuses, and all withholding tax paid to the government on behalf of employees. d) Covers dividends distributed to investors and all interest expenses of the Bank in the given year. e) Covers all taxes paid to the government. f) Covers donations to charities and expenses for various culture-arts events. Note 1: Provisions for non-performing loans are not included in the calculations of the Economic Value Retained. Note 2: This table is based upon Akbank’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, these figures cover subsidiaries within the framework of consolidation. 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Enerji Organization of the Bank Akbank was established on January 30th, 1948 as a 9.9% private-capital commercial bank and today it continues to operate in the same area. While Akbank stocks were traded at İstanbul Stock Exchange Market (ISE) with a free float rate of 31.0% in 49.0% 2011, this rate increased to 41.1% in 2012 when Citigroup 41.1% reduced its shares in Akbank to 9.9% in May 2012 as a preparation to Basel III. Akbank’s Level 1 American Depository Receipts are traded at the OTC market in the USA. Our shareholder Sabancı Holding, Free Float Citibank Overseas structure as of December 31st, 2012 is shown in the pie Investment Affiliates Institutions, chart. and Individuals Corporation Our 2012 activities and detailed financial information are issued in the Annual Report which is available in our website: http://www.akbank.com/1312.aspx Our Subsidiaries Akbank’s direct and indirect subsidiaries and our shares as of December 31st, 2012 are presented below: Direct and Indirect Area of Operations Share (%) Country of Subsidiaries Operations Akbank AG Banking 100.00 Germany Akbank (Dubai) Limited Banking 100.00 UAE AkLease Financial Leasing 99.99 Turkey AkSecurities Stock Exchange Brokerage Services 100.00 Turkey AkAsset Management Portfolio Management 100.00 Turkey 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Our Organization Chart Up-to-date organization chart of the Bank is presented below. As of December 31st, 2012, 14 Executive Vice Presidents reported to the CEO, however in early 2013 a new Executive Vice President responsible for Direct Banking was assigned and thus the number of Executive Vice Presidents increased to 15. Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control and Compliance Unit, and Risk Management Department directly report to the Board of Directors. Honorary Chairman and Chairman and Executive Board Member Consultant to the Board Board Member Executive Board Member ÖZEN GÖKSEL EROL SABANCI SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER Internal Audit EYÜP ENGİN Vice Chairman and Risk Management Executive Board Member ﬁEBNEM MURATO⁄LU Internal Control and Compliance HAYRİ ÇULHACI YAŞAR BOZYÜRÜK CEO HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL Credit Commercial Follow-up Consumer Payment Private Corporate and Direct International Human and Support Financial Information Banking Systems Banking Banking SME Banking Banking Treasury Banking Resources Strategy Credits Services Operation Coordination Technologies GALİP MEHMET SALTIK ALPER H. KAAN ORKUN KERİM HÜLYA BADE TUNÇ AHMET ZEKİ SEVİLAY K. ATIL TURGUT TÖZGE SİNDEL GALATALI YÜKSEL GÜR OĞUZ ROTA KEFELİ SİPAHİOĞLU AKYURT FUAT TUNÇAY ÖZSÖZ ÖZUS GÜNEY IŞIK AYLA Corporate Communications Department 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Awards and Achievements Evaluations of our services and products by independent experts guide us in increasing satisfaction of all stakeholders -mainly customersand in reaching our targets. Akbank’s performance in 2011 and 2012 received more than 70 awards from several national and international institutions and corporations. Some of these awards are presented below. Awarding – Researching Award/ Success About the Award/Success Institution Category Brand Finance “Global Banking 500” Akbank was once again selected Turkey’s “Most Valuable Banking Brand” Survey with a brand value of USD 2,100 million in the “Global Banking 500 – 2013” list by Brand Finance. Global Finance The Best Bank in Turkey Akbank was once again selected “The Best Bank in Turkey” in the “The Best Banks of the World 2012” survey held by the internationally renowned financial publication Global Finance during the IMF meetings in Tokyo. EMEA Finance The Best Bank in Turkey EMEA Finance -a prominent financial magazine in Europe, Middle East and Africaselected Akbank The Best Bank in Turkey” in the Central and Eastern Europe and CIS category of the “European Banking Awards 2011”. Akbank is the only Turkish bank to receive this award for the fourth time in a row. Global Banking and The Best Bank in Turkey In the “Banking Awards 2012” by Global Banking and Finance Review, Finance Review Akbank was selected “The Best Bank in Turkey” for the second time in a row. The evaluation was made by international banking professionals. Retail Banker The World’s Best Bank in In the Retail Banker International Awards, Akbank was selected “The International Awards Customer Relationship World’s Best Bank” in the category of “The Best Use of Customer Management Relationship Management Systems in Marketing Operations”. Global Finance The Best Information Akbank received “The Best Information Security Initiatives” award in the Security Initiatives in annual “The Best Internet Banks” survey by Global Finance. Europe EBRD – Turkey Excellence in Sustainable EBRD’s (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development) Turkey Sustainable Energy Energy Financing Award Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (TurSEFF), which is supported by the Financing Facility European Union Commission as well, presented Akbank the “Excellence in (TurSEFF) Sustainable Energy Financing” award for the Bank’s leading and successful efforts in improving energy efficiency and extending the use of renewable energy. In addition, 5 Akbank managers were given the “Achievement Award” for their support in the TurSEFF project. Stevie International 3 Gold, 1 Silver and 6 In the 2012 Stevie Awards evaluating product, service and communications Business Awards Bronze Awards projects, Akbank received 3 gold, 1 silver and 6 bronze awards and became among the “Top 10 International Companies”. The Bank’s “Send Money” One of the Top 10 application won a Silver Stevie. In addition, Akbank’s 2011 Annual Report, International Companies Sustainability Training Program and “No Time to Waste” project were given Bronze Stevie awards. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 01 ABOUT AKBANK Awarding – Researching Award/ Success About the Award/Success Institution Category LACP World’s Best Annual In LACP’s “Vision Awards 2011” that evaluate more than 5,500 annual (League of American Report reports and sustainability reports, Akbank’s Annual Report 2011 based upon Communication the main theme of volunteerism was selected “World’s Best Annual Report” Professionals) in both Banking and Financial Institutions categories. The Report became the 14th in the “World’s Top 100 Annual Reports” list that covers all sectors. LACP World’s Best Sustainability In LACP’s “Vision Awards 2011”, Akbank’s Sustainability Report 2011 was Report selected “World’s Best Sustainability Report” in both Banking and Financial Institutions categories. MerComm International The Best Annual Report of In the MerComm International ARC Awards, Akbank won the following ARC Awards the Year awards with its Annual Report 2011: Gold Prize in Banks and Financial Services, Design, and Online Annual Report categories; Silver Prize in Printing and Production category; Bronze Prize in Letter from the Chairman and Visual Materials categories. The Report was also selected Grand Award Winner by an exclusive jury for its overall performance. MerComm Inova Awards The Best Sustainability In the 4th MerComm Inova Awards held in 2012, more than 1,000 Report of the Year communications projects from 12 countries were evaluated. As a result of the evaluations, Akbank’s Sustainability Report 2011 was selected the Best Sustainability Report of the Year. Public Relations Society of The Best Sponsorship With its main sponsorship for Contemporary İstanbul 2011, Akbank won the Turkey (TÜHİD) 11th Golden Communication in Culture Golden Compass Public Relations Award of the Public Relations Society of Compass Public Relations and Arts Turkey (TÜHİD) for “The Best Sponsorship Communication in Culture and Award Arts”. IMI Conferences The Most Commendable In the Call Center Awards given by IMI Conferences, Akbank received “The Call Center Agent Most Commendable Call Center Agent” and “The Most Commendable Customer Management in the Social Media” awards. 5. PERYÖN (Turkish The Best Company in Among nominees from 29 companies and in 42 categories, Akbank received Association of Human Training and Development the First Prize in Training and Development category. Resources Management) Human Resources Management Awards Best in Biz Awards EMEA Most Socially and With the participation of companies operating in different sectors in Europe, 2012 Environmentally Middle East and Africa and with applications by more than 20 countries, Responsible Company of Akbank received the Gold Prize with its sustainability policy and was selected the Year the “Most Socially and Environmentally Responsible Company of the Year” at the Best in Biz Awards EMEA 2012. MerComm Mercury Brand Communications In the Mercomm Mercury Excellence Awards, Akbank won 1 gold and 2 Excellence Awards 2012 and Reports silver prizes for its Twitter-Integrated Short Film Festival Mapping Project, Facebook Campaigns, and Brand Communications. The Bank won the silver prize in the Corporate Social Responsibility Reports category for its Sustainability Report 2011 and 2 bronze prizes in the Annual Reports category for its Annual Report 2011. 19 02 ABOUT THE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 IN LINE WITH OUR PHILOSOPHY EXPRESSED BY THE MOTTO “FOR YOU”, WE INITIATED A LONG-TERM TRAINING CAMPAIGN THAT COVERS ALL BRANCHES IN ALL CORNERS OF TURKEY AND THAT ACCELERATES THE INTERNALIZATION AND INTEGRATION OF THIS MOTTO INTO OUR BUSINESS PROCESSES BY OUR EMPLOYEES. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Our Approach to Reporting This is the fourth of the annual Sustainability Report that The GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and their we present to our stakeholders since 2009. We prepare Turkish versions are at: these Reports voluntarily and in compliance with our http://www.globalreporting.org approach to lead the Turkish banking industry. This Report focuses on Akbank’s implementations in the areas of social, We have also included information on the progress we environmental, ethical, and corporate governance and on achieved in line with the commitment that we made to the our corporate performance. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) of which we are a signatory. UNGC Index that allows easy tracking of our We have prepared the Report in accordance with the GRI implementations within the scope of four areas of UNGC Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3 version of the Global (labor, human rights, environment, and anti-corruption) and Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a worldwide-recognized the related 10 principles is available at the end of the Report. reporting institution. In line with the transparency principle, the Report includes the steps we took in sustainability, the results we achieved and our commitments. As of 2012 yearBoundary of the Report end, among deposit banks in Turkey, we are still the first Unless mentioned otherwise, all data and information in and only bank to issue a sustainability report prepared in the Report covers the banking activities and locations of accordance with the GRI Guidelines. Akbank T.A.Ş. in Turkey. Impacts of our activities, our joint ventures or our suppliers in other countries are not within Compared to the previous one, we have developed the the scope of this Report. “Our Employees” section of the content of this year’s Report in the light of the feedbacks Report includes employees of our Malta branch. Generated and expectations of stakeholders and pioneering practices and distributed economic value tables that include financial of the Bank. We changed the page layout and simplified the statements reflect consolidated figures. content to offer convenient reading. We used the same data collection methods as the years before and we explained In this Report, the words “Akbank T.A.Ş.”, “Akbank”, “our the method in relevant sections. We provided further Bank”, “the Bank”, “We/us” all mean Akbank T.A.Ş. unless explanations when other methods were used. mentioned otherwise. The Report refers to the active role we play in the growth of Setting out the Content of the Report the Turkish economy, Akbank’s approach to sustainability While performing the reporting process and preparing the management, the value we add to our customers with content of the Report, we used two international standards our products and services, the benefits we provide for our as our bases. The first one is the “AA1000 Stakeholder employees, our efforts to reduce environmental impact Engagement Standard” devised by AccountAbility, a UKof our activities, and our cooperation with stakeholders to based organization. AA1000 APS is a globally recognized improve social welfare. standard that is based upon the principles of “Inclusiveness, Materiality and Accountability . The second one is the “GRI The Scope and Framework of the Report Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” of the Global Reporting The Report covers the practices we had in social, Initiative. environmental and economic areas and our related corporate performance between January 1st, 2012 and We also took into consideration material issues for our December 31st, 2012. Based upon the GRI G3 Sustainability corporate strategies and the information we collected Reporting Guidelines, this Report meets the requirements of via various channels to meet the expectations of our GRI Application Level C. At the end of the Report, a GRI Index stakeholders. Therefore this Report includes our practices is available in order to ensure easy access to the information and performance related to issues considered to be material within the scope of the GRI indicators. by both our Bank and our stakeholders. Detailed information on selection of material issues and stakeholder dialogue is The GRI Guidelines not only allow comparing our available in “Our Approach to Sustainability” section of the sustainability performance to that of local and international Report. peers but also create a reference guide for our stakeholders. These guidelines also lead us in continuous development of Prepared with contribution from almost all units of the Bank, Akbank’s sustainability initiatives. the final version of this Report has been approved by the Corporate Governance Committee and Board of Directors of Akbank. 21 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 AS OF 2011, WE WERE THE FIRST AND ONLY BANK IN TURKEY TO PROVIDE TAILOR-MADE IN-CLASS AND E-LEARNING TRAININGS ON OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY! www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY We created our sustainability strategy in conformity with As a bank standing upon strong financial foundations the issues that are material to our stakeholders and the and attaching importance to stakeholder relations and Bank. transparency, our strategy is to support economic growth of our country and customers, to offer products and services The concept of sustainability takes deeper roots in the that improve social welfare without sacrificing our ethical procedures, services, and products of our Bank every other and secure banking principle, and to reduce environmental day. Thanks to the dialogue platforms established between impact of our activities. our stakeholders and our Bank, we receive feedback on issues material to stakeholders. In the light of such feedback While implementing this strategy, our aim is to improve our we aim to continuously improve our business processes performance day by day, following roadmaps we devise for and sustainability performance. We monitor Akbank’s each and every significant and material issue and making performance by implementing our sustainability strategy commitments. and commitments both in our operations and products. With the annual Sustainability Report that we issue every year since 2009, we communicate our practices and performance regarding our social, environmental, ethical, and economic responsibilities to our stakeholders. Our Sustainability Vision, Strategy, and Commitments Our Sustainability Vision Our sustainability vision is to become the leader in Turkey and one of the leading institutions in the world. Our Sustainability Strategy In order for Akbank to reach its sustainability vision, we aim to efficiently manage significant and material environmental, social, ethical, and economic risks and opportunities that arise in our products, services and operations. By performing a materiality analysis, we identified the material issues that our stakeholders expect good performance from the Bank and that are required for the Bank to succeed. We created a sustainability strategy by identifying related risks and opportunities and started to implement this strategy. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Approach and Material Issues The tree branches represent the significant and material issues that we consider within the scope of our sustainability If we are to compare our sustainability approach to a tree, roots management: Our Employees, Corporate Governance and reflect our financial performance. Sustainability and existence Risk Management, Our Operations and the Environment, of Akbank is first and foremost dependent on its financial Investing in Communities and the Value Added to Our success. Our financial performance is what keeps us alive. Customers. Material issues that we selected for each area are handled here. For example, carbon emissions under The tree trunk represents our Sustainability Management “Our Operations and the Environment” title is one of such Model. It is the mechanism that enables the transition and issues. communication from roots to branches. The trunk makes the tree more durable. The element that makes Akbank more durable is its sustainability management. VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS CORPORATE Customer Satisfaction GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT EnvironmentFocused Products and Services Transparent Corporate Governance Environmental and Social Risk Management in Loans Effective Risk Management and Innovative Products and Internal Control Services That Facilitate Access to Financial Services Ethical Banking Secure Banking INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Sponsorship Carbon Emissions Employee Volunteering Saving Paper Technological Wastes OUR EMPLOYEES Employee Satisfaction Career Development and Training Equal Career Opportunities Roles and Sustainability in SUSTAINABILITY Awareness of Stakeholder Responsibilities Supply Chain MANAGEMENT MODEL Employees Dialogue FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sustainable Profitability and Growth 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Management Model in Akbank BOARD OF DIRECTORS (BoD) INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD (IAB) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (CGC) OUR STAKEHOLDERS OTHER INVESTOR RELATIONS AND RELATED UNITS SUSTAINABILITY DIVISION OF OUR BANK (IRSD) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUB-GROUP (CSR SUB-GROUP) SUSTAINABILITY (CSR) TEAM The Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) that directly reports to the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that sustainability issues are handled in a holistic manner at the senior management level. CGC makes sure that the sustainability strategy is implemented and monitored throughout the Bank. Akbank International Advisory Board also adds value to the Bank’s sustainability vision. (International Advisory Board is given in more detail in the 4th section of this Report.) Akbank Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) The chairman and majority of the members of the Committee (Formerly known as Akbank Corporate Governance, are independent Board Members. Remuneration and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC)) The Committee was established in 2009 with the name The Corporate Governance Committee assumed the “Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility responsibility to improve the Bank’s corporate performance Committee” (CGSRC). In early 2012, “remuneration” task in sustainability, to integrate the areas of responsibility into was also given to the Committee and thus its name was our decision-making mechanisms, to increase awareness changed to “Corporate Governance, Remuneration and among employees, and to light the way to carry out Social Responsibility Committee” (CGRSRC). In early 2013 reporting in line with the international standards as per our “nominating candidates” was included in the Committee’s transparency principle. tasks and thus the name was updated as “Corporate Governance Committee” (CGC). The Committee is responsible for ensuring compliance with Akbank’s Corporate Management Principles; monitoring The Committee meets at least twice a year. Among the items the operations of the Investor Relations and Sustainability in 2012 agenda were the analysis of the Bank’s current Department; creating a transparent system to identify, position in terms of sustainability, assessment of future evaluate and train suitable candidates for the Board of steps, climate change strategies and action plan, and social Directors; and working on related policies and strategies. responsibility projects as community investments. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Handling sustainability issues within the Bank in a holistic the Bank. Furthermore, the environmental and social manner and in coordination with internal and external criteria that we implement in providing loans for corporate, stakeholders is the responsibility of Investor Relations commercial and SME customers and in purchasing from and Sustainability Division (IRSD) under the supervision suppliers are also within the scope of these procedures. of CGC. The holistic management covers issues such as integrating environmental, social and ethical aspects Internal Communication and Awareness into our products and services with a strategic view and We use a number of channels to contribute to improving developing sustainability policies. An example is that knowledge and awareness of our employees on our departments performing core banking functions and “sustainability”. Among these are in-class and e-learning our purchasing departments internalize sustainability by programs and the corporate portal. integrating environmental and social elements into their own processes and products. Environmental loans for corporate With the in-class trainings aiming to increase awareness of and SME customers and environmental and social criteria employees in Akbank branches, the concept of sustainability applied to our suppliers are the results of the policies that was introduced to employees in the field in every corner of we implement within the framework of our holistic approach. Turkey. A total of 4,607 employees (1,607 in 2011 and 2,985 in 2012) attended this extensive training. In this hands-on training In addition, there are various significant and material issues based upon UNGC’s 10 principles, participants learn especially handled by related departments of Akbank within the scope about what sustainability management means in banking. of our general business management. These cover issues such as employee satisfaction, ensuring equal opportunities Another extensive in-class training about the issue is the for all employees, customer satisfaction, information Sustainability Approach training that all new employees must security, and employee volunteering. These issues are attend. This training handles sustainability with all of its aspects managed by related departments and have an important role and is specially devised for Akbank. In 2011 and 2012 a total in the Bank’s sustainability strategy. Employee satisfaction of 1,606 new employees in different locations and functions and customer satisfaction are monitored and these attended this training and thus awareness was improved. are among the key success indicators for our executive management. Sustainability Approach e-learning program was completed by 12,371 employees since its initiation in 2011. A Sustainability (CSR) Team composed of representatives from the majority of the business units in Akbank and In order to increase internal awareness on sustainability operating under the leadership of the CSR Sub-Group operations within the Bank, our Sustainability Report 2011 Manager performs the year-long sustainability reporting was shared with all managers and department heads. As process. This task was included in the job descriptions leaders of Akbank, the managers are encouraged to read of our Sustainability (CSR) Team leader and members in through the Report, emphasize the importance that Akbank 2012 and thus an important step was taken in sustainability attaches to this issue in various occasions, and to share the performance management and reporting. Report with their teams and networks. We continue our communication and operations with The “Corporate Social Responsibility” section of the corporate external stakeholders at various levels. Within the scope portal that is available to all employees was updated in 2012. of such engagement, we play an active role in numerous This section includes a number of up-to-date information national and international associations and initiatives. from the Bank’s sustainability approach to corporate social By exchanging opinions with key stakeholders on various responsibility projects. On the other hand, our sustainability platforms, we regularly review our sustainability approach in efforts are broadcast on Corporate TVs in our branches and the light of expectations from us. communicated to the whole Bank via e-mails. Our Internal Procedures Sustainability in the Supply Chain Covering a number of environmental, social and ethical elements in its structure, Akbank’s “Ethical Principles” are Within the scope of our “Supplier Management” policy, we our official declaration that we expect all employees and expect suppliers to pay attention to implementing all aspects even stakeholders to comply with. Thanks to compliance of the United Nations Global Compact and taking social with the mentioned principles, we have made sustainability and environmental risks into consideration in their daily management a corporate procedure. Ethics Line to be used operations. In addition, we provide opportunities to suppliers if any violation of these principles is observed is among that are more sensitive to the society and the environment procedures to support sustainability management within during procurement of services and products. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY With the aim of putting these into effect, we obtained declarations Our Sustainability Commitment of commitment to comply with Akbank’s Principles and Policies Long-term and strong financial performance that offers from approximately 50% of companies in our supplier portfolio. benefits for all of our stakeholders and forms the basis of our sustainability is an indispensable objective for Akbank. We continue with evaluations regarding corporate Our environmental, social and ethical performance plays an organizational structures of suppliers, their fulfillment of important role in achieving this objective. Therefore, we have public liabilities such as taxes and social payments, and their set commitments for our material sustainability areas. commitment to avoid employing child labor. Subject of 2012 Evaluation Our Commitments Commitment Financial Performance Sustainable We achieved strong presence in market shares by In the next period, our objective is to continue the growth of profitability and improving our growth and profitability performance. As a customer base and to improve our sustainable performance growth result of our investments and efforts, our growth in loans by diversifying our product and service portfolio and creating and deposits was higher than the sector average. wider delivery channels. Sustainability Management Roles and We officially included related responsibilities into the In coordination with our Investor Relations and Sustainability responsibilities job definitions and performances of Sustainability Team Department, we will continue to devise action plans to guide leader and its members. our sustainability strategy and to implement them together with the Sustainability Team. We took necessary steps to include sustainability in the performance evaluation criteria of team members. Sustainability in the We received statements from approximately 50% of We will continue to get statements from suppliers declaring supply chain suppliers, declaring that they will comply with Akbank’s that they will comply with Akbank’s Ethical Principles and Guidelines and Policies. Sustainability Policies. Employee awareness We increased awareness of more than 6,000 employees We will continue with sustainability trainings to integrate who participated in extensive in-class sustainability sustainability into our corporate culture. training tailor-made for our Bank. Stakeholder We improved our dialogue platforms for stakeholders. We will continue to support mutual dialogue and dialogue Especially, we organized “For You” meetings with transparency policies with our stakeholders, to develop our customers and “Why Not” meetings with employees to business processes in line with their expectations, and to receive feedback. improve our sustainability performance. Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance Transparent We implemented new online dialogue platforms such as We will continue to improve and differentiate our transparent corporate “webcast” to establish more active communication among and close relations with our shareholders, current and management the Bank’s management team and shareholders. potential investors. Information security We prepared surveys to measure awareness of our We will continue efforts to take necessary precautions by employees on information security and based upon monitoring innovations and developments in information the results of these surveys, we took steps to increase security and to organize trainings and awareness-raising awareness. efforts. Our Customers Customer More than 4,600 branch employees attended the We will continue extensive efforts to reach the aim of satisfaction Bumerang trainings that focus on “Customer ensuring the best customer satisfaction and best banking Satisfaction”. experience in every service and at every point of contact with customers. We strengthened our complaint management infrastructure to make sure that complaints are resolved We will increase efforts to make sure that complaints are in the shortest time possible (average: in 2 days). resolved at the first contact point with customers. The average waiting time by the counters in our branches By monitoring the frequent complaints, we will continue to has been below 8 minutes, as we had targeted. take permanent measures. 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Subject of 2012 Evaluation Our Commitments Commitment Our Customers Our environmentIn 2012, we obtained TurAFF-TurSEFF II loans on 5-year We will continue to provide “energy saving and renewable focused products and terms from EBRD to be used in renewable energy and energy” loans to customers. services energy efficiency. TurAFF part of the loan that is USD 12 million will be used in agriculture, whereas the TurSEFF II part (USD 24 million) will be used in other areas. Environmental Our Bank included “Loan Analysis Supervisors” who were We aim to improve the capacity of Loan Analysis Supervisors and social risk recruited to evaluate all risks, including environmental in terms of environmental and social risks. management in loans risks, and to improve the processes into the evaluation process of all corporate and commercial branch loans. Innovative products We launched the “Akbank Direkt” brand that combines With our high-tech products and services, we will continue to and services to Internet and Mobile Banking services and facilitates meet the expectations created through competition. facilitate access to services offered to customers. financial services Our Employees Employee satisfaction Areas to be focused on in 2013 were determined according To identify employee expectations accurately and to to the results of the 2012 Employee Satisfaction Survey. find common grounds that allow Akbank to meet these These areas include: autonomy (decision-making, taking expectations, we will continue to hear from employees via initiatives), brand compliance (internal and external Employee Satisfaction Surveys. perception of the brand), resources (tools and means to facilitate the way of doing business), and career management. Career development Akbank employees received 1,258,902 hours and 11.7 We will continue efforts to support development and increase and training work days/person training in total. motivation and professional satisfaction of all employees via our training system. Equal career In the evaluation based upon 22 criteria, Akbank received We will continue to implement models that support equal opportunities FEM certificate for its “Equal Career Opportunities Model career opportunities. Project”. Our Operations and the Environment Our environmental We started to implement a system in order to better We will continue efforts to minimize environmental impact impact monitor environmental impacts resulting from our of our operations as much as possible and to use natural operations, including our approximately 1,000 branches. resources more economically. Carbon emissions We continued our efforts to measure carbon emissions We will continue to support the internationally recognized resulting from our activities and to reduce carbon Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). emissions resulting from energy consumption. Investing in Communities Community investment We launched the “Savings Campaign” together with We will continue to support community investment projects through sponsorships our employees in order to draw attention to “savings”, for education, youth, arts, culture and environment, which which is an important issue Turkey. In the area of are material issues for us. entrepreneurship, we initiated Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program in cooperation with Sabancı University. Community investment Number of projects implemented within the scope of We will complete our restructuring efforts to increase through employee Akbank Volunteers system and the number of Akbank inclusion of employees in the decision-making processes of volunteering employees supporting these projects increased. the volunteering system. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Engagement Platforms for Dialogue with Stakeholders All institutions and corporations that are affected by We communicate with key stakeholders via certain dialogue Akbank’s activities, products and services or that directly or platforms. Akbank website www.akbank.com and our indirectly affect its performance are our “key” stakeholders. regularly issued Annual Report and Sustainability Report In full awareness of the fact that stakeholder engagement is are the most important platforms we use to inform our the basic principle in corporate responsibility, we consider stakeholders. In addition, we also benefit from our bilateral expectations and opinions of our key stakeholders while dialogue programs specially designed for each stakeholder developing and implementing our sustainability strategies group in order to receive feedback from and establish and we pay ultimate attention to creating a regular, dialogue with them. continuous, and trust-based communication with them. Examples of our dialogues with key stakeholders in 2012 are presented below. Stakeholder Groups and Approach Examples Dialogue Platforms Shareholders, Investors, Analysts General Assembly Meetings and Minutes The dialogue mechanism that Our Corporate Social Responsibility Sub-Group within the Face-to-face and e-dialogue (meetings we developed to ensure that Investor Relations and Sustainability Department informs and conferences in Turkey and abroad, the continuous communication investors on our environmental, social and economic presentations and briefings via webcast among the Bank management sustainability performance both in writing and verbally. and e-mail) and shareholders is based upon Public Disclosure Platform “transparency, accountability, and regular briefings”. Annual Report “e-Manage: Corporate Governance and Investor Relations Portal” of the Central Registry Agency Capital Markets Board of Turkey (CMB) Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report Press Releases Employees “Why Not” meetings We are aware that high motivation With “Why Not” meetings that aim to communicate Akbank’s Quarterly live TV broadcasts by the and satisfaction levels among our objectives and strategies to employees of all levels were held Bank’s CEO employees are determinant in in 7 cities with approximately 14,200 employees. Akbank Volunteers Program ensuring long-standing business performance. Quarterly-held live TV broadcast by the CEO project started Employee Satisfaction Survey in 2012. With this broadcast, messages of the senior Corporate Performance System We regularly collect our management and the Bank’s quarterly performance results Meetings (e.g. Regional Directorates and employees’ opinions and are communicated directly to employees. This project Customer Relationship Management, expectations and we try to bring aims to keep internal synergy dynamic, improve bilateral Performance Reviews, Leaders Summit, related practices to life. communication, and increase all employees’ motivation to Brainstorming Sessions) reach common targets. Coaching system We put platforms that ensure an Corporate Portal “For Us” effective internal communication Within the framework of voluntary efforts that improve into use. employee motivation and loyalty, we implemented more Suggestion System projects with employees. BANKSİS (Union of Bank and Insurance Employees) In the light of the feedback we received from our Employee Akbank Retirement Fund Satisfaction Survey, we focused more on the “Talent Training Programs for Our Employees Management” that intends identification and effective Ethics Line management of our employees’ talents. We held 73 Talent E-Bulletins Committee meetings with management of various business units. In line with the feedback from employees, we created a variety of project teams in business units that require optimization of business processes. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Groups and Approach Examples Dialogue Platforms Customers “Akbank For You Meetings” Customer satisfaction is the We held “Akbank For You Meetings” in 20 cities with the Customer Satisfaction Surveys first among our material issues. purpose of mainly sharing the economic developments in the Akbank Branches Opinions and expectations of our world and in Turkey with customers, exchanging opinions, customers inspire us in developing and meeting with local authorities to hear local problems Akbank Call Center products and services. In order and find solutions. Akbank Website retain customer satisfaction; Social Media (1.5 million followers) we implement numerous We are in constant contact with customers via 19 different E-mail Briefings practices, from information Akbank accounts in the social media. Our agents are Business Development Meetings for security to responsible marketing specially trained for this media and offer services 27/7. They Customers communications, innovative and answer to more than 20 thousand complaints monthly, offer Informative Meetings with SMEs environmentally friendly products, solutions, and record the suggestions. www.kobilersizinicin.com website and supporting customers in Akbank Art Center Activities business development. Media Advertising and Promotion Campaigns International Financial Institutions One-to-One and Joint Meetings Loans that we obtain from The Sustainable Energy Financing Fund (TurSEFF) of USD Audits international financial institutions 60 million that we had obtained from EBRD in 2010 was Negotiations such as IFC, EBRD, and EIB for made completely available to customers in 2012 and a total our customers mostly require of 50 customers benefited from this fund. As a result of Reports climate-friendly uses and support this process, EBRD granted Akbank excellence awards in for development. With the aim of areas such as “the first bank to make the whole of TurSEFF building management systems to available, the first bank to perform supplier financing, and monitor environmental and social the bank with the highest loan volume in renewable energy performances of our customers projects”. in accordance with the loans obtained, we establish dialogues with these institutions on various platforms. Legislators and Regulatory Bodies Public-Private Sector Cooperation We thoroughly comply with all At the “Public-Private Sector Workshop” more than Workshop related laws and regulations 70 executives from the Council of State, Privatization Meetings in all of our activities. With the Authority, various ministries, and a number of related public Forums and Conferences aim of closely following the institutions came together with local and international agenda, identifying trends, financing institutions, academicians, and Akbank executives. Various Task Forces timely developing and adapting The group exchanged opinions on the ways of improving the Verbal and Written Notifications our products and services investment atmosphere. Declarations in line with expectations of Press Releases customers and legislators, we Compliance Reports follow forums, conferences, task forces, and press news carefully and we organize meetings. We closely monitor developments related to the banking industry and present our opinions on legislation amendments to related authorities. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Groups and Approach Examples Dialogue Platforms Suppliers Supplier Identification Forms We expect our cooperating As a result of informing the companies in our supplier Meetings suppliers to act in accordance portfolio on Akbank’s Ethical Principles and Sustainability Akbank Ethical Principles with Akbank’s principles and Policies, approximately 50% of them declared their values. We also support their commitment to comply with Akbank’s Principles and development through continuous Policies. information transfer. University Students Activities we organize and support (e.g. We care about university “Global Student Entrepreneur Challenge” -created in order Global Student Entrepreneur Challenge) students’ requests, opinions, and to promote entrepreneurship among universities all around Akbank Thinking Club expectations. We continuously the world and held in Turkey for the first time in 2011 with Briefings improve our investments in support from Akbankwas held for the second time in 2012, support of their education and again with Akbank’s support. Youth Banking development. Campus Branches Akbank Thinking Club that aims to provide a platform for Brochures and Promotion Campaigns We cooperate with student clubs development of young people as future adults reached 111 to support university students in members in 2012. entering the business world and to further introduce Akbank to those We held a “job interview simulation” at Boğaziçi University who will graduate soon. and had one-to-one interviews with students pretending that we were in a recruiting process. After the interviews we gave them feedback. Local Community Activities we organize and participate (e.g. We aim to support numerous We held “Akbank For You Meetings” in 20 cities and shared “Akbank For You Meetings”) activities that offer social benefits the economic developments in the world and in Turkey, Arts and culture activities and to reach local communities in met with local authorities to hear local problems and find Press releases areas we operate in. solutions, and exchanged opinions. Non-Governmental Organizations Cooperation in social engagement practices We pay attention to improving While developing our social investment projects, we ask for Sponsorships cooperation with nonopinions from non-governmental organizations. We invite Meetings governmental organizations, being representatives of NGOs to our events and receive their in continuous communication with opinions on related issues. Conferences them, taking their opinions and expectations about our activities into consideration. Media Press conferences We aim to maintain continuous Our senior management and related managers regularly Press releases dialogue with national and meet with prominent figures of the media community at our Daily economic bulletins international media, to inform press conferences and exchange opinions. them timely and accurately with our press releases, and to share opinions with opinion leaders at press conferences. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Memberships in Associations and Unions, Signed Initiatives Akbank and the United Nations Global Compact Akbank is a corporate member of various associations and The biggest evidence of Akbank’s commitment to universal principles of human rights, labor conditions, unions with the aim of closely following developments in environment, and anti-corruption is its signature sustainability and contributing to such developments. In under the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) – addition, by participating in globally recognized international one of the important corporate social responsibility initiatives as a signatory, we aim to take part in such global initiatives worldwide. With this signature, Akbank takes activities. responsibilities such as respect for human rights, providing a safe and healthy work environment, protecting Our memberships in associations and unions, as well as the the environment, offering sustainable values and benefits local and global initiatives we signed within the framework of to employees and the society by means of policies and sustainability are grouped below on the basis of relatedness: practices that cover transparent corporate management. Thus Akbank pledges to fulfill its duties in creating a more • The Banks Association of Turkey humanistic globalization. • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) • Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) • Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society (TEİD) Contribution to Development of Public Policy • European Union Green Banking in the Mediterranean We participate in and support forums, conferences and task Project forces to meet our stakeholders such as customers and legislators, to closely follow the agenda, to identify trends, • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and to improve and adapt our products and services in • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) accordance with stakeholder expectations. We also sponsor Sustainable Development Task Force events that are in parallel with our corporate policy. • İstanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability Index (ISESI) Akbank senior management holds negotiations on issues Project such as economy and finance at the level of Presidency and • The Banks Association of Turkey, Role of Financial Prime Ministry within the scope of leader communications. Industry in Sustainable Growth Task Force In 2012, Mrs. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer, Chairman of the Board of Akbank, was granted the honor of Commander of the Most • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the name of • Cancun and Durban Communiqués drawn prior to Queen Elizabeth II in recognition of her active and efficient Conference of the Parties to the United Nations contribution to developing and strengthening the relations Framework Convention on Climate Change to make a between the United Kingdom and Turkey. call of action to governments from the private sector • The Prince of Wales's Corporate Leaders Group on Mrs. Dinçer is also a member of the Chatham House Board Climate Change (CLG) of Trustees within “Chatham House – the Royal Institute of International Affairs”, which is one of the world’s leading • Climate Platform and Turkish Leaders Group on Climate think-tanks. Mrs. Dinçer shares her personal experiences Change established by REC and TÜSİAD and opinions on issues such as Turkey’s economic and strategic role, economy and globalization with other • Interbank Card Center (BKM) members of the Board of Trustees. • Visa Colorful Horizons • Credit Cards Registry Office Activities We Support • Association of Corporate Communicators Our Bank supports various activities focusing on environmental impacts, economic and social development • Association of Advertisers issues. Representatives of the Government, Legislators, • İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts Supranational and International institutions as well as local • Private Sector Volunteers Association and international institutions are among the participants of the conferences that we sponsor. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Examples of activities we supported and participated in 2012 are given below. Activity Content Forum İstanbul Akbank is the strategic partner to Forum İstanbul Platform since 2009 and 2012’s theme was “Living in Crisis or Overcoming the Crisis?”. With ever-increasing effectiveness, Forum İstanbul is an international platform that discusses political and economic trends. Participants are senior executives of national and international companies, academicians, politicians, senior executives of non-governmental organizations. Around 1,000 people participated in the 2012 activity. (Sponsorship and a speech) Tatlıdil Forum The Turkish-British “Tatlı Dil” (mellifluence) Forum was organized by the Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) on 12-14 October 2012. 150 people, including Turkish and British business people, politicians, academicians and press members participated in the event. Akbank was one of the main sponsors. (Sponsorship) Brand Finance Forum Brand Finance makes annual brand valuations both globally and in Turkey. These are considered to be one of the most recognized brand valuations in the business world. Brand Finance’s international valuation is published in The Banker as “The World’s Most Valuable Banking Brands” and the one in Turkey is published in the Capital magazine. Around 100 participants mainly composed of senior executives of national and international companies, academicians, politicians and senior executives of non-governmental organizations attended the meeting. (Sponsorship) İstanbul Chamber of Business world and public sector showed great interest in the event that we organized together Industry Congress with İstanbul Chamber of Industry (İSO) with the aim of continuing efficient cooperation, developing relations with potential customers, promoting our products at the booth built in the venue. (Sponsorship) Climate Change Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Global climate change, which is one of the most important Carbon Disclosure Project is a global initiative that was challenges that the Earth faces, is a material issue for Akbank. started in the year 2000 with the purpose of collecting The fight against climate change resulting from greenhouse and sharing information to allow companies, investors, gas emissions has become an important item in the agendas and governments to take measures against the threat of of numerous corporations and institutions in recent years and climate change. we also took steps to assume responsibility in this area as of CDP is a voluntary-based initiative that aims to create 2009. Our efforts continued with the same pace in 2012. transparency in greenhouse gas emissions and increase public awareness and consciousness on the issue. As Akbank is a pioneering private sector corporation that the only independent international institution to globally is committed to reporting greenhouse gas emissions in report how climate change-induced risks are managed accordance with the international standards. We aim to by companies, CDP operates on behalf of 722 corporate ensure that awareness of other institutions and corporations investors that manage global assets of USD 87 trillion. in our country on climate change increases, positive changes are made to reduce emissions, and public awareness is Every year, member institutions and corporations report improved. the strategies and policies they apply in their struggle against climate change, amount of greenhouse gases Among our important initiatives in terms of climate change they emitted, and their targets to reduce these emissions is the support we have provided in the last three years for to the public and investors. These data and information are shared with a large audience, including corporate the implementation of the global Carbon Disclosure Project investors, companies, public policy leaders, public (CDP) in Turkey. As a participant to the project carried out by institutions, and academicians. Sabancı University, the steps and the measures we took are the major indicators of the importance we attach to the issue. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY As in previous years, Akbank sponsored the launch event we take certain precautions to measure and reduce carbon of “CDP Turkey” Report in 2012 and supported the event emissions resulting from our operations and business with a speaker. With the participation of approximately 100 travels. people -mainly academicians, NGOs, and private company representativesthe Report was announced. This Report Carbon Management in Our Operations contains analysis of answers given by Turkish companies Following our participation in Carbon Disclosure Project participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project and the main in 2009, the importance of measuring greenhouse gas trends in Turkey with regards to climate change. emissions (in equivalent carbon dioxide terms) of our operations and mitigation activities has increased. With the Climate Change Management aim of measuring, calculating, reducing, and monitoring Our solution strategies for the global climate change are greenhouse gas emissions resulting from electricity and fuel shaped by the Corporate Governance Committee that use in our buildings and from fuels used in our employees’ directly reports to our Board of Directors. In addition, the business and training travels, Akbank has initiated certain International Advisory Board, which includes Lord Stern, internal practices. In 2012, we launched a system to one of the world’s leading experts in climate change, systematically monitor and report energy consumption and also contributes to the Bank’s vision. Investor Relations greenhouse gas data of around 1,000 Akbank branches. and Sustainability Department ensures coordination In time, with this system we will be able to measure and and management of the issue within our Bank. Other monitor these data. (Detailed information on energy and departments such as Branch Operations, Architectural carbon management is given in the “Our Operations and the Works, and Personnel Management are responsible Environment” section of this Report.) for collecting data, including energy consumption and implementation of energy saving practices. We share the Bank’s climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emissions with stakeholders by attaching Risks and Opportunities the CDP Report to our Sustainability Report. We submitted Human-induced greenhouse gas emissions, which are the third Report to the CDP Secretariat in June 2012 and we believed to cause climate change, bring along some risks. aim to publish the fourth one in 2013. These risks affect not only Akbank but also the whole society. For instance, heat waves of increasing frequency Our Carbon-Focused Products and Services and density, floods, droughts, and extreme weather In addition to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions conditions are among the physical risks. This impact on the resulting from our Bank’s operations, we offer various physical environment can have negative effects on industries products and services with the aim of encouraging the such as forestry, fishery, agriculture, health, tourism, customers that we provide loans to make energy savings and and construction. Climate change laws, legislation and thus to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Products regulations that have either been put into or will probably including Akbank Energy-Friendly Loans are given in detail be put into effect in our country and the world -including under the sub-title of “Climate-Friendly Loans” in the “Value the European countries we do business withhave the risk Added to Our Customers” section of this Report. of legal incompliance and extra investment costs to fight climate change. It is believed that companies with high greenhouse gas emissions will be affected by the mentioned legal regulations. These may include energy companies, shipping and aviation industries. In Akbank, we handle climate change-induced risks at various platforms. We are taking all necessary actions to manage these risks that we foresaw on time in the best way and to transform them from threats to opportunities. We are especially doing the necessary groundwork in order to follow recently updated legal regulations on energy efficiency and renewable energy in late 2010 and to comply with these regulations. In addition, we continue to offer products and services on relatively favorable terms in order to encourage our corporate customers to benefit from opportunities in energy efficiency and renewable energy. On the other hand, 34 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 WITHIN THE SCOPE OF SUSTAINABILITY TRAININGS, WE HAVE REACHED 6,189 AKBANK EMPLOYEES IN PERSON SINCE 2011 AND INFORMED THEM ON HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS, ENVIRONMENT, AND ANTI-CORRUPTION. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK Corporate governance in Akbank has been structured in In 2012, the Investor Relations and Sustainability Department accordance with national and international standards. attended a total of 26 domestic and foreign investor Corporate governance in our Bank covers the following: conferences together with executive management of Akbank • Our relations with shareholders, and had meetings with approximately 300 international investment funds and 4 rating institutions. Also, more than • Our public disclosure and transparency policy, 500 questions posed by investors and analysts via telephone • Roles, responsibilities, and rights of the Board of and e-mails were answered. Directors, • Relations with beneficiaries. Information on the General Assembly meetings is announced in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette, in a While relations with beneficiaries (in other words, national newspaper, on the Bank’s website, at the Public stakeholders) are covered in another section of the Report, Disclosure Platform www.kap.gov.tr, e-GOVERNANCE the other three subjects have been detailed in this section. Corporate Governance and Investor Relations Portal on the Central Registry Agency www.mkk.com.tr, and on the e-GEM Electronic General Assembly System at least three In Turkey, Akbank is the first bank weeks before the event. The Annual Report is submitted • to publicly announce its dividend policy (2003) to the shareholders through our Bank’s website, at the Shareholder Transactions Subdivision, as well as at the • to announce its Corporate Governance Principles in its Ankara, Adana and İzmir Commercial Branches three weeks annual report (2003) before the General Assembly. • to announce its Corporate Governance Principles in its website (2004) According to Akbank Articles of Association, shareholders • to repurchase its founders’ shares (2005) may assign another shareholder as a representative with a right to vote. Article 64, paragraph (a) of the Articles of Association says shareholders may exercise their right to vote either in person or through another person or Relations with Shareholders and Investors shareholder at General Assemblies. Akbank management aims to have a transparent and close communication with its shareholders; therefore, its principle General Assemblies are held in Akbank Head Office (Sabancı is to be fair to all shareholders. The main goal is to make Center) in a way that increases participation of shareholders, Akbank shares attractive to existing shareholders and avoids injustice, and allows for participation with a potential investors as well as to ensure that these shares are minimum cost for shareholders. Those who have the right predictable investment tools. to participate in the Bank’s General Assembly meetings may also vote via the Electronic General Assembly System. In order to manage and strengthen relations with both existing and potential shareholders, Akbank established an Our Public Disclosure Policy “Investor Relations Group” in 1996. The Investor Relations Akbank abides by the regulations of the Capital Markets and Sustainability Department (IRSD) replies all questions Board (CMB) and İstanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) in terms of that are not related to commercial secrets, taking the public disclosure. principle of equality into consideration and thus it is ensured that the Bank management and shareholders are in The Bank’s Public Disclosure Policy has been formed by continuous communication. In addition, there is a “Financial the Board of Directors within the framework of the CMB Accounting and Shareholders Transactions Directorate” in Corporate Governance Principles, and then approved and Akbank to facilitate monitoring the rights of shareholders. announced to the public on Akbank’s Website. The Board of Directors is authorized and responsible for informing the The Investor Relations and Sustainability Department public, as well as for monitoring, supervising, and improving is responsible for presenting the Bank’s performance the public disclosure policy. The Financial Accounting and strategies accurately and transparently to existing and Shareholder Transactions Sub-Division and Investor and potential investors. IRSD also plays an active role Relations and Sustainability Department as well as the in facilitating protection and use of shareholders’ Corporate Communications Department are assigned rights – especially the rights of getting information and to supervise and monitor all issues regarding public examining the data. The Department informs investors on disclosures. environmental, social and economic sustainability. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK Akbank Website, material disclosures, Akbank branches, Call CEO to define the agenda of the meeting. Information and Center, social media (Twitter, facebook), media, advertising documentation on the agenda are presented to the Members and promotion campaigns, Annual Report and Sustainability of the Board prior to the meeting. Report are the most important platforms to inform shareholders. In order for the Board of Directors to make a resolution, one more than half of its members must attend the meeting. Therefore all resolutions are made with the majority of Compliance Report for Corporate Governance Principles members attending the meeting. Negotiations of the Board is available at: are routinely recorded by a secretary selected amongst the http://www.akbank.com/2024.aspx members or by someone hired outside the Bank. Minutes must be signed by attendees and if there are opponent Akbank Public Disclosure Policy is available at: members, the reason of opposition to the resolution must http://www.akbank.com/en/corporate-governance/ be stated in the minutes which must be signed by the voter. disclosure-policy.aspx Board Members are not entitled to have weighted votes and/ or to veto resolutions. Akbank Board of Directors Roles and Responsibilities of the Board Structure of the Board Akbank Board of Directors manages and represents the As of the end of 2012 there are three executive and seven Bank and makes strategic decisions considering its longnon-executive members in Akbank Board of Directors. term benefits by implementing a rational and cautious risk Chairman of the Board is also an Executive Member management approach that balances the Bank’s risks, with responsibility in all issues. In 2012 two independent growth and revenues. members were assigned to the Board. According to the communiqué sent to the Banks Association of Turkey by The Board defines strategic objectives of the Bank, identifies the Capital Markets Board on 19 October 2012, in order to human and financial resources that the Bank needs and audits achieve compliance with Corporate Governance Principles, the performance of the management. The Board monitors the the changes in the articles of association and restructuring compliance of the Bank’s operations with legislation, articles of of board of directors at banks can be completed until the association, internal regulations, and identified policies. first ordinary general assembly, but no later than 30 June 2013. In conformity with this communiqué, in order to The Board of Directors operates in a transparent, accountable, achieve compliance with Corporate Governance Principles, fair, and responsible manner. The Board plays an active role in the changes in the Articles of Association and restructuring maintaining an efficient communication between the Bank and of the Board of Directors were approved in the Ordinary shareholders as well as in resolving potential disputes. General Assembly held on 28 March 2013. The Board of Directors approves Akbank’s annual budget According to the Capital Markets Board's corporate and strategic plan, closely monitors actual comparisons with governance principles audit committee members of banks the budget, receives information on deviations, and reviews are considered independent board members. Mr. Hayri the resolutions made. If there are any significant deviations Çulhacı and Mr. Yaman Törüner of the Audit Committee in macroeconomic conditions compared to the budget are independent members. As the other candidate for estimates, the budget is revised and resubmitted to the independent membership to Akbank Board, Mr. A. Aykut Board of Directors for approval. The Board monitors strategic Demiray was presented for approval in the Ordinary General goals, budget targets and actual figures on a daily, weekly or Assembly held on 28 March 2013. With this Assembly, monthly basis, depending on the nature of the issue. number of independent members in the Board of Directors increased to three. The Bank’s administrative structure and organization is given in the third section of the Articles of Association. There is a secretariat for informing and communicating This section explains roles and capacities of the Board with the Members of the Board of Akbank. The Board Members and other executives: Roles and responsibilities meets at least twelve times a year. Board Members pay of the Board of Directors are subject to the provisions of the attention to participating and contributing to every meeting. Turkish Commercial Code and Banking Law as well as to the The Chairman consults to other Board Members and the provisions of the Articles of Association. * The “Communiqué Regarding the Identification and Implementation of Corporate Governance Principles” (Serial: IV, No: 56) issued by the Capital Markets Board on 30 December 2011 in the Official Gazette numbered 28158. 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK Committees within the Board of Directors In Akbank’s Board of Directors, there are various Updated information on committee members is available at: committees for different tasks. In addition to such http://www.akbank.com/2034.aspx committees, Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control and Compliance Directorate, and Risk Management Department directly report to the Board of Directors. Rights of the Board Members Remuneration policy of the Bank is implemented in Akbank’s Executive Management Committee evaluates the accordance with the regulations by the Banking Regulation Bank’s financial data, position in the sector, profitability of and Supervision Agency (BRSA) and the CMB. Basis of business units, and new business developments . remuneration for the Board Members and senior executives are communicated at the Bank’s website. The Audit Committee helps the Board in the performance of supervision and surveillance activities; it also monitors the According to the Akbank Articles of Association, Members operation and competence of internal systems as well as of the Board of Directors are paid a monthly fee or accounting and reporting systems. remuneration is fixed by the General Assembly. In addition, the portion of the Bank’s dividend to be paid to the Chairman Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) was established in and Board Members within the scope of the Ordinary 2009 with the aim of monitoring compliance with corporate General Assembly Meeting resolutions is stated. Executive governance principles and supervising the implementation members are also paid 12 salaries and four bonuses of corporate social responsibility activities, under the annually. These payments are determined annually by the name of “Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Board of Directors. The Banking Code limits loans to be Committee”. In 2013, “nomination” task was also given to granted by Akbank to the Board Members and they are not the Committee and its name was changed to “Corporate granted any loans against this mandate. Governance Committee”. The Committee is responsible for ensuring, monitoring and communicating compliance with Akbank’s Corporate Management Principles; monitoring Akbank International Advisory Board the operations of the Investor Relations and Sustainability The Akbank International Advisory Board was established Department; creating a transparent system to identify, with the aim of monitoring global and local economic evaluate and train suitable candidates for the Board of developments and making strategic inferences for Akbank. Directors; and working on related policies and strategies. The Board consists of a total of 12 Turkish and foreign Members of the Remuneration Committee are responsible members, each with profound knowledge and experience for monitoring, auditing, and reporting remuneration in their areas. Mr. Kemal Derviş, former President of the operations on behalf of the Board of Directors. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Committee meets at least twice a year. The chairman and former Minister of Economic Affairs in Turkey, and currently majority of the members of the Committee are independent Vice President for global economy in the Brookings Institute Board Members. and Member of the International Board of Overseers of Sabancı University, is the Chairman of the Akbank The Credit Committee is a loan assignment resolution International Advisory Board. The Akbank International center that examines loan offers which have passed loan Advisory Board met twice in 2012. At these meetings, latest processes of the General Directorate in terms of compliance trends in the global economy, main trends in monetary and with legal regulations, banking principles, the Bank’s goals finance policies, and current opportunities for the Turkish and loan policies. economy were discussed with a global perspective. Executive Risk Committee (ERC) is responsible for creating risk policies, identifying methods to measure and manage Updated information on Board Members is available at: risks, setting and monitoring suitable risk limits. All risk policies are put down in writing and integrated into the longhttp://www.akbank.com/international-advisoryterm overall strategy of the Bank. board.aspx The Asset-Liability Committee (ALC) is chaired by the CEO and is responsible for the daily liquidity and cash management. ALC meets at least twice a week to discuss the latest developments in the economy and the markets. It is also responsible for devising investment, pricing, and funding strategies. 38 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 WE HAVE ONCE AGAIN PROVED THAT AKBANK PRODUCES LONGTERM, SUSTAINABLE AND FORWARD-LOOKING SOLUTIONS BASED UPON INFORMED, ETHICAL, AND RELIABLE DECISIONS AND CREATES LONG-LASTING VALUES, SHOWS RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND INVESTS IN THE COMMUNITY. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE Foreseeing risks, managing them with professional maintaining required liquidity resources to perform legal proficiency, and ensuring compliance have been among liabilities in a timely manner to depositors, creditors and the most important building blocks and superiorities in corporations that it has made a commitment to. The Bank Akbank’s corporate culture since its foundation. protects itself from any negative impacts to be caused by liquidity risks thanks to its widespread deposit base, robust It is primarily the responsibility of the Board of Directors capital structure, and varied foreign borrowing sources. to establish and ensure operation of an effective risk In addition, extra liquidity sources are made available with management system throughout Akbank. In parallel to limits allocated by the Central Bank, ISE Repo Market and this responsibility, the Board performs necessary actions the Settlement and Custody Bank as well as the liquid to identify the Bank’s basic approach to risks and risk securities portfolio in hand. By being cautious in foreign management policies. Audit Committee and Executive Risk currency liquidity management, reserves sufficient to fulfill Committee established within the Board of Directors assist liquidity needs are maintained. the Board in fulfilling and monitoring responsibilities. Risk Management, Internal Control and Internal Audit units that Management and monitoring of market and liquidity risks had report directly to the Board are responsible for coordination an increasingly important role in the cautious and farsighted and assessment of achieving the expected effectiveness. management of the probable negative impacts of the crises and challenges experienced recently in the global economy. All Akbank employees are responsible for compliance with policies and strategies drawn by the Board of Directors, for effective management of risks related to their own areas of Credit Risks operation, and for taking necessary actions to comply with All banking products with credit risks (such as credit the legislation. placements and commitments to customers, letters of credit) are managed with assistance from cautious loan Risk Management policies and procedures in Akbank. In all credit transactions, loan quality (credit worthiness), purpose of use, and Akbank’s risk policies are made in relation to the Bank’s environmental and social effects are assessed via an internal long-term strategies and targets as well as to the quality and customer rating system. Sector, customer, loan type, quantity of activities. In all cases -including capital allocation, customer segment-based limits are identified in order to portfolio/investment preferences, new product and activity monitor credit risks. As explained in the “Value Added to Our decisionsrisk management, compliance with legislation, Customers” section of this Report, a risk analysis section environmental and social impacts are taken into consideration. that also allows evaluation of environmental risks has been included in loan packages in 2011 for project financing, We continuously evaluate risks that we may face during our corporate and commercial customer segments. activities and update policies, procedures, and practices required to manage these risks effectively. Such updates are performed by closely following and implementing changes, Reputation Risks innovations, arrangements and models in internationallyReputation risk is a significant risk in terms of sustainability. recognized risk management principles. All of the analyses, All Akbank employees, notably the Board of Directors, are calculations, simulations, scenarios, stress tests and other held responsible for the management of this risk. Within the efforts play a determinant role in the strategic decisions scope of the management of this risk, policies and practices made by our Bank’s Board of Directors and senior executive were identified (including areas such as full compliance management. with legislation, establishing and exercising trust-based relationships with stakeholders, efficient and fast solutions The issues below come to the fore when sustainability in risk to customer complaints) and these have been put down in management is considered: writing. Akbank Ethical Principles serve as an important guide in this sense. Market Risks Market risks emerging due to fluctuations in foreign New Products and Services Risks exchange rates, interest rates, and market prices of stocks In addition to risks identified for existing products and are measured by using internationally-recognized models. activities, risks that may arise from development of new Limits are identified for the Bank or Group and compliance products and services are also assessed. Potential financial, with these limits is continuously monitored. operational, legal and reputation risks of newly-developed products or services; methods to be used in measuring Liquidity Risks and managing these risks; and control mechanisms to be Akbank has created a liquidity management framework for established are identified with contribution from related 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE departments of the Bank. Since 2011, “New Product and including Service Evaluation Committee” comprising managers of • Identification of functional differences, separation of the all departments involved in product development decides functions of marketing and operations on the suitability of each new product and service in terms • Documentation of job definitions and specific of legislation and technical qualifications. When the Board responsibilities in the control system of each employee at of Directors approves the extensive risk assessment made every level by the Committee, necessary actions are taken for risk • Documentation of all workflows and checkpoints management. throughout the Bank via the Business Process Operational Risks Management (BPM) Operational risks are among the most important and • Establishing information systems that are in compliance extensive risks in banking. In general, operational risks with the volume and quality of the Bank’s activities result from overlooking errors and irregularities due • Establishing effective and comprehensive communication to failures in the control of business processes, bank channels, hearing suggestions of employees on processes management’s and employees’ failure to act in accordance and activities, and implementing them with the time and conditions, errors and irregularities in IT systems, or natural disasters. In Akbank, mechanisms such Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance as differentiated and diversified controls, insurance, and In October 2012, Internal Control Center and the Compliance limits are used in the management of risks related to all risk Unit responsible for prevention of laundering proceeds categories, mainly legal and reputation risks. of crime were merged to operate as the Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance. The Directorate performs Legal Risks periodical controls in branches and the Head Office Operating flawlessly in terms of compliance with Departments to measure the effectiveness and adequacy legislation is a fundamental priority for us. For following of internal controls performed during the execution of the legislation related to the banking sector and adaptation to Bank’s operations and to see whether the internal controls developments and changes, various departments work to are in conformity with the laws and internal legislation and ensure compliance in the Bank’s system infrastructure, are performed effectively and efficiently. The Directorate business processes, rules, and limits. also works to establish control systems in required areas. Internal Control and Internal Audit System The Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance attaches Main objective of Akbank’s internal control system is to importance to preventive approaches. In addition, results ensure that the Bank’s assets are protected, operations of the Directorate’s operations are discussed not only at are performed effectively, efficiently, and in compliance quarterly Control Committee meetings, but also at weekly with legislation, and a reliable and integrated accounting meetings with the related Board Member; probable risks are and financial reporting system is established. All Bank taken under control while still at a “potential” level. employees, notably the Board of Directors, are held responsible for the establishment and execution of an The control personnel working at 35 different points in effective internal control system. The Audit Committee Akbank execute internal control activities. All branches of assists the Board of Directors’ activities in this context. the Bank are checked via in situ controls and a permanent internal control employee works at the Malta Branch. The most important component of an effective internal control system is the control environment. The control Akbank employees are informed on new legislation, environment in Akbank is defined within certain rules and compliance process is monitored, new products and services designed to contribute to all business processes. In addition, (prior to approval by the Board of Directors) and internal arrangements on issues such as organization structure, regulations (prior to issuing) are assessed and reported; Ethical Principles, distribution of authority and responsibility technical controls of the Bank’s information security and IT are also performed. Our employees are encouraged to infrastructure systems are also performed; and an active identify and assess risks that may prevent the Bank from role is played in redesigning of business processes and reaching its targets and are continuously reminded of the identifying additional checkpoints. importance of control activities in managing such risks. The Board of Internal Auditors In line with this understanding, effectiveness of the internal The Board of Internal Auditors performs audits and control system is ensured by using certain mechanisms, evaluations in order to ensure that the Bank’s activities are in accordance with legislation as well as with strategies and 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE policies identified by the Board of Directors, productivity Akbank operates within the framework of the “Know Your is improved, service quality is enhanced, effectiveness Customer Policy” (“Know Your Customer Policy and Principles and competence of the Bank’s internal control and risk to Prevent Laundering of Proceeds of Crime and Financing of management systems as well as corporate governance Terrorism”) prepared in accordance with national legislation processes are retained. as well as principles, regulations, and standards set by international authorities. In line with the standards issued Internal audits are performed in a way that covers all units, by the United Nations Security Council and Financial Action processes and operations and are planned with a riskTask Force, systemic controls are made to prevent mediating oriented point of view. Examples to the work done by the in banking transactions for laundering proceeds of crime, Board of Internal Auditors are evaluating the compliance of financing of terrorism, and illegal activities. branch transactions with the provisions and liabilities stated in internal and external legislation investigating; analyzing Compliance in Product Promotions and and assessing existing or probable, actual or potential risks Marketing Communication resulting from negligence, misconduct, fraud etc. in our All kinds of communication operations performed with the branches, units and affiliates; and eliminating risks. aim of promotion and marketing of banking products and services are subject to various laws and regulations. Every The Board of Internal Auditors examines the reliability and employee who communicates with customers, including the integrity of the Bank’s information systems and checks Corporate Communications Department, is responsible for whether information is accessed on time. It performs the compliance of our communication activities with the laws information security audits based upon international and regulations. standards. It also puts in effort to identify and solve probable irregularity notifications from legal bodies (including those In all activities regarding product promotions, sales and via the Ethics Line), the Bank itself, and our customers. The marketing communications (including advertisements Board of Internal Auditors also investigates and resolves all and sponsorships), our priority is to abide by the generally probable fraud notifications. accepted ethical rules, privacy of personal information, laws and regulations (Turkish Commercial Code, Consumer As a result of the operations of the Board of Internal Protection Law, Directive for Commercial Advertisement Auditors, findings are identified through internal control and and Announcement Principles and Codes of Practice by the suggestions are made to develop the processes, increase Turkish Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Banking Law, efficiency, and strengthen internal systems. Furthermore, Capital Market Law, regulations of the Banking Regulation actions taken accordingly are actively monitored. and Supervision Agency regarding our products, and regulations by the Banks Association of Turkey and Interbank Results of the operations by the Board of Internal Auditors Card Center), industry standards, all rules of institutions that and the Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance are we are a member of, such as Visa and MasterCard. regularly monitored and evaluated by the Control Committee and Board of Directors. In promotion and marketing of our products and services, we pay maximum attention to avoid any loss of rights of Compliance our customers. For instance, in credit card commercials Although a variety of units in Akbank is responsible for broadcast on TV, we make sure that informative subtitles are following related legislation on banking and ensuring used and the size of letters as well as the flow rate of subtitles compliance in a timely and holistic manner, each and every is appropriate and legible. We announce our campaigns and employee is responsible for compliance. innovations about our products not only on our website, but also via e-mail and SMSs to customers who prefer such In terms of sustainability, two compliance areas should be communication. especially emphasized for the banking industry: Within the framework of our clear pricing policy and by taking Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime legal requirements into consideration, we announce terms and conditions of all of our banking products and services, Within the scope of “prevention of laundering proceeds of information such as fees, commissions, and interest rates in crime and financing of terrorism”, Akbank’s customers, various media, including our website. customer transactions, products, and services are evaluated with a risk-based approach in parallel with legislation. In this context, implementation details of precautions and For more information please visit: principles aimed to identify, rate, monitor, evaluate, and http://www.akbank.com/faiz-oran/ucret-komisyon.aspx prevent potential risks are fulfilled by considering the (available only in Turkish) liabilities in relation to knowing the customer. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE Secure Banking Committees including the Security Committee and Information Security Committee monitor such potential Security in banking products and services can be addressed threats and test our systems, follow technological under two main areas: confidentiality and safety of customer innovations, and evaluate all kinds of upgrading and information and information safety. development alternatives. In addition, to increase awareness, we continuously inform customers on measures Responsibility in providing secure banking services begins as they can take and make announcements in our website soon as the product or service is sold and continues for the regarding the threats they must pay attention to. entire lifecycle of it. Any negative experience in any phase of this cycle could result in losing a customer and adversely Safety measures for the Internet banking can be found at: affect our reputation and thus, “secure banking” principle is http://www.akbank.com/consumer/freedomfundamental to Akbank’s services. banking/internet-banking-security.aspx Ensuring confidentiality of customer information is a For more information on the VirtualCard please visit: requirement by the law as well as by our Bank’s rules and http://www.axess.com.tr/kartlar/axess-sanalkart ethical principles. Therefore, only related and authorized (available only in Turkish) employees can have access to customer information and transactions made using such information are regularly monitored and recorded. Using customer information Business Continuity Management outside the Bank is limited only to legally authorized people and institutions. In order to ensure continuity of critical business processes as well as to ensure recovery of the system in case of failure, Our new employees are trained in information security to prevent customer losses, and to maintain corporate when they first start working and are regularly updated reputation, Akbank executes the Business Continuity on the issue throughout their careers. Surveys are held to Management Program. This Program is devised on the basis measure our employees’ level of awareness in information of business continuity and disaster management system security. In accordance with the results of these surveys, we defined in the British Standard Institute’s internationally plan information security awareness activities and provide recognized BS 25999 Standard and was updated in 2012 training and information to employees on issues to be paid following the release of ISO 22301:2012 Social Security attention to. Business Continuity Management System standard. In Akbank, organization chart, roles and responsibilities Operations held in cooperation with companies providing for business continuity is defined clearly. The Business support services should be approved after security Continuity Committee that meets twice a year monitors processes are applied and only those that meet the security the performance of the Business Continuity Management standards of Akbank are approved. Program, checks and guides the operations, and provides the resources required for business continuity. Emergency As a part of secure banking, to ensure maximum financial plans are devised to handle actions to be taken in security of our customers, our systems are protected with extraordinary cases in a detailed way. There is a Disaster various information security measures and technologyRecovery Center in İzmir in order to continue critical based threats are regularly monitored. Additional measures services if the IT Center fails to operate. such as sector, transaction, and total sum limits and multidigit password use are employed especially in products Disaster drills are performed every year to measure the including the Internet, telephone, and credit card products. efficiency of business continuity plans, increase internal VirtualCard, Mobil Signature, SMS Agent and the “Security awareness on business continuity, and test the operability of Picture” proving that the website seen on the screen belongs critical operations via the Disaster Recovery Center. to Akbank are among the safety measures we take for customers who want to shop safely on the Internet. Ethical Banking We cooperate with security companies to take measures To be able to continue operations and to maintain high against virtual attacks that may have adverse effects not only stakeholder confidence, we, as Akbank, expect employees on Akbank, but also on the banking sector itself. As a result and stakeholders with whom we cooperate to abide by of such cooperation, Global Finance gave Akbank the “Best the Bank’s high ethical standards. It is a priority for us to Information Security Initiatives” award in the “World’s Best announce these expectations to every related person and to Internet Banks” survey in 2012. monitor compliance. 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE Ethical Principles The Ethical Principles regulating the attitude and conduct of Bank employees, as well as their relations with persons and institutions within or outside the Bank are announced after approval of the Board of Directors. Akbank’s Ethical Principles are announced in our website and Corporate Portal; all of our employees also receive obligatory e-learning on these principles. The aim of these activities is to ensure that the Ethical Principles are internalized. Updated in 2011, Akbank’s Ethical Principles are composed of four main subjects. The first subject covers our responsibility towards the society and the environment in accordance with our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Akbank’s Ethical Principles can be found at: http://www.akbank.com/2038.aspx Notifications of Suspected Violations of Ethical Principles In case of suspected violations of Ethical Principles, employees and stakeholders can notify Akbank’s related units within the framework of the confidentiality principle via various channels. Our stakeholders can inform the Board of Internal Auditors of suspected violations directly at our Call Center 444 25 25. Such notifications can also be made through e-mails to be sent to etik@akbank.com. If our employees believe that there are practices contradicting to the Ethical Principles in their units, but refrain from taking actions as being part of the same unit, they can use our Ethics Line to solve the problem. The existence of the Ethics Line, areas of practice, means to reach the line are announced to all employees regularly via e-mails. Employees may have access to the Ethics Line any time of the day via telephone and e-mail. Callers are not required to give their names and if they do, the information is kept confidential. All notifications are evaluated by the Ethics Line Officer (an auditor assigned by the Board of Internal Auditors). The notification is transferred to the Board of Internal Auditors in cases that require examining or investigation, otherwise to the Executive Vice President (EVP) of the related business unit to take necessary actions. In accordance with the disciplinary regulations, any employee found to be failing to abide by our Ethical Principles despite all communication and training efforts, warnings and measures is subject to various disciplinary actions, including discharge. 44 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 16,315 AKBANK EMPLOYEES ARE HERE TO MEET EXPECTATIONS OF OUR CUSTOMERS, -WITH HIGH PERFORMANCE IN SECURE, ACCOUNTABLE & TRANSPARENT, ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY BANKING PRACTICES BY USING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIESTO ENCOURAGE ART AND CULTURE AND TO SUPPORT GLOBAL INITIATIVES. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS In an era where banking has become a service to facilitate Commercial and SME Banking users’ lives and add value to them, it is a priority for Akbank Akbank’s SME Banking Department within the Commercial to understand customers well and to develop a variety and SME Banking Unit offers special products, services and of products and services that meet diversified needs. In solutions to small and micro sized businesses, whereas addition, we take into consideration the social, economic, the Commercial Banking Department offers the same to and most of all, environmental impacts of our products and medium sized ones. In 2012, the SME Banking Department services. In order to manage such impacts, we evaluate continued to offer innovative financial products and services various environmental and social criteria in our products and to small-scale businesses and to organize briefings and services. We invest in delivery channels to contribute to local various campaigns. The Commercial Banking Department economies and organize business development meetings contributes to increasing performance of its customers by for SMEs, which are the dynamos of the economy. We offering products that meet the needs of medium-scale implement various innovations to ensure that each member businesses and by establishing cooperation with various of the society has easier access to financial services. institutions. Customer Relationship Managers operating in our branches serve these customers. Core Banking Services Core banking services of Akbank include Consumer Banking Private Banking and Private Banking services for retail customers as well Since 2001, Akbank has been offering Private Banking as Commercial and SME Banking, and Corporate Banking services at nine private branches – five in İstanbul, the offered in line with the ever-changing needs of corporate rest in Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, and Adana. Akbank Private customers. Our International Banking unit provides foreign Banking team assists individuals with assets exceeding financing to customers. Credit cards we offer to customers TL 500,000 with their investment decisions, provides of every segment are also an important part of our services. tailor-made solutions when necessary, and serves its On the other hand, financial services that are out of the customers’ pension, insurance and leasing demands with scope of banking and capital markets investment services a single-station and specialized service in cooperation are provided by Akbank’s affiliates. with the Akbank Group companies. The team continuously monitors customers’ investment strategies and offers Consumer Banking special solutions with support of our Customer Relationship Akbank maintains its leading role in consumer banking Managers and a total of 10 investment consultants. with its customer-based services, constant innovation in technological infrastructure, and widespread branch We, as Akbank, pay attention to supporting our Private network. In consumer banking, the Bank’s principle is that Banking services with innovative solutions. For instance, each and every product and service offered is customerthe iPads used in customer visits give the chance to make oriented. Our consumer banking services is in continuous the best use of time and opportunities by instantly imaging development on the basis of customer satisfaction and in portfolio and market conditions. With our art consultancy line with the expectations of more than 12 million retail services, upon demand from customers, we support customers, requirements of the era, market conditions, and investments in art works through internationally recognized our social responsibility. auction houses so that such investments are made in the same way as those made using financial instruments. Corporate Banking When offering corporate banking services to national and Telephone Banking (Call Center) multi-national companies operating in Turkey, Akbank’s There has been an increase in the number of customers using aim is to be the major solution partner and main bank of Akbank Telephone Branch and Voice Response System at more than 6,000 corporate customers (as of 2012 year-end). 444 25 25 which allow consumer and corporate customers In line with this aim we provide our customers financial perform a number of core banking transactions quickly consultancy services first and most important of all in and easily. As one of the biggest call centers in the banking long-term investment financing as well as in treasury, sector, Akbank Call Center served nearly 5 million individual foreign trade, and cash management and we also offer them customers in 2012 with over 1,000 employees. financial solutions tailored to their needs. With the synergy created with AkInvestment, AkLease, AkInsurance, AvivaSA, Akbank AG (Germany) and Akbank (Dubai) Limited, Akbank’s corporate customers have access to a variety of financial products and services. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Responsible Practices and Risk Management Distribution of Loans Provided for Customers, by Sectors in Loans We offer our customers a wide array of loans for purposes Loans that Akbank provides for Corporate, Commercial and such as growing their businesses, increasing their sales SME Banking customers are evaluated in terms of various volumes, doing business abroad, company acquisitions and environmental and social criteria, based upon factors such mergers, and project financing. as the sum and source of loans. In addition, in accordance with our policies, we give priority to projects that allow Distribution of consolidated cash loans by sectors in 2012 transforming risks into opportunities. year-end is given in the table below. 18% 18% 16% 14% 12% 11% 10% 8% 8% 7% 7% 6% 6% 6% 5% 5% 4% 4% 4% 3% 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% White Goods and Cement Iron and Steel Maritime Energy Food Alcohol and Tobacco Pharmaceuticals Paper Chemicals Real Estate Finance Metal Freight Forestry Automotive Automotive-Sub Petrochemical Health Construction Technology Textile Telecommunication Commerce Tourism Transportation Construction Materials Appliances Implementation of Akbank’s Environmental are not granted any loans. In accordance with our Policies, and Social Policies considering that a project may cause severe and important impact on the environment, we request submission of Since 2010, projects with a loan sum exceeding USD 50 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) reports or proof million and with a term of over five years are subject to of exemption from EIA in financing projects in sectors “Akbank Environmental and Social Policies”. Project within the scope of the Environmental Impact Assessment financing loans with a sum less than USD 50 million are also Regulations. Among projects that require EIA approval evaluated in terms of environmental risks. With this system, certificate are long-term infrastructure projects that we aim to proactively and effectively manage potential have a high level of impact on the environment, such as environmental and social risks and opportunities during the hydroelectric power plants (HEPPs) and highways. project, including pre-project phase. Our branches, Pre-Credit Committee at the Head Office, Pursuant to Akbank’s Environmental and Social Policies, and Credits Business Unit are responsible for the evaluation we pay due attention that all elements stated in the United of loans in terms of compliance with the policies and Nations Global Compact are implemented by the customers preparation of the required action plans. Loans are approved that we grant loans to. For instance, in line with our social by the Credit Committee within the Board of Directors. criteria, businesses that are proved to employ child labor 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Engineers in the Credits Business Unit make field controls issues such as environmental and social assessment both during the evaluation of loan applications and and management; labor force and working conditions; during execution of projects – especially those requiring prevention and mitigation of pollution; public health, safety construction. In pre-project controls, issues such as and security; protection of biological diversity; sustainable project’s compliance with EIA and local community’s management of natural resources; and protection of reactions to the suggested project are investigated. During cultural heritage. Through SEMS, we evaluate and manage the project, main focus shifts to issues such as compliance the social and environmental risks of the projects of with occupational health and safety standards. the SME and Corporate customers that we finance with IFC loans. Akbank SEMS is managed by a committee Within the framework of Akbank Environmental and Social composed of representatives of Credits, Marketing and Policies, projects that allow transforming environmental Sales Management, International Banking, and Corporate risks into opportunities are given priority. Among these are Social Responsibility Departments, in the leadership of a renewable energy investments, waste recycling investments coordinator. In 2011, IFC gave environmental and social or those which reduce carbon emissions or improve efficiency. performance standards training to SEMS committee members and our teams that work in providing similar loans Environmental Risk Analysis of Corporate and and these activities were continued in 2012. Commercial Loans In 2011 Akbank initiated a new system to evaluate all risks EBRD Loans (including environmental ones) more efficiently and improve Loans that we offer to our customers via the European processes in loan applications that require approval of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) finance Credit Committee and the Board of Directors. With this renewable energy and energy saving projects. In addition, system, we began to employ Loan Analysis Managers and loan contracts include criteria that require identification and the number of these managers was increased in 2012. In mitigation of environmental and social impacts that such addition, their area of responsibility was enlarged to cover not projects may have in the related region. In projects that we only the loans that require senior level approval, but also all offer loans from EBRD, compliance with the requirements loan applications received by the corporate and commercial of national environmental, health and safety legislation as branches. These Loan Analysis Managers are responsible for well as with EBRD’s environmental and social performance investigating all risks to be evaluated at the loan application criteria is sought. EBRD offers independent project phase and for recording the results of the analyses in the consultancy to our customers and environmental and social application file. We aim to make sure that the team is better compliance audits are performed as well. equipped in terms of environmental and social risks in 2013. European Investment Bank Loans International Financial Resources That Support European Investment Bank (EIB) is an international financial Sustainability institution that aims to provide financing for sustainable With the business partnerships that we establish with investments in EU member and candidate countries. As international financial institutions, we aim to continuously an important business partner of EIB in Turkey, Akbank offer new loan opportunities to our customers and contribute obtained loans amounting to EUR 150 million to meet project to the economic growth in Turkey. Loans obtained from financing needs of commercial and corporate customers. international financial institutions such as IFC, EBRD, Loans to be offered to customers within the framework of and EIB are of environment-friendly nature and generally this loan will also be evaluated according to environmental support sustainable development. In such loans we sustainability criteria of EIB. require our customers to abide by a variety of social and environmental performance criteria depending on the source Climate-Friendly Loans of the loan. In addition, we provide our customers with Akbank offers a variety of loans to its customers both from financing from international sources for affordable loans to its own resources and by borrowing from international be used in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. financial institutions for the financing of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Akbank Social & Environmental Management System (SEMS) Energy-Friendly Loans and Project Financing Within the scope of the loan contract we signed with IFC in Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan is used generally for the 2010, we established the Akbank Social & Environmental financing of heating, cooling, renewal of lighting systems, Management System (SEMS), which is based upon IFC’s insulation of facades and conversion to environmentsocial and environmental performance standards. SEMS friendly energy sources of commercial real estates, such Social & Environmental Management System covers as factories. This loan is typically offered in the form of an 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS investment and operating capital loan. Available especially EBRD MidSEFF and TurSEFF Loans for businesses such as shopping malls, hospitals, hotels, Extension of the USD 60 million-worth Sustainable Energy cold storage houses, laundries, restaurants, and bakeries, Financing Loan (Sustainable Energy Financing Facility this loan supports progress in protecting and restoring -TurSEFF-Program) obtained from EBRD in 2010 to 38 the environment, using renewable energy sources, and customers was completed in April 2012. As a result of the improving energy efficiency. evaluation it made, EBRD gave Akbank excellence awards in areas such as being the first bank to completely extend As Akbank, while contributing to the development of the the TurSEFF fund and perform supplier financing and as the energy sector in Turkey, we also pay attention to the bank to reach the highest level of loan volume in renewable environmental impacts of energy generation projects. In line energy projects. with this policy, we continued our contributions to financing renewable energy generation projects in 2012. Wind Energy In 2011, EBRD granted Akbank a Mid-Size Sustainable Power Plant (WEPP) and Hydroelectric Power Plant (HEPP) Energy Financing Facility (MidSEFF) of USD 100 million with projects constitute an important part of our loan portfolio. In seven years maturity for financing mid-scale renewable 2012, financial support provided for such projects of our SME energy and energy saving projects in Turkey. If the Bank and Corporate customers had 65% share in our total energy deems appropriate, the maturity term can be extended to 12 project loan portfolio. years. We, as Akbank, continued to extend MidSEFF loans to customers for their renewable energy and energy saving projects in 2012. Examples of Energy Efficiency Projects In project financing loans, Akbank continuously increases In 2012, we obtained a TurAFF-TurSEFF II loan with a support for environment-friendly projects that also contribute maturity of 5 years from EBRD. The loan will be used to the Turkish economy. In addition to the Bank’s own in agriculture, renewable energy and energy efficiency. resources, we support renewable energy and energy efficiency projects with MidSEFF-TurSEFF funds obtained from EBRD. Agricultural part of the loan, which is TurAFF (Turkey Here are three examples of energy efficiency projects financed Agribusiness SME Financing Facility), is worth USD 12 by Akbank via TurSEFF Fund of EBRD in 2012: million and the TurSEFF II part to be used in other areas is worth USD 24 million. In Tarfaş farm belonging to the Sütaş Group, biogas obtained from the fermentation of animal wastes in anaerobic environments is used to generate electricity. This project also TurSEFF Loan and DU Electricity Project allows for producing organic manure from animal wastes. As a result of these investments, the facility which has a total By extending TurSEFF loans to our customers for financing installed capacity of 2.4 MW is expected to generate 16 GWh renewable energy projects, we create a resource with electricity annually and to reduce its annual carbon emission affordable interest rates and maturity while also contributing by 8,992 tons. to our country’s transition to low-carbon economy. 50% of the river-type hydropower plant built by our customer At The Zorlu Center Shopping Mall belonging to the Zorlu DU Electricity in accordance with legal requirements was Holding, electricity will be saved by using lighting systems financed by TurSEFF Loan extended through Akbank. With with higher energy efficiency. With this project, 10 GWh this project, DU Electricity annually achieves more than 7,500 electricity will be saved in one year and thus annual carbon tons reduction in carbon emissions. emission will be reduced by 5,620 tons. In two production facilities of Konya Şeker Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (a sugar production company) 4 energy efficiency projects will be implemented. In both facilities, bioethanol to be derived from fermentation of sugarcane wastes will be used For more information to generate energy. With these projects, annual electricity MidSEFF : http://www.midseff.com saving of 62 GWh is expected. A new investment will be made for condensing the carbon dioxide released during TurSEFF : http://www.turseff.org fermentation and thus emission of 30,187 tons of carbon dioxide will be prevented. As a result of these three projects, our customers will prevent 44,779 tons of carbon from being released to the atmosphere in a year. Our support for energy projects that reduce Turkey’s dependence on foreign countries and use local resources will increase. 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS IFC Securitization Loan together in order to structure the investments in a way that can be financed properly. At this stage, by cooperating with Extension of the IFC Securitization Loan of USD 75 million local and international banks as well as financial institutions granted by IFC to Akbank in 2010 was completed in 2012. such as IFC, EBRD, and EIB, we pay attention to creating a With this loan, renewable energy projects of our Corporate, financing structure that offers the greatest added value to all Commercial and SME customers were financed, regardless of parties, especially our customers. their business segments and also investments in equipment that provides energy efficiency and savings were financed. With our cautious loan policies applied so far, we, as Akbank, have one of the lowest non-performing loan ratios of the Project Financing industry. Instead of concentrating project financing loans on a single sector, we distribute them among sectors such In 2012, Akbank continued efforts to structure financing as energy, infrastructure, real estate, telecommunication, of many different “greenfield” projects in energy and real transportation, and petrochemicals in a balanced way. estate sectors, including Turkey’s leading infrastructure projects such as public-private partnership hospitals or Ratios of project financing distribution by sectors are given Gebze-İzmir Highway Project. in the charts below: We share our extensive information on project financing with customers at the project planning stage and draw roadmaps Size of the Project Financing Loan Sector-based Distribution USD million 4,000 334 5% 3,500 3,000 353 2,500 29% 41% 2,000 59 3,358 1,500 5% 2,329 1,000 1,636 140 20 % 500 382 414 Energy Purchasing Syndication Real Estate Infrastructure Energy Purchasing Real Estate Total Risk Balance Commitments Infrastructure Syndication 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Mutual foreign trade between Turkey and China increased Dialogue with Stakeholders – Public Specialization 20 times in the last 10 years and exceeded USD 24 billion by Commission the end of 2012. Number of Chinese companies operating in In parallel to the emergence of more available conditions Turkey and Turkish-Chinese joint companies is more than for investments and positive economic indicators in Turkey 450. Investments of Chinese companies in Turkey were more in recent years, number of investments increased and both than USD 450 million between 2007 and 2011. bids and privatizations held with public-private partnership gained momentum. Products and Services for SMEs SMEs amount to 99% of the businesses, create 78% of Implementation of planned investments such as highways employment, produce 60% of exports and 55% of added and bridges, health facilities, railways, rail systems, ports, value in Turkey and therefore they have an important role and airports can only be achieved with partnership models in economic development. They need not only financing that bring various stakeholders in the public and private support but also information and guidance in marketing, sectors together. In other words, effective public-private partnership processes that allow efficient and rational strategy, and innovation. We, as Akbank SME Banking, sharing of investment risks by stakeholders are necessary. create solutions to facilitate our SME customers’ banking In this sense, communication and cooperation between all transactions and to support them with innovative operations stakeholders will be the determining factor in efficiently that contribute to their growth. realizing bids and privatizations. Below are some of the new products, services, and solutions Within the scope of preparations for the 10th Development that we offer with the motto “SMEs for Turkey and Akbank Plan, stakeholders of the mentioned process came together for SMEs”. and formed the Specialization Commission. In 2012, this Commission brought together a number of executives from Special Packages, Funds, and Products for SMEs the private and public sectors under the umbrella of “PublicIn addition to our existing products, we offer approximately Private Cooperation Workshop”. In this workshop more than 20 product and service packages such as SME, Merchants, 70 participants (consisting of representatives of the State Entrepreneur, Tourism, and Jeweler Support Packages to Council, Privatization Authority, various ministries, related public institutions, local and foreign financial institutions, our customers of various segments, sectors and regions. and universities) came together to evaluate troubles of In these packages we offer not only advantages in banking the existing situation and exchanged opinions on how to transactions, but also loans that suit the company’s cash improve the investment environment. Thanks to its extensive flow and products and services that focus on sectoral needs. experience in the financing of such projects, Akbank also Almost in all packages an extra value is offered to customers participated in this workshop with its stakeholders. with 3-month advantages in banking transactions including transfer/EFT, check collection. Special Services for Corporate and Merchants Support Package Commercial Customers With the loan offered to merchants within the scope of the Merchants Support Package, financing needs of up to TL China Desk 100,000 are met with a flexible payment plan that fits the Akbank put its signature under another “first” among Turkish company’s cash flow. Merchants may benefit from special banks by creating a “China Desk” in cooperation with Bank interest rates for loans up to TL 25,000 with a maturity of 24 of China in order to offer all kinds of banking products months. Merchants Support Package includes products and and services to Chinese companies that are increasingly services such as check book for purchasing and payments, interested in Turkey. The China Desk will serve Chinese POS service for money collection via credit card, automatic companies that are partners with Turkish companies and payment order, legal payments including tax and Social that plan to make investments in our country. The China Desk Security Institution payments. was launched in September 2012 as the first contact point of Chinese companies in Turkey. Through the China Desk, SME Support Package Akbank offers companies that have or plan to have trade with this country banking services including foreign trade, SME Support Loan meets all financing needs of SME structured financing, treasury products, Yuan transactions, customers with maturities of up to 36 months. This Package and letters of guarantee. With the launch of the China Desk 2 includes products and services such as business credit card employees of the Bank of China were transferred to Akbank for company’s expenses, check book for purchasing and and started to work here permanently. payments, POS service for money collection via credit card, legal payments including tax and Social Security Institution 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS payments. “POS Plus Insurance” service that covers POS Other Support Packages and Practices machines and some other risk factors in the workplace Among the innovative solutions we offered to SMEs in 2012 is offered in cooperation with AkInsurance. There is also is the “Jeweler Support Package” created for jewelers. This “Workplace Insurance” that covers basic risks such as fire, package includes the “Gold Loan” with a maturity of up to 18 water-flooding incidents and theft within a certain limit and months and the “Golden Deposit Account” that jewelers can with affordable conditions. use to add value to their savings and that allows purchase of gold in grams. With our renewed “Tourism Support Cooperation with KOSGEB – “Loan Support Program in Package”, customers will use the Tourism Support Loan Centers of Attraction” as the operating capital for both their new investments Akbank cooperates with KOSGEB (Small and Medium and their needs in the new season. The Package includes Enterprises Development Organization) in the “Loan services and products such as check book, letter of Support Program in Centers of Attraction” with the aim of guarantee, Commercial Extra Money Loan, business credit strengthening the existing structure of tourism as well as card, and insurance as well as the Foreign Exchange POS creating opportunities for new investments and production that can operate using five different foreign exchange rates. capacities in the city of Erzurum. With this program, we offer In addition to these, we meet installment-based commercial loans with 0% interest rate to our SME customers, with all credit demands of up to TL 50,000 with our “Loan In a Day” the interest rate of the loan to be paid by KOSGEB. This loan system in order to support business schedules of SMEs. is of six-month non-refundable nature to be paid in equal quarterly installments with a 13-month term. Support for Entrepreneurship Akbank continues to support efforts to develop Loan Facilities for the Growing Anatolia entrepreneurship into a healthier structure and to enhance “Loan Facilities for the Growing Anatolia” is a program that opportunities for entrepreneurs. In 2012 we not only aims to reduce the development gap between some regions provided financing support, but also continued to offer a of Turkey. Created by the European Investment Bank and number of solutions adding value to the ecosystem for European Investment Fund, Loan Facilities for the Growing entrepreneurship. Examples of these are given in detail in Anatolia program offers financing opportunities to micro, “Our Community Investment” section of this Report. small and medium-scale businesses in 43 underdeveloped regions. As one of the five banks to mediate for this Support for Entrepreneurs Endeavor Program program, Akbank provides support to targeted businesses Within the scope of the cooperation with Endeavor, Akbank seeking financial support in areas such as new investments, continued to offer loans with advantages such as more operating capital, exports, etc. favorable collateral requirements, longer terms and lower interest rates to effective entrepreneurs. Golden Loans for Merchants Golden Loans for Merchants is a new product for SME Entrepreneur Support Package owners who choose to invest personal savings in gold. The The Entrepreneur Support Package aims to support new idle gold is deposited to Akbank Golden Account and not only entrepreneurs that have a high potential for creating brings extra gain to the owner but also is used as collateral employment. Within the package, entrepreneurs are surety. Golden Loans for Merchants can be used in meeting provided with Plus Money Loan to meet short-term cash installment-based commercial loan needs of SMEs with needs immediately, check book for purchasing goods and advantageous terms and without any guarantors. This loan making payments, and “Axess Business Entrepreneur” card, both allows bringing idle gold into use by the economy and which is the first of its kind in Turkey. Campaigns organized supports SMEs in achieving financial resources to develop for the Entrepreneur Support Package offer various commercial activities. opportunities for customers. Among these are 10,000 free SMSs for product promotion to the target audience, chipSMS Promotion money of TL 200 worth after the first payment made by using With the “SMS Promotion” practice as the first of its kind in Axess Business Entrepreneur card, 10 free bank transfers / Turkey, Akbank gives SMEs the opportunity to promote their EFT/check collection transactions monthly for a period of 3 companies and products to target audience free of charge. months, unlimited free bank transfer and EFT transactions By sending SMSs to potential customers in the region they in the Akbank Internet Branch. choose and with their own brands, SMEs have the chance to improve the recognition of their brands, grow their customer portfolio and increase sales. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Business Development in SMEs Cooperation with Chambers We implement our motto “SMEs for Turkey and Akbank for In order to support local economies and regional SMEs” through business development programs, informative development, we offer loans and other banking services with meetings, and cooperation specially designed for SMEs. favorable terms to SMEs by cooperating with chambers of industry and commerce and craftsmen in several cities and SME Export School First Step in Exports regions. We provide chamber members with services such With the “SME Export School First Step in Exports” project as Fee Collection System, Merchants Support Package, launched jointly with the Foreign Economic Relations SME Support Package, Commercial Loans in Installments, Board (DEİK), we continue our support for SMEs that want Workplace Loans, Investment Loans, Non-Cash Loans, and to expand into overseas markets. We inform SMEs that do Foreign Trade Financing with affordable terms and payment not make or have just started making exports about new conditions. So far, we signed cooperation contracts with more markets, business opportunities, government incentives for than 130 chambers of commerce and/or industry and unions exports, facilitators for exports practices. Within the scope of of chambers of merchants and craftsmen all around Turkey. the program, “Export Opportunities: New Sectors, Markets, Business Models and Incentives” meetings were held in the Supporting and Promoting Foreign Trade cities of Manisa, Uşak, and Elazığ in 2012. We, as Akbank, continue to offer elaborate and quick support to customers with their foreign trade activities, SME Web Portal payment transactions, and investment projects via various www.kobilersizinicin.com is a portal specially designed for financial tools. We provide affordable, long-term financing SMEs to give information on subjects such as foreign trade, through our contracts with export credit agencies of various entrepreneurship, the new Turkish Commercial Code, countries. The “Foreign Trade Support Package” prepared taxes, etc. Visitors can watch videos of experts outside our to meet the exports and imports transaction and financing Bank via Akbank SME TV broadcast on the website and can needs of SMEs that do business with foreign companies share their questions and needs regarding new customers, contain current and new loans, cash management and employees, raw materials, and machinery-equipment in the insurance products and offer a number of opportunities. We Ads section. In the Entrepreneurship section added to the also started foreign exchange and deposits transactions in website in 2012, there are videos on marketing, business Chinese currency, Yuan. planning, finance, strategy, entrepreneurship events; success stories; and entrepreneurship. Our customers can reach general information on foreign trade transactions, alternative financing techniques and In 2012, www.kobilersizinicin.com received the Jury’s foreign trade regulations, as well as answers to other Distinguished Honoree Outstanding Achievement Award at frequently asked questions about foreign trade transactions the “Creativity International Awards” that select the world’s via www.akbankmevzuat.com (available only in Turkish) best product, service and communication projects. In 2012, Akbank was the main sponsor of “Stars of Export New Opportunities for SMEs – SME Public Offerings – Encouraging Exports Awards” that has been organized Meetings since 2002 to encourage exporting companies. At this New Opportunities for SMEs – SME Public Offerings platform organized by Dünya newspaper and DHL, awarded meetings in cooperation with İstanbul Stock Exchange companies perform their exports transactions free of charge – Emerging Companies Market (ISE-ECM) were held in for a whole year. İstanbul and İzmir in 2012. At the meetings, ISE-ECM aimed to provide information on subjects such as being traded at Responsible Practices in Consumer Banking the stock exchange market and business flows as well as Financial habits and service expectations of individuals may advantages including fund raising that SMEs benefit from vary depending on age, education, and occupation. Based when they are listed on the stock exchange, sustainable upon this fact, we meet different financial needs of customers growth, and recognition. with our varied personal loan and deposit products. “Ready for the Future?” Meetings Encouraging Deposits and Facilitating At the “Ready for Future?” meetings, we informed our customers on the new Turkish Commercial Law that Investments was enacted in 2012, in cooperation with Deloitte Turkey. Savings Campaign Meetings that had drawn significant attention in İstanbul, The biggest challenge in the Turkish economy which has Denizli, Antalya, Gaziantep, and Bursa in 2011 were held in become highly stable in recent years is the current account İzmir and Ankara in 2012. 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS deficit resulting from the low levels of domestic savings. and customers can benefit from their gold without the risk In the last 10 years, the ratio of domestic savings to the of theft or loss as this gold is kept under the guarantee of national income fell from 22% to 12%. In order for Turkey Akbank. to reach its strong economic growth target, this current account deficit must be closed and therefore personal Pomegranate Account savings must increase. The “Pomegranate Account” is a new product that we To support this important national target, we, as Akbank, created in 2012 with the aim of offering accretion even for launched a “Savings Campaign” in April 2012. Within the small savings and thus bringing these savings into the scope of this campaign we not only offer advantageous financial system. As a product that offers solutions for all products and services to encourage savings, but also cash management needs of customers, the most important implement corporate social responsibility projects to quality of the Pomegranate Account is that it gives the increase awareness on savings. Akbank Volunteers opportunity of daily interest for even small sums. support the widespread financial training projects. Detailed information on these projects can be found in “Our Creating Awareness Among Individual Investors via Community Investment” section of this Report. One-to-One Banking Within the scope of One-to-One Banking, our Customer “Akbank Deposit Savings Account” an innovative product Relationship Managers offer financial information support within the scope of this Savings Campaign draws attention to customers who have assets amounting to TL 100,000 and from customers. Akbank Deposit Savings Account has a who expect expert support in investment products. While 200 5-year maturity and enables individuals to gain the habit Akbank branches provided One-to-One Banking services in and discipline of saving money. The Account allows monthly 2011, this figure increased to 250 in 2012 and the number of transfer of a pre-determined amount of money from a customers receiving this service increased from 190,000 to regular deposit account to the savings account. Thus, 300,000. owners of the savings account can get proper interest even from very small term deposits. Every month, approximately In addition, our One-to-One Expert Line provides high-quality 220,000 Akbank customers save money with this system. investment services to customers all around Turkey on the phone. This innovative system has become an important Another new product to encourage savings is the “Akbank channel that serves 80,000 customers in 80 experts, Flexible Savings Account”, which allows savings in gold and regardless of city and region. foreign currency (US Dollars, Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Russian Ruble) without any term limits simply by In addition to One-to-One Banking Customer Relationship giving orders for transfer from credit cards or deposit Managers and One-to-One Expert Line Experts, customers accounts. With the Flexible Savings Account, customers can gain access to the most accurate and up-to-date wishing to save money even in very small sums can open information on investment products and markets through savings accounts and save in various monetary units. Akbank Investor Portal, Akbank Investor Center, or Investment Suggestions by AkPortfolio and portfolio Gold Deposit suggestions of AkInvestment. At the Investor Seminars that The value of the gold stocks in Turkey is estimated to be we organize to help customers benefit from expert views around USD 100-300 billion. The fact that a great portion of and have better perspectives in making their investment this stock is kept as mattress-saving means the contribution decisions, prominent market commentators, worldof such savings to the economy is very little. On the other renowned fund managers and economists come together hand, savings that enter the banking system are transferred with our customers in 2012. by banks to those in need of resources and thus support Turkish economy. Facilitator Products Akbank developed a product to encourage contribution Banking Services for the Youth: exi26 of idle savings to the economy. With the “Gold Deposit It is estimated that 19 million people in Turkey have not Account” launched in 2012, our customers can buy gold yet been introduced to banking services. The majority of even with a savings of TL 2. In addition, with our “Invitation these people are young individuals. In this context, we offer for Gold” service, scrap gold and jewelry are evaluated in products to meet banking needs of students and to support grams by special experts in our branches and then these them. An example of the products and practices we offer can be deposited to Gold Deposit Accounts in Turkish liras. students of age 16-26 via our exi26 brand is the “Student The amount deposited changes in parallel with gold prices Account”. Account-holders can withdraw money free of charge at any ATM abroad with their neoexi26 card, withdraw 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS money at other banks’ ATMs free of charge twice a month to Hybrid Car Campaigns facilitate fast money transfer with their families, and shop Hybrid-engine vehicles use electric engines in addition to on the Internet. Axess exi26 credit card is another product gasoline engines and thus reduce carbon dioxide emissions for students. Axess exi26 credit card holders benefit from while also offering a solution to air pollution resulting from special campaigns for education, school expenses, and heavy traffic. In order to encourage and facilitate purchasing stationary expenses as well as all Axess campaigns free of of hybrid cars, we designed hybrid vehicle loan campaigns charge. including car promotions, advantageous interest rates, and flexible payment terms in cooperation with Toyota and Honda. Structuring of Personal Loan Debts Akbank will continue creating similar campaigns to increase In recent years, with the increase in the debts of individuals the number of environment-friendly vehicles in traffic. and the effect of economic fluctuations, we try to provide a certain level of convenience for customers who had Services offered by Affiliates trouble in paying back personal loan or credit card debts, by Insurance Made Easier taking into consideration the limitations imposed by legal Our major principle in bank assurance is allowing authorities. We evaluate the requests of customers who customers to reach insurance and pension products in the demand changes in payment plans or who are believed to easiest and fastest way thanks to our widespread delivery recover defaults and make regular payments with a new channels. Considering lifetime risks of customers, Akbank payment plan. We offer some of such cardholders and offers products with affordable prices and coverage for loan users the opportunity to pay their debt before legal all customer segments. Private pension and corporate proceedings are initiated. insurance products of AvivaSA Pension and Life and AkInsurance can be reached through all delivery channels Responsible Loans and Insurance Products including Akbank ATMs and Call Center. Contribution to Professional Development: “From Kitchen to Life” Loan Debit and Credit Cards Adding Value to Our “From Kitchen to Life” is a special loan package that we Customers created for the Culinary Arts Academy of İstanbul (MSA) We, as Akbank, offer Axess, Axess Business, Axess exi26, students in cooperation with Endeavor Turkey. Approved Wings, Wings Business, Free, and Fish credit cards and by the Turkish Ministry of National Education, MSA is the Neo debit card to meet various demands and needs of first and only private vocational education institution to give customers. internationally accepted diplomas in the area of professional cookery, pastry and bakery. With this loan, MSA students only pay the interest rates during their education and make • A portfolio of approximately 5.8 million credit cards with the principal repayments in installments when they start our 4 leading credit card brands – Axess, Wings, Free, and working. With the “From Kitchen to Life” loan, we aim to Fish support future chefs in their professional lives. • A portfolio of 6.4 million debit cards (Neo) • Credit card lending of TL 12.9 billion Mortgage Loans • “Member Business Network” of 235,000 members (those using our POS machines) Over 250,000 Akbank customers purchased houses since 2005 when the mortgage market gained huge momentum. We offer mortgage loans for up to 75% of the house value with up to 120-month terms and exemption from Banking and Insurance Transaction Tax and Resource Utilization Support Fund on condition that the house to be purchased is given as guarantee. By cooperating with construction companies such as the Housing Development Administration of Turkey (TOKİ) and Emlak Real Estate Investment Trust, we support urban transformation activities through earthquake-resistant, exclusive architectural projects with strong infrastructures not only in metropolitan cities, but also in Anatolia. Customers applying to our special call center (Big Red Line – 44 44 253) can both obtain all kinds of legal and technical assistance from mortgage consultants and apply for mortgage. 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Our Brands Examples of New Advantages Launched in 2012 Qualities of the Card New loyalty program Cash-Money: Axess customers earn Axess credit card offers customers cash-money in addition to chip-money while shopping and benefits such as shopping anywhere in the they can withdraw the accumulated cash immediately, world, earning chip-money, installments, without an interest rate or commission. special advantages for exclusive brands. Shopping Tariffs added to the Credit Card Tariffs World We actively communicate with Axess provides discount in fuel oil and supermarket shopping and card-holders through our updated website +3 installments everywhere. and social media channels such as “Ask for Delay” service allows for delaying payments to later facebook and twitter. months. We also have the Axess exi26 credit EFT payments such as house rents, fees, school fee card for university students and young installments made can be performed by credit cards and thus professionals. can be combined under a single card. For more information please visit: http://www.axess.com.tr (available only in Turkish) Card-holders can use their Wings Miles to buy plane tickets, Wings is a credit card for the high-income accommodation, insurance for travels abroad, and tours via group of Akbank customers who have an www.GezginlerAlemi.com sponsored by Wings. They can active social life and who travel frequently easily plan their travels thanks to special installment options for either business or pleasure. and promotions for Wings. For more information please visit: With the “Miles on Land” system, card-holders can use their http://www.wingscard.com.tr Wings Miles to make payments at around 150 Wings Style(available only in Turkish) member restaurants, hotels, sports and spa centers. Free card-holders can benefit from the following services Free card-holders do not pay annual offered by Axess: standard chip-money rates and installments subscription fee. They are free to choose at member companies; cash solutions, tariffs and orders among periodical campaigns such as extra specially devised for Axess; supplementary card; insurance. installments, payment delays, chip-money. With the Free Budget service, card-holders receive an They can benefit from these campaigns in informative SMS, stating that they reached the prereturn for a certain fee. determined expense level and thus they can manage their For more information please visit: budgets. They can also learn about their available limit, https://kartfree.com current debt balance, and payment due date via SMS. (available only in Turkish) Monthly lotteries of Fish continued in 2012. Even users who Fish is a credit card that creates closer spent only TL 10 could attend the lottery. Fish card-holders bonds between our Bank and the retail won 2,139 awards, including cars and motorcycles. market, while bringing attractive rewards to card-holders. For more information please visit: http://www.fishcard.com.tr (available only in Turkish) As a card that gives chip-money in shopping and allows Neo is a Maestro debit card that allows for free shopping with this chip-money, Neo continued shopping and drawing money both in to encourage customers to use debit cards with several Turkey and abroad. campaigns. Widespread use of debit cards also contributed to For more information please visit: preventing unrecorded economy. http://www.akbank.com/consumer/ cards/neo.aspx 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Innovations in Debit Cards and Credit Cards orders for Social Security Institution fees either at our branches or via our Internet branch. In 2012, we continued to offer innovative services to an increasing number of credit and debit card customers, tailored to their needs. Examples of these innovations are Member Business Practices given below: Akbank pays attention to offering technologies that meet various needs. For instance, we continue efforts to increase Individual Credit Card Applications the number of member businesses using contactless POS We offered our new credit card Free to individual customers machines that allow card-holders to make fast payments by the end of 2012. Free possesses the basic characteristics simply by showing the card to the POS machine, without any of Axess (such as chip-money and installments) but it does need for passwords or signatures for payments up TL 35. not require any annual subscription fee. Free card-holders both benefit from the basic Axess features and have the In member businesses located in touristic areas, foreign freedom to select extra features and services as well as exchange POS machines that can work with US Dollars, periodical campaigns in return for a fee. Euro, Pounds, and additionally Japanese Yen, and Russian Ruble are used. With these machines, Japanese and Russian Debit Cards and Pre-Paid Debit Cards tourists can make payments using their own currency. With the motto “Prudent Shopping Card”, Akbank’s debit Responsible Practices in Debit and Credit Cards card Neo encourages customers who prefer to use cash to shop with their debit cards. In 2012, number of Neo cardInsurance Services in Credit Cards holders increased 549,000 compared to 2011 and reached We offer our credit card customers a variety of insurance 6.4 million. Use of Neo in shopping increased by 19%. products so as to protect them in the event of accidents, loss, and theft. If the cardholder loses his/her job, In 2012, we, as Akbank, launched especially pre-paid card AkInsurance Credit Card Unemployment Insurance insures projects: all credit card debts of the card-holder. With Bodycard • “Starbucks Personal and Corporate Pre-Paid Card” in Protection Insurance, in case of loss or theft of personal cooperation with Shaya A.Ş. goods such as cards of all banks, keys, mobile phones, • “Pocket-T Neo Pre-Paid Card” in cooperation with wallet, and luggage, professional support is provided. Turkcell, especially to meet debit card needs of the young people and students We offer customers who visit the Wings Lounges in international flights sections of İstanbul Atatürk and Sabiha Gökçen airports to buy travel health insurance through SMS. Our efforts focused on new debit card features and pre-paid Upon the reply of card-holder to the SMS, a travel health cards will continue in 2013 with the aim of contribution to the insurance policy is prepared as of that day and sent to the target of “2023 Cash-free Turkey”. customer’s e-mail address. Business Credit Card Practices Contribution to the Development of Trade in Anatolia via Showing a 96% increase in volume in 2012, Axess Business Member Business Campaigns and Wings Business cards are used by small, medium and Akbank aims to contribute to the development of trade and large-scale companies to meet their needs such as fuel oil to revitalize social life in Anatolia with city-based member and wholesale purchase, business travels, accommodation, business campaigns. With such “city campaigns”, member and office supplies. Companies can monitor their business businesses using Akbank’s POS machines increased 80% card payments regularly, earn mile points and chip-money, since 2008. With campaigns organized in 14 cities in 2012 and benefit from a variety of campaigns. we distributed a total of TL 1.3 million worth chip-money to customers and provided them with the opportunity to make In 2012, Axess Business Entrepreneur card was offered to free shopping. new entrepreneurs as one of the most innovative products of the sector. The card is within the scope of the “Entrepreneur Package” that can only be used by companies operating Innovative Banking Approach to Facilitate for less than 2 years and it provides an important financing Access to Services support for entrepreneur SMEs. Another practice launched In 2012, we continued to put into effect a number of in 2012 was “Ask for Installments/Ask for Delay”. With this innovations to facilitate access of all members of the society, practice, card-holders can make payments in installments including our customers, to banking services and to spread and delay the payments and can make automatic payment our branch and ATM network. 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Widespread Service Network monitor all products and service applications real-time. Everybody, whether Akbank customer or not, can follow up With new branches opened throughout the year, Akbank their credit card, personal loan, and microloan applications continued to spread its banking services with 961 branches on our website. in 79 cities (there are only 2 cities without an Akbank branch). In 2012, Akbank was the bank with the second largest ATM network among the private banks in Turkey Innovations in Mobile Banking with a total of 4,026 ATMs. 88% of all cash withdrawals In 2011 we had offered our customers the sector-leading and 65% of all cash deposit transactions in Akbank were “Send Money” and “Pocket-T Wallet” systems in mobile performed using ATMs. In addition, Akbank ATMs and BTMs banking. In 2012, we launched two important projects as which are part of Turkey’s ATM sharing platform provide well and thus continued to create solutions to facilitate our services to all credit or debit cardholders in Turkey. ATMs customers’ lives. also perform transactions including payment of personal loan installments, term deposit account, investment fund Akbank Direkt Mobile application can be downloaded transactions as well as money transfers such as bank to smart phones and tablets with iPhone, iPad, android transfers and EFTs. operating systems and with this application Akbank customers can perform Mobile Banking transactions For ensuring better access to financial services by in a fast and practical way. With Akbank Direkt Mobile, customers who prefer branches and ATMs, accessibility and transactions such as payment and investment, account and visibility are taken into consideration while assessing service credit card imaging can be made in a completely secure way. points in branch and ATM structuring. On the other hand, for customers who prefer to make banking transactions via the Another innovation in 2012 was the launch of Cep-T Neo Internet or mobile banking, we offer a variety of innovative (Pocket-T Neo) pre-paid card in cooperation with Turkcell, services while also serving them with Akbank Call Center. in order to reach people who would like to make their The Call Center supports around 5 million unique customers daily payments and money transfers in a secure and fast in a year with more than 1,000 employees. way. Pocket-T Neo is a card that everyone whether Akbank customer or not can obtain at Turkcell sales Innovations at ATMs points. Pocket-T Neo card-holders can shop in Turkey and abroad, deposit TL in their Turkcell phone lines, perform In addition to “Transfer from ATM to Mobile”, “EFT via transactions such as sending money to any mobile phone ATMs”, and “I Want an ATM” applications launched in 2011, numbers using Turkcell Wallet application. Akbank made it possible for customers to pay bills at ATMs in 2012. Akbank customers can pay their water, natural gas, and electricity bills at any ATM within our widespread ATM Customer Satisfaction network, without having to go to a branch or bill payment To be able offer the best services to our customers, we center. Thus, our customers can make payments via all of attach great importance to achieving customer satisfaction, our self-service channels. which is a priority for us. To achieve the target of “maximum customer satisfaction in each moment of contact with our Innovations in Internet Banking customers”, we employ a variety of measures, evaluation and improvement systems in Akbank. Akbank Internet Banking serves more than 1 million customers every month. The renewal of Akbank Internet Banking allows infrastructure for consumers (2011); in Assessment, Evaluation, and Improvement of 2012 we renewed our Corporate Internet infrastructure that Service Quality serves corporate and commercial customer segment. In order to make sure that our customers have perfect banking experiences with our customer-oriented services, In 2012, Akbank launched the Akbank Direkt brand that we use advanced “customer experience-based assessment merges Internet and Mobile Banking services under a single and evaluation” systems. We assess the quality level of roof. Akbank Direkt leads the new generation banking as the service provided in Branches and Alternative Delivery a channel that offers great benefits to customers with its Channels to identify our strong points and those that need to deposit-tailored interest rates, advantageous transaction be improved. costs, and time saving during transactions. Those who would like to become our customers may apply via Akbank Direkt. We assess customer satisfaction by immediately calling them after their contact with our branches or Alternative In addition to these, with the “Where’s My Application?” Delivery Channels. In addition to these proactive system launched in July 2012, we enabled customers to assessments, customers can express their level of 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS satisfaction by using the kiosks (interactive information Areas that are below the target scores are considered as terminals) and web applications. We monitor results areas for improvement and development and efforts are of assessments on a branch and employee basis and started. In addition, in order to assess expectations and share them daily and transparently with all employees. satisfaction levels of our customers from various segments Using the “Service Quality Scorecards” that we prepare and to identify areas to be improved, we hold a Customer twice a year, we identify our strong points and those that Satisfaction Survey every year. need to be improved and devise action plans with related teams. By carefully implementing these plans, we achieve improvements and continuous development. Innovative Ideas of Our Customers and Employees In addition to daily assessments, we organize focus groups We attach great importance to feedback from customers that bring together customers from various segments and creative ideas and suggestions of our employees in together periodically so that we can listen to them in person. line with our target to meet ever-changing and diversifying With detailed interviews we make while visiting customers, customer demands and to serve them better. we get feedback on service quality. Feedback received as There are efforts throughout Akbank to develop innovative a result of all of these interviews is used as inputs to our ideas and to objectively evaluate and design these ideas. efforts to improve customer satisfaction. There is a team of Innovation Envoys, made up of 110 employees from the Head Office, regional directorates and We also organize trainings and awareness events for branch branch employees. Innovation Envoys attend periodical employees that focus on improving service quality and workshops to create new ideas identified in accordance methods of solving customers’ problems and complaints. with our Bank’s strategy and needs of our business units, In the last 2 years more than 4,600 employees participated using their learning on creative and innovative thinking in the Boomerang training that we started in 2011 and techniques and internal innovation leadership. continued in 2012. (Details of this training are given in the In order to create awareness in our employees on “Our Employees” section of the Report. innovation, 1001 Haber (news) -a monthly bulletinis issued. 1001 Haber gives examples of innovative practices Practices Regarding Internal Processes in both the banking and other sectors, while also Within Akbank, quality levels of support services given to containing articles on the issue and success stories from branches and Alternative Delivery Channels are put under all around the world. the guarantee of Service Level Agreements (SLA). SLAs cover All of our employees can make suggestions via the 1001 features such as quality, amount, frequency, delivery date, Ideas and Suggestions System. After a pre-evaluation, involvement and problem solving time expected from the ideas that are considered to be applicable are selected units providing the support service. The situation in SLAs is and action plans are made. Every month “suggestion of regularly reported, actions for improvement are adopted in the month” is chosen and the suggestion and its originator areas where the target is not met and targets are increased in are announced to all of our employees. In addition, areas where SLAs perform better than the target. customer suggestions received via Akbank Call Center and the social media are also regularly included in the In addition to SLAs, satisfaction level of branches with Suggestion System and evaluated in the same way. internal teams is assessed via Internal Customer In January-December 2012, a total of 6,607 suggestions Satisfaction Survey. Results of the survey are shared -5,400 from employees and 1,207 from customerstransparently in the Bank and action plans are devised for reached our Suggestion System. Since the launch of the continuous development. Suggestion System in 2008, a total of 3,450 suggestions were accepted and 32%of them were implemented. Customer Satisfaction Survey Examples of received and realized suggestions are: Our customers can inform us on their expectations via • Mobile branch application for iPhones and androids different channels but in addition to these, we also perform • Using credit cards to buy gold in grams regular customer satisfaction surveys and researches to • Making personal loan payments before the due date via get feedback. For instance, we daily monitor customer Akbank Direkt Internet satisfaction levels with feedback from the kiosks (interactive information terminals), web applications, and direct phone calls. Outputs of the surveys and areas to be improved are regularly shared with the channels and employees delivering the related services in a special area in the portal. 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Complaint Management In today’s highly competitive environment, customer Digital (Social) Media and Community satisfaction and complaint management are very important Management for companies. Achieving loyalty of existing customers Akbank is followed by more than 1.5 million people in the and retaining that loyalty is more difficult than winning social media channels. We contact customers with 19 new customers. As Akbank, we have full confidence that a different Akbank accounts in the social media. Specially sustainable financial success can only be achieved through trained customer representatives serve 24/7 and reply over high levels of customer satisfaction and loyalty. Effective 20,000 comments a month, offer solutions to problems, and record suggestions. For instance, with the Twitter. handling of complaints contributes to understanding customer com/AkbankDestek application, which is a “first” among expectations, allows for development, creates opportunities for Turkish banks, our customers reach Akbank customer improvements in services and processes, increases trust and representatives via their Twitter accounts, simply as if reputation by creating know-how for new products. calling the Call Center. With the infrastructure integrated into the Call Center systems, customers are served Customer Complaints Management immediately. In Akbank, Customer Complaints Management is handled Being selected the “Best Customer Management in the by a team established on a central platform. Customer Social Media” “IMI Conferences – Turkey Call Center Complaints Management is not simply about complaints. It Awards 2012”, Akbank has both been a leader among is an ecosystem of activities in which demands, objections, companies actively using the social media and become suggestions and all kinds of information-based customer among the top 5 financial institutions in the world in this requests are handled and all processes are managed from category. end to end; customers are replied with result-oriented solutions; and improvement suggestions are made by using root cause analyses. In other words, not only providing All complaints expressed by customers (regardless of the fast and effective solutions to complaints, but also taking channel used) are handled on a Customer Relationship permanent actions to avoid emergence of complaints is Management System that has been integrated in all important to Akbank. channels and customized with continuous technical and process improvements and adaptations since 2007. This Within the scope of complaints management, we attach infrastructure that offers the opportunity to work in a great importance to improving customer satisfaction. We paperless environment was published by the software continuously work towards this aim. As a part of such provider company as a success story setting an example efforts, we examined the most common complaints of for other financial institutions in the world and as a Best customers and provided permanent solutions to these. Practice in Banking. The system offers advantages and Action plans to provide the mentioned permanent solutions benefits including a robust infrastructure, examination of were made and followed meticulously throughout the year. complaints both in quantity and quality, analysis, opportunity for the customer to monitor the complaint’s situation at As a plan to be implemented as of 2013, in order to provide points of contact. permanent solutions to feedback from customers and to improve customer satisfaction, a Complaints Committee of The process of handling, assessing, and finalizing senior executives will be established, Workgroups will be complaints is realized within the framework of ISO formed to prepare detailed analyses on issued selected by 10002:2004 Customer Complaint Management certification the Committee, and developments will be regularly reported principles first received in 2007 and updated every year to the senior management of the Bank. after audits. All complaints are finalized in accordance with the Service Level Agreements (SLA) which were routinely With the recent increase in awareness and fast developments followed since 2009 and have reached 26 in number as of in technology, customers express their demands and now. In all stages from receiving the complaint to finalizing complaints not only through traditional channels such as it, Akbank customers are informed in line with the related telephone, branch visits, fax or mail, but also through the legislation, customer preferences and operational efficiency. Internet and social media (which is increasing rapidly). Complaints are also received via consumer-friendly Thanks to the proficiency and know-how of the Customer arbitration board implementations and public institutions. Complaint Management team and the systemic bridge it In addition to these, we reply our customers’ demands builds with the whole organization at points that requires immediately with our “Live chat” service on Akbank Direkt support, received complaints are solved in an average of 2 Internet and Big Red House/Mortgage. days. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS All complaints and customer notifications are handled in As a part of our customer-oriented perspective we receive the same system infrastructure, regardless of the delivery feedback from customers, we analyze this in detail with our channels. Although notifications of public institutions are advanced technical and IT infrastructure, and we use the replied within legal legislation and time periods, alternative results to build our product, channel, and service qualitychannel-based expectations brought by customers are also based strategies. We, as Akbank, will maintain our leading handled in the same way. All customer feedback coming position in complaint management and continue with our from social media (such as Twitter and Facebook), Akbank service quality and customer-based approach. website, and 24/7 Live Chat service on our Internet branch is replied with utmost care. Process Management and Business In all process of the Customer Complaint Management, Development “customer point of view” is important to us. Akbank adopted the Business Process Management (BPM) approach as the methodology for business processes Assessment of Customer Complaint Management includes management. With this approach, all elements are evaluated self-assessment regarding the average solution time, in a holistic manner (especially information technologies, service level agreement after the service, the rate of solving data, organization and product) and thus customers’ needs the problem at the first point of contact with customer, the are met more efficiently and quickly. rate of notifications solved in more than 1 week to other notifications. In addition to these assessment criteria, we After the current system is defined, the way customers make phone-surveys with customers whose notifications are perceive products and services is identified. Business handled. Results of these surveys are scored and monitored development in Akbank uses Simple Six Sigma techniques. in terms of general satisfaction of customers, tendency Simple Six Sigma is the methodology to review and improve to continue working with Akbank, and attitude of related ways of doing business from the perspective of customers employees, which form the Service Quality Scorecard. based upon the results of customer satisfaction surveys and to improve current processes, products and services so as to Features that have always differentiated Akbank from meet customer expectations in the most efficient way. others and continuing innovations regarding complaint management are: With the aim of establishing long-lasting relations with customers, Akbank focuses on improving customer • 24/7 accessibility experiences and the quality of these experiences. We adopt • A team profile of expert, customer and solution-focused customer-focused perspective as a business strategy to individuals manage the Bank from the viewpoint of customers and we • Central management integrated with all channels shape our customer’s strategy and process improvement/ • Feedback to customer at every stage development efforts in an integrated way. • Opportunity for the Call Center and the most contacted As examples to process improvement activities at points of branches to monitor the result of the complaint contact with customers we can mention Loans, Alternative • Assessing each complaint specific to the customer Delivery Channels access processes, internal operational • Finding solutions at the first point of contact processes at contact points with customers, and branch • Increase in the number of self-service points improvement activities performed in accordance with (points where customers can get services and make feedback from the branches. transactions themselves, using ATMs, Direkt Internet, interactive voice response system, SMS or mobile Operational Efficiency phones) In order to continuously improve operational efficiency, • Considering every contact with the customer as an we use the Lean Management methodology that assesses opportunity for service quality and customer satisfaction processes from end to end. With these efforts we aim to both • Periodical and extensive “Service Quality Scorecards” improve customer satisfaction and facilitate processes for created by receiving compliant management feedback employees. from customers on the basis of various categories, analyzing and assessing them In efficiency efforts, feedback we receive from Bank employees and customers is the starting point. In 2012, • A systemic infrastructure that is integrated with all these efforts started to focus on making branch processes access channels and the whole organization, meets more effective and share the results with the whole Bank expectations, and efficiently operates all reporting and within the scope of the Improvements For You program. control systems (including SLA management) 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS With this program, approximately 200 improvements were made to make the processes simpler, more effective and efficient. These improvements sorted out the activities that do not create and added value and thus cycle time of processes was reduced, services were offered in a faster way. While helping us to increase sales results and volumes, these improvements also allowed us to achieve these results by using our existing resources. Efficiency gains earned in 2012 have become sources of motivation for other units to work more extensively on efficient growth. With this motivation, for 2013 we planned and started to work on a more extensive transformation program that focuses on channels with one-to-one contact with customers (especially branches and Call Center) and processes directly influencing customers. With these efforts, we aim to carry Akbank to a point that sets an example in terms of efficiency and simplicity. 62 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 WE ARE NOW EVEN CLOSER TO A “SUSTAINABLE FUTURE” THANKS TO 270 TRAININGS ON OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY AND VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES PERFORMED BY AKBANK VOLUNTEERS IN EVERY CORNER OF TURKEY. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Our objective is to offer our employees the resources they 1 We Are Bankers from the Heart need to develop their talents, to ensure a communication Energized by being an employee of Akbank, we work with environment in which they can share their ideas, and to enthusiasm and affection. create a workplace that supports excellence, creativity 2 We Believe in Growth with Customers and quality. Our human resources management system We look at the past and the future together with our aims to support the Akbank employee profile which is customers and we create value for them. “hardworking, dynamic, creative, initiative-taking, legally 3 We Are Ready for the Future compliant, and ethical”. We continuously develop ourselves and our business we lead the industry with the technology and innovation. Our Human Resources Policy 4 We Make Life Easier with Reasonable Solutions Our human resources policy is to be the strategic partner We think analytically, approach issues systematically, and of our business units while establishing human resources produce cooperation-oriented solutions fast. strategies compatible with our Bank’s vision and goals 5 We Appreciate Trust and steering corporate structure, mechanisms and human We create success by trusting each other and resources. transparency; we ensure that our customers feel the same trust. Main focus points of our human resources policy are: 6 We Support Open Communication • Recruiting success-oriented, the best candidates who We communicate with each other and customers in a are open to improvement clear, sincere, and timely manner. • Identifying employees’ potentials and creating 7 We Invest in the Community opportunities for them to continuously develop their In full awareness of our social responsibilities, we work competence for a sustainable community. • Continuously developing the corporate culture and the business conduct In 2013, we will focus on integrating these 7 values of • Making active and appropriate investments in human Akbank and its employees into our human resources system resources in line with targets and strategies and on internal communication activities. • Making career planning a participatory process Towards Sustainable Success with the Best • Using a transparent and fair performance management Professionals system based on targets and competence to reward We know that walking the path side by side with the best encouraging and high performance. professionals brings the best results. Therefore our human While developing and implementing the human resources resources practices aim to make Akbank “the leader among policy, Akbank prioritizes equal opportunity and it takes the most preferred employers where qualified and confident measures to prevent acts that could be interpreted as people who create values choose to work and a company discrimination. Since our human resources policy adopts a which employees are proud to be a part of.” unifying attitude, not a discriminating one, we do not have Our employment policy is to hire qualified, well-educated, any minority grouping policy. innovative people who are open to learning and development Our Compass in Every Step: “Our Values” and who are eager to add value to Akbank, without any discrimination, including their race, language, religious In order to reinforce Akbank’s corporate culture and belief, gender, and age. Akbank performs a fair approach approach, we initiated the “Revision of Corporate Values” with equal opportunities for every candidate, based upon project in 2012. As Akbank, we believe that organizations well-defined recruitment criteria. Using internationally that unite around corporate values become successful. In accepted objective measurement and evaluation methods, order to assess how the Bank’s existing values are brought the most appropriate candidates are recruited in units in to life and internalized throughout the organization, we need of labor force. It is among our priorities to employ formed a sample group of 120 people coming from various geographical locations and functions such as department new graduate candidates who do not have professional heads, managers, directors, assistant directors, executives, experience, to train future leaders, and to offer them career call center agents, and security officers and gathered 13 opportunities within the banking sector. different focus groups. In line with our business performance and productivity, As a result of this study, we identified 7 common values that vacant positions within our organization are first announced define Akbank and being an employee of Akbank: to our employees. Internal applications are evaluated by the Human Resources Business Unit and assignments are made 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES in the soonest possible time. While recruiting for our Head Collective Bargaining Contract are implemented. Periods Office and branches, we prefer to employ candidates living in of notice vary depending on the employees’ seniority. For regions close to our locations. In our Malta branch, we also employees with over three years of service, this period is generate local employment. eleven months for those within the scope of the collective bargaining contract and eight weeks for others. In case of Our Salary Policy transfers, employees are given three days for commencing In general, salary policies of companies are among the their new posts in the same city and fifteen days in other important factors in employee loyalty and performance cities. If an employee is transferred to a different unit, he/ improvement. Therefore, the salary policy in Akbank is she can communicate with the Human Resources Unit to designed to attract the human resources required for state opinions on the change. continuous success, to reward, to motivate, and to retain high-performing employees. Akbank’s salary policy is Employee Profile created in a way that suits the Bank’s operations, long-term 93.8% of Akbank employees (excluding security staff) are targets, and risk management structure. In order to achieve university graduates. This is the highest ratio among private fairness in salaries, employees with similar roles and and public-capital banks in Turkey. The average seniority is responsibilities get similar salaries and those who perform 6.9 years within Akbank and 7.4 years in the Turkish banking better than expected in performance assessments receive community. 65% of Akbank employees work at branches that higher raise and bonuses. are one-to-one contact points with customers. In addition, to drive further development of individual skill sets and competences, speaking foreign languages Our Employees in Figures is compensated. Those who do not speak any foreign As of December 31st, 2012, total number of employees is languages are encouraged to take courses at various 16,324, including the Board Members. educational institutions with special offers. There are no part-time employees in Akbank, with Our salary policy is the same in all branches and service the exception of a consultant. Including 1 to 3 months points for the beginner level. In recruitment of employees internship period of university students, all our employees with no previous work experience, the average salary is are permanent and “full-time”. Benefits provided for fullequal to the minimum wage for Private Security Staff, 44% time employees may only vary depending on the person’s higher for Assistants, and twice the minimum wage for performance. Management Trainees. Distribution of employees in Akbank in terms of service Significant Operational Changes to Affect locations is presented in the table below. The number of Employees staff has increased in line with the positive developments If significant changes occur in the recruitment contracts of observed in the market in 2012. employees, periods of notice stated in the Labor Code and Number of Employees 2010 2011 2012 Head Office * 2,128 2,177 2,049 Akbank Banking Center 2,971 2,810 3,010 Regional Directorates** 555 551 652 Branches*** 9,676 9,801 10,604 Overall 15,330 15,339 16,315 * Excluding the Board of Directors. ** As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. *** Including employees at Malta branch. 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES In case of necessity, Akbank generates employment through outsourcing. Number of employees working especially in Direct Banking, Consumer Banking, Information Technologies, and Operations Business Units are available in the table below. 2010 2011 2012 Number of Employees within the Outsourcing System* 1,575 1,369 1,423 * As of November 2012, the Call Center is listed as a part of the newly established Direct Banking Business Unit. Gender Distribution Akbank adopts a principle of distribution of staff based on equality, without any discrimination of gender or age. Within years, ratio of female and male employees has remained approximately the same. After maintaining the same level in 2010 and 2011, ratio of female employees increased 1.1% in 2012 and reached 52%. Gender Distribution 2010 2011 2012 2012 Total Number of (%) Employees Staff Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Board of Directors 87.5 12.5 87.5 12.5 88.9 11.1 8 1 Senior Management 66 34 65.8 34.2 64.0 36.0 825 465 Mid-level Management 43.3 56.7 44.1 55.8 45.0 55.0 849 1,038 Auditors 72.1 27.9 72.9 27.1 68.5 31.5 146 67 Assistant Managers 42.3 57.7 41.7 58.3 40.3 59.7 4,638 6,866 Other* 73.4 26.6 72.8 27.2 74.7 25.3 127 43 Security 99.6 0.4 99.7 0.3 99.8 0.2 1,248 3 Overall 49.1 50.9 49.1 50.9 48.0 52.0 7,841 8,483 * Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support staff, and technicians. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Age Distribution The average age of our employees is 32.7 as of 2012 year-end. Almost in every staff category, the largest age group is 30-50. The main functions in the “under 30” category are “assistant managers” and “auditors”. In accordance with our recruitment policy, only those of full legal age can work in Akbank. There are no employees under the categories of child labor (employees under 15 years of age, at which compulsory education ends) or young labor (over the minimum age for employment and under 18) categories in Akbank. Students and young workers applying for internship in Akbank should be 4th grade high-school students or university students in their 2nd or 3rd years. Number of interns in our staff changes periodically, there are no interns recruited as of 2012 year-end. Age Distribution (%) 2010 2011 2012 Under Between Over Under Between Over Under Between Over Staff 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 Board of Directors 25 75 12.5 87.5 22.2 77.8 Senior Management 0.1 92.6 7.3 93.8 6.2 95.0 5.0 Mid-level Management 4.6 93.7 1.7 2.9 95.2 1.9 3.1 95.0 1.9 Auditors 65.7 34.3 53.4 46.6 50.2 49.8 Assistant Managers 51.3 48.5 0.2 44.8 54.9 0.2 43.8 56.1 0.2 Other* 23.7 72.9 3.4 20.2 76.3 3.5 18.2 77.1 4.7 Security 47 52.9 0.1 46.2 53.8 45.7 54.3 Overall 42.9 56.2 0.9 37 62.0 0.9 35.5 63.6 0.8 * Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support staff, and technicians. Employee Turnover Rates Employee turnover rates based on location are given in the table below. Akbank’s employee turnover rate was 9.24% in 2012. We are currently evaluating the feedback received from the resigned personnel regarding their causes. 2010 2011 2012 Employee Turnover Rate * Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Head Office 8.78 188 9.77 190 10.04 210 Akbank Banking Center 9.58 266 10.36 328 11.50 338 Regional Directorates** 3.94 21 4.13 23 3.95 24 Branches 6.49 621 8.31 812 8.74 904 Overall (average) 7.31 1,096 8.76 1,353 9.24 1,476 * Resigned employees (including retirees, resigned employees and those whose work contracts are cancelled) ** As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Employees are free to resign in conformity with the terms on their work contract. Forced labor is out of Akbank’s working principles. Employee turnover rates and numbers of resigned employees depending on the age group are given in the table below. Employee Turnover Under 30 Between 30-50 Over 50 Rate According to the 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Age Group Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Head Office 11.5 90 13 95 15.1 88 6.8 90 7.7 91 8 118 22.9 8 12.1 4 9.5 4 Akbank Banking Center 13.2 203 15 222 17.6 174 4.8 59 6 100 8.1 155 20 4 20 6 39.1 9 Regional Directorates* 4.3 7 4.3 6 6.3 7 3.3 12 4 16 3.1 15 28.6 2 14.3 1 22.2 2 Branches 6.4 274 9.8 375 11.3 325 6 312 6.9 406 7.5 555 55.6 35 48.4 31 41.4 24 Overall (average) 8.5 574 11.3 698 13 594 5.8 473 6.7 613 7.5 843 39.2 49 31.3 42 29.5 39 * As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. Employee turnover rates and numbers according to the gender are given in the table below. Percentages of male and female workers who resigned are similar. The reason for higher employee turnover in females compared to males at the Akbank Banking Center is that number of female employees is higher in the Center. Employee Turnover Male Female According to the 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Gender Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Head Office 8.13 111 9.49 108 9.90 118 9.92 77 10.16 82 10.21 92 Akbank Banking Center 7.03 65 9.74 124 10.52 127 10.85 201 10.78 204 12.18 211 Regional Directorates* 4.78 17 4.37 16 3.90 15 2.25 4 3.66 7 4.05 9 Branches 6.20 292 8.61 414 9.03 447 6.77 329 8.01 398 8.48 457 Overall (average) 6.59 485 8.73 662 9.14 707 7.97 611 8.79 691 9.33 769 * As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Performance Management System The types of goals and competencies in the performance forms, their weights and numbers are determined through For the evaluation and management of the performances projects conducted jointly by Akbank Business Units of employees, Akbank implements a transparent and and Human Resources Business Unit. The performance flexible performance management system that responds period covers a term of one year. The Operations and to changing needs and remains receptive to developments. Digital Scorecard measurements that are integrated in the For the sake of continuation of success and personal Performance Management System are conducted twice a development, all employees go through performance year at 6 month intervals. evaluation once a year. As a result of this evaluation, areas of development are identified for employees and various Performance ratings of Akbank’s Senior Management are trainings are organized in these areas to support their made by considering both our Bank’s year-end performance career development. These evaluations and trainings allow and success criteria that support long-term sustainable us to determine employees’ competence in a variety of roles performance. With this purpose, Balanced Scorecard is and responsibilities. Depending on the results, employees used. Performance of Senior Management is measured can be recruited in business units other than their current based upon perspectives including those of Finance, functions. Customer, Internal Processes, and Human Resources. Therefore, in the goal and success indicators of the Senior The aims of the Performance Management System Management, performance criteria such as customer developed with a management approach that supports and satisfaction, employee satisfaction, employee turnover rates encourages high-level performance are: are also used in addition to the financial criteria. • To enable employees realize their targets and to increase corporate performance Career Management Policy • To guide and develop employees in order to meet their The career management policy implemented in Akbank changing and developing needs better gives priority to promotion and transfer within the Bank. It is • To align the Bank’s goals with personal goals of another priority to ensure a fair and effective performance employees management; to detect, monitor, and develop talents; and • To ensure that employees understand what is expected to provide employees with career opportunities for selfof them better, get involved with their jobs and stay improvement. In all assignments and promotions provisions motivated to attain their targets such as performance, tenor of employment, latest promotion • To encourage continuous development via open date, education, experience, having the required competence communication and regular feedback and to increase are considered. In addition, branches and units are visited motivation to make career interviews and this creates effective communication in terms of career management. • To evaluate contributions and performances of employees in a fair and objective manner and to shape Career Maps that contain career stages and Career their competence in line with the needs of Akbank Implementation Principles are established. Such information • To make correct decisions about career planning, is shared via the “For You” portal. In this way, employees training and other human resources processes of have access to detailed information on career maps and employees and to ensure their personal development in business groups, contact information of Human Resources line with such processes. staff assigned to support them and consult to these HR experts for career developments. A new and important practice put to use in 2012 was the “self-evaluation” that aims to improve the efficiency of the Benefits to Employees Performance Management System. Self-evaluation is the process in which the employee compares his/her targets Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust (AKSandık) with actual success and evaluates his/her own performance. All of our current and retired employees and their In addition to this, the employee is asked to give information dependents are registered at the Akbank Staff Retirement on his/her career and development. In this way the employee Fund Trust (AKSandık), independent of Turkey’s Social is actively involved in the decision-making process and Security Agency. Pensions and healthcare services offered to obtains the opportunity to communicate in various phases of the members of this Fund Trust are in better conditions than the process. the basic services offered by the state owned Social Security Agency. The criteria of the Akbank Performance Management System are based upon personal goals and competencies. 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Retirement Collective Bargaining Agreement AKSandık is a social security institution as a legal person In our Bank, all employees can become members of that provides social insurance support to members using the BANKSİS (Union of Bank and Insurance Employees) on insurance premiums collected from employees and employer, their own preferences and exercise their rights of collective with the provided rights not being inferior to those provided bargaining agreement. As of the end of 2012, 50% of our by the Social Security Agency. Conditions for earning the employees (8,165 people) are within the scope of collective right to benefit from insurance support are in parallel with bargaining agreement. Financial rights and administrative legal regulations; however, with additional rights inherent in relations of BANKSİS non-members are defined by our AKSandık’s status, this support is improved. Bank, while those of members are defined by the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Premium revenues of AKSandık are 33.5% of the employee Due to promotions from positions within the scope of salary, on condition that it is taken within the maximum collective bargaining to senior and mid-level management monthly revenue identified by the law annually for insurance positions that are out of the scope, number of posts within premiums. 14% of this is deducted from the employee’s the scope has not increased compared to 2011. Within the salary and 19.5% is the contribution of Akbank. In addition, framework of the collective bargaining agreement, we provide premiums amounting to 2% of total annual revenues of our employees working at posts within the scope with rights employees are deposited by Akbank to the Trust’s account, such as death benefits, natural disaster benefits, disability again on condition that these are within the stated limits. compensation, death and injury compensation, and emigration compensation for personnel moving to another city. In order to earn the right to benefit from retirement, employees should fulfill requirements such as completing a Equal Opportunity Model (EOM) Project certain period of insurance, having fully paid premiums for We completed the preparations for the Equal Opportunity the required number of days, and having reached a certain Model (EOM) project in cooperation with KAGİDER (Women age. Employees who fulfill these conditions are provided Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) in 2011 and the project with pension by AKSandık upon their demand. In calculating was launched in 2012 with technical support from the World the pension, main parameters are the working period of the Bank. 11 corporations -including Akbankthat agreed to employee, total income within this period and age, as well as take part in the project were audited by an independent consumer price index change rates and development rates institution in line with 22 criteria. in our country. Due to such variable parameters, monthly pensions may differ for each employee. These criteria are divided into two parts -namely main criteria and supporting criteria. The main criteria are as follows: Akbank Private Pension System with Corporate • The management’s commitment to equal opportunity Contribution • Equal opportunity in recruitment and selection In addition to AKSandık pension, Akbank employees • Equal opportunity in access to trainings are also offered Private Pension System (PPS) Services • Equal opportunity in performance evaluation and with some corporate contribution. Senior and mid-level promotions managers and auditors are included in this PPS plan with • Career support practices corporate contribution. Our Bank contributes to savings of • Investigation of feedback and complaints such employees by making additional payments to the PPS • Communication and corporate advertising contracts of the above-mentioned employees in a certain ratio of their monthly gross salary. Thus we help Akbank In the independent audit for the EOM project, it was employees make savings and continue with the same living examined whether Akbank’s corporate policies and standards in their retirement. procedures, recruitment and selection processes, training, performance evaluation, promotion, career support Participation in PPS is optional. The purpose of the practices, corporate communication activities, etc. support system is to ensure that our employees have the same the concept of equal opportunity. As a result of the audit, living conditions as today when they are retired. In order Akbank earned the Equal Opportunity Certificate, which is to improve employee loyalty and motivation, we attach a valid for two years. special importance to the PPS with corporate contribution and try to increase the number of employees participating in Employee Health and Safety this plan. As a result of such efforts, number of employees Since the year it was founded, Akbank offers a variety of participating in PPS with corporate contribution increased opportunities to employees in order to offer them a safe from 3,164 in 2011 year-end to 3,424 in 2012 year-end. working environment and to meet their health needs. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES AKSandık Among the healthcare services provided by AKSandık are the The importance Akbank gives to trainings and healthcare centers in some cities. Our employees can first development management process is recognized at of all be treated at these centers. If specialized treatment or the awards given by the Turkish Association of Human Resources Management (PERYÖN) for “Human operation is needed, they can receive these services at the Management”. Among applications from 29 leading public or private health institutions that have an agreement companies in 42 categories, Akbank received the First with the Trust. Members in cities without any Akbank Prize in Training and Development category. healthcare centers can get services from the contracted healthcare providers. Information and Trainings on Health Akbank’s Training System Information on epidemics or other important diseases is The goal of Akbank’s training system is to enable the regularly given at the “Health Column” published on the employees to perform their current jobs successfully and to AKSandık webpage. In cases of emergency, such information prepare them for the positions they aim. is spread via e-mail. Fire and earthquake drills are made and natural disaster trainings are given. Akbank employees participate in career and certification trainings for their current duties and also attend specially Parental Leave designed Candidate Pool trainings for the duties for which they are candidate. Additionally, Management Trainees as Pregnant employees are allowed sixteen weeks of paid leave well as branch and Head Office employees at the “assistant” -eight weeks before and eight weeks after the delivery. They status who have just started their career and will be having can also take unpaid parental leave for up to six months and their first experience in the banking sector attend the 1.5 hours per day for breastfeeding until the child reaches “Management Trainee” and “Basic Banking” programs. the age of 1. Fathers are also given three-day paid leave. AKSandık meets child delivery costs of our employees and Feedback from employees about the training they receive is provides a variety of additional support. very important for the efficiency and success of our trainings. All feedback is sent to the Training and Development Division Lost Workdays via online questionnaires. Questionnaires are important in Due to the nature of our operations and careful practices, terms of evaluating and improving contents of trainings, occupational diseases or workplace accidents are not trainers, and training environment. Questions, requests, experienced in Akbank. Yet, the total absenteeism (lost days) suggestions and opinions with regard to all trainings can be of 5,883 employees who got sick leaves with official health sent to egitim@akbank.com. reports in 2012 amount to 50,372 calendar days. Average sick leave per person, calculated by finding the ratio of this Our Training Programs figure to average number of employees, is 3.08 days per Akbank’s training programs include trainings organized for year. This ratio was recorded as 3.14 days in 2011 and 2.61 newly-recruited people, candidate pool trainings, career days in 2010. trainings, certificate programs, corporate development and management trainings. Competence levels of employees The Bank of Learners and Teachers: Career are supported through distance learning (e-learning and Development and Trainings in Akbank video conferencing) that supports personal and professional Akbank’s strategically important training system supports development and on-the-job training methods as well as the development of all employees and aims to increase in-class lectures. motivation and work satisfaction. In full awareness of the fact that information is a significant value and well-equipped E-learning is used to support in-class career trainings in human resource is a real competitive advantage, we loan regulations, foreign trade, consumer and commercial organize trainings to contribute to personal and occupational loans, basic law, basic accounting, debit cards and credit development of our employees. We develop trainings in cards. In order for employees to adapt quickly to new accordance with corporate targets and strategies, needs of products and processes recently introduced to public, the sector, and development areas that we identify based e-learning programs were held in 2012 in areas such as upon employee potentials and preferences. Sales Guide, Loan in Your Name, Gold Gift Check, Consumer Loan Special Demand System, Personal Possession Insurance. 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES In addition, Akbank also organizes personal development In total 1,258,902 hours of training was completed in 2012 trainings on subjects including customer-focused services, and average training per employee was 11.7 work days. The communication on the phone, presentation techniques, total number of training days for employees in the last three negotiation techniques, project management, stress years and annual average training time per person are given management, and management capabilities. in the tables below. Total number of training days (1 day = 7 hours) Function 2010 2011 2012 Vice Presidents and Higher Levels 12,962 14,454 13,130 Managers* 10,052 10,839 13,471 Sub-Managers* 118,844 120,393 153,243 Total 141,858 145,686 179,844 * Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are evaluated in this category and all other functions (including support staff) are in “Sub-Managers”. Average number of training days per person (1 day = 7 hours) Function 2010 2011 2012 Vice Presidents and Higher Levels 11.7 12.4 10.1 Managers* 7.2 6.7 7.1 Sub-Managers* 9.5 9.6 11.6 Total** 9.5 9.5 11.7 * Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are evaluated in this category and all other functions (including support staff) are in “Sub-Managers”. ** The total average training hours is calculated on the basis of total training hours in one year/total figures in the previous year of those who worked in the stated function. Track Your Development, Shape Your Future the knowledge they gained during the trainings by preparing (Akbank Development Center) papers and attending online simulations after the training. As these are directly related to the employees’ jobs, their Akbank Development Center Portal that is restructured with success in training is literally reflected upon the quality of the motto “Track your Development, Shape Your Future” is the work they do. Participants succeeding in the certification a platform for continuously supporting the development of programs receive the “Certificate of Success”, which is an employees. All employees can plan their trainings in parallel important gain in career development. The certification with their careers. Employees can see their individual system trains well-equipped, competent, innovative, and training calendar, request trainings, or get information leading employees in terms of occupation and administration on questionnaires, exam results, e-learning and training and thus aims to build a corporate culture that “creates its organizations via the portal. own leaders”. Certification System (Lifelong Learning) Other Training Opportunities for Employees Some of the trainings are subject to certification system. In Akbank supports its employees in obtaining especially the certification system, employees attend specified training internationally valid certificates in their areas of programs and take exams before and after the program. specialization. Fees for such exams and preparatory In some certification programs, employees can strengthen trainings are covered by Akbank pursuant to certain criteria. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES While the number of employees taking such exams in Similarly, current employees who are specialists in their accordance with their expertise in 2011 was 35, in December fields and who possess the skill to train can become internal 2012 this figure increased to 48. trainers. To become a trainer, one should comply with certain criteria and successfully complete the “Train the Some of the exams we support are listed below: Trainer Program”. While continuing to perform their present • Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam held by the CFA duties, internal trainers are paid a certain hourly fee. Institute: Exam on treasury transactions On-the-job Trainings and Coaching System • Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) exam held by the CIA Institute and CMA (Certified Management Accountants) Within the scope of efforts to become a learning held by ICMA: Exams on internal audit organization, on-the-job trainings focusing on sharing experiences comes forward. Newly assigned Customer • The Project Management Professional PMP exam Relationship Managers are matched with high-performing held by the Project Management Institute (PMI), which and experienced Training Envoys to get on-the-job trainings awards the most widely accepted certificate on Project structured in areas such as loan analysis, foreign trade, Management deposits and investment products. Experienced employees • The Certified Documentary Credit Specialist (CDCS) in branches also share their knowledge and analyze cases exam held by the ICC National Committee of Turkey, with their teams. On-the-job trainings are recorded and which offers the opportunity of earning the internationally monitored in the training system and their results are accepted title of Certified Letter of Credit Specialist measured by looking at the pre and post-tests. • Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Information technologies security management exam There are training programs and professional coaching held by ISACA (Information Systems Audit and Control practices designed to help regional directors and regional Association) sales managers with expertise in Consumer, Commercial • Financial Risk Manager (FRM) exam held by New Yorkand SME Banking to improve competence in technical based GARP (Global Association of Risk Professionals) banking, sales and management. Through such trainings, managers can coach their teams in an effective and target• Software Testing Expertise Certification exam oriented way. coordinated by the Turkish Testing Board representative of International Software Testing Qualifications Board (ISTQB) in Turkey Anti-Corruption Trainings • Various technical trainings and certificates by Oracle and The banking sector faces corruption risks due to its size Microsoft and intensity of monetary transactions. It is known that corruption can be prevented to a great extent by control systems and training. Therefore, we, as Akbank hold inIn addition to these, every year a certain number of Akbank class trainings and e-learning through which we train our employees who are selected as future leaders thanks to employees on technical issues, create awareness on things their high performance and potential get the opportunity to to do and not to do. attend the Sabancı University Executive MBA program with full scholarship. Since 2001 66 employees participated in Content of these trainings is identified in accordance this program. In 2010 and 2011, 3 and 4 employees benefited with the needs of the target audience and each employee from the program respectively. The figure was 8 in academic in this audience receives the trainings. Majority of the year 2012-2013. anti-corruption trainings are for the employees working in branches and especially at counters, but we also In line with their roles and responsibilities some employees hold mandatory trainings such as Ethical Principles and attend summits, conferences and seminars both in Turkey Information Security for all employees. and abroad. In 2012, 35 Akbank employees participated in such events abroad. We continuously review and reevaluate subjects and contents of anti-corruption trainings depending on Bank of Trainers developments and needs. In 2012, we revised and improved Retired and Internal Trainer Practice e-learning contents of Ethical Principles, Struggle against Know-how and experience of retired Akbank employees are Proceeds of Crime and shared these with all employees. highly valuable for the Bank. Successful Akbank retirees Detailed information on other ongoing trainings can be who possess training skills are hired as “trainers” in return obtained from our 2011 Sustainability Report. for a trainer’s fee. Especially almost all of the Core Banking trainings for new recruits are given by retired trainers. 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Anti-Corruption Trainings Name/Content of the Target Audience 2011 Percentage 2012 Percentage of Year-end of Year-end Training Type of Number of Coverage Type of Number of Coverage Training Participants % Training Participants % Management for Cash in Cash Officers and newly In-class 1,055 100 In-class 1,437 100 Hand – Fraud and Pick employed AssistantsOfficers 4 Pocketing Training Document Protection and Cash Officers and newly In-class 1,201 100 In-class 1,678 100 Forgery Trainings employed AssistantsOfficers 4 Trainings for Detecting All branch employees E-learning 2,957 99 E-learning 7,131 75 and Preventing Fraud Ethical Principles All employees E-learning 11,577 100 Newly employed AssistantsE-learning 3,405 85 In-class 1,529 100 Officers 4, Call Center officers, assistant auditors, management trainees Disciplinary Regulations All employees E-learning 3,940 100 E-learning 1,728 100 Information Security All employees E-learning 1,832 100 E-learning 1,682 100 Newly employed AssistantsIn-class 1,113 100 In-class 1,731 100 Officers 4, Call Center officers, assistant auditors, management trainees Operational Risk Operation Officers, Pay Desk In-class 257 100 In-class 1,389 90 Officers All branch employees* E-learning 4,401 40 E-learning 3,418 100 Fighting Proceeds of Branch managers and Newly In-class 1,672 100 In-class 2,326 100 Crime employed AssistantsOfficers 4, Call Center officers, assistant auditors, management trainees All employees E-learning 11,834 85 Elearning 14,465 100 Information Security All employees E-learning 10,593 76 Elearning 10,494 75 Standards Security Awareness All branch employees** E-learning 4,255 47 Elearning 4,626 56 Call Center Security All customer representatives E-learning 650 98 E-learning 704 100 Awareness Total In-class 5,298 In-class 10,090 E-learning 43,867 E-learning 55,825 Note: “Percentage of Year-end Coverage” means the ratio of the target audience planned to be trained and the employees who already received the trainings. * The training made available to all branch employees by the end of 2011 was re-opened in 2012 with a new target audience: Operations and Pay Desk officers. ** The training made available to all branch employees by the end of 2011 was re-opened in 2012 with a target audience of all employees. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Sustainability Trainings Internal Communication and Activities in In order to support branch employees in internalizing Akbank Akbank’s “For You” approach and thus contributing to the In order to facilitate communication among employees, strategy of improving customer perception, a wide-scope develop team spirit and employee motivation, increase training program called “Boomerang” was launched in loyalty, and share messages of the Bank management October 2011. Covering all branch employees from branch and common targets, Akbank carries out various internal managers to security staff, the program is based upon six communication efforts and activities on various platforms. qualities that define the ideal Akbank employee profile who can manage himself/herself, the business, and customers Targets of internal communications and activities are: well to create “customer loyalty”. • To create an effective communication strategy, to An important part of the Boomerang Training Program announce this strategy in the right time and through is the Sustainability Module that was developed to right channels, and to encourage employees to use the enhance the profile of an Akbank employee who cares right communication channel about environmental and social challenges and who • To ensure that employees reflect and experience the abides by ethical values. This module covers the concept Bank’s brand spirit and to communicate the corporate of sustainability, practices in the Banking sector and at culture with the right messages Akbank, and ethics. During the training participants gain • To ensure continuity of organizations and practices that a highly effective hands-on learning experience through a support corporate loyalty policies for reinforcing the “sustainability board game” that is adopted specially for our team spirit Bank on the basis of UN Global Compact (of which we are a signatory) Dilemma Game. Since the launch of this Program, Internal Communication approximately 4,600 employees attended these trainings. Internal communication activities guide and inform Aims of the sustainability training are: employees to transform corporate strategy into action. With internal communications, we, as Akbank, help employees • To contribute to first comprehension, then internalizing work in a customer-oriented manner, focus on strategic of Akbank’s sustainability strategy by all employees priorities, gain information about the developments related • To create awareness for integrating the concept of to our Bank, and get motivated. sustainability to business processes • To ensure that the concept of sustainability is rooted in The most frequently used internal communication channels corporate culture and to create a common language are the corporate portal, corporate TV, e-mailing, quarterly performance live meetings, breakfast meetings with the In 2012, we took important steps in integrating sustainability CEO, and directors meetings. With the interactive platforms into our corporate culture and continued to hold a variety on the corporate portal (infrastructure of which was changed of sustainability trainings. We are planning to proceed with in late 2012) and corporate TV that we reach our customers, these trainings in 2013. we can also reach employees outside the working hours. The table below provides information on participation to the sustainability trainings in 2012: 2011 Percentage 2012 Percentage of Year-end of Year-end Name/Content of Target Audience Type of Number of Total Hours Coverage Number of Total Hours Coverage the Training Training Participants of Training % Participants of Training % Sustainability All branch employees In-class 1,598 5,016 100 2,985 8,242 100 All employees E-learning 11,500 5,750 75 870 435 82 Sustainability Approach Newly employed In-class 274 307 100 1.332 2,535 100 AssistantsOfficers 4, Assistant Inspectors Note: “Percentage of Year-end Coverage” means the ratio of the target audience planned to be trained and the employees who already received the trainings. 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Besides, special offers for Akbank employees are announced Examples from “For Us”: via e-mails and are available at the Corporate Portal. • Social activities that our employees attend • Social responsibility projects that employees volunteer “Why Not” Meetings for We set assertive targets for 2012 and followed an integrated • Special advantages offered to Akbank employees by communication strategy to achieve these. Supporting various companies these targets with the “Why Not” image campaign, we held “Why Not” meetings in 7 cities. At these meetings, 14,000 • Interactive pages of social clubs Akbank employees in Adana, Antalya, İzmir, Bursa, İstanbul, • Bulletin boards in which employees put various items and Ankara came together with the CEO team and the and estates on sale Bank’s new targets and strategies were shared. Our aim in organizing “Why Not” meetings was to explain targets and Mechanisms for Employee Opinions and strategies to all our employees. Suggestions There are various mechanisms for allowing employees Live Messages from Senior Management to express their opinions and suggestions to the senior Every three months, our CEO shares the quarterly management. In addition to the “Why Not” and “Live performance evaluation messages live via computer screens Messages from Senior Management” practices we launched with all our employees. Before the broadcast, questions in 2012, our employees reveal their expectations, opinions of employees are collected and the CEO answers these and suggestions to the senior management through our questions in person. annual Employee Satisfaction Survey. They can also share their suggestions about business processes through the We organize these live broadcasts to establish a closer “Suggestion” system on the Corporate Portal. In addition, and more regular communication between the senior “Ethics Line” is a tool that we created to enable employees management and employees, either face-to-face or to express issues which they believe should be resolved through other communication tools. We also aim to reach within their departments but they cannot share with their especially to the teams in branches. This common ground direct managers; to support employees in such cases; and to keeps the internal synergy dynamic and reinforces mutual provide consultancy when necessary. communication and increases motivation to reach common targets. With 4 live broadcasts in 2012, we plan to continue Internal Activities the same pattern (quarterly broadcasts) in 2013. We organize social activities to improve motivation, reinforce team spirit and loyalty, create a sense of being a Corporate Portal member of Akbank is a privilege, and to strengthen internal We use the Corporate Portal system to ensure that our communications. There are also social activities performed employees perform their duties more easily, have access to through Akbank Volunteers system established in 2011 and information effectively, and improve internal communication. continued in 2012, these are mentioned in the 9th section of The infrastructure of the corporate portal was renewed the Report in detail. in 2012. The aim of the renewal was to allow internal and external information transfer, to increase operational Some of the sport activities that Akbank employees efficiency in all processes thanks to up-to-date technologies, participated in 2012 are listed below: to create a common platform for information, and to ensure • April 2012: Our soccer team of 22 players attended the easy access to information and consolidation. The new Inter-Companies Soccer Tournament. corporate portal allows employees to arrange their profile • July 2012: Akbank tennis team made up of eight pages and build networks with their friends in the same employees came in second at the 2nd Tennis Tournament way as they do in social media. It is also possible to share of The Banks Association of Turkey. documents more easily and faster by opening project rooms on a project-basis. Online lotteries can be organized on the • September 2012: Akbank employees attended the 3x3 portal for participation in certain events. Intercompany Basketball Tournament with two men's and one women’s team. Our women’s team came in third. “For Us” • October 2012: After the great success at the Tennis “For Us” section of the corporate portal is an important Tournament of The Banks Association of Turkey, channel that we use for strengthening internal our tennis team attended İstanbul Champions Cup communications by creating interactive areas through which Tournament in which companies from different sectors we can receive feedback from employees. competed. 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 07 OUR EMPLOYEES Employee Satisfaction One of the most important factors in maintaining high levels of employee motivation and performance is creating a desirable working environment and corporate culture. We believe that permanent employee loyalty and satisfaction is a prerequisite for success. In order to receive healthy feedback from employees and identify expectations accurately, we hold an “Employee Satisfaction Survey” every year. The survey is performed by an independent company on a confidential basis. As a result of the survey, necessary improvements and developments are made. According to the results of the 2012 survey, main focus will be on the following: autonomy (decision making, using initiatives), brand alignment (internal and external perception of the brand), resources (tools and opportunities to facilitate doing business), and career management. Efforts to improve employee loyalty and satisfaction continue in 2013. 77 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 THROUGH OUR TRAININGS, WE CREATED, ARE CREATING AND WILL CONTINUE TO CREATE A DIFFERENCE WITH OUR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT PRACTICES, OUR ACTIONS ON ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND OUR RESPONSIBILITIES WHILE DEVELOPING PRODUCTS. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT We strive to minimize the environmental impacts resulting Energy Consumption and Saving from our operations and to use natural resources more We attach importance to energy consumption and related efficiently. greenhouse gas emissions that cause global climate change. The “Carbon Disclosure Project”, launched by the Sabancı Our Environmental Policy and Commitments University Corporate Management Forum with support from We consider energy consumption, emissions of greenhouse Akbank in 2009, is the best indicator of our approach towards gases, paper use, and discharge of technological wastes the issue. Akbank is one of the first companies in Turkey to as material environmental issues. We implement various make commitment to reporting climate change strategies practices to measure these environmental aspects by using and greenhouse gas emissions in line with international internationally recognized quantitative indicator criteria and standards. to achieve improvements. Energy Consumption We are implementing a system that allows close and regular Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption monitoring of environmental aspects in all branches. We The energy data that we collect and report in accordance believe that with this system, identifying measures to with various international standards are divided into two improve our environmental performance, taking measures, groups. The first one is the “direct energy” we derive from and monitoring the associated results will be more efficient in the coming years. a variety of energy sources in the Bank. The main energy source in this group is the natural gas we use for heating We adopt the following commitments in carrying out our purposes. It is the main energy source used in Akbank environmental policy: Sabancı Center, Akbank Banking Center, other centers and the majority of branches. Also diesel fuel, butane (LPG), • We will continue to take necessary steps and measures coking coal, and fuel oil are used in our branches. The for full compliance with environmental laws and second group is the purchased electric energy, which is regulations. called “indirect energy”. • We will contribute to protection of limited natural resources by making savings in energy, water and paper A wide-scope study was conducted in 2010 with the aim use. of calculating the amount of electricity and natural gas • We will work to minimize the wastes resulting from our consumed for heating purposes and of establishing an operations. If it is impossible to reduce waste, we will energy management system. In this study, we collected ensure rational reuse and recycling of wastes. consumption data from all our buildings, including branches, • We will continue to include environmental sustainability to create a basis. Consumption data in this year’s Report issues in the trainings we offer to our employees to reduce was built upon the same basis we used in last year’s Report, the environmental impacts of our operations. namely costs related to heating, electricity, and water. • We will support training and awareness projects aiming to increase awareness of environmental issues especially In 2010, Akbank Banking Center (ABC) in Gebze was opened among the youth. and thus, some of our employees at the buildings in İstanbul moved to Gebze in 2010 and 2011. During the moving period, • Through international cooperation, we will support we included consumption data in the buildings that moved transparency policies that will contribute to reductions to ABC in calculations as long as these building were used. in the emission of greenhouse gases of our corporate After moving the buildings, Maslak Operations Center, stakeholders and our Bank. Gümüşsuyu and Ümraniye Service buildings were closed in 2011. In order to increase awareness and achieve internalization of the issue, we give sustainability trainings also covering environmental issues through e-learning and in-class activities. All employees at every function (from security officers to branch managers) attend these trainings. 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Our “direct” and “indirect” energy consumption data are available in the tables below: Fuel Consumption 2010 2011 2012 (Gigajoule/year) Akbank Sabancı Center 7,137 8,918 7,889 Akbank Banking Center and Other Centers* 16,936 16,536 16,371 Regional Directorates and Branches (All kinds of fuels) 81,577 106,866 88,885 Total Consumption of Natural Gas 72,725 89,187 77,269 Total Consumption of Other Fuels ** 32,926 43,133 35,875 TOTAL 105,651 132,319 113,144 Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. ** Other fuels: Diesel, butane (LPG), coking coal, and fuel oil. As seen in the table above, fuel consumption at Akbank fell significantly: 14.5%. In 2012, 35 new branches started service, while in 2011 a number of buildings were closed down due to moving to the Akbank Banking Center. Electricity Consumption 2010 2011 2012 (Gigajoule /year) Akbank Sabancı Center 49,327 56,864 64,154 Akbank Banking Center and Other Centers* 75,855 69,245 72,383 Regional Directorates, Branches, ATMs/BTMs 224,362 216,755 221,874 TOTAL 349,544 342,864 358,411 Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. Looking at the table above, we see that the total electricity Energy Savings in Buildings consumption at Akbank increased by 4.5% from 2011 to As a bank with almost 1,000 branches, we are aware that 2012. However, considering the growth and technological measuring and monitoring are important in managing our infrastructure investments of the Bank, we can say that energy use. Therefore, in 2011 we created an infrastructure efficiency was not reduced. Akbank continues to make for remote measuring and monitoring of electricity used technological infrastructure investments to offer modern in our branches. This infrastructure includes a remote banking services with state-of-the-art technology. In 2012 monitoring system and an emergency measures system to our Bank grew with 1,000 new employees, 35 new branches minimize systemic losses of electricity. Being put into use and 331 additional ATM/BTMs. Therefore, the need for in approximately 300 branches in the first phase, the system electricity increases over the years. was launched with full capacity in 840 branches by the end of 2012. We expect the system to contribute to reductions Energy Saving Practices in both carbon emissions and operational expenses by In line with the target to reduce the amount of energy ensuring more efficient use of electricity. needed in operations, we continue to create awareness among our employees while also considering practices that In addition, we continued our efforts to revise mechanical ensure more economical use of energy and higher energy automation of the Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning efficiency, we also continue to create awareness among our (HVAC) system in branches in a way to that they operate employees. based on the internal air quality. The first applications of this 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT system had started in the last quarter of 2010. We used this Fuel Savings via Videoconference and Telepresence system in new branches. With this system, approximately Meetings held via videoconference and telepresence systems 30% and 14% savings will be achieved in electricity and enable employees to hold domestic and international natural gas consumption respectively. meetings with their contacts without having to travel. Use of these systems and installation of new ones are becoming Energy Savings in Information Technologies (IT) widespread practices in our Bank. IT use is one of the most important energy-consuming activities in banking. We especially pay attention to For instance, the telepresence system (virtual meeting reducing the energy use by Data Centers. One of the most table) established between Akbank Head Office in 4. significant steps we took in this direction was the use of Levent, İstanbul and Akbank Banking Center in Gebze was virtualization technology that we started in 2007. Thanks used approximately 1,320 hours in 2011, while this figure to this technology, although the amount of energy needed increased to 2,265 in 2012. Moreover, in 2012 we installed to operate the servers in the Data Center and to cool the and put to use a desktop conferencing system that allows system rooms of these servers increased, we achieved a Eastern Anatolian Regional Directorate and its 12 branches notable reduction in energy need. to communicate visually. Another measure we took in our Data Centers is making In meetings held via these systems, not only visual sure that all of the new systems we purchase consume less communication but also mutual document and presentation energy so that energy consumption rate will not increase in transfer is also possible. This allows reductions in fuel parallel to the increase in need for new devices. In 2013, we consumption and resulting greenhouse gas emissions due aim to retire systems older than 5 years and replace them to business travels; we also save work time that otherwise with new devices that consume less energy. would be spent in commuting. We plan to install new videoconference systems in 2013. Fuel Savings in Cash Operations In our Cash Operations unit that offers cash and cash value transfer to more than 2,100 customers and four banks all over Turkey, we started to benefit from the latest advances in geographical positioning technologies. Thanks to an efficient route planning, our teams covered 8.1 km per transaction in 2012, while the figure was 10 km per transaction in 2008. This created 19% increase in efficiency and 8.2% less fuel consumption per transaction. Definition 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Kilometers Covered Per Transaction 10.00 9.8 10.2 8.6 8.1 Fuel Used Per Transaction 1.09 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.0 Carbon Emissions and Reductions Carbon Emissions Fuels that Akbank uses during its operations and the We take a variety of measures to minimize the greenhouse electricity purchased from third parties lead to carbon gas emissions released during our operations. We regularly emissions that are believed to cause global climate change. monitor our carbon footprint and the results of the measures In addition, fuels used in personnel service buses and taken. Our aim is to achieve reduction in our carbon footprint company cars allocated to senior managers also lead to (calculated based upon international standards and on the greenhouse gas emissions. basis of energy resources consumed) year after year. 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Carbon Emissions by Primary Energy Source CO2-equivalent carbon emissions resulting from fuels used for heating purposes in Akbank’s premises are provided in the table below: Carbon Emissions by Primary Energy Source 2010 2011 2012 (tonCO2-e/year) Akbank Sabancı Center 464 580 513 Akbank Banking Center and Other Centers* 1,338 1,075 1,064 Regional Directorates and Branches (All kinds of fuels) 6,128 8,027 6,677 TOTAL Carbon Emissions Generated by Natural Gas Consumption 4,965 5,797 5,023 TOTAL Carbon Emissions Generated by Other Fuels ** 2,965 3,885 3,231 TOTAL 7,930 9,682 8,254 Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. ** Other Fuels: Diesel, butane (LPG), coking coal, and fuel oil. We continue to work for emission reductions, energy efficiency and savings as well as creating awareness among our employees. As observed from the table above, carbon emissions generated by primary energy sources have decreased 14.7% compared to 2011. Carbon Emissions Generated by Electricity Consumption CO2-equivalent carbon emissions generated by electricity consumption in Akbank are provided in the table below: Carbon Emissions Generated by Electricity Consumption 2010 2011 2012 (ton CO2-e /year) Akbank Sabancı Center 6,000 6,916 7,804 Akbank Banking Center and Other Centers* 9,212 8,423 8,805 Regional Directorates, Branches and ATMs/BTMs 37,874 27,540 28,550 TOTAL 53,086 42,879 45,159 Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. Compared to 2011, there is a fractional increase in the total carbon emissions generated by electricity consumption in Akbank. In 2011, in order to reduce our carbon footprint we began to purchase energy for over 800 buildings from an auto-producer that generates energy with less emission. This enabled the significant decrease in 2011 emission data. However, due to technological infrastructure investments, recruitment of approximately 1,000 new employees, increase in the number of branches and ATMs/ BTMs, total electricity consumption and the resulting carbon emission increased. 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Carbon Emissions Generated by Personnel Transportation Personnel service buses are used for mass transportation of employees working at the Sabancı Center and Gebze Akbank Banking Center, where our Head Office units operate. In addition the senior management commutes by private vehicles. CO2equivalent carbon emissions generated by fuels used in transportation are available in the table below. Carbon Emissions Generated by Personnel 2010 2011 2012 Transportation (ton CO2-e /year) Personnel using service buses 4,650 4,634 4,685 Covered distance (km) 8,269,344 9,100,410 9,153,220 Total ton CO2-e 3,308 3,640 3,661 Approximately one third of our employees go to work by service buses. The resulting 3,661 tons of CO2-equivalent carbon emission would increase significantly due to individual commute. Therefore, by providing employees with service buses, Akbank achieves an important level of savings in carbon emissions. Paper Use and Savings Paper Savings Paper Use We continue to implement various measures to reduce the In Akbank, we use a high volume of paper in our operations paper use in Akbank. While our previous practices to use from contracts of products and services we offer to our paper more efficiently in branches and ATMs continue, we customers to correspondences and promotion materials. also launched the “Member Business Bank Statements” and “Member Business e-Statements” practices which Amount of paper used at our Bank has been falling since resulted in a significant level of paper savings in 2012. We 2009. As a result of various saving measures, the amount of also realized various campaigns to continue to spread our paper consumed per person in 2012 fell significantly to 68 kg e-statement for credit cards system which saves a notable from 73 kg in 2011. amount of paper. In 2012, amount of paper material purchased by the Employees’ knowledge and awareness is key in order Corporate Communications Department, such as invitations, to increase the paper savings through projects and brochures, banners, flyers, envelopes, and posters showed increase the figures. Therefore we make various internal a decrease compared to 2011. This decrease is the result announcements and notifications to encourage our of effective planning that allows periodical and projectemployees to save paper. based demands and production. This policy both serves the environmental policy of Akbank and has positive effect on the With the savings measures -examples of which are given expenses. belowwe prevented use of approximately 214.4 tons of paper in 2012. . Paper use (tons) * 2010 2011 2012 Procurement Department ** 1,144 1,118 1,107 Corporate Communications Department 6.5 3.5 3 TOTAL 1,150.5 1,121.5 1,110 Paper use per employee (kg) 75 73 68 * Total amount of paper does not include A4 photocopy papers used in branches and materials printed by suppliers (such as reports, etc.). ** The amount of paper sent from our warehouse to the Head Office, Regional Directorates and Akbank Banking Center. 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Amount of Saved Paper Starting Date Location 2010 2011 2012 (tons) Member Business Statements 2012 Head Office 19.8 Member Business e-Statements 2012 Head Office 0.6 Credit Card e-Statements** 2008 Head Office 114.9 141.2 194.0 Yearly total paper savings thanks to model practices (ton) 114.9 141.2 214.4 * 1 member business bank statement is on average 1.19 A4 pages and 1 envelope. ** 1 extract is approximately 1.1 A4 pages and 1 envelope; 1 A4 paper is calculated as 5 g and 1 envelope is 6 g. Total savings are calculated by taking into account the customers who order e-statements, but are not active card users. Paper Recycling Examples to Paper Saving Practices at Akbank In addition to saving paper, we aim to reduce our environmental footprint by recycling paper wastes. At Kınalı Member Business Bank Statements Archives Center in which all branch and Head Office archives By reducing bank statements posted to member businesses to one page, we made 149,000 less mailings are kept, 520 tons of paper were disposed and recycled in monthly and achieved paper savings amounting to 16.3 2012 after the legal preservation period ended. tons in 10 months. In addition, we stopped sending 117,000 password letters as of July 2012, which brought a Documents that have completed their legal preservation savings of 3.5 tons of paper. periods at the Archives Center are sent to a contracted paper company for secure disposal every year. The company Member Business E-statements applies chemical processes on the slit and baled paper to We worked on spreading the e-statement practice so that make pulp and this pulp is used to reproduce paper. member businesses receive their statements by e-mail instead of post. E-statement allows immediate access to Our branches dispose of their own archived documents or bank statements and savings in paper use. To encourage send them to the Archives Center for disposal. In addition participation of member businesses, we organized an to the paper sent to recycle by the Archives Center, in “Environment Friendly E-statement” campaign in 2012, branches, some precious papers are slit and regular these campaigns will continue in 2013. With the campaign paper is used in both sides when possible. Then, these are that started in May 2012, we managed to convince 15,702 collected in recycling boxes provided by municipalities and member businesses to adopt e-statements. non-governmental organizations such as TEMA (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Erosion Reforestation and the Credit Card E-Statements Protection of Natural Habitats) to be recycled later on. Since 2008, we have been able to send account statements indicating credit card bills via e-mail or SMS. To encourage our customers to use these “e-statements”, Total Paper Savings we continue our communication activities with the motto “Give Life to Trees”. We also held a campaign in By saving 214.4 tons and recycling 520 tons of paper in 2012 to collect e-mails of customers. Thanks to such 2012, we saved approximately 7,795 trees from being encouragement, number of cards with e-statements cut down. (Given that 1 ton of saved paper and 1 ton of exceeded 2.01 million at the end of 2012, while it was 1.62 recycled paper saves 17 and 8 trees respectively.) million at the end of 2011 and approximately 1.2 million in December 2010. By sending 16,848,966 credit card statements in the electronic environment, we saved 194 tons of paper in 2012. 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Water Use and Savings Water Use In Akbank, water is used by the employees for cleaning purposes, and for irrigating green areas. Compared to a production facility, Akbank’s total water withdrawal is limited and municipal water is used. Our water use does not have significant impact on a specific water source. Water Consumption 2010 2011 2012 (m3/year) Akbank Sabancı Center 34,591 30,664 30,423 Akbank Banking Center and Other Centers* 54,176 69,370 77,764 Regional Directorates and Branches 284,012 289,181 290,218 TOTAL 372,779 389,215 398,405 Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. In 2012, with the effect of the increase in the number of branches and employees, total water consumption of Akbank increased by 2.4% compared to the previous year. However, if we withdraw the effect of increase in the number of branches, we see that the consumption fell by 3.3%. Water Savings Practices Recycling Toner Cartridges With the aim of achieving water savings, depressurizing Empty toner cartridges of printers have negative impacts systems and aerators that mix water with air are used in on the environment if they are not disposed of properly. the taps in our branches, the Akbank Head Office (HO) and To minimize this impact, we initiated a project to recycle the Akbank Banking Center (ABC). In addition, in the HO and the toner cartridges used in printers in August 2010. Since ABC, photocell taps are used in WCs where water is used in then, empty cartridges in all of Akbank buildings, including great amounts, in order to achieve water savings. branches have been sent to an electronic waste recovery company for recycling. Employees who order new cartridges Waste Management see a warning on their computer screens to send the empty cartridges to a recovery company. This recovery company Akbank uses a great number and variety of electric and uses the recycled cartridges as fuel for energy generation. electronic devices due to the nature of banking operations, which require electronic means in a number of transactions. We sent a total of 3,072 empty cartridges in 2011 and until These devices contain not only valuable metals that should September 2012 2,328 cartridges were sent (865 from the be brought back to the economy, but also environmentally Head Office and 1,463 from branches) to recovery. harmful materials. Therefore, we have several measures to ensure recovery of devices that have gone out of use within In October 2012, recycling toner cartridges was taken up the economy or to reduce potential environmental impact. as a volunteer project with a new campaign. We started to send the empty cartridges to the Turkish Association for the In our main buildings, we sort and collect wastes to deliver Disabled. Employees supported the campaign by not only them to recycling companies. For instance, used paper, bringing in the cartridges used in the office, but also those at plastics, glass and metals are collected in separate boxes home. In 3 months 2,400 empty cartridges were sent to the and sent to recycling. In addition, oil retainers are placed Association. With the revenue generated from refilling these between the wastewater line and the city sewer lines in the cartridges, disabled students received scholarships. kitchens to collect waste oils. These waste oils are sent to oil recovery stations to be recycled. When floor coverings in buildings need to be replaced, we take the environmental performance of carpets and other floor coverings into consideration. 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Recovery of Technological Waste Electronic devices that are no longer appropriate for use according to Akbank’s standards are sold to companies in Turkey, as scrap or second-hand products for recovery of the metals and electronic parts. In addition, some of these devices are donated as per the requests made to the Bank. Type and Amount of 2010 2011 2012 Technological Waste Sold as scrap Donated Sold as scrap Donated Sold as scrap Donated Computer 964 433 31 636 527 Monitor 2,195 436 1,215 638 524 Passbook Printer 676 736 Dot Matrix Printer 130 42 Laser Printer 404 24 707 22 114 POS Machine 6,592 59,626 58,792 ATM Machine 273 414 312 86 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 TO US, “SUSTAINABILITY” MEANS THE WAY OF DOING BUSINESS, OUR APPROACH ON RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND UTILIZING OUR ASSETS. WHILE IMPROVING OUR CORPORATE PERFORMANCE TO THE TOP LEVEL WITH OUR TRAINING ACTIVITIES, WE WILL ALSO CONTINUE TO BE THE DRIVER OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AS WELL AS TO CREATE SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS AND ADDED VALUE TO THE SOCIETY IN EVERY POSSIBLE WAY. www.akbank.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Our target is to pioneer the works that improve the life young musicians. Within this context, “Jazz on Campus” event quality of our stakeholders and future generations through was held in 14 university campuses in 10 cities in October corporate social responsibility projects. 2012. In addition, “Jazz Workshop at Senior High” event aiming to introduce jazz to senior high school students was With the responsibility of being the Most Valuable Banking followed by a great number of students. Brand in Turkey*, while working to manage the economic, social, and environmental impacts of our operations http://www.akbankcaz.com/en responsibly, we also implement projects adding value to our society and support a number of successful initiatives. Akbank Short Film Festival Established within Akbank Art Center, the Akbank Short Culture and Arts Film Festival reached its audience for the 8th time in Akbank Art Center 2012. Upon evaluation of 557 films applied, 20 fiction and Akbank Art Center was established in 1993 with the aim 10 documentary films were accepted to compete in the of creating a brand to represent the Bank’s innovative and National Contest. In addition to competing films, significant visionary identity in support of arts. Pioneering the development films screened in various world festivals were also shown. of modern arts in Turkey and enabling art events to reach Cinema fans enjoyed the festival for 10 days, attending the greatest number of people from all layers of the society, several workshops and panels. With the “Akbank 8th Short Akbank Art Center continues its efforts as “the place where Film Festival at Universities” event, 2 short films awarded at change never ceases”. the Festival were screened in 40 universities in the cities of İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Mersin, Eskişehir, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Continuously performing in Beyoğlu, a location with special Edirne, Tekirdağ, Bolu, Bursa, Kayseri, Adana, Gaziantep, importance in the culture and art life of İstanbul, Akbank Art Elazığ, Erzurum, Zonguldak, Çanakkale, and Kırklareli. Center organizes concerts and over 700 exhibitions, interviews, conferences, movie screenings throughout the year. http://www.akbankkisafilm.com/en http://www.akbanksanat.com/en Map of Contemporary Art As another activity of Akbank Art Center, the Akbank Map of Akbank Children’s Theater Contemporary Art continues to reach Turkish and foreign art-enthusiasts in print form and on the Internet with the Performing since 1972, Akbank Children’s Theater aim of reflecting the artistic life in İstanbul in the best way celebrated its 40th anniversary in 2012. As the first Turkish possible. The Map was printed 5 times in 2012 with a total children’s theater touring in Anatolia and Europe, Akbank volume of 170,000 and reached more people especially Children’s Theater brought the excitement and joy of theatre during fair and biennial periods. to millions of children since the day it was established. Celebrating the title of being Turkey’s longest-lasting http://www.akbanksanatharitasi.com/en children’s theatre, the group performed a musical version of the Oscar-winning animation movie Shrek, with Turkish actors and in Turkish for its 40th anniversary. Shrek International İstanbul Film Festival Musical was performed not only in İstanbul, but also in Organized by İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) Van, Gaziantep, Adana, Kayseri, Ankara, and Bursa. In 13 since 1982, the International İstanbul Film Festival brings shows, the musical reached 7,247 people and attracted great the most exclusive and original films to cinemagoers. Since interest from all age groups. 2004 Akbank has been supporting this Festival that hosts movie stars and master directors and contributes to the Akbank Jazz Festival growth of a well-rooted cinema culture in Turkey. In 2012 the As one of the longest-lasting festivals that reach the greatest Festival lasted for 2 weeks and 140,000 cinema fans watched number of viewers in Turkey, Akbank Jazz Festival has been 220 films from 52 countries in 522 séances in 7 movie bringing together music fans and the most renowned jazz halls. Also 12 cinema lectures and panels, a concert and a performers for 22 years. In 2012, 63 concerts were staged in workshop specially designed for the Festival took place. 10 cities in 3 weeks with the participation of 300 musicians. One of the distinguishing qualities of the Festival is that it Contemporary İstanbul organizes not only concerts, but also workshops, panels, and The 7th Contemporary İstanbul Modern Art Fair was held on events such as “JAmZZ Young Talents Contest” to support November 22-25, 2012, at İstanbul Lütfi Kırdar International * In the “World’s Most Valuable 500 Banking Brands 2012” survey by Brand Finance (an international brand assessment institution), Akbank was selected Turkey’s “Most Valuable Banking Brand” with a brand value of USD 1.6 billion. 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Congress and Exhibition Center. Participated by 102 modern Akbank Thinking Club art galleries and 612 artists both Turkish and from abroad, the “Akbank Thinking Club” was founded in 2008 together with Fair drew great interest from art collectors, art-fans and the young people, who are important stakeholders in progress media. 68,000 people visited the Fair. Akbank Private Banking and innovation, in order to contribute to the development has been supporting Contemporary İstanbul since 2007 and of creativity potential in Turkey. In its 5th year, with the thus continuing to contribute to the development of modern applications for the academic year of 2012-2013 the number art in Turkey. of club members reached 111 students with high levels of academic success in 12 universities. Education and Youth Savings Campaign Every year Akbank Management sets a theme and club One of the “2023 Targets” set to celebrate the 100 th members work on the theme in groups, produce creative anniversary of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey ideas, write scenarios and make projects. These are is making Turkey one of the top 10 economies in the evaluated by a special jury consisting of academicians world. Among the actions to be taken in order to reach and press members and the team with the best project is this macroeconomic target is increasing domestic savings. rewarded with a Summer School Scholarship at Harvard Seeing that our people got away from the idea of making University. The theme for 2013 is “Savings Culture in Turkey” savings in recent years, we, as Akbank, initiated the “Savings and the members will develop ideas to ensure adoption and Campaign” in 2012 with the aim of helping them regain development of a savings culture. this habit. The project named “Akbank Volunteers Explain Banking and Savings” was implemented by volunteering The number of Akbank Thinking Club members increases Akbank employees, in cooperation with the Corporate every year and the club offers the youth, who will create the Volunteer Association and the company Para Durumu. innovative force of tomorrow and have a word in Turkey’s 60 Akbank volunteers received a special training and future with today’s experience, an opportunity to realize and explained “Banking and Savings” to around 3,500 elementary improve their potential. school students in İstanbul. The students were informed on spending, donating, saving, and investments. In these www.akbankdusuncekulubu.com trainings, importance of setting targets to save money (Available only in Turkish) and opportunity to make savings with small sums was emphasized. Make a Wish Make a Wish Foundation is an international non-governmental Our Savings Campaign continued on October 31, the organization that was founded to make wishes of children World Savings Day and the Savings, Investment, and Local between the age of 3 and 18 and suffering from a lifeProducts Week between 12 and 18 December. Mrs. Suzan threatening illness come true. The Foundation helps children Sabancı Dinçer, Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Hakan realize their dreams with approval from the doctors. Akbank Binbaşgil, CEO, volunteered to deliver lectures in elementary has already been supporting Make a Wish Foundation but schools on spending, donating, saving, and investment. in 2012 we initiated another cooperation for the inclusion of Akbank employees into the voluntary teams enabling We plan to develop the “Akbank Volunteers Explain Banking the dreams come true. In addition, we hosted the national and Savings” project with new cooperation partners and to volunteer training given by the Foundation in December 2012. reach more students. Sakıp Sabancı Museum – Education Sponsorship Entrepreneurship In 2012, we continued to support efforts to spread the spirit Akbank’s Education Sponsorship to Sakıp Sabancı Museum of entrepreneurship in Turkey, train a greater number (SSM) that had started in 2011 continued in 2012 with a of entrepreneurs, and increase opportunities for them. variety of educational programs and activities. Aiming Examples of such efforts are provided below: to ensure that children and young people have a strong awareness of culture and arts and that they become acquainted with works of art in the SSM collection and Endeavor Program and Meetings temporary exhibitions, the SSM organizes a variety of Endeavor is an international non-governmental organization education programs and activities throughout the year. established to contribute to economic development by In 2012, approximately 20,000 children and young people supporting active entrepreneurs in developing countries. (twice the number of participants last year) attended these In addition to offering special financial services to activities. entrepreneurs, Akbank also organizes meetings in 89 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT cooperation with Endeavor. With the “Good Enterprise Environment Summit” and “Good Investment Summit” -first organized in 2011 in İstanbul with contribution from TÜSİAD (Turkish No Time to Waste! Get Involved! Industry and Business Association)entrepreneurs are In 2010, we initiated the “No Time to Waste” project in informed on subjects including leadership, management, coordination with the Regional Environment Center (REC) financing of entrepreneurs, and angel investors. In 2012, with the aim of drawing attention to environment and upon demands from entrepreneurs in Ankara and İzmir an climate change problems. In two years, a total of 60 Akbank event similar to “Good Enterprise Summit” was organized in employees volunteered for the project. In the project, İzmir. Another event similar to “Good Investment Summit” photographs were taken and interviews were made in 15 was held in January 2013 in Ankara. regions of Turkey that were influenced or found to be in danger of influence due to Climate Change. The book No Global Student Entrepreneur Awards Time to Waste! Get Involved! was shared with approximately 1,000 members of press and opinion leaders in Turkey. “Global Student Entrepreneur Awards” (GSEA) created Akbank volunteers visited 11 cities and made presentations by Saint Louise University in 1998 aims to promote about the environment and climate change to more than 10 entrepreneurship among university students and to contribute thousand students in 2011 and 2012. to training future entrepreneurs. Akbank supports the organization of this prestigious challenge of the global entrepreneurship circle in Turkey since 2011. University Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) students who have their own businesses participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a global initiative started challenge. National winners have the opportunity to share in the year 2000 with the purpose of collecting and sharing their know-how and experiences with other entrepreneurs information to allow companies, investors, and governments in Turkey and the USA as well as to enter international to take measures against the threat of climate change. The entrepreneurship networks. 180 young entrepreneurs applied Project has been implemented in Turkey by the Sabancı to the 2012 Turkey auditions and the “Biochemistry Auto University Corporate Management Forum and with support Analyzer” project earned the right to represent Turkey in the from Akbank since 2010. In addition to supporting the grand finals to be held in New York. implementation of the Project, we, as Akbank, also report to CDP on our climate change policy and greenhouse gas emissions. http://www.universiteligirisimci.com (Available only in Turkish) Akbank Volunteers Akbank Volunteers system was established in 2011 with the Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program mission of “being a part of the solution to social problems”. “Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program” is a training In 2012, volunteers increased their support in projects on activity organized in cooperation with Sabancı University. The environment, the disabled, education, and entrepreneurship. program provides support to entrepreneurs in designing, In line with our targets, number of projects increased and implementing, and managing their enterprise. Within the number of volunteers rose from 1,489 to 2,026 in one year. scope of the program also supported by KAGİDER (Women To encourage participation of our stakeholders in voluntary Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey), Inovent and Endeavor, projects, we requested support from business partners 44 entrepreneurs received 5 full days of training in 2012. for some projects. To increase awareness and encourage Akbank will continue to contribute to this program in 2013. involvement, we emphasized the idea of volunteering, Akbank volunteers, and social responsibility projects in our 2011 and 2012 Annual Reports and Memo Books. Our target Workshops with the Guru of Entrepreneurship: for 2013 is to conclude the structuring efforts aiming to Kenneth Morse get more involvement from employees in decision-making Globally renowned guru of entrepreneurship Kenneth Morse mechanisms of the volunteering system. participated in three workshops in 2012 with the main sponsorship of Akbank. The themes of workshops were “sales Some of the projects that we initiated with Akbank strategies”, “building management teams”, and “financing volunteers in 2011 continued in 2012 as well and new growth”. 10 Akbank customers earned the opportunity to projects were also added. The most extensive initiative in attend the workshops free of charge. These workshops will 2012 was the “Akbank Volunteers Explain Banking and continue in İstanbul and Ankara in 2013. Savings” project implemented within the scope of “Savings Campaign” which is initiated by Akbank and supported by products and services as well as corporate social http://www.entrepreneurship-turkey.com responsibility activities of the Bank. 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Collaboration Partner 2012 Contribution of Volunteers Number of Number of Institution Volunteering Volunteers Children/ Projects Young People Reached Corporate Volunteer Akbank Volunteers Trainings were given to students on 60 3,500 Association Explain Banking and “Banking and Saving”. Saving (new) Para Durumu Young Success Educational Company Program– Regular meetings were held with students 12 120 Foundation Support for Young to support entrepreneurship projects. Entrepreneurs (new) Cleaning the Belgrade Akbank Volunteers cleaned the forest on a 50 Forest (new) Sunday. Regional Environment No Time to Waste Trainings were given to create awareness 24 2,500 Center Turkey (REC) Project on environment and climate change. 45 Elementary Schools in Sharing Used Computers in an operable state were 10 18,000 37 Cities Computers of the given maintenance and fixed. 450 PC and Bank with Schools in 40 scanners were sent to various schools Need requesting such products. Corporate Volunteer Book Collection Around 3,000 books were donated to 500 2,000 Association Campaign libraries of 5 elementary schools. Association for Supporting Toy Collection With the collected toys, needs of 19 500 1,400 Contemporary Life Campaign kindergartens in 15 cities were met. Corporate Volunteer English Speaking Akbank Volunteers visited elementary 25 300 Association Club schools and supported students in learning English. Elementary Schools Municipality of Fatih, Visit to Animal Akbank Volunteers and their families 80 Yedikule Animal Shelter Shelter helped meet the needs of the animal shelter on a Sunday. Turkish Association for the Cartridge Collection With the project that started in November 600 3 Disabled Project (new) 2012, around 2,400 empty cartridges were collected. The revenue gained from Yurtiçi Kargo refilling the cartridges was allocated to scholarships of disabled students. UNICEF (United Nations Shopping at UNICEF Akbank employees made shopping at the 165 Children’s Fund) and and LÖSEV Booths booths in the Head Office to support these Foundation for Children NGOs. with Leukemia (LÖSEV) TOTAL 2,026 27,823 In 2012, 2,026 Akbank employees volunteered in 11 projects and reached 27,823 children and young people. We tried to be a part of the solution to social problems by sparing approximately 1,000 hours of our working time and some of our personal time for voluntary activities. 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Donations Deposit account holders at Akbank can donate money to 2012, customers’ donations amounting to approximately TL a variety of associations and foundations that operate in 6,500,000 were transferred to the following associations and Turkey and pursue public interest. Our customers can foundations. Akbank does not charge any bank transfer or donate money for one-time only or with automatic payment EFT fees on the donations made to the listed organizations. orders to an association or foundation of their choice. In Associations and Foundations That Received Donations from Akbank Customers in 2012 Kidney Foundation for Children Mehmetçik Foundation of the Turkish Armed Forces Directorate of Darülaceze Institution Turkish Aeronautical Association Darüşşafaka Association Turkish Association for Cancer Research and Control Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGİDER) Turkish Religious Foundation Kimse Yok Mu Association Education Volunteers Foundation of Turkey LÖSEV Turkish Red Crescent Society Autism Foundation Turkish Association for Children in Need of Protection TEMA Foundation Multiple Sclerosis Association of Turkey Tohum Autism Foundation Turkish Society of Paraplegia Association Foundation to Support the Turkish Armed Forces Turkish Foundation for Spastic Children 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Index This report contains information on the actions we took to improve our social, environmental, and economic performance and the results we achieved during the period between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012. The contents of the report are developed in compliance with the C-application level of the G3 version of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which is an internationally recognized reporting standard. The table below has been prepared to facilitate access to information provided within the framework of GRI's C-level application. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Explanations Disclosure reporting 1.1 Statement from the most senior Message from the Chairman Full 3-6 decision-maker of the organization, Message from the CEO regarding the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the strategy of the organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Our Approach to Sustainability Full 23-28, 33-34 opportunities 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization About Akbank Full Akbank T.A.Ş. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services About Akbank Full 11-12 2.3 Operational structure of the organization About Akbank Full 13, 16 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters About Akbank Full Sabancı Center, 4. Levent 34330 İstanbul TURKEY 2.5 Countries where the organization operates About Akbank Full Turkey, Germany, Dubai, and Malta 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About Akbank Full 16 2.7 Markets served About Akbank Full Turkey, Germany, Dubai, and Malta. See page 13 for number of customers for each segment. Akbank provides banking services in compliance with local laws and UN Security Council Regulations. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About Akbank Full 11, 13-14 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting About Akbank Full 16 period regarding size, structure, or Total number of branches in Turkey ownership increased from 926 to 961. The number of employees increased by 976 employees. 2.10 Awards About Akbank Full 18-19 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About the Report Full 1 January 2012 31 December 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About the Report Full Third report was published in 2012. 3.3 Reporting cycle About the Report Full We publish our Sustainability Report annually. We update some data on our website throughout the year. 93 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Explanations Disclosure reporting 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Credits and Contacts Full On the last page of the report. report or its contents Cenk Türker, PhD, Akbank Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, cenk.turker@akbank.com 3.5 Process for defining report content About the Report Full 21, 23-24, 29 3.6 Boundary of the report About the Report Full Banking services of Akbank T.A.Ş. in Turkey 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or About the Report Full 21 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and About the Report Full 21 other related organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the About the Report Full 21 bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect and reasons of any About the Report Full 21 re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, About the Report Full 21 or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Indicators table GRI Index Full GRI Indicators table is available between pages 93 and 98. 3.13 External assurance Full External assurance was not obtained. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 37-38 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 37 governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 Number of independent members of the Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 37 highest governance body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 36 employees to provide recommendations or Our Employees 70, 76 direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 37-38 members of the highest governance body Our Employees 69 and the organization's performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 38 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 37-38 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Our Approach to Sustainability Full 23, 25-26 or values, codes of conduct, and principles Corporate Governance in Akbank 36 relevant to economic, environmental, and Risk Management and Compliance 41-44 social performance and the status of their implementation 94 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Explanations Disclosure reporting 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Our Approach to Sustainability Full 25-26 body for overseeing the organization's Corporate Governance in Akbank 37-38 identification and management of Risk Management and Compliance 44 economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Corporate Governance in Akbank Partial 38 governance body's own performance, Our Employees 69 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance External Commitments 4.11 The precautionary approach or principle Risk Management and Compliance Full 40-41 4.12 Externally developed sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Full 32-33 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Our Approach to Sustainability 32 Stakeholder Participation 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our Approach to Sustainability Full 29-31 organization 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Our Approach to Sustainability Full 29 with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Our Approach to Sustainability Full 29-31 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been Our Approach to Sustainability Full 24, 29-31 raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to them STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PART III Performance Indicators Economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and About Akbank Full 15 distributed EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Our Approach to Sustainability Full 34 opportunities for the organization due to climate change EC3 The organization's defined benefit plan Our Employees Partial 69-70 obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received Full No significant financial assistance was from government received from the government in 2012. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Our Employees Full 65 wage compared to local minimum wage EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Our Employees Partial 64 of senior management hired from the local community ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Infrastructure investments and services Our Operations and the Environment Partial 85-86 provided for public benefit through Our Community Investment 88-92 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Indirect economic impacts Value Added to Our Customers Partial 57 95 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Explanations Disclosure reporting Environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Our Operations and the Environment Partial 84 ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Our Operations and the Environment Full 79-80 energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Our Operations and the Environment Full 80 source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Our Operations and the Environment Partial 80-81 efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Value Added to Our Customers Partial 48-49 or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Our Operations and the Environment Partial 83 consumption and reductions achieved ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Our Operations and the Environment Full 85 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY EN11 Protected areas and areas of high Full Akbank does not have operations in such biodiversity value areas. Since the Bank’s branches are located in settlements, their impact on biodiversity is almost zero. EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, Value Added to Our Customers Partial 47-48 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTES EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Our Operations and the Environment Full 81-82. There is no official carbon emission emissions by weight coefficient for electricity use in Turkey. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Our Operations and the Environment Partial 81-83 emissions and reductions achieved EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Our Operations and the Environment Partial 85-86 method ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Value Added to Our Customers Partial 47-49 impacts of products and services ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Full There were no significant fines or number of non-monetary sanctions for sanctions for non-compliance with non-compliance with environmental laws environmental laws and regulations in and regulations 2012. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting Our Operations and the Environment Partial 83 products and members of the workforce Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Our Employees Full 65 employment contract, and region LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age group, Our Employees Full 67-68 gender, and region 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Explanations Disclosure reporting LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Our Employees Full 69-71 ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Our Employees Full 70 collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Our Employees Full 65 significant operational changes ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Our Employees Partial 71 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Our Employees Partial 70 agreements with trade unions ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per Our Employees Full 72 employee by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and Our Employees Full 72-73 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Our Employees Full 69 performance and career development reviews ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Our Employees Full 66-67 breakdown of employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership Social: Human Rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Value Added to Our Customers Partial 47 investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Our Approach to Sustainability Partial 27 contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination Our Employees Partial 64 and actions taken ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 The right to exercise freedom of association Our Employees Full 70 and collective bargaining ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Incidents of child labor, and measures Our Employees Full 67 taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Forced or compulsory labor Our Employees Full 68 ASPECT: Value AddedINDIGENOUS RIGHTS to Our Customers HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of Full There were no such incidents in 2012. indigenous people and actions taken 97 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Explanations Disclosure reporting Social: Society ASPECT: COMMUNITY SO1 Programs and practices that assess and Partial 57 manage the impacts of operations on communities ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business Risk Management and Compliance Partial 41, 44 units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Our Employees Full 73-74 organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Risk Management and Compliance Full 44 corruption ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Our Approach to Sustainability Partial 30, 32-33 public policy development and lobbying SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to Full There were no financial and in-kind political parties, politicians, and related contributions to political parties, institutions politicians, and related institutions in 2012. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Significant fines and total number of nonFull There were no significant fines for nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance compliance with laws and regulations with laws and regulations in 2012. Social: Product Responsibility ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service information Full We provide information on all of our required by procedures, and percentage of banking services and products and significant products and services subject to these are subject to a variety of laws and such information requirements regulations. In our website we provide easy to access information on our products including fees, interest rates, taxes and terms. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Value Added to Our Customers Partial 58-59 including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATION PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Risk Management and Compliance Partial 42 standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Full There were no significant fines for nonnon-compliance with laws and regulations compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of concerning the provision and use of products and services products and services in 2012. 98 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX UN Global Compact Index In 2007, Akbank became the first Turkish Bank to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Pursuant to requirements of being a signatory to UNGC, we communicate our progress regarding putting the UNGC Principles into action. This Sustainability Report contains information on our current actions and performance we have achieved as a result. Information disclosed in the report on each aspect can be found using the table below. UN Global Compact Principles Page of the Performance Information Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 26, 27, 32, 47, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 26, 27, 32, 47, 64, 66, 67, 70 human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 26, 27, 32, 47, 70 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 26, 27, 32, 47, 68 Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour; 26, 27, 32, 47, 68 Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 26, 27, 32, 47, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68 occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 32, 37, 47, 48, 49 environmental challenges; Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 32, 33, 47, 48, 49, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, responsibility; 85, 86 Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 32, 47, 48, 49, 80, 81, 82 friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 32, 41, 42, 43, 44, 73, 74 including extortion and bribery. 99 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTACTS AND CREDITS AKBANK T.A.Ş. HEAD OFFICE Sabancı Center 34330 4. Levent – İstanbul / TURKEY Phone : +90 212 385 55 55 Fax : +90 212 269 77 87 +90 212 280 33 43 www.akbank.com For inquiries about the Akbank Sustainability Report, please contact: Cenk Göksan Cenk Türker, PhD Investor Relations and Sustainability Department Investor Relations and Sustainability Department cenk.goksan@akbank.com cenk.turker@akbank.com sustainability@akbank.com Reporting Consultancy CSR Consulting Turkey info@csrconsulting.nl Akbank Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. This report has been originally prepared and published in Turkish. Even though its translation into English has been realized with utmost care and attention for precision, the Turkish version prevails as the original. All contents and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. Akbank© 2013 All rights reserved. 100
