INNOVIA SECURITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS APRIL 2013 REPORTING FOR THE PERIOD JANUARY – DECEMBER 2012 1. STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT A message from our CEO: I am pleased to re-confirm Innovia Security’s ongoing support for the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We have worked hard to ensure that the ten Principles become part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and we intend to continue with this work in the coming year. We are proud to be involved with the UN Global Compact and take very seriously our responsibilities as a member of the Australian Network. Yours sincerely, Philippe Etienne 1 2. ASPIRATIONS, ACTIONS AND OUTCOMES 2.1 Introduction Innovia Security became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on 30 August 2012 and joined the Australian Network on 10 September 2012. The decision to become a member/signatory was not taken lightly. However, there is a considerable amount of support within the company for our involvement in the UN Global Compact. Innovia Security experienced some major challenges in its recent history and has responded by completely changing its culture as well as its processes and procedures, so the company is not a stranger to cultural transformation. The company sees its involvement in the UN Global Compact as both a culmination of efforts to date and a springboard for future improvements in its corporate social responsibility. Innovia Security takes its commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact very seriously and has become active within the Australian Network. In October 2012 a representative attended the AGM of the Australian Network, and in November a representative was a panel member at the Anti-Corruption Leadership Group meetings in Sydney and Melbourne. Innovia Security intends to facilitate the attendance of representatives of the company at as many Leadership Group meetings as possible. We have found that the commitment made to the UNGC and the preparation of this Communication on Progress have enhanced the company’s efforts to find creative and positive ways to integrate the principles of the Global Compact into the organisation. Innovia Security is a small company, with only approximately 150 employees in Melbourne. The company is the majority shareholder in a company incorporated in Mexico, Innovia Security SA de CV. Through this company, which has approximately 100 employees, Innovia Security runs its Mexican operations. Whilst the UN Global Compact member organization is Innovia Security Pty Ltd, as far as possible this Communication on Progress reports on the activities of the Group’s Mexican operations as well as the Australian operations. Where targets and objectives relate to the Mexican operations, these are clearly identified. Where neither location is specified, the targets and objectives relate to the Australian operations. In addition to the clear commitment from the leadership group within Innovia Security to the ideals of the Global Compact, it has also been particularly pleasing to see how positively the company’s membership of the UNGC has been welcomed by personnel at all levels of the organization. Communications to personnel to seek their engagement and support have taken a number of forms, including:  attendance of Innovia Security’s UNGC Co-ordinator at and involvement in meetings of interest groups within Innovia Security (for example, Innovia Security’s Environmental Team); 2  an article about Innovia Security’s membership in its internal staff magazine, One! News; and  a video update that was sent to all staff in both Australia and Mexico. In addition to the above, in April 2013 Innovia Security plans to draw the UN Global Compact and its benefits to the attention of its key suppliers. We will also take the opportunity presented by this communication to re-issue Innovia Security’s “Commitment to Integrity and Ethics” document to these suppliers. In this way, Innovia Security hopes to contribute to positive advocacy about the case for corporate social responsibility and in particular the activities of the UNGC. This Communication on Progress reports on Innovia Security’s position and progress during 2012, and sets targets for 2013. 2013 Actions: General 1. Draw the UN Global Compact to the attention of key suppliers. 2.2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human rights are an important part of our everyday lives. Whilst we may take some basic human rights for granted in Australia, we need to have an awareness that some in our community (and certainly many people worldwide) may not have the basic conditions they need to be able to live with dignity and equality. Innovia Security supports the overarching principle that each person is entitled to be accorded certain basic human rights. IMMEDIATE SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Within Innovia Security’s immediate sphere of influence, we can safeguard the human rights of all Innovia Security personnel in a number of ways. Relevant human rights include:  Freedom of thought, conscience and religion (article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  Freedom of expression (article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  Freedom of peaceful assembly and association (article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  The right to work and to just conditions of employment (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  The right to equal pay for equal work without discrimination (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) 3  The right to just and favourable remuneration (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  The right to form and to join trade unions (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  The right to a reasonable limitation of working hours and holidays with pay (article 24 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  The right to a safe working environment (Occupational Health and Safety Convention 1981 (No. 155)). Innovia Security supports and safeguards these human rights specifically by: Occupational Health and Safety Innovia Security aims to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. The company tracks health and safety performance by:  Involving all personnel in a system of sharing responsibility for safe operations.  Conforming strictly to all safety regulations and local legislation.  Looking for improvements in our processes through best safety practices.  Encouraging employees to report all incidents, accidents and near misses.  Implementing effective risk management programs that identify and control hazards and unsafe practices – Genba Walks, OHS&E Committee, Health & Safety reps, Risk Assessment committee, Take 5 program. During 2012 the Innovia Security group reported 7 recordable injuries of which 2 required offsite medical treatment and 5 resulted in a lost time total of 19 days. The target for 2013 has been set at no more than 2 recordable injuries in each of the Australian operations and the Mexican operations. The importance of health and safety to the organization will be reinforced during 2013 by the inclusion of health and safety as the first agenda item for each Innovia Security Board Meeting. Senior members of Innovia Security’s Executive Team are currently preparing a Quality Culture Initiative which will also acknowledge the importance of health and safety in the workplace and encourage positive and safe behaviours. This Initiative will involve a presentation during 2013 to Operations and other relevant staff and the communication of new guiding principles. Other initiatives to be introduced during 2013 will also reinforce the health and safety message. There will be a quality and health and safety focus in company-wide workshops (to be known as You’re The Voice Part 2), which are further described in section 2.3 below. In addition, Operations staff will be reminded about the importance of health and safety through a “dos” and “don’ts” reminders system and other communication improvements. During 2013 Innovia Security will conduct a number of health and safety related training sessions for relevant personnel, including: 4  First aid training.  Forklift training.  Risk assessment training.  Emergency response training for eye injuries.  Working in confined spaces training.  Working at height training. A Safety Training Procedure will be prepared during 2013 and, in order to better track the necessary training, Innovia Security will develop a Safety Training Matrix, which will prompt re-training when required. Travel ban Innovia Security’s Security Department monitors travel and country risk and, for all staff travelling to a foreign nation, proposes a security program that reflects the risk assessment. In some cases where the risk is deemed to be a significant threat to personal safety, the CEO, at the recommendation of the Security Department, will issue a travel ban to that country or region. The ban is lifted by the CEO on the recommendation of the Security Department. Over the past two years such a ban has been put in place on three occasions. Policies Innovia Security ensures that its policies reflect principles of human rights, including in the area of anti-discrimination and labour rights. Current Innovia Security policies that are relevant in the human rights sphere are the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and the Performance and Misconduct Policy. Innovia Security amended and updated these policies during 2012 and will conduct awareness training for staff during 2013 to ensure that all employees understand what these policies mean in practice. Equal opportunity forms a fundamental part of Innovia Security’s recruitment and advancement process. Innovia Security will update its Recruitment Policy during 2013 with a special emphasis on ensuring that the policy reflects Innovia Security’s fundamental beliefs in this area. Innovia Security will develop a Human Rights Policy during 2013. The right to be heard As discussed in more detail in section 2.3, Innovia Security has recently concluded a robust process of enterprise bargaining with its non-salaried staff. During 2011 and 2012 EBA staff engaged in lengthy negotiations regarding their pay and terms and conditions of their employment. Following the negotiation process the vast majority of the EBA staff voted to support the new Workplace Agreement. Innovia Security places great importance on giving all staff the opportunity to be aware of and understand the challenges facing our business and a right to be heard. One example of this was the “You’re the Voice” workshops that all employees (in both 5 Australia and Mexico) attended during 2012. These workshops were run in a spirit of inclusiveness. Personnel were invited to voice their opinion and think about how they could increase their own sphere of influence within the business. They were also reminded of the key values of the company (as further described in section 2.3). Progressive maternity leave Innovia Security provides 52 weeks of maternity leave of which 6 weeks are paid. The company also offers 52 weeks of paternity leave, of which 1 week is paid. Given that these periods of parental leave are provided to employees on a full pay basis, these benefits are greater than the Federal Paid Parental Leave Scheme. Celebration of Motherhood Our Mexican operations have a tradition of enjoying a celebratory breakfast or lunch each year on Mothers’ Day to recognize the dual contribution of mothers to the workplace and their families. Death/illness insurance Innovia Security funds employees’ superannuation in accordance with the law. As part of the Corporate Superannuation plan, each employee also automatically receives insurance for total and permanent impairment and death. SECOND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Innovia Security’s second sphere of influence includes suppliers and business partners and, to a lesser degree of influence, end customers. To that end, since 2012, Innovia Security has required the following provision to be included in new agreements entered into with suppliers and business partners, and intends to enter into discussions with end customers, as and when appropriate, about the inclusion of this clause in agreements with those end customers: “Each party must comply with all Applicable Laws to the extent that they relate to the performance of, and compliance with, this Agreement, including: (a) environmental, hazardous substance, toxic waste, environmental quality, export and import control laws; (b) labour protection, anti-child labour, anti-slavery and forced labour, occupational health and safety, workplace wellness, collective bargaining, anti-discrimination and human rights laws; (c) anti-money laundering, counterfeiting, and international transfer of money laws; (d) non-secret commissions, conflict of interest, anti-bribery and anti-foreign corrupt practices laws, including all related criminal laws.” This clause is relevant to all of the 4 main areas of focus of the UN Global Compact, but as Human Rights establish general over-arching principles, it has been set out here. 6 2013 Actions: Human rights 1. No more than 2 recordable injuries in each of Mexico and Australia. 2. Health and Safety component in the Quality Culture Initiative. 3. “Dos” and Don’ts” reminders to Operations staff. 4. Occupational Health and Safety training modules to be completed. 5. Preparation of a Safety Training Procedure and Safety Training Matrix. 6. Improved communication to Operations staff about Health and Safety and other issues. 7. Staff information sessions about Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and Performance and Misconduct Policy. 8. Develop Human Rights Policy. 9. Update Recruitment Policy. 2.3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Innovia Security’s commitment to Labour Standards Whilst some of the principles under the Labour Standards stream are more relevant to Innovia Security’s business operations than others, Innovia Security supports and respects each of these principles. Over the last several years Innovia Security has been undergoing a period of dramatic cultural change, precipitated in part by the recent history of the company, namely the allegations that emerged in 2009 regarding the payment of fees to agents that were allegedly used to fund bribes paid to foreign officials. Recognising a need to change every aspect of the organisation’s culture, in 2011, Innovia Security’s new Director of Human Resources implemented a companywide initiative. This cultural change program is called “One Team One Vision”. It encourages a high performing and inclusive culture. As part of this initiative, a team of Ambassadors (employees) were assembled from across the organization. These Ambassadors facilitated a series of discussion groups to find out what was important to people working for the company. Through comments made by participants, five 7 common values were identified that were later adopted and subscribed to by all Innovia Security personnel: 1. Honour (above all else, do the right thing). 2. Engage (achieve better outcomes by engaging with others). 3. Excel (set high standards, exceed customer expectations). 4. Own (take responsibility, act as if it’s your business). 5. Grow (grow with the business). Further, during October and November 2012 Innovia Security conducted whole day interactive training sessions called the “You’re the Voice” program. This program was run in both Australia and Mexico and attendees of each session were taken from a cross section of the organization, with an average of 15 participants at a time. Each employee was given permission to attend without any impact on their leave entitlements. EBA staff received overtime payments for the day as they attended a session on their day off. The You’re the Voice program was intended to provide Innovia Security personnel with information about the business including where the company is right now, potential threats and opportunities for the business and opportunities for personal growth within the company. It was also designed to remind personnel of the five core values of the company and to ask people to think about how they could better align their work practices with these values. During 2013, a second round of “You’re The Voice” sessions will be rolled out, this time with a focus on quality and safety. The sessions will aim to drive improvements in these important areas through encouraging a better understanding of self and others in the workplace. Innovia Security has recently introduced its Rewarding Excellence program, where staff may receive on the spot awards or more formal awards for displaying excellence in their work and by role modeling the company values. During 2012, Innovia Security undertook a project to streamline its employment and related agreements in order to make their language more easily understood by workers and more positive in tone, in line with the cultural change the organization has achieved. Currently all employees in Mexico and the majority of employees in Australia have position descriptions. Innovia Security commits to ensuring that all employees have position descriptions by the end of 2013. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Union neutral policies Innovia Security is committed to ensuring that its HR policies are union neutral. The relevant union based on the industry classification of Innovia Security is the Automotive, 8 Food, Metals, Engineering, Printing and Kindred Industries Union (AMWU). The company does not discriminate against personnel based on their union membership. In recent years the number of EBA staff who are members of the AMWU has increased from 31% in August 2008 to 81% in February 2013. Innovia Security is proud that its Father of the Chapel is also a One Team One Vision Ambassador and acting shift manager, which shows that the activities of the union are unconditionally accepted and integrated into the wider organisational culture. Facilitating activities of union representatives A number of protections for union activities are enshrined in the EBA, which was approved in May 2012. Innovia Security’s EBA recognizes that EBA staff have a right to elect union delegates, including a Father/Mother of the Chapel to represent their views in the workplace (clause 36.1 EBA Agreement). The company provides union representatives with time during working hours to undertake union activities (clause 36.2 EBA Agreement). In addition, union representatives are permitted paid time off to conduct their activities (clause 36.3 of the EBA Agreement). Union delegates are given access to and control of designated notice boards throughout the enterprise. Delegates do not need to seek the approval of the company prior to placing newsletters and campaign materials on these notice boards (clause 36.10 EBA Agreement). Union delegates have access to training through the union to assist them in learning how to fulfill their function as a union delegate effectively Innovia Security holds consultative meetings on a monthly basis with the union representatives and other employee representatives to ensure that the company is addressing areas of concern and in order to assist in the implementation of initiatives and policies. Collective bargaining process During 2012, Innovia Security entered into negotiations with its EBA personnel, and the AMWU on their behalf, to update its EBA. This process came to a successful conclusion on 25 May 2012 when Fair Work Australia approved the new EBA Agreement. At the commencement of the enterprise bargaining process all employees were provided with a notice providing them with the opportunity to appoint a bargaining representative. The union was also permitted to be involved as of right. A log of claims was presented and negotiations took place until a final position was reached. At all times during the bargaining process all parties were required to bargain in good faith and Innovia Security committed to take the views of the bargaining representatives and employees into consideration and consult on all matters during the negotiations. All EBA employees were given the opportunity to vote on the adoption of the EBA (those on workcover or annual leave were permitted to return postal votes) and the EBA was supported by the vast majority of staff. 9 In Mexico, Innovia Security complies with Federal labour laws which set out mandatory provisions regarding the right to union involvement. In Mexico, our collective bargaining agreement is reviewed periodically with the involvement of the union. Salaries are reviewed annually and other terms and conditions are reviewed every two years. Innovia Security’s current Mexican collective bargaining agreement was approved in February 2013. Flexibility in the work force Both EBA and salaried staff are offered the opportunity to enjoy flexible work arrangements. The EBA Agreement enshrines the right of all EBA personnel after 12 months service to request flexible work arrangements for the purpose of caring for a child of school age of a child under 18 who has a disability (clause 20.1 EBA Agreement). In addition, a wider work/life balance flexibility request may be made under clause 24.1 EBA Agreement. The company has adopted an approach of accepting flexible/part time working arrangements were that can be accommodated appropriately within the person’s role. For instance, during 2012 Innovia Security recruited a part time (4 days per week) Group Legal Manager and a part time (4 days per week) Director of Marketing and Communication. In addition, the company agreed to a request from a Laboratory Technician, who had previously been full time, to continue her employment with Innovia Security on a part time basis (2 days per week). Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Innovia Security has employment agreements in place with all employees. In the case of EBA employees, their terms and conditions of employment are covered by a Letter of Employment coupled with the EBA Agreement. In the case of salaried staff, each is required to sign an Employment Agreement prior to commencing employment with Innovia Security. The EBA Agreement, Letter Agreement and Employment Agreement contain provisions regarding the termination of employment on the instigation of the employee and Innovia Security and sets out the rights of the employee where their employment is to be terminated. Similarly, all employees in Mexico sign employment agreements upon their appointment. All employees have the right to terminate their employment agreement on notice at any time. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Child labour is not, in any form, used in either of Innovia Security’s operations and Innnovia Security supports the effective abolition of child labour worldwide. In addition, the company recognizes that if adult workers are given secure employment and decent wages and working conditions, there will be no need for parents to send 10 their children out to work. Innovia Security personnel enjoy wages and conditions of employment that are far more advantageous than the minimum wages. In addition, Innovia Security recognizes that educational opportunities can assist in improving the lives of all people, including their children. Salaried staff are given the opportunity (in conjunction with their manager) to identify any gap in their skills necessary to do their job well. Further learning and development activities can be undertaken by the staff member and, provided their Manager and the Learning and Development Officer agree, the costs of that learning and development may be funded by the company. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation HR Policies During 2012 Innovia Security has undertaken a program of updating and improving a number of its HR policies, including the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and Procedure, the Performance and Misconduct Policy and Procedure and the Leave Procedures Policy. The Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy states that “Innovia Security recognizes that everybody has the right to be treated with respect and dignity, and is committed to ensuring that its workplace is free from any form of inappropriate workplace behavior, including unlawful discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), vilification, victimization and bullying. The purpose of this policy is to provide a comprehensive process for dealing with complaints of harassment, bullying and/or discrimination in a fair, consistent and transparent manner.” During 2013 staff workshops will be run in both the Australian and the Mexican operations regarding the practical application of the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and the Performance and Misconduct Policy. During 2013 Innovia Security is committed to reviewing and updating its Recruitment Policy. Equal opportunity Innovia Security is an equal opportunity employer and members of senior management are conscious of increasing diversity within the workplace while still maintaining its policy of recruiting for merit. The only distinctions in Innovia Security’s job descriptions are inherent requirements of the role. In recent times, Innovia Security has made increasing use of external recruitment firms in order to ensure that it obtains the best people available for key roles and to ensure that it avoids any unconscious bias that may arise from the company’s background or any other factor. Innovia Security’s view is that by developing strategic partnerships with external recruiters in key areas the company will be able to ensure that it obtains the best people for the role both in terms of the company achieving its business aims, as well as furthering the company’s culture. 11 As well as developing relationships with external recruiters (who head-hunt and advertise externally to the organization), where appropriate, roles are also advertised internally so that current personnel may have the opportunity further to develop their careers. The company is committed to conducting a review, in 2013, regarding the feasibility of introducing a new HR IT system into its Australian operations which would enable the company better to track and understand the characteristics of its workforce. Eliminating discrimination Innovia Security is committed to ensuring it eliminates discrimination of all forms in its employment. It does so by:  facilitating the ability of employees to raise issues regarding discrimination (or other matters such as bullying and harassment) through the monthly feedback sessions with their managers;  the appointment of “Contact Officers” (employees who are trained to provide other employees with information and impartial support regarding issues of discrimination, harassment and bullying);  annual staff climate survey in which employees are asked to express their views on workplace issues anonymously (results are analysed and presented to the Executive Team and all staff in June of each year); and  a robust Whistleblower Policy. During 2012, Innovia Security Australia ran education and training programs for designated contact officers to ensure that they have the ability to assist any employee who seeks their assistance. During 2013, these training programs will be rolled out in the Mexican operations. 2013 Actions: Labour 1. Roll-out of You’re the Voice (Part 2). 2. All employees will have Position Descriptions by the end of 2013. 3. Workshops to be run in Australia and Mexico regarding the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and the Performance and Misconduct Policy. 4. Recruitment Policy to be updated. 5. Analysis regarding introducing a new HR IT system within the Australian operations will be undertaken. 6. Training programs to be run in Mexico to train designated contact officers. 12 2.4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Innovia Security’s commitment to the environment Innovia Security is committed to ensuring that its negative impact on the environment is minimized and that, where possible, the company contributes positively to environmental protection. ISO 14001 – Environmental Management System Innovia Security’s Australian operations are ISO 14001 compliant and the company is in the process of implementing ISO 14001 in our Mexican plant. This will be completed during 2013. Clean Industry Certificate In Mexico, the Environment Agency is promoting a new environmental policy instrument, the Environmental Audit, which aims to encourage business decisions to protect the environment in an integrated manner that goes beyond what is legally required. Companies which voluntarily participate in the program and meet the Action Plan arising from the Environmental Audit will be awarded a Clean Industry Certificate, meaning that they have complied with national and international standards and operational practices that ensure a high level of environmental protection. Innovia Security in Mexico has established a work plan to achieve the Clean Industry Certificate issued by the Mexican Environment Agency. This will be completed during 2013. Environmental Policy Innovia Security’s environmental policy currently sits within its Quality, Safety and the Environment Policy. During 2013, Innovia Security commits to separating out the environmental aspect from this policy and expanding on the overarching principles contained in this policy. Environmental Improvement Plan During 2012, Innovia Security commenced work on the task of preparing an Environmental Improvement Plan (EIP) to establish procedures for achieving the principles set out in Environmental Policy. Innovia Security recognized that without a formal EIP it would not have a co-ordinated approach to environmental improvements. 13 Innovia Security’s EIP sets out how it intends to achieve the minimization of the environmental impact of its processes and product. In the EIP Innovia Security commits to implement its Policy by:  Integrating the Environmental Management System into the day-to-day operations of the company.  Monitoring compliance with the Environmental Management System procedures.  Monitoring trends in environmental regulation and environmental management.  Developing processes and procedures to ensure that Innovia Security is pro-active in meeting its environmental responsibilities.  Monitoring performance. The EIP will be put to Executive Team for approval during 2013. Once finalized it will be placed on Innovia Security’s open information technology system so that all personnel can access it. It is intended that when Innovia Security’s intranet comes on line in the first half of 2014 the EIP will be placed in a prominent position to facilitate access and review by all personnel. In addition, Innovia Security will provide awareness training for all relevant staff and will monitor its progress through the Environmental Team and monthly reporting by the Quality and Business Improvement Manager. Improvement in defect rate Innovia Security has identified that production defects (ie. where errors are made in production processes that lead to the substrate having to be scrapped and the job repeated) contribute to Innovia Security’s impact on the environment. Defects give rise to additional consumption of raw materials and energy and the production of waste which, although it is granulated and re-used, also has an environmental impact in terms of energy to granulate and reuse, transport etc. Further, additional energy is required to repeat the process. Finally, when defect rates are high, printing jobs are completed more slowly and less efficiently, and hence more electricity is used per job. At the end of 2006, Innovia Security’s defect rate was 20%. In 2012, Innovia Security’s defect rate has been reduced to 12.1%. Innovia Security aims to continue to make improvements in its defect rate over the coming years, which will be supported by the focus on quality and safety within the culture of the business during 2013. Reducing the production defect rate will reduce Innovia Security’s impact on the environment by reducing:  use of raw materials;  use of energy, in particular electricity; and  emissions. Innovia Security aims to achieve this reduction in production defects by reviewing its work practices to identify improvement opportunities, monitoring quality parameters and monitoring energy use and consumption of materials. 14 Water conservation In both our Australian and Mexican operations a rain collection system has been installed, with rain water being stored in tanks and used to water the surrounding green areas. Energy audit During 2012, Innovia Security commissioned Australian Sustainable Action to conduct an energy audit of Innovia Security’s Melbourne premises and to identify where energy savings could be made. A draft report was provided to Innovia Security in November 2012. The draft report highlighted a number of areas in which improvements could be made including:  LED lighting upgrades.  Solar power system.  Improved energy monitoring and management.  Voltage optimization.  Variable speed drives on Innovia Security’s air compressor and electrical motor equipment.  Non-essential power reduction (ie. wiring non-essential power circuits to turn off when they are not required). The report was finalized in March 2013. One area identified in the energy audit as being a possible area of improvement is the use of LED lighting. Following receipt of the draft Energy Audit, Innovia Security arranged for two lighting supply companies to conduct a review of Innovia Security’s lighting. Innovia Security has sought quotes from these companies in relation to switching from Innovia Security’s existing lighting infrastructure to LED lighting. Innovia Security will conduct a review of the proposal and make a decision regarding the use of LED lighting during 2013. Following information obtained from the energy audit, during 2013, Innovia Security will also consider various options for switching to solar energy. Recycling on behalf of our Customers Innovia Security recycles waste created during its manufacturing process. In all cases Innovia Security encourages its customers to develop recycling programs for reclaimed polymer banknotes. The company’s team of technical advisors provides customers with consulting and operational support, at no additional cost to the customer, to help establish recycling programs. Additionally, the company has developed a framework/template for the use of its customers that enables an economic assessment (business case) to be created in support of a recycling initiative. Our Mexican plant is currently investigating the possibility of taking back reclaimed polymer banknotes and recycling them on behalf of our Central Bank Customers. That 15 is, Innovia Security would undertake the recycling program, rather than leaving it to the Central Bank Customer to do so as some Central Bank Customers have indicated that they are not interested in undertaking a recycling program themselves. Innovia Security will continue these investigations during 2013. Environmental team An Environmental Team has been set up within both Innovia Security Australia and Mexico. In each case, the group meets approximately every 8 weeks and during meetings a variety of environmental initiatives are discussed and project progress reports are made. A charter will be prepared for both the Australian Environmental Team and the Mexican Environmental Team during 2013. 2013 Actions: Environment 1. ISO 14001 to be finalized for Mexican operations. 2. Mexican operations to achieve the Clean Industry Certificate. 3. Environmental Policy will be separated from the Quality, Safety and Environment Policy. 4. Environmental Improvement Plan will be finalized and approved by the Executive Team. 5. Training in relation to the Environmental Improvement Plan will be provided. 6. Innovia Security will continue to work towards reducing its defect rate. 7. Review will be conducted in relation to the use of LED lighting. 8. Innovia Security will assess the possibility of installing solar panels for energy production. 9. Mexican operations will continue to investigate recycling polymer banknotes on behalf of customers. 10. Charters will be prepared for the Environmental Groups in Australia and Mexico. 16 2.5 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Innovia Security is in a unique position with regard to anti-corruption, being one of the only Australian companies to be charged with foreign bribery offences to date. The activities to which these charges relate took place during the years 1999 – 2005. In May 2009 allegations of these activities were reported in a major metropolitan newspaper and immediately afterwards, Innovia Security’s Chairman requested an investigation by the Australian Federal Police. Since that time, Innovia Security has continued to cooperate with all relevant authorities in relation to these matters. Innovia Security has comprehensively transformed its compliance regime and culture to ensure that it learned from the past mistakes of the company. To this end the company introduced the following remedial and preventive actions:  The management team in place at the time the events occurred was immediately terminated and a new, very senior and credible group of managers were recruited to fill all key roles.  All third party agency arrangements were terminated and, to date, the company has not recommenced its use of agents.  KPMG Forensic was engaged to conduct a comprehensive audit of the sales processes and compliance framework, and was re-engaged in early 2011 to conduct a close-out audit.  A senior Risk and Compliance officer was appointed, who now has a key role on the Executive Team and an open channel to the Board.  A detailed and comprehensive Ethics and Integrity Policy was drafted.  Sales activities are now restricted to Innovia Security personnel only. Where assistance is required to market our product, Innovia Security will appoint local consultants or advisers on a fee for services or retainer based model. No commissionbased arrangements are permitted.  A comprehensive change in culture was engineered by Innovia Security’s new Director of Human Resources.  A new staff induction program has been implemented that focuses on expectations and controls.  Business partners and key suppliers are subjected to a due diligence review process.  New Policies and procedures have been put in place, including a comprehensive Whistleblower protection process and all personnel have participated in a whistleblower education program. Due diligence Following its recent experiences, Innovia Security recognised that one of its greatest risks lies with its suppliers and business partners. Innovia Security must ensure that they are who they say they are, that they are not denied parties and that they do not present any reputational risk to the company. Accordingly, Innovia Security has a policy (the Business Partner and Supplier Due Diligence Policy) that requires it to undertake 17 due diligence (generally provided by Trace International or to a similar satisfactory standard) on all business partners and suppliers where the total cost of transactions are over certain monetary thresholds ($100,000 for companies that are based in Australia and $10,000 for companies that have headquarters overseas). Whilst most suppliers and business partners have willingly accepted this requirement, a few have ignored or refused Innovia Security’s repeated requests. Innovia Security is continuing to work through the issues with these entities and hopes to be able to report that it is 100% up to date with its due diligence on suppliers and business partners by the end of 2013. Travel ban At no time are staff permitted to travel to countries identified as falling below a Board defined transparency threshold (a reflection of corruption risk) without the approval of the Board. Policies As stated above, since May 2011 Innovia Security has had a comprehensive Board approved Integrity and Ethics Policy. Innovia Security is committed to ensuring that this policy continues to be up to date and relevant and to that end, in November 2012, it updated and amended the Policy to further tighten its wording. The Policy is stored electronically on a drive that all personnel have access to. Once Innovia Security implements its planned intranet (scheduled for the first half of 2014), this Policy will be placed in a prominent position. The Whistleblower Protection Policy and Procedure was established to provide employees and other interested parties with a mechanism for addressing any concerns that they may have about operations and activities of Innovia Security without fear of victimisation or reprisal. A whistleblower may choose to make a report to the Whistleblower Protection Officer (Innovia Security’s Chief Risk and Compliance Officer) or through the Whistleblower Hotline, which is operated by KPMG’s Faircall service on a confidential basis. Other policies that support Innovia Security’s position regarding the ethical behavior of its personnel include:  Receipt and Provision of Gifts and Entertainment Policy coupled with the Receipt and Provision of Gifts, Hospitality and Expenses Procedure. This policy requires personnel to refuse gifts and entertainment where to do so would not cause offence and to record gifts and entertainment in excess of $100 in a register. Innovia Security regularly reminds its staff members about the requirements of this policy, particularly at times of the year when gift giving is more likely to occur.  Revolving Door Policy. Innovia Security recognises that a perception of unethical behaviour may be created by engaging former decision makers in the public sector to provide services to Innovia Security in areas where they have held positions as regulators or legislators. Innovia Security respects the debate in this area where there is a perceived conflict of interest for the former public officials and accordingly Innovia Security will not retain the services of ex-executive level public 18 officials in the area in which they worked for a period of 12 months after the person ceases to hold the relevant position.  Sponsorship Policy. This Policy explicitly states that sponsorships are not to be used as subterfuge for any form of bribery or other unethical behaviour.  Charitable Donations Policy. Innovia Security believes in supporting and enriching the communities in which it operates, locally and internationally. However, it also recognizes the potential for abuse of such donations and so will only support charitable groups that meet a number of criteria, including the successful completion of due diligence. In no circumstances are charitable donations to be used to mask unethical behavior. Employee reviews Innovia Security’s employee review system is an important way in which ethical requirements are reinforced and appropriate behaviour rewarded. In their annual review, each employee is awarded both a performance rating (1-4) and a behavior rating (A-C). The behavior rating is designed to capture the person’s behavior and how well it aligns with the cultural aspirations of Innovia Security. Both fixed remuneration and short term incentives (annual bonus) are linked to the ratings received. If an employee receives a “C” (low) rating for behaviour, they will receive no short term incentive for that year. If a person receives a “C” for behavior in two consecutive years, they are required to exit the company. In this way, a very direct connection is drawn between whether personnel consistently applies Innovia Security’s values and their reward. Innovia Security believes that this reinforces its positive and ethical culture. Dealings with counterparties In the anti-corruption area, as well as the general “compliance with laws” clause mentioned in the section on Human Rights, Innovia Security also requires suppliers, and where possible other counterparties, entering into new agreements with the company to commit as follows: “Without limiting clause 11.1 above, the Supplier must not, in respect of the Supplier’s performance of this Agreement, after the date of this Agreement: (a) contravene or breach any Applicable Laws that are related to the subject matter of non-secret commissions, conflict of interest, anti-bribery and antiforeign corrupt practices, including all related criminal laws; (b) use any corporate or other funds for unlawful contributions, payments, gifts, or entertainment, or make any unlawful expenditures relating to political activity; (c) make any unlawful payment to any persons associated with any foreign or domestic Governmental Authority or other government officials, public servants or to foreign or domestic political parties or campaigns; or (d) make any other unlawful payment (whether as a benefit, financial or al consideration in kind) in connection with this Agreement.” 19 Participation in public policy discussion Since it became a member of the UNGC, Innovia Security has been an active participant in the Anti-Corruption Leadership Group. Representatives of the company attended each Anti-Corruption Leadership Group meeting held in Melbourne during 2012 and Innovia Security’s Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Geoff Bell, presented on Innovia Security’s experiences at Leadership Groups in both Sydney and Melbourne on 7 and 9 November 2012. In this way, Innovia Security has been able to share some insights from its recent history with its peers and it intends to continue to do so over the coming years. Innovia Security contracts with an external training provider, Corpedia, for the provision of online anti-corruption training for its staff. Each new staff member must undergo training upon recruitment, and the training is repeated for all personnel every 18 months. Innovia Security uses its internal audit system to ensure 100% compliance with these requirements. Innovia Security is actively involved in the public policy discussion on corruption management. The company works across the industry through its CEO who is a Board member of the International Association of Currency Affairs (IACA). In 2012 Innovia Security developed industry guidelines for the appointment and management of sales agents. The guidelines were endorsed and released to the industry by IACA. The Chief Risk and Compliance Officer has undertaken a number of speaking engagements across industries highlight the risks and costs associated with corruption and bribery. 2013 Actions: Anti-corruption 1. Completion of supplier and business partner due diligence. 3. CEO to remain an active Board member of IACA. 3. CLOSING STATEMENT Innovia Security has made significant steps over the last few years to align the values and activities of the company with principles of good governance, ethics and corporate social responsibility. Joining the UN Global Compact is another indicator of how the company sees its role in society going forwards. Although our company is not large, we have been pleased to see how committed staff members at every level of the organization are to our involvement in the UN Global Compact and the positive steps that have been made in integrating these principles into the operations of the company. We reiterate our continuing commitment to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and to exerting influence wherever possible to increase awareness of those Principles. 20
