Acting responsibly Sustainability Report 2012 2012 highlights KRONES increased revenue 7.4% to €2,664.2 million. Earnings before taxes (EBT) rose from €74.6 million in the previous year to €97.9 million. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions were down 10.6% to a combined total of 34,851 metric tonnes Water consumption came to 43 m3 per €1 million in revenue, which is down 8.5% from the previous year 2012 2011 Change Revenue € million 2,664.2 2,480.3 +7.4% EBT € million 97.9 74.6 +31.2% Consolidated net income € million 67.0 43.7 +53.3% Value added € million 870 815 +6.7% Capital expenditure for PP&E and intangible assets € million 110.9 106.0 +0.4% Equity € million 836 785 +6.5% Total CO2 emissions metric tonnes 34,851 39,012 –10.6% Water consumption m 3 116,043 126,778 –8.5% Total waste generated metric tonnes 14,683 13,506 +8.7% Employees at 31 December Worldwide 11,963 11,389 +574 Germany 9,076 8,887 +189 Outside Germany 2,887 2,502 +385 Employee turnover rate* % 1.1 0.9 – Women in the workforce % 13.0 12.8 – * Based on the number of employees who quit Acting responsibly – KRONES, our customers, and our employees exist within an economic and social environment that defines the basic framework for sustainable action. We are committed to practicing responsible stewardship of all resources. This includes treating people – customers, employees, and the general public – with respect and using all material resources wisely over the entire lifecycle of our products. The KRONES Sustainability Report provides an overview of our approach, our current position, and our progress. We will continue on this path and grow our business with a keen focus on sustainability. Contents KRONES compact Economic Environmental Statement by the Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Economic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Environmental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 The Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Economic responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Steady focus on environment Report from the CSR Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 and resource use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62 KRONES has whole-plant expertise . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Human rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Energy consumption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 The KRONES Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Product responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 CO2 emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 The Sustainability Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Continuous improvement process Water consumption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 Our attitudes and actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 over the entire machine lifecycle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Waste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 KRONES CSR strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 enviro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 Principles of the Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 About the KRONES Sustainability Report This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 and meets the criteria of application level B. This report covers the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. The previous report was published in May 2012 for the year 2011. The Sustainability Report is published annually. Labour practices Society Other and decent work Labour practices and decent work . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 Open dialogue with all stakeholders . . . . . . . 102 Goals and actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110 Successful together . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 Engaging with stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105 GRI Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116 Workforce structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 Cultural and social involvement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108 Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 Diversity and equal opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Fairness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 Qualiﬁcations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90 Vocational training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93 Occupational health and safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 4 Statement by the Executive Board Dear Readers, Once again this year, we present you with our Sustainability is crucial to KRONES’ Sustainability Report on the goals we have set and business success. We implemented many important CSR projects in actions we are taking with respect to corporate social 2012. We also have set ambitious responsibility. Our Sustainability Report complegoals for sustainability for the ments our Annual Report on business development, years ahead and will work together presenting a comprehensive overview of KRONES to achieve them. AG’s sustainability concept. Products and their performance are no longer the sole factors for a company’s success. Other questions also come into play such as: How do we manufacture our machines and lines? What resources do we consume in production? What measures are we taking to ensure that we have a highly skilled workforce worldwide? How do we include all of KRONES AG’s stakeholders in our information policy? Which leads to the bigger question: How seriously does KRONES take responsibility for all aspects of sustainability? First, let me say this: Sustainability is essential to KRONES if we want to be able to offer our machines, lines, and services in a favourable environment for the long term. Each of our departments and divisions is working on numerous topics that make up our sustainability policy. However, our efforts are guided not only by our own goals and standards but also by the standards set by society as a whole. The United Nations (UN) Global Compact is an excellent compilation of these standards, The ten principles of the UN Global defining principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental Compact inform our actions in protection, and anti-corruption worldwide. KRONES is committed to these principles every part of our business. and joined the initiative in May 2012. Our Value strategy programme, with its focus on profitability, growth, quality, and innovation, is a crucial tool for positioning sustainability within our company. Thus, our CSR strategy, with its focus on environment, labour, and society, is inextricably linked with Value. We are developing action plans relating to these topics in all of our divisions and departments. Looking at what has happened on the markets over the long-term worldwide, we very clearly see two overlapping development trends. Steadily rising standards of living and advancing urbanisation in many emerging markets – such as China, South America, and Africa – mean that consumption in general and therefore demand for industrially packaged beverages and foodstuffs will grow continually in many regions. We will increasingly take these megatrends into account as we continue to develop and evolve our sustainability activities. Strengthening our presence in these markets is a core topic in the short and medium terms. KRONES COMPACT | STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 5 In addition, we have to adapt our machines to cope with dwindling energy resources. Continually evolving our machines and lines with respect to resource consumption is a crucial part of our sustainability efforts. Our enviro programme is setting an industry-wide standard for sustainable machine design. We intend to complete our assessment of all of our machines with respect to energy and media efficiency and eco-friendliness by 2015. KRONES COMPACT Now, let’s take a brief look back over the year 2012. KRONES can be satisfied with its business development in 2012. Despite the difficult macroeconomic environment, all of our key performance indicators such as sales revenue, profit, and new orders exceeded our year-earlier figures and our own expectations. Our Value strategy was pivotal to this success and we made further good progress with it during the reporting period. An extremely important – albeit painful – development in 2012 was the settlement of the lawsuits against KRONES in the USA that had been ongoing since 2008. We entered into settlements with the plaintiffs to avoid possible risks arising from the legal proceedings and to be able once again to focus all of our energy forwards. The agreements involve settlement payments of around USD110 million to the various plaintiffs, plus a payment by KRONES Inc. to the US Treasury amounting to USD15 million relating to a discontinuation of the investigation. After factoring in the contribution from the relevant insurances, the total net impact on KRONES’ pre-tax earnings amounts to €74.5 million (approximately USD100 million), of which €36.7 million (USD47 million) had already been charged against income in the 2011 financial year. An ethical trade audit performed on the basis of SMETA guidance, which was carried out at all of our German sites at the end of 2012 for a major customer, serves as an excellent document of our close, long-term partnership with our employees. The results show that our employees and temporary workers are very satisfied with the company and therefore highly motivated and loyal to KRONES. Without a doubt, continually evolving our activities with respect to sustainability requires intensive effort in many individual projects aimed at achieving shortand medium-term goals. But we believe we are on the right track. Sustainability is our duty if we want to further expand our leadership as machinery suppliers to the food and beverage industry. Volker Kronseder, Chairman of the Executive Board Human Resources and Corporate Communications KRONES COMPACT | STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 6 The demands the capital markets place on listed companies with respect to sustainability reporting are growing rapidly. Many large investors have made a good sustainability rating a fundamental prerequisite for investment. KRONES actively participated in the sustainability ratings KRONES COMPACT once again in 2012. We aim to further improve our external CSR ratings with active communications in the years ahead. Fast, personalised service for the markets worldwide and our customers locally is a key factor for our long-term success. That is why we are investing to continually expand our LCS Centres in the regions. This effort is part of our Christoph Klenk, Member of the Executive Board Value strategy, which also maintains a steady focus on the Finance and Information company’s profitability. We have made good progress in Management this area by reducing costs in all three segments. Christoph Klenk KRONES is aware of its responsibility toward its customers. We work closely with our customers to ensure that we meet their requirements completely – worldwide. We deliver innovative, resource-friendly products, systems, and services of the highest quality. We also strive to comply with global codes of conduct and our customers’ corporate principles and guidelines. In this way, we are securing our place in our customers’ value chains as a sustainable supplier and further strengthening KRONES’ position as a sustainability leader. Our efforts are confirmed by the successful SMETA ethical trade audit that was carried out at all of our German sites in 2012. Our customers need to Rainulf Diepold, know that KRONES is a reliable partner in every respect. Member of the Executive Board Sales and Marketing Rainulf Diepold KRONES COMPACT | STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 7 KRONES holds its suppliers to the same high auditing standards to which our customers hold us. That gives us documented proof of our sustainable supply chain. Going forward, KRONES will continuously fine tune the quality of our supplier audits. KRONES COMPACT Expanding our global service structures is one of the most important actions we are taking to provide our customers with fast, uncomplicated service of the highest quality. That is why KRONES is hiring additional qualified staff from within the respective regions, particularly in our LCS (Lifecycle Service) Centres and local service offices around Werner Frischholz, Member of the Executive Board the world. Operations and Service Werner Frischholz Being technology leader means that new products and innovations are fundamental to our long-term success. KRONES is committed to being a one-stop provider of efficient, state-of-the-art production systems and services. That is why we are continually expanding our enviro sustainability programme. KRONES machines that bear the enviro seal give customers the certainty of energy and media-efficient production and, therefore, reduced resource consumption. Another aim of our innovation work is to deliver machines that require minimal maintenance, are Thomas Ricker, easy to operate, and provide maximum uptime. This Member of the Executive Board and the reduced complexity of our production lines Technology, Research and further increase plant efficiency. Development Thomas Ricker KRONES COMPACT | STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 8 KRONES COMPACT KRONES AG’s CSR Committee: Prof. Dr. Erich Kohnhäuser is the committee’s connection to academia as a result of his long From left to right: career as a university professor. Volker Kronseder (Chairman of the Executive Roland Pokorny, Vice President Corporate ComBoard), Claudia Islinger, Prof. Dr. Erich Kohnmunications at KRONES AG, uses his comprehenhäuser, Roland Pokorny, Prof. Dr. Thomas sive communications with all interest groups to Schwartz, Kristina Ebenbeck, Philipp Graf von ﬁrmly establish KRONES AG’s activities in society. und zu Lerchenfeld. Prof. Dr. Thomas Schwartz, honorary professor The CSR team brings together representatives of applied ethics particularly business ethics from the various stakeholder groups and works and corporate ethics, is the committee’s source together to develop topics of focus for KRONES’ of inspiration on all matters relating to ethical sustainability strategy. and sustainable action. Volker Kronseder, Chairman of the Executive Kristina Ebenbeck is KRONES AG’s CSR Officer, Board of KRONES AG, bundles all of the initiatives who pursues topics relating to sustainable busithat are being worked on in the committee and ness policies both within and outside the comserves as a representative of shareholders in the pany. committee. Philipp Graf von und zu Lerchenfeld, member Claudia Islinger, member of the Works Council, of the Bavarian Landtag, supports the CSR Comrepresents the company’s employees and theremittee on all questions relating to political fore brings issues of current interest to employtopics. ees into the committee’s work. Report from the CSR Committee 9 Ladies and Gentlemen, The CSR Committee steers KRONES’ sustainability activities worldwide. It prescribes In the committee’s ﬁrst meeting the CSR strategy and the associated actions and oversees their implementation. The of 2012, KRONES’ new mission statement was presented and body consists of six members. Together, and in dialogue with all stakeholder groups, joining the UN Global Compact they work to develop new ideas for improvement to ensure that KRONES maintains was recommended. its leadership role with respect to sustainability in the machinery sector. KRONES COMPACT Due to illness, the CSR Committee held only three instead of four meetings in Neutraubling in the year under review. In these sessions, CSR Committee members and the respective KRONES project heads presented and discussed various CSR issues and topics and made the resolutions needed to implement them. In the first meeting in March 2012, committee member Roland Pokorny presented KRONES AG’s new mission statement, which was then approved by the committee. The committee also recommended to the Executive Board that the company join the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and the Executive Board promptly resolved to do so. Since May 2012, KRONES has been a member of this global initiative, which has established standardised guidelines that apply worldwide. The structure and content of the 2011 Sustainability Report was also explained, discussed, and approved in this meeting. With the fundraising project for a clinic in Nepal having expired as scheduled in 2011, the committee is currently deciding on a new fundraising project. A decision will be made in 2013. The company’s integrated management system (IMS) was the main focus of the second meeting, which was held in July 2012. Albert Bauer, Vice President for Systems Management in our Quality Department, explained the company’s current certification status and how it compares with the competition. His findings showed that no competitors have as comprehensive a management system as KRONES. To consolidate this leadership position, the IMS will now be expanded to include the Lifecycle Service (LCS) Centres in the USA, Brazil, and China as part of the Value programme and associated internationalisation efforts. The status and goals of the enviro sustainability programme were also presented at this meeting. KRONES is still the only machinery and plant supplier on the market that is authorised to conduct its own certifications. Dr. Sven Fischer, a member of the enviro specialist team, explained TÜV SÜD’s suggestions for how KRONES can further evolve the enviro programme and establish it as the standard on the market. The company is standing by its target of having assessed all KRONES machines under enviro criteria by 2015. In addition, enviro assessments will be expanded to include criteria such as the reusability and recyclability of machine materials, energy, and media. The committee was then presented with the communications plan for the Value programme. KRONES COMPACT | REPORT FROM THE CSR COMMITTEE 10 KRONES’ social media strategy was presented in the committee’s third meeting, in In all of its meetings in 2012, the October 2012. Project lead Charles Schmidt presented the successes to date and the CSR Committee dealt in depth with the question of how KRONES can Social Media project plans relating to CSR going forward. Comprehensive social memeet increased demand for infordia communication benefits the company because it maintains ongoing exchange mation from all stakeholder groups. with all external stakeholders. It enables KRONES to react immediately to stakeholders’ information needs and to quickly identify and respond to trends and external influences. The committee then turned its attention to a status report on the energy KRONES COMPACT management system that was introduced in 2012 and further steps to reduce energy consumption. CSR Committee member Prof. Dr. Thomas Schwartz explained the significance of corporate culture. He stressed the particular importance of ensuring that the culture prevailing within the company matches the communicated CSR strategy. CSR Officer Kristina Ebenbeck concluded the meeting with a report on the steadily growing requirements that customers and investors are placing on the transparency of CSR communications and on the ethical trade audit that was conducted in all of our German plants in late 2012. The fourth meeting, which had been scheduled for December, had to be cancelled due to illness. The issues on that agenda were discussed in the March 2013 meeting. The results of the successful ethical trade audit were presented in greater detail and Mr. Pokorny presented the Value strategy 2015+. From this, the committee then discussed in detail the CSR strategy 2015+, which was presented by Ms. Ebenbeck and Prof. Schwartz, and defined its core points (page 22). Four more CSR Committee meetings are planned for 2013. Neutraubling, April 2013 The CSR Committee Volker Kronseder Kristina Ebenbeck Claudia Islinger Prof. Dr. Erich Kohnhäuser Philipp Graf von und zu Lerchenfeld Roland Pokorny Prof. Dr. Thomas Schwartz KRONES COMPACT | REPORT FROM THE CSR COMMITTEE 11 Petra Schadeberg-Herrmann, Member of the Supervisory Board Sustainability is an integral part of our corporate strategy. It infuses all of our decisions, as business success requires sustainable action. KRONES’ Supervisory Board, of which I have been a member since 2011, takes securing our company’s future position very seriously. At our meetings, I have noticed that the board takes a very long view in its human resource policies. Long-term, sustainable KRONES COMPACT human resource planning is particularly crucial in regard to developments in the market for skilled labour. The board also takes a holistic view of relations with customers and suppliers. Consumer awareness of sustainability is growing. Consumers are demanding proof of sustainable practices from industry, including KRONES’ customers. As a result, beverage producers are increasing their own focus on sustainability. The importance of operating costs and emissions relative to capital expenditure will also increase. Our competition knows that, too. To prevail in this tough competitive environment, we have to promote and make even better use of our employees’ impressive innovative power. To o remain the clear market leader, we have to invest in the pursuit of more forward-looking d-looking technologies. Here, too, economy and ecology go hand in hand in the term. e long term m. I see very good prospects in the Asian market et for our sustainable machines going forward, as local consumerss are gradually becoming more aware of the importance of sustainability. stainability. That indicates a vast and promising market for KRONES’ RONES’ machines. 12 KRONES has whole-plant expertise A KRONES ﬁlling line is composed 10 Internal logistics 5 Conveyors of innovative individual machines Products are stored in a state-ofOn KRONES lines, containers are and systems that produce, ﬁll, the-art high-bay warehouse until moved quickly and reliably from label, and pack bottles. Custom it’s time for them to be delivered. one stage of production to the IT solutions from KRONES control Sophisticated software manages next. Our conveyors are equipped and document all processes all inventories and ﬁlls customer with state-of-the-art control within the line. orders fully automatically and just technology. in time. KRONES COMPACT 9 Packing and palletising 8 Packing and palletising KRONES’ Robogrip high-speed The Robobox pack collating palletiser is a versatile robot with system positions and distributes a reliable grip. It uses clamping one-way packs quickly and fully gripper heads to pick up an entire automatically, setting the stage row of packs and accurately place for reliable, precise palletising. it on the waiting pallet. 13 3 Process technology 2 Labelling 1 Plastics technology Beverage production systems combine Bottles have to look appealing On this machine, PET preforms are various components to produce readyfor consumers to buy them. Labels blow-moulded into bottles. With to-ﬁll beverages like sodas and sparplay a crucial role here. KRONES the new generation, Contiform 3, kling juices. offers a broad range of highup to 2,250 PET containers can be performance labelling machines. produced per cavity per hour. 4 Filling A variety of ﬁlling processes are availKRONES COMPACT able for each type of beverage and each type or shape of container. In KRONES’ Volumetic ﬁller, an inductive ﬂow meter precisely determines the correct ﬁll quantity. Start 6 Packing and palletising 7 Packing and palletising 3 Process technology The options for packaging are myriad. In the shrink tunnel, the plastic Tanks play a key role in beverage For this reason, packaging lines need to ﬁlm that encases a pack of conproduction. KRONES delivers the be highly versatile. The various models tainers is heated, causing the ﬁlm highest quality storage and proof KRONES’ Variopac Pro fully automated to shrink and hold the containers duction tanks to suit customers’ packer cover all types of packaging. ﬁrmly in place. individual needs. 14 The KRONES Group KRONES develops, plans, manufactures, and installs machinery and complete KRONES relies on a proprietary netsystems for filling and packaging and for beverage production. KRONES’ customers work of 40 sales offices to distribute its products. include breweries, beverage producers, and companies from the food, chemical, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic industries. The KRONES Group is organised in three segments: KRONES generated the highest sales revenue in the company’s history KRONES COMPACT Machines and lines for product ﬁlling and decoration in 2012. This is KRONES’ biggest segment, offering machinery and systems for labelling, filling, inspection, bottle washing, and PET bottle production. Machines and lines for beverage production/process technology This segment comprises brewhouse and filtration technology for the brewing industry and the complete production of non-alcoholic beverages, ready-to-drink teas, and alcoholic mixed drinks. Machines and lines for the low output range (KOSME) KRONES’ subsidiary KOSME offers machines and lines for product filling and decoration for the low output range. KRONES posted sales revenue of around €2.66 billion and generated net income of approximately €67.0 million in 2012. The company generated 92% of its sales revenue outside Germany in 2012. At 31 December 2012, the KRONES Group employed 11,963 people. The company’s With our own production sites and headquarters and largest production site is Neutraubling, Germany. Production also the manufacturing sites at our LCS Centres, KRONES has great vertical takes place at plants in Nittenau, Flensburg, Freising, and Rosenheim, Germany. In depth of production. KRONES does addition, KRONES has a network of around 40 companies outside Germany that offer not outsource individual produca variety of products and services for the entire life of a line. The subsidiary KOSME tion steps. manufactures its products in Italy and Austria. Key ﬁgures for the KRONES Group Export shares: 2012: 92% 2012 2011 2011: 90% Revenue € million 2,664 2,480 2010: 89% Export share % 92 90 2009: 90% 2008: 87% Earnings before taxes € million 98 75 2007: 84% Consolidated net income € million 67 44 2006: 85% Earnings per share € 2.22 1.45 2005: 87% Total assets € million 2,070 2,040 2004: 82% 2003: 80% Equity € million 836 786 Employees (at 31 December) 11,963 11,389 In Germany 9,076 8,887 Outside Germany 2,887 2,502 Dividend per share € 0.75* 0.60 * As per proposal for the appropriation of retained earnings KRONES COMPACT | THE KRONES GROUP 15 KRONES Group revenue by segment The machines and lines for beverage production/process technology Machines and lines Machines and lines segment grew more than the other for product filling for product filling segments in 2012, expanding its and decoration and decoration 84.8% (€2,258.3 million) 86.1% (€2,137.0 million) share of total sales from 10.5% to 11.7%. Machines and lines Machines and lines for beverage production/ for beverage production/ process technology process technology KRONES COMPACT 11.7% (€311.9 million) 10.5% (€259.7 million) Machines and lines Machines and lines for the low output range for the low output range (KOSME) (KOSME) 3.5% (€94.0 million) 3.4% (€83.6 million) Revenue in 2012: €2,664.2 million Revenue in 2011: €2,480.3 million KRONES Group revenue by industry Alcoholic beverages 39.4% Alcoholic beverages 33.5% Food, chemicals, Food, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics 5.8% cosmetics 8.1% Non-alcoholic beverages Non-alcoholic beverages 54.8% 58.4% Revenue in 2012: €2,664.2 million Revenue in 2011: 2,480.3 million Strong sales in China, North and Share of consolidated revenue 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Change Central America, and the Middle € million % € million % % East/Africa region more than offset Germany 224.1 8.4 253.2 10.2 –11.5 the declines in Western Europe and Central Europe (excluding Germany) 95.5 3.6 82.0 3.3 +16.5 Germany. Western Europe 358.2 13.5 366.8 14.8 –2.3 Eastern Europe 110.4 4.1 97.6 3.9 +13.1 Russia. Central Asia (CIS) 116.0 4.3 128.7 5.2 –9.9 Middle East/Africa 383.0 14.4 348.5 14.0 +9.9 Asia-Paciﬁc 340.3 12.8 334.2 13.5 +1.8 China 359.8 13.5 260.7 10.5 +38.1 North and Central America 327.7 12.3 277.3 11.2 +18.2 South America/Mexico 349.2 13.1 331.3 13.4 +5.4 Total 2,664.2 2,480.3 +7.4 More ﬁgures and information about our business development is in the 2012 Annual Report. KRONES COMPACT | THE KRONES GROUP 16 Legal form Stock corporation under German law (Aktiengesellschaft, AG) Executive Board Volker Kronseder, Chairman of the Executive Board, Human Resources and Inclusion of Executive Board ChairCorporate Communications man Volker Kronseder in the CSR KRONES COMPACT Committee ensures that KRONES Christoph Klenk, Finance and Information Management AG’s highest governing body is directly responsible for economic, Rainulf Diepold, Sales and Marketing environmental and social performance. Werner Frischholz, Operations and Service KRONES is a member of the German Thomas Ricker, Technology, Research and Development Engineering Federation (Verband Deutscher Maschinenund AnlaIn addition, each of the group companies is the responsibility of two members genbau e.V.). Volker Kronseder is of the Executive Board. currently chairman of the trade association for food and beverage processing machinery (Fachverband Supervisory Board Nahrungsmittelmaschinen und Pursuant to § 8 (1) of the articles of association, six members are elected by the shareGetränkemaschinen). holders in accordance with the German Stock Corporation Act (§ 96 (1) and § 101). Six members are elected by the employees pursuant to § 1 (1) and § 7 (1) Sentence 1 Number 1 of the Codetermination Act. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Executive Board and approves important corporate decisions. The structure of the compensation system for the Executive Board was discussed Information on shareholder rights purin detail and determined by the Supervisory Board on the basis of the recommendasuant to § 121 (3) Sentence 3 Number 3 of the German Stock Corporation Act tions contained in the German Corporate Governance Code. Details can be found (AktG) can be found (in German) at on pages 110 to 112 of KRONES’ 2012 Annual Report. http://www.krones.com/downloads/ Re_Akt_2013_d.pdf. Shares In addition, information on how shareholders can exercise their voting rights KRONES shares are no par value ordinary bearer shares. Each share carries one is available (in German) at http://www. vote. The stock has been listed and available for trading on all German stock exkrones.com/downloads/eVollmacht_ changes since 29 October 1984. KRONES’ share capital of €40.0 million is divided Krones_2013_d.pdf. into 31,593,072 shares. KRONES is included in the MDAX share index, the German stock exchange’s midcap index. Shareholder structure (as of 26 February 2013) The company sold its treasury shares in April 2013, bringing the free ﬂoat up to 47%. Kronseder family 53.09% Free float 46.91% KRONES COMPACT | THE KRONES GROUP The Sustainability Report 17 Based on GRI Guidelines This report marks the beginning of our reporting in strict accordance with GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Our sustainability reporting in previous years followed these guidelines loosely. The Economic section of this report presents the data for the KRONES Group; the other sections present the information for KRONES AG. The reports published in 2010 and 2011 followed the same structure. Thus, the report boundaries match those from previous years 100%. KRONES AG has no joint ventures or other outsourced operations which might affect the comparability of this report with prior-year reports. KRONES COMPACT For this reporting period we have gathered considerably more data within the company – with the proviso that we may only be able to collect partial data on certain aspects at this time. This significant expansion of the data set is reflected in the GRI Content Index. As concerns the methods used to measure the data: We use the departments’ analyses of the required data from their data sets. Non-quantifiable data, such as the efforts to develop improvements in the eco-efficiency of the machines, are based on the individual divisions’ priority lists. The divisions report on their activities in a comprehensive monitoring process. Some data that was included in the prior-year report is not in this year’s report because it is not required under the GRI Guidelines and we would like to keep the volume of information within that scope. For instance, for our presentation of CO2 emissions, we have in the past used the Bavarian Environment Agency’s method to calculate direct and indirect emissions. Now, we are using the GRI calculation method and have converted the data for the previous years to this basis. Because our reporting is limited to KRONES AG, some topics are given a lower priority than they would have if we were reporting on activities worldwide. For instance, the human rights indicator set reflects a very high standard for our operations in Germany and its legal framework (even within the European Union). For this reason, we present our management approach along with some contextual information. This indicator will need to be assessed more intensively as we expand our reporting to cover our sites worldwide. Of course, we are aware that a global group of companies should also include the data for its sites worldwide. We will progressively add this information to our reporting in the years ahead. An initial strategy here will be to provide information on the goals and objectives of sustainability reporting worldwide in order to establish awareness of sustainability topics at all of our international sites. Furthermore, we will communicate certain relevant indicators to our European offices and initiate data collection there. This action is planned for the year 2013. In the years that follow, we will extend this procedure to our sites outside Europe – our aim here is to have data on all of our locations worldwide by 2018. KRONES COMPACT | REPORT PARAMETERS 18 For determining materiality, we have defined relevant data in cooperation with the individuals responsible for each division and put them into a materiality matrix. Our determination of reporting priority for data measurement is based on the fact that we are reporting the data for KRONES AG. Future inclusion of international data may result in certain topics shifting within the materiality matrix. We expect the employee, customer, financial market, and community stakeholder groups to include this report in their assessments of KRONES AG’s activities. KRONES COMPACT Materiality matrix for KRONES AG high Technological leadership Employees at work internationally International service Reducing CO2 emissions arising from travel Low resource consumption in production Fair conditions for all employees Long-lived machines Long-term relationships with customers Skilled labour Resource-friendly machines Regional suppliers Optimising use of raw materials Signiﬁcance to stakeholders Balanced employee age structure Sustainable charitable giving concepts low high Signiﬁcance of economic, environmental, labour/societal implications for the company’s development Economic Environmental Labour practises/society KRONES COMPACT | REPORT PARAMETERS Our attitudes and actions 19 KRONES’ sustainability strategy and values Doing business in a sustainable, socially responsible manner has been an integral part of KRONES’ corporate philosophy for decades. The overarching goal of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy is to be guided by fundamental values such as honesty, transparency, fairness, and authenticity. With our CSR strategy, we are integrating social and environmental considerations into our business proKRONES COMPACT cesses and therefore helping to ensure our long-term success. KRONES’ mission statement Living up to our values and creating value – together Our customers around the world are primarily in the food and beverage (liquid food) KRONES’ mission statement answers the questions: Who are we, where industry. We provide them with machinery, lines, and systems, including all related do we want to go, and how can we services, that are the best in every respect. get there? To consolidate our position, we will continue to grow profitably and further expand our technology leadership – with innovation, a passion for change, and consistent performance. We listen to our customers and develop our products to meet their needs. Our lines and complete solutions provide the highest level of efficiency at competitive prices. Our global network enables us to provide fast, cost-effective, high-quality service – anytime, anywhere around the world. All strategic decisions are aimed at ensuring the company’s sustainable development. Even when optimising profits and cash flow in the short term, we still keep sustainability sharply in focus. This makes KRONES a dependable partner for our customers, employees, shareholders, and suppliers. Our financial strength gives us independence. We use resources wisely in order to safeguard this freedom for the long term. Our sites around the world form a global value chain that serves as the very foundation of our success. Each of our core modules is built at only one site worldwide, with exceptional cost-effectiveness. These sites concentrate our expertise and experience in the relevant technology. To secure this advantage for the long term, KRONES offers attractive working conditions, promising training opportunities, and plenty of room for individual development at all of our sites worldwide. Transparent hierarchies, appreciative leadership, and clear goals inform our corporate culture. To stay agile and competitive going forward, we keep our structures lean and efficient. We are a multinational corporation where a diversity of cultures, languages, and ways of life come together on equal footing. We are fair and forthright in our interactions. Honesty and transparency inform all of our actions. We are interested in the thoughts and opinions of our employees and partners and are willing to learn from others. KRONES – »We do more« KRONES COMPACT | OUR ATTITUDES AND ACTIONS 20 KRONES Code of Conduct As the market leader, KRONES intends to be, and ultimately has to be, the standardsetter – and this includes our ethical behaviour. Sustainability has always been an important part of KRONES’ corporate strategy. This places high demands on each and every one of us. We want to ensure that our actions are always irreproachable, correct, and exemplary. For this reason, we have drafted a Code of Conduct on the basis KRONES COMPACT of the shared values that are our corporate guidelines. The aim of the Code of Conduct is to ensure company-wide compliance with laws, standards, and guidelines. It also is to create a working environment of integrity, respect, and fair, responsible coexistence at KRONES. It is binding for all KRONES employees – including the Executive Board, management, and every member of our staff worldwide. All employees are urged to not only comply with the guidelines in the Code of Conduct in a formal sense but to live and breathe their meaning and purpose. Only in this way can they serve as the basis of a culture of openness and compliance. In the interest of all employees, violations of the Code of Conduct are systematically investigated and disciplinary action taken. Of course, we want KRONES to be recognised as the market and technology leader. But we also want our customers, employees, suppliers, and shareholders as well as government agencies, institutions, and the general public to perceive us as a reputable, trustworthy, and dependable partner. That is crucial to retaining and expanding our position as the market leader in all areas. The complete KRONES Code of Conduct is available online at www.krones.com/downloads/Coco_2010_e.pdf. Suppliers’ Code KRONES has a supplier’s code to ensure that all suppliers meet certain sustainability criteria and contribute to a sustainable supply chain. The Suppliers’ Code is available online for download at www.krones.com/downloads/Liko_2010_e.pdf. The code covers safety, health, the environment, quality, human rights, labour standards, and KRONES’ Suppliers’ Code commits preventing and fighting corruption. Our quality assurance team performs audits suppliers to act in accordance with on site at the suppliers’ facilities to verify compliance. In addition, KRONES seeks to the company’s sustainability princiuse vendors that are also certified by an independent institution. ples. The Suppliers’ Code is available onCorporate governance line for download at www.krones. com/downloads/Liko_2010_e.pdf. With a few exceptions, KRONES follows the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. The Code presents essential statutory regulations for the management and supervision (governance) of German listed companies and contains internationally and nationally recognised standards for good and responsible corporate governance. More information and details on our statement of compliance as well as the compensation report are published in our Annual Report (pages 114 to 116 and 110 to 112) and online (www.krones.com). KRONES COMPACT | OUR ATTITUDES AND ACTIONS 21 Sustainability in our organisation KRONES AG has systematically anchored its sustainability strategy in the company by way of group-wide standards and an organisational structure that includes clearly defined responsibilities (see chart below). CSR Committee The most important body in this respect is the CSR Committee, which is endowed The CSR Committee meetings, which KRONES COMPACT with far-reaching authority. The CSR Committee monitors compliance with the take place once per quarter, serve as an information platform for the group-wide CSR guidelines and initiates open, neutral dialogue with stakeholders. Executive Board throughout the Another of the committee’s core duties is to oversee implementation of the comyear, enabling ongoing assessment pany’s CSR goals and intervene where necessary. of the company’s sustainability performance. CSR specialist teams These teams consist of representatives from various departments and define goals, actions, and tasks for their areas. The CSR Officer brings these proposals to the CSR Committee. In collaboration with the Executive Board, the CSR Committee in turn ensures that sustainability issues are translated into appropriate actions throughout the group. CSR management Supervisory Board at KRONES Our integrated management system ensures process compliance. Executive Board CSR Committee CSR Officer Specialist team leads Compliance Economic Environmental Labour practices/society working group CSR team CSR team CSR team A. Bauer/A. Link B. Pretzl A. Horn/W. Bernkopf Corporate Corporate Corporate governance Social Responsibility citizenship Regulation Economic Environmental Labour practices Society ■ Mission Statement ■ enviro ■ Energy management ■ Mission Statement ■ Mission Statement ■ Code of Conduct ■ Value ■ Environmental ■ Human resources ■ Stakeholder ■ Suppliers’ Code ■ Supplier management strategy dialogue ■ Integrated management ■ Waste management ■ Health management ■ Charitable management ■ Occupational safety contributions and system (IMS) ■ Counselling sponsoring ■ Department/ ■ Reintegration division policies ■ Leadership guidelines Pages 19 –21, 36, 38, 62 Pages 24 –59 Pages 60 –75 Pages 76 –101 Pages 102–109 KRONES COMPACT | OUR ATTITUDES AND ACTIONS 22 KRONES’ CSR strategy Our CSR strategy is a key element and important pillar of the overarching Value strategy programme. Both strategies are based on KRONES’ mission statement and values. We want to put our sustainability expertise to work to seize opportunities that present themselves and reduce existing and potential risks. To this end, we are establishing clear, ambitious, traceable goals with respect to sustainability and KRONES COMPACT defining measures with which we will achieve them (pages 110 to 115). This report contains numerous examples of the actions taken and progress made in 2012. KRONES is by no means contenting itself with its achievements thus far. We want to improve significantly further in all areas (economic, environmental, labour practices/society) and serve as the benchmark for CSR in our industry. All CSR goals and actions are aligned with the four pillars of Value: Growth Profitability Quality Profitability Innovation Growth Innovation Quality Our people are a key factor for the success of our CSR strategy and Value. Their skill and commitment are crucial to KRONES’ ability to seize the opportunities presented by the food and beverage packaging market. Thus, the goals and actions established in the CSR strategy with respect to labour practices (page 114) form the basis for KRONES’ long-term success. Our environmental goals (pages 112 to 113) aim not only to protect the environment Our sustainability strategy and do our part to ensure a liveable future. By reducing our consumption of valuincorporates the principles of the Global Compact at its core. able resources, we are also reducing costs, increasing profitability, and thus ensuring that more money is available for investing in new products and technologies and in our employees. The enviro sustainability programme (pages 50 to 59) is an excellent example of our CSR strategy and Value converging. With the enviro label, customers have documented certainty that their KRONES machines save resources and, thus, costs. The economic goals and actions within our CSR strategy are fully incorporated in the Value strategy and can be reduced to the formula 7/7/20. That stands for our medium-term goals of 7% more sales revenue per year on average, a 7% pre-tax return on sales (EBT margin), and a return on capital employed (ROCE) of 20%. For 2013, the CSR Committee has set a goal of defining the CSR strategy 2015+. It will be elaborated by the CSR specialist teams, taking into account megatrends and the Value strategy, and presented in the 2013 CSR report. KRONES COMPACT | KRONES’ CSR STRATEGY Principles of the Global Compact 23 KRONES AG joined the UN Global Compact on 17 May 2012 and is committed to its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. We are taking an active role to ensure that these standards are adhered to in all of our business processes and demand the same of our suppliers. Human rights KRONES COMPACT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our 2012 Sustainability Report provides many examples of our ongoing efforts to incorporate the Global Compact principles into our day-to-day actions. KRONES COMPACT | PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Economic 24 KRONES COMPACT ECONOMIC Revenue up by Proﬁt margin* up to Dividend* per share up from €0.60 to +7.4% +5.1% €0.75 * earnings before taxes (adjusted to exclude * as per proposal for the appropriation Le-Nature’s) in relation to sales revenue of retained earnings 25 Capital expenditure up to Share of value creation that At the end of 2012, goes to our employees KRONES had net cash and cash equivalents of ECONOMIC €111 89% €133 million million 26 Economic Economic responsibility A company must be consistently profitable to be able to fulfil its responsibilities toward its employees, business partners, and shareholders and to the environment and society. KRONES is also convinced that the only way a company can be profitable in the long term is by treating all of its partners fairly, conserving resources, and taking on social responsibility. KRONES generates record sales revenue in 2012 KRONES Group revenue (€ million) 2,664 2,480 2,500 2,381 2,173 2,000 1,865 ECONOMIC 1,500 1,000 500 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KRONES used the opportunities provided by the long-term growth of the market for beverage packaging lines in the reporting period. Sales revenue at KRONES increased 7.4% to a record €2.66 billion despite the challenging macroeconomic environment. Overall, KRONES benefited from its broad range of products and services in 2012. The company’s strong position internationally has also proved its value. The company’s bottom line was positive in 2012 with consolidated net income of €67.0 million (previous year: €43.7 million). KRONES Group Consolidated net income (€ million) Consolidated net income at KRONES was up to €67.0 million in the year 106.5 under review. 100 67.0 50.9 43.7 50 0 –34.5 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ECONOMIC | ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 27 KRONES settles lawsuits in the USA In 2012, the company settled the legal disputes that had been ongoing in the USA KRONES settled the legal disputes since 2008. The proceedings concerned relate to claims for damages asserted by sevrelating to Le-Nature’s in 2012. The payment, though painful, brought eral American financial service providers in connection with the financial scandal an end to the unpleasant matter. involving the bankruptcy of the US company Le-Nature’s. We entered into settlements with the plaintiffs to avoid risks that would arise if it came to court proceedings and to enable us to once again focus all of our energy forwards. The settlement reduced earnings before taxes by €37.8 million in the reporting period and by €36.7 million in the previous year. The Value target: 7/7/20 We have set ambitious goals through 2015 to keep KRONES on course for sustainable, profitable growth. 7 percent more sales revenue per year ECONOMIC 7 percent EBT margin (pre-tax return on sales) 20 percent ROCE (return on capital employed) The measures that make up Value will enable us to reach our ambitious growth and earnings targets by 2015 and consolidate our leadership on the market for the long term. KRONES made excellent progress already last year. But we know that we are only at the beginning of a long »Value« road and will continue to systematically implement the programme in 2013. Continued focus on proﬁtability To improve our profitability and ROCE, we have to improve our production cost structures. Reducing costs in all three segments remains an important topic within Value. We made good progress in this respect in the reporting period. Growth through internationalisation The emerging economies in Asia, South America, and Africa offer the biggest potenKRONES has set ambitious goals tial for growth in our market. Apart from new machinery sales, KRONES intends to for growth and returns. The Value programme is our roadmap. further consolidate the already-strong position of our services business in these markets. In 2012, KRONES generated 62% of sales revenue in the emerging markets. ECONOMIC | ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 28 High value added at KRONES The value added calculation presented here shows the KRONES Group’s contributions to the economy and society. A company’s value added is calculated by deducting the expenses for production – that is, cost of goods and services purchased, depreciation and amortisation on non-current assets, and other operating expenses – from total operating performance. The result for KRONES for the year under review is value added of €870 million (previous year: €815 million). The lion’s share – 89.3% or €777 million – went towards our employees. Besides wages and salaries (€645 million), KRONES spent €132 million on social security contributions, pension plans, and employee benefits. In addition, €30.9 million or 3.5% of value added went to the state in the form of tax payments. Shareholders received €18.1 million or 2.1% in the form of dividends. Thus, €44.0 million in value added remained within the company in the year under reECONOMIC view. This amount is available for expansion projects and for funding future growth. KRONES Group value added calculation KRONES increased its value added from €815 million to €870 million in the reporting period. Almost 90% Taxes 3.5% (€30.9 million) of this went to our employees in the Other operating Dividends 2.1% (€18.1 million) expenses form of wages, salaries, and social 19.0% (€531 million) security contributions. Goods and services purchased Value added 47.3€% (€1,325 million) Employees 89.3% (€777 million) 31.0% (€870 million) Depreciation and amortisation on non-current assets 2.7% (€77 million) Value added remaining within the company 5.1% (€44.0 million) Total operating revenue 2012: €2,803 million (100%) Capital expenditure increased further The only way to achieve long-term, sustainable value added is to provide leading technology and services. For this reason, the company invests heavily not only in its employees but also in its production facilities and research and development. KRONES increased its investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to €110.9 million in the reporting period (previous year: €106.0 million). These expenditures went toward, among other things, the expansion of the international LCS Centres, the new construction of KRONES’ own production facilities for EvoGuard valves in Nittenau, new production machinery, and the expansion of our logistics and IT infrastructure. ECONOMIC | ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 29 KRONES did not receive any government funding, subsidies, tax relief, or other grants for its capital expenditures. KRONES will continue to invest in the future to the extent necessary to maintain our leadership of the market for the long term. In 2012, KRONES further increased KRONES Group capital expenditure for PP&E and intangible assets (€ million) capital spending and nearly matched its record from 2008. 111.9 106.0 110.9 100 88.2 81.5 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Healthy balance sheet and ﬁnancial structure The company needs to have a strong financial footing to maintain its high rate of ECONOMIC investment and the firm confidence of its business partners for the long term. With cash and cash equivalents of €132.9 million (previous year: €125.5 million) and an equity ratio of 40.4% at the end of 2012, KRONES has plenty of leeway with which to implement its long-term capital spending strategy and further consolidate its leadership on the market – and to remain largely independent of lenders. KRONES Group equity ratio % The equity ratio rose to 40.4% on higher proﬁts in the reporting period. 43.0 40.4 39.0 40.2 39.1 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ECONOMIC | ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 30 Peter Gattermeyer, Department Manager, Process Engineering Customers are now frequently requesting energy-efficient machines and lines for their breweries. Apart from payroll, energy and media are the biggest cost factors for production in a brewery, which is why many breweries have a strong interest in optimisation. Systematic collection of consumption data in the brewery gives us a basis on which to build a customised energy management system. When we receive an order for consultation on energy and media efficiency, we first take an inventory of the existing equipment and consumption data. With this information, we develop strategies that show which improvements can help the customer conserve energy and water. Of course, payback periods on new investments or upgrades play an important role. Customers are willing to accept investments that take up to five years to pay for themselves since beer brewing equipment is often in operation for 20 years or more. Perspectives on the urgency of energy and media efficiency vary widely from one world ECONOMIC region to the next depending on the local cost of energy and raw materials. But one thing is clear across the board: energy and water consumption in the brewing process are gaining priority. Some breweries are still operating with evaporation rates as high as 8 percent or more in the wort boiling process while KRONES has been offering 4 percent evaporation rates with its Steinecker systems for a long time now. In addition, the new EquiTherm energy recovery system circulates excess heat energy from the wort boiling process back into the system where it is used to heat the mash, thus reducing energy consumption in the brewing process from 6.2 kWh to 4 kWh per hectolitre of wort. The rising awareness of energy conservation is reflected in our quotation system. Before, most customers requested only technological and performance guarantees. Now, our quotations also include information on the equipment’s forecast consumption data. 31 Outstanding achievements KRONES’ Rosenheim factory received one of the Rosenheim Business Awards this year. »Local entrepreneurs offering modern and forward-looking jobs are the basis of our city’s wealth and quality of life. Rosenheim is presenting the Rosenheim Business Awards this year for the fifth time to honour the entrepreneurial achievements and innovations of select companies that have earned such distinction in the Rosenheim business community and for Rosenheim as a business location«, said Rosenheim Mayor Gabriele Bauer in praise of the recipients. A total of 14 companies were nominated for the three awards this year and KRONES AG was one of the winners. KRONES AG’s Steinecker plant in Freising won the 2012 Bavarian Energy Award. Bavaria’s State Minister for Business, Infrastructure, Transportation, and Technology, Martin Zeil, handed KRONES the top award for our energy-efficient brewing system EquiTherm on 18 October 2012. Zeil lauded the Steinecker achievement saying, »The system achieves the scientifically and technologically feasible while keeping ECONOMIC energy usage rational by consistently combining the most efficient energy transformations. Such outstanding developments are driving the shift towards innovative energy use«. This was actually the second time KRONES received this honour. ECONOMIC | ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 32 Economic Production We produce machines and lines for the premium segment. And with the exception KRONES is committed to Germany of our subsidiary KOSME (< 4% of consolidated sales), which produces in Italy and as the production site for our core modules and, with an excellent Austria, we make them primarily in Germany. All manufacturing steps for our core record for on-time deliveries, has modules are carried out in one of our German plants, in Neutraubling, Nittenau, established a reputation as a Rosenheim, Flensburg, or Freising. dependable partner. Getting close to customers – a model for success Apart from our tried-and-true production matrix in Germany, KRONES is also further expanding its international value-creation network by way of its Lifecycle Service Centres and global service network. Our aim is to provide our customers with even better service, even faster. KRONES’ LCS team of more than 2,000 highly qualified people worldwide is putting our broad range of services into action to satisfy our customers’ needs. The increased internationalisation of our services business is of enormous imECONOMIC portance for the LCS division. A typical KRONES customer is a global company and invests primarily in the world’s growth markets. Whether in China, Africa, India, or South America – being close to our customers has always been a key factor in KRONES’ success. For this reason, our decentralised strategy includes a major expansion of our local expertise and even more hiring of local service employees. Another part of our decentralised strategy is to produce more and more of our spare parts and change parts in our LCS Centres and to offer them directly to customers from the LCS Centres and representative offices. This eliminates long lead times. It also allows us to clarify questions with customers directly, without the detour or delay of going through our head offices, and permits us to respond to customer wishes quickly and tailor proposals to their individual needs. That strengthens the relationship and lays the foundation for future, sustainable service revenue. When contracting installation services abroad, we ensure that the foreign subcontractors meet KRONES’ strict environmental and social standards (see the discussion of our Supplier’s Code on page 20). Our quality assurance department has around 15 people at work worldwide, monitoring the installation of our lines on site. From our LCS Centres, KRONES provides its customers with fast, competent service worldwide. Being close to customers has always been a key factor in the Moscow Neutraubling company’s success. Franklin Taicang Bangkok São Paulo Johannesburg LCS Centres ECONOMIC | PRODUCTION KRONES makes use of the advantages 33 that Germany offers as a business location, producing the lion’s share of its machines and lines in Germany. Our subsidiary KOSME produces in Austria and Italy. Machines and lines for product ﬁlling and decoration Machines and lines for beverage production/process technology Machines and lines for the low output range (KOSME) KRONES Group production sites for new machinery Flensburg ECONOMIC Nittenau Neutraubling Freising Sollenau Rosenheim Roverbella ECONOMIC | PRODUCTION 34 Customers are using the KRONES Academy The KRONES Academy, with its broad range of practical training courses, has been very well received among customers. More than 50 qualified trainers instruct operating personnel on the fundamentals of our machines and lines, conduct special courses for individual tasks, and train management personnel. All of our course offerings are aimed at ensuring that our customers have a perfect understanding and mastery of their KRONES machines and lines so that they can operate them safely and efficiently. In 2012, a total of 14,691 people (previous year: 14,126) attended KRONES Academy events. The courses were held at our headquarters in Neutraubling and at our international training centres, which are located within KRONES’ Service Centres. KRONES Academy training course participants The number of customers participating in KRONES Academy courses rose 14,691 14,126 considerably again in 2012. 14,000 12,436 ECONOMIC 10,307 9,388 10,000 6,000 2,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KRONES Expert Dialogue event a success Some 40 employees from 30 different customer companies attended our second KRONES Expert Dialogue event in Neutraubling in September 2012, which was hosted by LCS and KRONES Academy. Participants discussed current trends and challenges in the industry from a practical perspective. For example, brewery experts reported on how they are using new IT systems to address the growing challenges of energy management and on how they are using meticulous analyses of energy and media flows to tap potential savings. During a tour of the plant, KRONES showed specific examples that demonstrated the results achievable with Total Productive Management (TPM). The KRONES Expert Dialogue event is an excellent platform for fostering dialogue and strengthening customer loyalty. Investments in logistics KRONES is investing heavily in logistics in order to ensure optimum availability KRONES uses local suppliers. That of parts for our customers. These investments are being made in our LCS Centres beneﬁts companies in the region and the shorter transport distances worldwide and at our corporate headquarters in Neutraubling. In some regions, we make for lower CO2 emissions. are already able to fill as many as 8 out of 10 customer orders from our LCS Centres’ decentralised warehouses. To raise this figure even further, KRONES is investing in intelligent systems that determine which spare parts are frequently needed. ECONOMIC | PRODUCTION 35 As a company that operates on the just-in-time principle, KRONES sometimes has to give priority to speedy delivery to the production and delivery chain over environmentally optimised transport. Nevertheless, KRONES strives to further optimise the efficiency of transport and logistics. We achieve this in part by increasing our own vertical depth of production, thereby eliminating many supply transports, and in part by using suppliers that are close to our production sites. Risk management system is being implemented and continuously improved Our Value strategy assigns considerable importance to improving and refining our risk management system. That is because KRONES is exposed to a variety of risks that are linked with doing business globally. We continuously monitor all significant business processes to identify risks early and limit them. An internal control system with which we record, analyse, and assess all relevant financial and operating risks (from liquidity risks to personnel risks) is an integral ECONOMIC part of KRONES’ risk management system. We monitor all material risks and any countermeasures already taken in a detailed, ongoing process that entails planning, information, and control. We are continually expanding and improving our risk management system on the basis of practical experience. The system consists of the following modules: risk analysis, risk monitoring, and risk planning and control. Continuous monitoring of our business activities and a standardised risk management process are a part of our corporate governance practices. Regular queries check the effects of climate change on our business activities. At present, KRONES does not foresee any physical, regulatory, market, cost, or legal risks worldwide that could arise from climate change. Therefore, the company is not currently discussing actions relating to such risks. Details on risk management and the risk categories can be found in the risk report in our 2012 Annual Report. Opportunities for KRONES are arising from climate change thanks to the enviro programme, which has been available since 2008 and includes a systematic approach to designing resource-saving products (pages 50 to 59). ECONOMIC | PRODUCTION 36 Quality assurance now internationally certiﬁed As the market leader for beverage and packaging technology, we deliver products and services of the highest quality. The concept of quality encompasses more than the hard, technical facts. It also stands for our responsibility to protect the environment and to comply with standards for labour, occupational safety and health. By obtaining certification of our integrated management system (IMS) for all of our sites in Germany, KRONES has also strengthened its role as a leader in this area for the past several years. The existing quality management systems were expanded into an integrated management system (IMS) for quality (DIN EN ISO 9001), environmental protection (DIN EN ISO 14001), occupational safety (BS OHSAS 18001), and information technology service management (ISO 20000) and certified by TÜV SÜD. In May 2012, our new energy management system received DIN ISO 50001 certification through TÜV SÜD, thus becoming another part of the IMS. ECONOMIC With the certification of the quality, environmental protection, and occupational safety management system of the Lifecycle Service (LCS) Centre in Brazil by TÜV SÜD in December 2012, KRONES expanded its IMS to an international site for the first time. More KRONES LCS sites abroad will follow. The company aims to have the Chinese LCS Centre in Taicang certified by the end of 2013 and the LCS Centre in Franklin, USA, the following year. At the end of 2012, KRONES successfully completed a SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) certification at the request of a large customer. The results of the ethical trade audit at all of our German sites show: Our employees and temporary workers are very satisfied with the company, appreciate the employee benefits (e.g. sabbatical, company health insurance fund, and counselling), and are therefore highly motivated and loyal to KRONES. TÜV SÜD issued the IMS certiﬁcate for KRONES do Brasil Ltda. in both German and English. Pictured here (from left to right): Christian Striegl, Director of the TÜV SÜD Munich office, Christoph Klenk and Werner Frischholz, Members of the Executive Board of KRONES AG, Wolfgang Hock, CFO of TÜV SÜD, Jens Hoyer, Managing Director of KRONES do Brasil Ltda., Albert Bauer, KRONES AG’s IMS Officer ECONOMIC | PRODUCTION 37 Marco Dirmeier, Team Manager, Mechanics, Technical, Installation, Quality Department I have been the team manager for quality inspectors for mechanics, technical, and installation in the Quality Department since the team’s inception in mid-2012. About 80% of my job is on site. Our purchasing department gives us a list of local suppliers in markets where we would like to buy in goods or services and we audit those suppliers for system and product feasibility on location. We base our decisions on expert spec checks after making sure that the suppliers’ production and labour conditions meet our standards. What technical facilities are available? How diligent is the supplier in terms of work safety? These are just a few examples of our audit fact checks. Before we approve a supplier, the company first has to submit an illustrated report or we will conduct a production-relevant inspection on site and/or an approval check before delivery to the construction site. Much of the documentation we demand from our suppliers meets KRONES’ German ECONOMIC standard criteria. All documentation at least meets local statutory standards. We generally conduct unannounced inspections to obtain accurate information on staff and work conditions at the suppliers’ factories. At suppliers’ production locations and construction sites we check against name lists that include both names and dates of birth. That gives us a check system for preventing child labour and excessive overtime while improving the quality of cooperation with these suppliers. It also allows us to draw on personnel familiar with KRONES’ work ethics in subsequent contracts. We continuously monitor numerous occupational safety requirements at construction sites to ensure that we also meet our customers’ strict standards. Of course, I have found conditions on my inspections that did not meet our Global Compact standards. In such cases we do not even consider collaboration. There are plenty of companies abroad that meet our requirements and can be our suppliers. 38 Human rights Mutual respect Respecting human rights is the basis for all our relations to employees, suppliers, customers, business partners, and the global community and an indispensable condition for successful coexistence. To clearly communicate this to the world, we joined the UN Global Compact in 2012. As such, we also endorse the International Labour Organisation’s three-part statement of principles on multi-national companies and social policy. With KRONES’ Code of Conduct and Supplier Code we have established uniform and globally binding standards for our company’s business ethics and integrity. We communicate the requirements of these guidelines and their implementation in daily business practice in regular management briefings. Our leadership’s obligation to inform their teams includes the broad dissemination of these rules and regulations for respectful coexistence throughout our company. Integrating these tasks into our Compliance working group within the CSR teams means that human rights issues are addressed both directly in the CSR Committee and indirectly through Executive Board involvement in the committee. ECONOMIC That means our supply chain addresses all issues concerning fair and humane conditions in the production of parts we buy from suppliers. Regular audits of production conditions at our suppliers are thus an integral part of our quality assurance duties. We have expanded these duties in recent years and will continue to vigilantly pursue these tasks. In late 2012, KRONES Brazil became the first KRONES production location abroad to receive the globally recognized IMS certification for quality as well as environmental and workplace safety. Our goal is to gradually get other production locations abroad certified. We plan to have our LCS Centre in Taicang, China, certified in 2013. We always strive to observe laws and regulations in all countries in which we do business, whether through local subsidiaries or customer orders. That also means that our people comply with Global Compact rules on-site at projects abroad. As our business internationalises, our medium-term goal is to increase our awareness of all human rights issues within our supply chain. High standards for suppliers KRONES’ suppliers and their reliability for on-time delivery are critical to our own efforts to keep up an excellent delivery record. The long-standing, fair relationships we maintain with our business partners help ensure this dependability. Our understanding is that »major investment agreements« are long-term contractual agreements with partner businesses for parts manufacture on location abroad. Because we complete our orders on a project basis, we currently have no major investment agreements to report here. KRONES’ manufacturing sites outside Germany are subject to the KRONES Code of Conduct and are therefore 100% subject to human rights clauses. ECONOMIC | HUMAN RIGHTS 39 We purchase raw materials, products, and services from partners in some 60 countries. We expect these partners to operate in accordance with our company’s ethical values (see the discussion of our Suppliers’ Code on page 20). The requirements specified in our Supplier’s Code are a contractual stipulation in 100% of all orders placed with our suppliers and service providers. Local installation services are generally contracted in coordination with the respective local KRONES office. In 2012, installation services with a total contract value of €26 million were purchased in coordination with the local KRONES office or by our central purchasing department on behalf of the local KRONES office. System/initial audits were conducted on 25 service providers in 2012. The Supplier’s Code and respect for human rights and labour standards are part of the audit. All providers passed the audit. Non-discrimination is the foundation of our international activities The principle of non-discrimination is binding for all of KRONES AG’s activities. Employees may report cases of discrimination to the Works Council, the social counselECONOMIC lor, or the human resources department. We received no reports of discrimination in 2012. The same rules and procedures also apply to our foreign offices and subsidiaries. However, since we have only begun to integrate anti-discrimination processes and procedures into our group reporting, we are not yet able to collect concrete data. Any serious cases of discrimination at our locations abroad would have been communicated through the subsidiary monitoring process. We have not heard of any discrimination cases abroad, including violation of native population rights involving KRONES. All procedure instructions and training measures for security personnel also cover constitutional and human rights issues. Security personnel has to provide documentary evidence issued by a local chamber of industry and commerce that the respective person has been informed on and is familiar with the requisite statutory regulations. Each direct or indirect (contracted) KRONES security employee therefore has to undergo such training. In sum for all KRONES AG facilities, these are currently eight direct KRONES employees and some seventy persons working for contracted security services. Most of our factory security personnel has substantially more indepth knowledge of the subject and in some cases even professional qualifications. ECONOMIC | HUMAN RIGHTS 40 Economic Product responsibility KRONES is committed to being a one-stop provider of efficient, state-of-the-art production systems and services. It is this commitment that drives us to continually expand our range of products and improve our established machines and systems. KRONES’ R&D team consists of more than 1,800 highly qualified employees working on new and evolving development projects and optimising existing products in order to further increase the benefit to our customers and create »added value«. Number of patents up sharply The inventiveness of KRONES’ people and our targeted innovation processes, such as the »Invention Brainpool« and special innovation workshops, bore fruit once again in 2012. The number of patents and utility models held by KRONES grew a solid 25% over the previous year, to more than 2,750. We are especially pleased that the number of registered patents and patent applications increased in all of the company’s core technology areas. ECONOMIC Dependable individual machines are the bedrock of our success In the past, filling and packaging lines consisted of individual stand-alone machines connected by conveyors. These lines have now evolved into complete systems comprising process engineering, filling and packaging, and material flow technology, all of which are networked by way of intelligent information technology. KRONES has mastered all of the technologies required to plan, build, and operate state-of-the-art production lines. Our comprehensive systems expertise gives us a major competitive advantage. But reliable, innovative individual machines are still the bedrock of KRONES’ success as the market leader and leader in innovation. They are the very foundation on which we build our customers’ efficient production systems. That is why our R&D activities begin with the individual machines. A major aim of our innovation work is to deliver machines that require minimal maintenance, are easy to operate, and provide maximum uptime. The individual machines must also be easily combined into integrated units, to keep the complexity of the production lines as low as possible and increase line efficiency. One example of such a unit is the ErgoBloc L, a bloc solution for the wet end of the line that can fill up to 81,000 containers per hour. KRONES has integrated our Contiform 3 small cavity technology – stretch blow-moulding for small containers – with a Contiroll labelling system that includes a Multireel magazine for automatic splicing and fillers from the new Modulfill series into a single, harmonious concept. Prior to bringing them together, we optimised each of the individual machines for use in a bloc with targeted innovations and then linked them together with intelligent control systems. These sophisticated measures have made the ErgoBloc L far more cost-effective than previous line concepts. Total operating costs are as much as 10% lower than those of conventional filling lines. The bloc also has a 25% smaller footprint. Our customers have already chosen this state-of-the-art filling system for more than 40 projects. ECONOMIC | PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 41 Selected innovations from 2012 LavaClassic Customers have high expectations of state-of-the-art bottle washers. The technology has to be rugged and it has to achieve optimum cleaning results, even under difficult conditions. With the LavaClassic, KRONES has added a low-cost option to its range of bottle washers. The machine’s modular design offers versatility at an affordable price. Despite the low price, there is no compromising on quality. In developing the LavaClassic, KRONES drew heavily on experience from our field-proven Lavatec series and incorporated many of its functions. The LavaClassic uses dependable techState-of-the-art bottle washers nology and is easy to access, maintain, and operate. In sum, it ensures maximum are energy efficient. KRONES’ uptime and the utmost in production security. LavaClassic offers quality at an affordable price. CombiCube F In 2012, KRONES added another brewery process area to the modular CombiCube ECONOMIC compact brewhouse concept – the CombiCube F for the filter cellar. The system’s filtration throughput ranges from 25 to 108 hectolitres per hour, and is therefore dimensioned to optimally match the capacity of the CombiCube B brewhouse. With the CombiCube F, craft breweries with an annual production output of up to 250,000 hectolitres are now able to benefit – on a more compact scale – from KRONES’ fieldproven technology in yet another section of their production operations. The filter is tailored to the needs of small and mid-sized breweries and is divided up into five The modular CombiCube F is a individual modules that can be combined at will to suit a brewery’s particular needs. ﬁlter cellar solution that is perfectly tailored to the needs of craft breweries. Contiform 3 series Just one year after the successful market launch of KRONES’ latest generation stretch blow-moulder, Contiform 3, we have nearly completed the product portfolio. In addition to the machine types for standard applications, KRONES is now offering the first versions for producing hot fill bottles (heat set), sterilising preforms (Contipure), and producing up to 81,000 containers per hour (Small Cavity). Small Cavity (SC): The high-speed stretch blow-moulder for containers up to 0.75 litres is equipped with a newly developed mould carrier that requires no lubrication. This innovation yields a 70% reduction in the time needed for manual lubrication compared with the predecessor model – and that means more machine uptime. With The Contiform (SC) can produce up to 81,000 containers per hour with this machine, KRONES has not only set yet another world record in terms of stretch a volume of up to 0.75 litres. blow-moulder output but also offers the lowest operating costs. ECONOMIC | PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 42 Heatset: In addition to all of the innovations contained in the Contiform 3, the new version for producing containers for hot filling (heat set) also includes integrated tempering units. That saves space and increases the stability of the production process. The machine is also equipped with a lubricant-free mould carrier. A new configuration of the pressure pads yields improved bottle quality. The Contiform 3 Heatset is the first heat set machine on the market to use an electromagnetically controlled stretch system. This opens up new possibilities for increasing both quality and The Contiform heat set is speed. The new machine solution, which covers the entire performance range from speciﬁcally designed for producing 18,000 to 58,500 containers per hour, has been available since early 2013. hot-ﬁllable containers. Contipure: KRONES further evolved the Contipure preform sterilisation module, which was already available for the Contiform 2 generation, and has already delivered the first Contiform 3 machines with Contipure. We integrated the process unit for hydrogen peroxide treatment into the module and further improved the hygienic design. Contiform 3 with Contipure is a very economical solution for filling products with high acid content such as iced teas and fruit juices. ECONOMIC New generation bottle inspectors Contipure is top technology for KRONES’ latest generation of empty and full bottle inspectors is based on a modular preform sterilisation. concept. The linear machines are inexpensive and deliver optimum product security for bottlers who are concerned about quality. The market launch of the Linatronic EBI (empty bottle inspector) for empty bottles made of PET and glass was very successful. Precise inspection results keep the number of errors to a minimum. This machine features significantly reduced energy consumption and maintenance requirements. The Linatronic EBI is also setting new standards in terms of functionality and ergonomics. Its modular design gives our customers optimum flexibility since any new functions needed can simply be added to the base machine. KRONES’ Linatronic EBI inspects empty bottles made of glass and PET plastic for damage and contamination. ECONOMIC | PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 43 Isabella Wentsch, Lifecycle Service LCS Our Lifecycle Service department services KRONES machines at the customer location over their entire lifecycle. Energy saving and efficiency have become a hot topic. We use metering systems to measure the machinery’s media usage and then analyse the data to determine ways of improving the current status. One way we do that is by upgrading with technological innovations that make the machines our customers have been running for years more energy efficient. Many of our customers have long been paying attention to their machinery’s energy use since it is increasingly becoming a cost factor. Our customers prefer upgrades that amortise within 1 to 3 years. Businesses have to be fairly green at heart to warm up to upgrades with longer payback periods. Small and medium sized enterprises prefer business investments that extend the service life of their machinery and make it more energy efficient. In high-performance applications, customers tend to go for replacement investments if the ECONO ECONOMIC existing machine is already in the last third of itss lifecycle. When investing in new machines, customers are aware of and consider energy consumption in their purchase decisions.. But energy is still cheap in some countries, even within Europe. In these countries, bottlers have little interest in upgrades for betterr energy efficiency and media usage. These upgrades are in far higher er demand in countries where energy prices are a significant cost ost factor. ÖKONOMIE – PRODUKTE 44 Economic Continuous improvement process over the entire machine lifecycle KRONES machines are custom made. Although we offer model series, we typically customise the first machines of a given series on location at the customer’s plant. The adjustments may be to adapt the machines to country-specific regulations and circumstances or they may result from optimisation ideas from our product developers. Such optimisations may improve ergonomics, ease of use, operating noise levels, and other operating issues. Innovations like the Multireel C label magazine or the handling parts cart for filler LCS offers solutions that improve the safety of customer employees change parts are but a few examples of ways we are improving the ergonomics of even for »veteran machines«. our machines in the interest of our customers’ employees work safety and health. Ergonomics and customer health KRONES offers a total of 124 products for upgrading even veteran machinery to a always remain a high priority for high ergonomic standard. Each and every KRONES product group offers such upus over the entire lifecycle of our grade solutions that are often already standard features of our new models. Many machines. of these solutions involve innovative components that are backwards compatible ECONOMIC and may be installed in machines that have already been in operation for many years. All of our design and production activities are based on Directive 2006/42/EG of the European Parliament and of the Council, known in short as the Machinery Directive. With a specified risk assessment and a new definition and expansion of the existing hazard analysis, the new Machinery Directive strongly emphasises machine safety and the safety of operating and servicing personnel. All KRONES machines are subject to these standards and directives not only within A list of all available product upthe European Union but also, increasingly, in installations outside Europe. We may grades for the individual machines is at http://www.krones.com/en/ only affix the CE label to machines that have passed the test for Machinery Directive product-upgrades.php. conformity both in construction and production. An efficient customer information system that delivers details on each order from a customer perspective is an important aspect of our product development. From 2013 forward, our sales organisation will have a new customer relationship management system company-wide providing standardised data on all KRONES customers. The system includes tools for determining customer satisfaction ratings. In checking how our products and services affect the health and safety of operating personnel and consumers we follow our internal protocols on product origination for all of our products (100%). We examine where and how we may improve the product concept at various lifecycle stages. ECONOMIC | CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS OVER THE ENTIRE MACHINE LIFECYCLE 45 Lifecycle stages yes no Product concept development x R&D x Certiﬁcation x Manufacture and production x Marketing and sales promotion x Storage and delivery x Use and service x Disposal, reuse, or recycling x Our contracts with customers contain a clause stipulating the safety of our products and our compliance with statutory regulations in the respective markets abroad. As such, there can be no incidents in which our products and services may threaten the health or safety of users when used properly. New technologies drive and facilitate innovation. That is why our research and development focuses on new technologies ECONOMIC which we can incorporate in our development projects. In the area of new materials, we find nanotechnology particularly intriguing. This Our research and development team tracks new technologies and technology allows the creation of new material properties that may bring about their application potential for great progress in engineering, cleaning and disinfection, and food packaging. For KRONES engineering. this reason, there are many grants for research projects in nanotechnology. However, nanotechnology is a double-edged sword and we need to approach it with due caution. Although KRONES’ research team has looked into the potential of nanotechnology, we are not currently using this technology in any of our development projects. In many cases science has yet to prove the environmental and health safety of this technology on a long-term horizon. Until then, KRONES will keep a close watch on the potential of nanotechnology. Since KRONES does not yet make any of its own components using nanotechnology, we do not have to prepare any risk analyses, statements, or employee seminars on the subject. ECONOMIC | CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS OVER THE ENTIRE MACHINE LIFECYCLE 46 Axel Wehrstein, Vice President General Sales Management Satisfied customers are vital to profitable business. We have to invest in our customer relations and operate in a way that ensures our customers’ long-term satisfaction. Customer relationship management (CRM) is important at every interface with our customers: in sales, service, corporate communication, and research and development. CRM is part of our corporate strategy and clear commitment to customer orientation. Our objective is to build a group-wide information network that provides an overview of all globally relevant customer data. We want to optimally support the collaboration between our internal and external sales forces in every phase of the sales process. This includes providing our customers quickly and expertly with the best possible solution in both new and after-sales business. The new KRONES CRM system is already replacing our previous spot solutions and helping us in our move towards internationalisation. The system also allows us to ECONOMIC better develop our market position. The CRM tool was completely programmed and adapted to all KRONES requirements in 2012. We will start employee training in the application this year before the system goes live. We will train internal and external sales forces for each region at the same time to ensure that activities interface properly from the start. Some 1,000 sales employees will be using the new CRM tool by the end of 2013. In its future iterations, the CRM system will become a uniform platform for service, tech support, and complaint management. 47 Reducing our products’ resource consumption In addition to our product innovations, KRONES is also pursuing numerous approaches to lowering resource consumption in many individual projects. For our customers, resources also include the raw materials needed for beverage production. Our innovative FlexiFruit system enables customers to reduce the amount of valuable fruit content that goes to waste. FlexiFruit can save as much as 2.25 g of raw material per bottle, which in conventional filling systems would remain in the system as residue and only be removed during cleaning procedures. The FlexiFruit system consists of a FlexiFruit filler, a pre-dosing starwheel for the fruit-chunk mixture, the main filling carousel for the juice without the fruit chunks, and a capper. The bloc arrangement is designed to handle 25,000 300-millilitre bottles or, later, 18,000 one-litre bottles per hour. The system can handle fruit chunks measuring as large as ten millimetres in each dimension. ECONOMIC Case in point: A whole new drink experience and marketing concept: In the summer of 2011, Coca-Cola Bottling Egypt (CCBE) became the world’s first beverage producer to premiere a fruit juice containing whole fruit chunks in PET bottles, which is produced using KRONES process technology and bottled in a twin-flow hot-fill process using KRONES FlexiFruit filling technology. Without any preservatives, of course. It was a new process, provided entirely from a single source, and put into operation in Egypt in record time. Lifecycle Service – Looking at products across their entire useful lives Whereas the EU’s Machinery Directive governs the machinery design process and ensures compliance through documentation, machines in many industrial sectors are often not tracked further along their lifecycle. At KRONES, caring for machines and customers over the long term is a high priority. All services and products offered after the commissioning of our machines and lines are part of Lifecycle Service (LCS). In this way, we have quick access to authentic information on the functioning and daily operation of our equipment. A comprehensive package of LCS measures helps to ensure that our products deliver the longest possible useful lives. These measures include replacement programmes for components in our lines that have reached their maximum number of operating hours. LCS Retrofitting makes it possible to bring plants up to the current state of the art – even if they have already been in operation for many years. LCS Retrofitting offers handling parts and conversion kits that enable beverage producers to handle product range changes on their existing ECONOMIC | CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS OVER THE ENTIRE MACHINE LIFECYCLE 48 machinery. Upgrades are another important part of LCS Retrofitting. These include measures and components that bring older machines up to the current state of the art. In all, 243 upgrades are available. They are divided into different categories by purpose and make possible targeted machine adaptations to match a customer’s specifications. A single upgrade can often yield multiple benefits for daily operations. Case in point: An example of the efficacy of LCS upgrades is the reduction of fresh water consumption on a bottle washer. The upgrade project includes replacing the surge unit in the fresh water section with the latest generation twin-pipe surge unit in the cold water section and, if applicable, replacing the jetting unit for spraying the inside of the bottles with fresh water. This small intervention reduces the bottle washer’s water consumption by about 30%. The considerable savings in fresh water and waste water costs ECONOMIC quickly pay for the cost of the upgrade. Line sustainability analysis In addition to the programme for replacing components and individual assemblies, the LCS team also provides complete plant analyses. Data is collected both automatically and manually during production to determine running times and downtimes on the lead machine and weak points in the line. Recommendations for a continuous improvement process make it possible to significantly improve steady-state availability and average utilisation. For the line operator, this means lower production costs and a longer operating life of the line, which also contributes to a sustainable production process. ECONOMIC | CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS OVER THE ENTIRE MACHINE LIFECYCLE 49 Andreas Hierl, Safety Engineering, Research and Development Noise emissions are my speciality. For new machine designs, I create a forecast of the machine’s noise emissions based on the basic design information. I can often provide a number of suggestions for reducing the machine’s noise level at this stage. For example, using electric motors instead of pneumatic drives makes a machine run more quietly. If it is not possible to use different or modified technologies for certain machine functions, we look to secondary measures such as protective housings to achieve improvements. When the design is finished, we do a noise calculation based on EU standards and directives. The EU Machinery Directive, which requires that machine emissions be minimised throughout Europe, serves as the basis for the calculation. Customers outside Europe also expect us to deliver machinery that is in compliance with the European directives. It is becoming increasingly difficult to make machines run even more quietly. That is because the lightweight construction that is common today contributes to the ECONOMIC vibration (and therefore noise) of the machines and components. The requirements for hygienic machine design also present big challenges for noise reduction. The open design, with no covered edges or corners, makes it more difficult to reduce noise emissions. In addition, floor space at the customer’s plant is often very limited. When machines are operating at high speed, the noise emissions of the individual machines definitely add up! By improving the regulation behaviour of the machines and peripheral equipment, we have been able to offset these factors and effectively reduce noise emissions. The machines’ and lines’ noise values are printed in the operating manual. On request, we can generate a noise forecast for a customer’s entire plant. We also consult customers with respect to production hall acoustics. Noise reduction efforts are very cost-intensive. Noise abatement measures can already make up as much as 10% of the total cost of a machine. enviro 50 Energy cost savings from retCompressed air consumption Water savings when vacuum roﬁtting a Stromboli internal when Ecoslider rejection pump is used in the ﬁller* boiler with a vapour condenser system is used enviro 42.5% 0 13,680 m³/year *Production of 40,000 0.5-litre bottles/hour, 6,000 operating hours/year 51 KRONES machine types that enviro certiﬁed Contiform Share of hot-ﬁll systems sold have been assessed under stretch blow moulders sold with energy recovery system enviro enviro 30 181 50% 52 enviro Our programme for sustainable machines and lines KRONES is the only company in the filling and packaging industry to offer its own universal standard for designing sustainable production machinery: enviro. This standard for energy and media efficiency stands on the three pillars environment, economy, and ergonomics, and offers customers a resource-efficient, cost-effective machinery programme. The criteria for energy The criteria for media The criteria for efficiency include: efficiency include: eco-friendliness include: Electrical power Gasses Composition of all mateCompressed air Water rials used (raw materials Heating and cooling and supplies) Consumption of the media used in various deﬁned operational states Emissions (e.g. noise and effluents) enviro There are two major aspects to enviro that must be examined separately. The one aspect of enviro is that it is a management programme, certified by TÜV SÜD in 2009. In 2012, the programme was recertified, confirming that we are in fact complying with the enviro management programme. Of course, we are also further evolving and updating the programme. The management system stipulates that the best available state of technology is to be used in the continuous improvement process and the enviro programme criteria must be adapted to the current situation. The other aspect of enviro is product certification. That is, we evaluate our machinery portfolio with respect to established criteria. We look at the entire beverage production and filling process and analyse the machines’ consumption data. We use this information in the machine development process and work out solutions for minimising the lines’ energy and media consumption in operation. The consumption data are measured in a standardised procedure that has been certified by TÜV SÜD and documented in the enviro passport. This consumption forecast enables end users to achieve resource-efficient production. In addition to energy and media consumption data, we also document other environmental criteria such as proof of low-noise operation or operation without lubricants containing mutagenic substances. A final measurement-based acceptance test is carried out on the machine to confirm the data before the enviro label is applied. With this, KRONES is setting the trend as no similar documentation method is standardised in the industry. ENVIRO | OUR PROGRAMME FOR SUSTAINABLE MACHINES AND LINES 53 Dr. Sven Fischer, Vice President Aseptic and Process Engineering With enviro, we have created a standard for the energy and media efficiency of machines and lines. This standard is taken into account in all of our product development activities. Of course, we always have to ask how much potential each machine has. But there are many ways to approach the task of reducing energy and media consumption. First, we can improve the existing technology to use less energy while still providing the same performance. For example, by using energy-efficient drive technology. That is the traditional approach. It can cut energy consumption by 10% to 20%. A second approach is to eliminate certain process steps entirely by synchronising machines into a bloc configuration. The potential for savings here is greater. A good example of this is the ErgoBloc, which combines stretch blow-moulding, labelling, and filling with no need for conveyors or buffers in between. A third possibility with significant savings potential is to look at options that allow energy-intensive process steps to be eliminated, for instance, by enviro choosing labels and secondary packaging that do not require the use of a steam shrink tunnel. Here are two excellent examples: First, the Stretchmatic applies labels that don’t need to be shrink-fitted to the container. And second, the Evolite pack strapping machine does without shrink film entirely and therefore eliminates the need for the second shrink tunnel as well. All in all, we are trying to cut energy consumption by 30% and water consumption by 50% based on the data from 2010. 54 Pushing ahead with enviro machine evaluations In all, we have evaluated 30 machine types under enviro. At least one product from our stretch blow-moulding, filling, labelling, and other portfolios is enviro certified. We plan to have evaluated the entire machine portfolio by 2015. There are three possible outcomes for KRONES as a result of an enviro evaluation: The first is that the enviro assessment results in certification of the machine in its standard design. The second possibility is that the machine can be brought up to enviro standards by adding options such as insulation. The third possible outcome is that the machine is not enviro-compatible and must be removed from the product portfolio. When selecting their machines, our customers must have the option of having done the best they can with respect to energy and media consumption and eco-friendliness. At the same time, we also feel an obligation to ensure cost-effectiveness and to help safeguard our customers’ long-term success – which sometimes requires a more tailored approach in this respect. Our machinery programme still holds considerable potential for further energy and enviro media savings. Our target for the year 2013 is to Progress of the enviro assessments (revenue-weighted), as of 31 December 2012 evaluate 17 more machine types in accordance with enviro criteria. enviro assessment not planned 16% Machines that are assessed under Standard machine enviro certified 6% enviro but do not meet enviro critePortfolio to be assessed 49% Standard machine with enviro options 4% ria are subject to further development to bring them up to this level. enviro assessment complete 25% enviro machines use significantly less energy and media than their counterparts. This clear advantage with respect to energy and media efficiency is the focus of our marketing of the enviro machine programme. Competition is generally very tight when it comes to landing new orders, which makes it difficult to ideally position enviro machines against our competitors’ machines. This is due in part to the fact that they use components that are highly energy efficient but come at a higher initial price for KRONES and, therefore, the customer than standard products used in standard machines. That means we are taking our enviro machines to market at a higher price than our competitors are bidding their machines. In the interest of maintaining long-term business relationships with our customers and, ultimately, in the interest of securing our company’s future, we cannot take our enviro machines to market in a uniform manner across all markets. Another point to consider is the cost of resources, ENVIRO | OUR PROGRAMME FOR SUSTAINABLE MACHINES AND LINES 55 which varies worldwide. For instance, a machine’s energy-efficiency may not be critical to one company’s operating costs. By contrast, another company in another country might attach great importance to energy efficiency but not so much to water consumption. Case in point: The enviro-certified ErgoBloc L has become well established in the bottling industry thanks to its economic and technological benefits. To enable plastic bottle converters to enjoy the same advantages of this state-of-the-art technology, KRONES has slimmed down the ErgoBloc, eliminating the filler, to create the Contiform Bloc BL. This yields benefits like significant space savings and the elimination of energyintensive air conveyors for converters with pre-labelling operations. But that is not all. Bottlers can also use the Contiform Bloc BL, without a filler, if they want to produce their own PET containers with pre-labelling in an existing bottling plant. enviro The Korean PET bottle producer Soo Seok was the first converter to put this solution into operation in 2011. Saving resources is already an important topic to many of our customers because they also want to highlight sustainable production in their own marketing. However, cost considerations often take priority when it comes to making the investment decision. When two competing machines have a similar initial cost, the machine with lower operating costs will often be chosen because energy and media make up the largest share of operating costs. The decision becomes more difficult when the initial investment is higher and a total cost of ownership (TCO) calculation comes into play as the basis for decision-making. For most of our customers in the filling and packaging industry, operating cost savings have to pay for the higher initial outlay within three years. For long-term capital expenditures in brewing technology, customers are willing to accept a pay-back period of up to five years. Only a select few customers have thus far been willing to pay more simply for the good of the environment. The switch to different types of packaging presents another hurdle. Although elimiTake a look at the EvoLite system nating the shrink tunnel pays for itself very quickly – as was the case with the new in operation at Gruppo Bracca Italy, http://www.youtube.com/ LitePac packaging option, which goes without shrink film entirely – and brings with watch?v=E5HGsJF5uIA&feait absolute energy savings, it also requires some rethinking on the marketing end. ture=player_detailpage ENVIRO | OUR PROGRAMME FOR SUSTAINABLE MACHINES AND LINES 56 Development projects within the enviro programme Numerous development projects have been launched in all product divisions in order to bring our entire machinery portfolio up to the enviro standard with respect to energy and resource efficiency. After analysing the machines to determine which components and assemblies are relevant to the machines’ consumption data, the project teams examine alternative materials and innovative assemblies that promise significant potential for savings. Contiform stretch blow moulder Both the Contiform S/H and the new Contiform 3 series have an enviro passport. This division continually tests the respective current technology for further possibilities for optimisation. One approach here is the development of alternative heating technologies such as using microwave technology to preheat the preforms (FlexWave), which one of our customers is currently using as an alternative to infrared technology. Because this technology is still too expensive for mass production, we are currently collaborating with the customer on the pilot project and continuenviro ally optimising it. The numerous measures taken to optimise the Contiform 3 series are Compressed air consumption offers considerable potential. Tasked with reducing tapping enormous potential for the energy consumed to produce compressed air, we worked closely with a compresthis machine’s energy and media sor manufacturer to establish intelligent communication between our compressed efficiency. air system in the Contiform and the compressor. This project is still ongoing. Another project aimed at reducing compressed air consumption involves changing from pneumatic stretching technology to electromagnetic stretching. Combined with the Air Wizard compressed air recycling system, this change resulted in a 30% reduction in compressed air use. This technology is now standard in the Contiform 3 series. Saving water with a vacuum pump A classic example of resource-saving production is the use of a water-saving vacuum pump in the filling system. A filling system with an output of 40,000 0.5-litre bottles per hour, operating 6,000 hours per year, uses a vacuum pump with an electrical power load of 18.5 kW and current water consumption of up to 2.4 m³ per hour. Using a vacuum pump with an integrated plate heat exchanger system for the seal water circuit can yield water savings of 13,680 m³ per year under these conditions. At the same time, energy consumption for cooling the vacuum pump increases by 10,500 kWh per year. ENVIRO | OUR PROGRAMME FOR SUSTAINABLE MACHINES AND LINES 57 This highlights an important fact: Any savings achieved must be viewed from many angles since reducing consumption of one resource may very well entail increased consumption of another. That means that resource and energy efficiency solutions must be determined on an individual basis in accordance with the user’s situation. Retrofitting the respective components can pay for itself within around two years, depending on the customer’s specific energy and water costs. A look at the acceptance of these filler components among customers shows that around 30% of users elect this option when investing in a new filler. Improving details in labelling and inspection technology New pre-shrinking for the Sleevematic M: The Sleevematic labeller applies a sleeve made of plastic film over the entire body of the bottle, which may or may not be subsequently shrink-fitted depending on the application. Previously, the machines required a power supply of 15.25kW – regardless of whether one or two sleeve labelling stations were needed. By using smaller air heaters that can be better regulated, we enviro are able to reduce the necessary power supply to 4 kW for a single sleeve applicator and 8kW for two sleeve applicators. At an average operating time of 3,500 hours per year, that makes for potential energy savings of as much as 18,000 kWh depending Better air heaters can yield energy on the machine size. savings in sleeve labelling. The new, fully electric »Ecoslider« rejection unit was developed as an option to replace the »Softslide« pneumatic rejection unit for our Checkmat inspection units. With »Ecoslider«, there is no need for a compressed air supply since even the cap blower is electric. That completely eliminates the compressed air consumption of 90 Nm³ per hour, at an operating time of 6,000 hours per year. This option appeals in particular to customers for whom noise emissions, ease of maintenance, and compressed air consumption are important factors. In new lines, these rejection units are installed as standard equipment instead of the previous pneumatic rejection units. Insulation important for bottle washers and pasteurisers Bottle washers and pasteurisers are our big consumers. Bottle washing and pasteurisation both require large amounts of heat. For this reason, our experts in these two product divisions are devoting particular attention to increasing the machines’ thermal efficiency. The current focus is on testing and quantifying additional insulation measures with which to prevent excessive heat transfer from the machines to the surrounding environment and consequent thermal inefficiency. The main task here is to achieve an effective level of insulation to match the machine surface temperature profiles laid out in the enviro framework – over the entire surface of the maOptimised insulation of the chine housing as well as the surfaces between the individual treatment zones, totalpasteuriser can further reduce heat ling up to 200 m² – at a reasonable cost. loss. ENVIRO | OUR PROGRAMME FOR SUSTAINABLE MACHINES AND LINES 58 Energy efficiency in beverage production In process engineering, testing and certification of individual brewing technology systems provide good starting points for improving the efficiency of these very energy-intensive processes. Because energy consumption is high in brewing operations, customers have a strong interest in considerably reducing consumption data. With the Stromboli wort boiling system and ShakesBeer mashing kettle, both enviro products, KRONES offers two enviro systems that have been well received on the market. In an effort to achieve further improvements here, our Steinecker plant offers energy consulting for breweries, identifying customers’ energy-saving potential. The Stromboli wort boiling system Model calculations are used to assess options for reducing energy consumption makes it possible to bring total evaporation in the wort boiling and reviewed against the investment required for the energy-saving systems. process down to a low level and Sometimes, these consultations result in a recommendation to retrofit a Stromboli thus achieve a high level of energy efficiency in the brewing process. wort boiling system. Case in point: enviro Retrofitting a Stromboli internal boiler with a vapour condenser and lautered wort heater reduces total evaporation in the wort boiling process from 6% to 3.8%. The cost of the retrofit is offset by energy cost savings of 42.5%. That means the investment would pay for itself in just over two years – an excellent bottom line that can serve as an example for numerous optimisation measures for the wort boiling process. Systems expertise often provides a helpful frame of reference when looking at individual machines. For example, in our process technology portfolio for hot-filling soft drinks, we were able to add a heat recovery system as a tool for saving energy in hot-filling processes. Since 2012, we have been successfully offering an »energy recovery tunnel cooler« for the heat treatment of non-carbonated fruit juices and soft drinks with high-temperature discharge. In this process, water that is used to cool the hot-filled beverages in the LinaCool cooling tunnel is reused to pre-warm the juice in the upstream flash pasteurisation unit. This option allows for energy savings in the plate heat exchanger of up to 70% and heat recovery of around 40% in the flash pasteurisation unit compared with a standard VarioFlash H. More than 50% of the hot filling systems sold in 2012 were equipped with heat recovery from the cooling tunnel. ENVIRO | OUR PROGRAMME FOR SUSTAINABLE MACHINES AND LINES 59 enviro enviro is a team effort KRONES’ enviro point persons are responsible for all enviro topics within their Standing (from left to right): product divisions, which they work on in ongoing collaborative meetings aimed at Dr. Sven Fischer, Martin Kloska, Astrid Kadlubski, Michael Siegmund, designing resource-saving machines. Albert Link, Christian Gebauer, One of their tasks is to monitor the enviro assessments for their respective product Gottfried Gunser, Dr. Markus Zölﬂ, sitting (from left to right): Michael division’s machinery portfolio. In addition, they monitor the progress of machine Rothe, Hans-Dieter Holzleitner, assessments in general and the current state of the art so that they can continually Stefan Rossmann, Daniela Haupt, update the specifications and criteria for enviro machines. Martina Birk, Stefan Hauke. The enviro point persons also serve as initiators and sources of inspiration for undertaking new enviro assessments and supporting enviro-relevant projects in innovation roundtables. With respect to customers, they compile all of the information that is needed on our enviro projects to create cost/benefit analyses and effectively present the added value of enviro machines for our customers. Environmental 60 Electricity consumption CO2 emissions reduced Electricity from renewable reduced further* signiﬁcantly sources ENVIRONMENTAL 7.7% 10.6% 33.7% ENVIRONMENTAL *per €1 million in sales revenue 61 Water consumption down Motor pool reduced Airport trips reorganised sharply from previous year –8.5% –270 –4,677 ENVIRONMENTAL 62 Environmental Steady focus on environment and resource use KRONES strives to use resources conservatively and sustainably in all its activities. KRONES has been participating In the interest of steadily reducing energy consumption and emissions, we launched in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2007. The CDP uses an energy management system at all of our German sites in 2012, which was also standardised reporting guidelines certified in 2012. The data set that the system provides will enable KRONES to localise to collect data on climate and the main sources of increased energy consumption and develop an action plan. resource protection. The system is This will also make it possible to bring CO2 emissions to a low level for the long-term. used worldwide and makes risks and opportunities transparent for KRONES is on the right track, having already significantly reduced CO2 emissions in investors while supporting com2012. panies’ efforts to further develop their own sustainable practices To achieve low energy consumption in the medium term, we are establishing clear by providing benchmarks for comrequirements for consumption data for updates to our buildings and investments in panies and industries. new and replacement machinery. With respect to heating, KRONES consistently considers environmental criteria and gives priority to renewables wherever economically possible. With our environmental figures, regular dialogue with local stakeholders, certification organisations, and regulatory authorities, and close collaboration with our suppliers, we are providing a broad foundation for our efforts to conserve resources. Our employees’ environmental awareness is another key factor, which is why we address environmental topics in regular communications. Our people are always contributing to helping make our production more environmentally friendly or ENVIRONMENTAL resource-friendly with the ideas they post to our Brainpool, where they also make suggestions for making workflows more ergonomic. KRONES rewards the best suggestions and also offers big incentives for employees to contribute their suggestions for improvements based on their experiences in day-to-day operations. As part of our effort to expand our environmental management, we started the process of obtaining IMS certification for the first KRONES office abroad in 2012. This certification, which came with an IMS certificate, also covers the topic of environmental protection (DIN EN ISO 14001). By introducing a quality, environmental protection, and occupational safety management system at the Lifecycle Service (LCS) Centre in Brazil, we are systematically continuing the certified management systems that were launched and implemented in 2009 – not only for our German sites but now also for the first of our international sites. Our environmental performance indicators for 2012 show very clearly that the Energy consumption was up only individual figures will not simply continually improve on their own. Total energy slightly despite the sharp increase in sales revenue. consumption increased less sharply than sales revenue (energy consumption: +2.1%, KRONES AG sales revenue: +7.4%). Although total waste generated was up slightly, our water consumption was down 8.5% for the year as a whole in 2012. ENVIRONMENTAL | STEADY FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENT AND RESOURCE USE Energy consumption 63 Energy consumption reduced further We are making good progress with respect to energy consumption at all five of our sites in Germany. Total energy consumption for our production operations and for our buildings and systems was up 2.1% to 115,453 MWh. That means energy consumption in relation to sales was down, to 43.3 MWh per €1 million in sales revenue as compared with the previous year figure of 45.6 MWh per €1 million in sales revenue. This figure includes all buildings owned by the company. Leased buildings are only partially included since some are leased at a flat rate that includes electricity, heating, and water and these buildings are generally shared with other users. We have not included consumption data for our vehicle fleet (fuel) or data for energy consumed at installation sites. In an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we launched and certified an energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001 in 2012. Our primary focus here is on reducing base load demand. Consumption of electrical power improved to 60,961 MWh (previous year: 61,486 MWh). That comes to just 22.9 MWh per €1 million in sales revenue (2011: 24.8). The improvement is due to actions such as the optimisation of production hall lighting and operation of vacuum systems on an as-needed basis. Renewables accounted ENVIRONMENTAL for 33.7% of the electrical power used at KRONES AG in 2012. Energy used, electricity (MWh per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) Electric power consumption per €1 million in revenue has been 29.5 trending steadily downward for 27.8 30 24.8 the past four years. 24.0 22.9 20 10 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 For 2013, the departments expect to see further indications of potential for improvement since it is now possible, for the first time, to analyse the measuring points at our Neutraubling site-wide and across the years. This energy monitoring system will be completed at our other German sites in 2013. The resulting precise consumption information will enable us to continually reduce our base load demand. An example of this is commissioning planning in our plastics technology division, where we were able to reduce the peak load by 5% in 2012 compared to 2011 by coordinating the test runs for finished stretch blow-moulders prior to delivery. ENVIRONMENTAL | ENERGY CONSUMPTION 64 We were also able to further reduce natural gas consumption to 11.0 MWh per €1 million in revenue. Given our existing building infrastructure, we could not reduce consumption from all energy sources. Our use of district heating rose to 8.2 MWh per €1 million in revenue. Our Freising (Steinecker) and Flensburg plants derive none of their energy from heating oil or natural gas. The district heating system for the Rosenheim plant is 100% CO2-neutral, with zero primary energy. In the Neutraubling plant, ⅓ of the district heating used is derived from biogas. And in Nittenau, the district heating is 100% biogas. Energy used, natural gas (MWh per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) Natural gas consumption per €1 million in revenue also declined, continuing a downward trend. The 30 decrease in natural gas consump21.4 tion resulted in part from our 18.2 17.1 decision to switch our Rosenheim 20 12.3 plant over to district heating. 11.0 10 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL District heating used (MWh per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) Use of district heating increased in the year under review due to the 9.5 switch from natural gas to district 10 8.2 8.2 heating. Consumption per €1 mil7.4 8 lion in revenue came to 8.2 MWh. 6 4 2.5 2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Energy used, heating oil (MWh per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) Heating oil now accounts for only a very small portion of the group’s total energy consumption. It in2 creased slightly in the reporting 1.3 1.2 1.0 1.1 period, to 1.2 MWh per €1 million 1.0 1 in revenue. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL | ENERGY CONSUMPTION 65 Dr. Helmut Schwarz, Senior Vice President Rosenheim plant The Rosenheim plant is connected to the district heating network of the municipal utilities in Rosenheim and therefore requires no primary energy for heating or hot water supply. Only the paint shop still needs to be connected to the district heating network. This work will be completed in 2013. By integrating our waste management into the waste management system of Rosenheim’s municipal utilities, we have created a closed loop for our energy supply. All recoverable materials go towards reuse or recycling. Any non-recoverable waste is used as fuel for the district heating plant. We are also making good progress towards achieving energy-efficient production with respect to electrical power. With an analytical project named »targeted control of energy use«, we were able to take a detailed inventory of the main consumers in the Rosenheim plant in 2012. We identified potential for improvement in the washing bay in the paint shop, where we can significantly reduce electricity consumption by investing in new equipment in 2013. We can use the results of this study directly in additional measures to improve energy efficiency, for instance by changing machine operating status during breaks or overnight. We have already made upgrades ENVIRONMENTAL to our lighting systems that have lowered energy consumption. All in all, this reduces peak loads and conserves electricity. Our new construction project, where we have taken comprehensive measures to minimise electricity consumption, will start giving us new insights on improving electricity consumption starting in June 2013. By comparing this state-of-the-art technology with our existing technologies in other buildings, we hope to gain valuable information about which measures offer the biggest benefits in terms of resource efficiency. ÖKOLOGIE – SYSTEMATISCHE WEITERENTWICKLUNG DER UMWELTAKTIVITÄTEN 66 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions reduced signiﬁcantly By increasing our use of district heating, we are reducing the CO2 emissions from our operations. We have managed to reduce our CO2 emissions dramatically by optimising heating at our individual sites and sourcing 33.7% of our electrical power from renewables. The district heating that supplies our Rosenheim plant is 100% CO2 neutral, thus cutting CO2 emissions by 700 metric tonnes. In all, our total CO2 emissions came to 34,836 metric tonnes, 10.6% less than the previous year’s 39,012 metric tonnes. Our greenhouse gas emissions result primarily from energy consumption at our five plants (electricity, natural gas, district heating, heating oil) in the form of CO2. Our direct greenhouse gas emissions (those reported in previous years) totalled 34,851 metric tonnes. Indirect emissions under the Bavarian Environment Agency’s method for calculating emissions includes emissions from upstream suppliers and totalled 1,373 metric tonnes for natural gas and heating oil. No data is available from suppliers for the other energy sources (electricity, district heating). Direct and indirect emissions according to GRI calculation (metric tonnes), KRONES AG 39,012 40,000 36,633 34,851 31,170 28,528 28,096 ENVIRONMENTAL 30,000 20,000 10,000 8,105 6,842 6,755 2010 2011 2012 Total CO2 emissions Direct CO2 emissions Indirect CO2 missions Within the GRI Guidelines, direct emissions are defined as emissions from sources Other relevant greenhouse gas owned or controlled by the reporting organisation. For KRONES AG, these emissions emissions, in CO₂ equivalents total 6,755 metric tonnes. Indirect emissions arise from purchased electricity and district heating. These emissions totalled 28,096 metric tonnes in 2012. 1,795 t 1,867 t We use approximately 416 kg of substances known to have an effect on climate as 1,351 t foaming agents (54 kg of R227ea and 362 kg of R365). We do not use other greenhouse gasses (methane CH4 , nitrous oxide N2O, perfluorocarbons PFC, or sulphur hexafluoride SF6). We are currently conducting trials of possible substitutes for the foaming agents noted above. 2010 2011 2012 We had no emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Emissions of NOx and SOx are Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) not measured continually. Two of our facilities are subject to a requirement that these are generated primarily in the paint shops, although VOC emissions at emissions be measured every three years under the German Emission Control Act each of the individual shops come [Bundesimmissionsschutzgesetz]. These measurements were due for the pickling to <5 metric tonnes per year, which plant in 2012. The emissions came to 0.345 metric tonnes of NOx and 0.054 metric is not reportable under the German Emission Control Act. ENVIRONMENTAL | CO2 EMISSIONS 67 tonnes of HF. The most recent mandatory measurements showed the following emission loads for the Neutraubling facility: < 0.088 metric tonnes HCl, < 0.109 metric tonnes dust, and 0.000116 metric tonnes Ni particulate. CO2 emissions from work-related travel KRONES AG’s international activities entail a considerable amount of employee travel. In 2012, employees logged a total of 76,524,854 flight miles, which is 5.99% more than in the previous year. The increase is closely tied to the increase in sales revenue (+7.4%). Destination Miles ﬂown Change (%) CO2 emissions (t) Change (%) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Intercontinental 66,160,274 61,457,389 +7.65 14,826 13,771 +7.66 Europe 9,472,860 9,776,479 –3.11 2,200 2,276 –3.35 Within Germany 891,720 967,067 –7.79 242 271 –10.7 Total 76,524,854 72,200,935 +5.99 17,268 16,318 +5.8 It is worth noting that the absolute number of miles flown within Europe and GerAverage CO2 emissions in 2012 many was down from the previous year. This is roughly in line with our business (kg, per one-way flight) trend, which is heavily focused outside the European continent. The company travel ENVIRONMENTAL policy developed in 2012 contains comprehensive guidelines for reviewing whether 217.66 travel is necessary and whether travel can be avoided, for instance by using alternative means of communication or by delegating tasks to local representatives abroad. The policy also encourages the use of sustainable modes of transportation. 69.74 61.19 CO2 emissions from work-related travel by passenger car totalled 4,573 metric tonnes in 2012. As part of our effort to reduce our environmental impact – and costs – by InterWithin Within continental Europe Germany reducing the number of trips taken by car and by shrinking our vehicle fleet, we (–7.62% (–1.12% (–3.18% on previous on previous on previous have shifted all airport transfers to the Airportliner, a shuttle that departs Regensyear) year) year) burg and has a stop at our Neutraubling plant – as of the start of August 2012. As a result, 4,677 trips to the airport were taken in a more eco-friendly manner. Assuming average CO2 emissions of 130 g CO2 per kilometre driven, this would translate to an estimated reduction in CO2 emissions of 76 metric tonnes for the airport transfers over the previous year – excluding the proportionate shares of CO2 emissions per traveller in the Airportliner, which must also be taken into account. This measure also enabled us to reduce our vehicle fleet by around 270 vehicles. Our goal for 2013 is to reorganise travel within Germany. We will integrate the German rail network into the mobility concept for KRONES AG employees. By using the network of intercity trains and car rental at the destination, we aim to make our employees’ business travel within Germany economical and eco-friendly. The concept has already been developed and will be integrated into the travel planning tools by our travel management department. ENVIRONMENTAL | CO2 EMISSIONS 68 Environmentally-friendly freight transport KRONES delivers its machines to locations worldwide. The freight is forwarded by sea, by air, or by road. Outgoing freight (truckloads) 2012 2011 Change % Sea 6,849 5,487 +24.8 Air 1,612 1,972 –18.2 Road 458 532 –13.9 Total 8,919 7,991 +11.6 A look at the total freight figure and the shares forwarded by the various modes of transport shows that we were able to keep air and road freight stable and handle the increased deliveries largely by sea freight. Getting shipments to the seaports A total of 5,174 containers were transported from our Neutraubling site to the shipping ports on the North Sea. Of these, 60% went by environmentally friendly rail freight. These heavy cargo transports to North Sea ports (Hamburg) generated around 520 metric tonnes in CO2 emissions. ENVIRONMENTAL Due to the size of some machines and lines or the cargo destination, 1,759 loads were transported by truck. Contractual provisions with the freight haulers prevent us from analysing the CO2 emissions of these trips since the carrier handles the routing. Containers shipped by KRONES AG in 2012 5,174 3,142 1,759 273 Total of which of which of which number by road by rail road with of freight freight potential containers for rail ENVIRONMENTAL | CO2 EMISSIONS Water consumption 69 Water consumption down sharply from previous year The total volume of water drawn from the municipal water supply came to 116,043 m³. With that, we were able to improve on the previous year’s high water consumption by 8.5%. That means we reduced consumption to 43 m³ per €1 million in revenue. This achievement is due in part to the introduction of additional closedloop systems, particularly for leakage testing, and the switch to waterless processes. We employ water-saving solutions wherever possible, with closed-loop systems in our electroplating shop and pickling plant, function tests in our filling and process technology divisions, and cleaning applications. The water is drawn from the respective municipal water supply. In addition, KRONES also draws groundwater to use for cooling the buildings at its Neutraubling site. In 2012, KRONES withdrew 1,804,281 m³ of groundwater. This volume is fed back into the groundwater supply. The discharged volume largely equals the volume withdrawn, less any losses due to diversion, disposal, or evaporation. Depending on the source, waste water is treated in internal physical/chemical processes or in neutralisation systems before being channelled into the main sewer system. Some of the waste water generated must be treated and is discharged to treatment facilities or disposed of as special or hazardous waste. We are also reporting other waste water, for instance from our office ENVIRONMENTAL buildings, which is discharged into the main sewer system without further treatment. The volume of treated waste water totalled 4,835 m3 in 2012. KRONES does not discharge any waste water or run-off directly into any bodies of water. Regular checks in accordance with the German Self-Monitoring Ordinance [Eigenüberwachungsverordnung] and external checks with respect to the quality of the water discharged by KRONES have not resulted in any objections. Because the concentrations measured were often below the measurement range, the following annual totals and loads are to be understood as maximum values that fall well below the limits prescribed by law. Water consumption (m3 and m3 per €1m in revenue) KRONES AG In 2012, water consumption decreased to 116,043 m3, which 126,778 111,689 116,043 roughly corresponds to the annual 104,862 103,402 consumption of around 2,800 96,689 85,207 people in Germany. 55 51 51 45 45 44 43 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL | WATER CONSUMPTION 70 Christine Raab, Vice President Forwarding and Travel Management The figures for employee travel make it very obvious that KRONES is an exportoriented company. They also show a shift in our customer markets. Last year, we had a large number of projects in Asia, Africa, and South America – which, of course, means quite a bit of travel. As part of our internationalisation efforts, we have launched a number of measures to prevent travel volume and the associated CO2 emissions from rising. When shipping our machines and lines, we give highest priority to sending our containers to the international seaports by rail. We are currently adopting a new mobility concept that integrates rail travel for KRONES employees within Germany. This will completely change how we plan travel in Germany and will require some adjustment on the part of our employees. We are sure that this concept will yield an effective, environmentally friendly strategy for business travel within Germany. Another advantage of the concept is that rail travel will be easier on our employees than driving. ENVIRONMENTAL 71 Of course, light liquid separators are used in the various systems prior to discharge of the treated waste water into the public sewer system. KRONES engages qualified specialists to dispose of boring and filing emulsions and cooling lubricants. The total volume disposed of was 1,055.5 m3. Information on significant spills is collected with the annual environmental reports for each of our plants. In 2012, no significant spills were reported. Contaminant loads in waste water from installations subject to licensing (grams per year) KRONES AG, 2012 In the Neutraubling and Steinecker plants, the effluents originate from the chemical surface treatment 7,030 plant, in the Nittenau plant they originate from the plasma cutting machine and the electropolishing plant. 1,757.5 1,757.5 1,757.5 Limits for chromium, copper, nickel, and zinc (mg/litre) 2.0 ENVIRONMENTAL 703 562 404 351 0.5 0.5 0.5 220 105 <101 <101 8 0 27 <10 Chromium Copper Nickel Zinc Chromium Copper Nickel Zinc Limit Neutraubling plant Steinecker plant Nittenau plant Water consumption Water consumption Water consumption 3,515 m³ 1,012 m³ 289 m³ ENVIRONMENTAL | WATER CONSUMPTION 72 Materials for high-quality machines and lines Machines for food and beverage production must meet a number of specifications, including compatibility with high temperatures, cleaning solutions, moisture, and different product characteristics. And this can only be achieved using high-quality materials. For our purposes, the most important materials and part materials from non-renewable sources are: Stainless steel approx. 12,000 metric tonnes Plastics approx. 500 metric tonnes Aluminium approx. 800 metric tonnes Copper approx. 1,000 metric tonnes For each of these materials, KRONES requests a certificate of origin for each delivery. In addition, KRONES AG’s quality assurance department checks the following points and enters the corresponding data in the company’s software when it conducts quality audits: Certifications Environmental management system ENVIRONMENTAL Familiarity with KRONES AG Supplier’s Code Occupational safety management Since KRONES AG’s materials specifications allow for a certain percentage of recycled content, it is not possible to determine the exact share of recycled material that makes up the materials purchased. Suppliers must not indicate precisely what portion of a shipment is in fact recycled content. All (100%) of the scrap material generated is fed into the recycling stream as secondary material. ENVIRONMENTAL | WATER CONSUMPTION Waste 73 Our total waste of 14,683 metric tonnes continues the trend from previous reporting periods. That means total waste generated was up over the previous year by 1,177 metric tonnes. In relation to revenue, our total waste came to 5.51 metric tonnes per €1 million in sales, which is more or less at the previous-year level. While we were able to steadily continue the downward trend in non-recoverable waste from 523 metric tonnes in 2011 to 508 metric tonnes in 2012, we are also looking into further potential for reducing recoverable waste, which amounted to 14,175 metric tonnes. The slight increase in waste generated can be attributed to bigger-than-usual warehouse-clearing projects in 2012. Total waste generated (metric tonnes and metric tonnes per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) Total waste generated in 2012 was up slightly from the previous year because of warehouse-clearing 14,683 activities. 13,506 12,962 12,803 9,935 5.89 5.51 5.44 5.33 5.44 ENVIRONMENTAL 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Non-recoverable waste (metric tonnes and metric tonnes per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) In 2012, only 508 metric tonnes of waste could not be recycled, just under 3.5% percent of the total 594 519 498 523 508 volume of waste. 0.22 0.27 0.27 0.21 0.19 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Recyclable waste (metric tonnes and metric tonnes per €1 million in KRONES AG revenue) 14,175 12,984 12,443 12,209 9,437 5.62 5.23 5.06 5.23 5.32 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL | WASTE 74 Disposal methods include composting, reuse, recycling, incineration, landfill, and interim storage at waste disposal facilities. This report also includes for the first time the amount of hazardous waste generated. In 2012, our plants generated 1,106 metric tonnes of recoverable hazardous waste and 306 metric tonnes of non-recoverable hazardous waste. The total weight of hazardous waste transported by licensed haulers within the meaning of Germany’s Closed Cycle Waste Management Act (Kreislaufwirtschaftsgesetz) came to 1,412 metric tonnes. KRONES did not import, export, or treat any hazardous waste. Because all of our production sites are located within the industrial zones defined by the local communities, none of our production sites are in or adjacent to any protected areas. As a result, our operations have no impact on biodiversity or endangered species. In 2012, no administrative or judicial sanctions were levied against KRONES for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL | WASTE 75 Bertram Pretzl, Safety Engineer, Safety and Security Management As part of our environmental management efforts, we will continually increase the frequency with which we monitor and manage issues relating to sustainability, such as assessing consumption data. That will enable us to make up-to-date comparisons of current and target status so that we can proactively intervene in processes as needed to improve our environmental performance over the course of the year. In future, we will also be using the SAP waste module for this purpose. The module makes it possible to create reliable monthly analyses and reports on waste generation and flows and to assess environmental performance with respect to waste. To manage CO2 emissions, we are working to establish close, building-specific monitoring of energy consumption. We have made significant progress here by introducing the energy management system and installing measuring points company-wide. We will continually work to identify potential for improvement in our buildings and production in order to further reduce our CO2 emissions. In the area of occupational safety, we have set a long-term goal of halving the number of reportable work-related accidents per 1,000 employees on the basis of our 2010 figure by 2020. (This figure is already far below our industry’s average.) To this end, we are making extensive changes within our occupational safety management system. By reorganising the tools for hazard assessment, we will be able to involve ENVIRONMENTAL employees more deeply in all assessments. That will change our safety culture and safety awareness for the long term. In addition, we will analyse accidents in greater detail in order to avoid similar accidents, not only at the site involved but across the KRONES Group. Our employees have a crucial role to play in all of these changes as we tap their enormous wealth of experience and implement solutions developed by the employees themselves. As we push ahead with internationalising the company, these efforts will not be limited to our German production sites. We have already kicked off the expansion of our certified management systems to include LCS Centres with production facilities. There, too, we will in future be ensuring structured processes and continuous improvement in the areas of quality, environmental protection, and occupational safety. Labour practices and decent work 76 KRONES Group employees Average employee turnover Continuing education rate measures 11,987 1.9% 18,200 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 77 321 employees on parental Women in the workforce International employees leave, of which men in the KRONES Group 66.4% 13% 2,887 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 78 Labour practices and decent work Successful together Strategic human resources planning and employee development are fundamental building blocks of KRONES’ forward-thinking approach to doing business. Our Value strategy programme includes the sustainable development of our human resources policy. As KRONES becomes steadily more international, it is important that we establish group structures that represent and support our company’s international activities. Our employees need to be able to organise their international workflows efficiently. Organisational changes are needed to achieve consistent accountability worldwide for defined processes and products. As the markets become increasingly volatile and changes in our customers’ product cycles demand faster response, we also need to open up more leeway within our human resources management. We must have a broad range of measures available to continually keep KRONES’ development on track with market conditions. Products with a high standard of quality will continue to enjoy a strong reputation among food and beverage producers worldwide. For this reason, we will continue our policy of maintaining and developing a high level of knowledge and performance among our employees. Demographic change, changing life cycles, and promoting women are integral parts of our human resources strategy. We offer a comprehensive range of employee benefits to support the individual life planning and health of each member of our workforce. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | SUCCESSFUL TOGETHER Workforce structure 79 Strengthening our international workforce KRONES hired 574 new employees in 2012. As a result, KRONES’ team worldwide grew to 11,963-strong, the biggest it has ever been (previous year: 11,389). As KRONES AG’s business becomes increasingly international, we need to add people with experience on the international markets in some areas of the company. For instance, more people in our service organisation, to build up local expertise in our ten LCS Centres worldwide and thus help expand our local capabilities in the regions. Our workforce is becoming increasingly international. Within the KRONES Group, 24.1% of the workforce are non-German citizens (22.0% in 2011). The fact that the share of non-German citizens within KRONES AG’s workforce is only 3.3% is due in part to the fact that many employees with international backgrounds have attained German citizenship. As a result, they do not show up in our HR records as employees of other nationalities. They nevertheless expand the company’s international horizons with their heritage and their knowledge of the local markets. Employees by region Our workforce grew in Germany and abroad. The total number 11,963 of employees within the group 12,000 11,389 reached a record high of 11,963 10,333 10,575 10,238 (previous year: 11,389). 10,000 9,076 8,887 8,286 8,165 8,280 8,000 6,000 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 4,000 2,887 2,295 2,502 2,047 2,073 2,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Germany Outside Germany KRONES employs 9,076 people at its German sites, including the subsidiaries in Germany that are listed in the Annual Report. For all other presentations relating to human resources policy in this report, we have used the number of employees at KRONES AG only, which is 8,826. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | WORKFORCE STRUCTURE 80 KRONES AG workforce 2012 Executive Board members 5 Employees 7,197 Temporary workers pursuant to the German Labour Leasing Act (Arbeitnehmerüberlassungsgesetz) 1,109 Apprentices 515 Temporary workers make up 12.5% of our workforce, ensuring that we have the flexibility to cope with the markets’ increasing volatility – a factor that is gaining importance. This structure gives us access to professional skilled labour while maintaining important leeway to respond to global market downturns. Of course, we take our responsibility towards these employees seriously. In the interest of business prudence and of securing the company’s jobs for the long term, we nevertheless have to make use of all of the options available with respect to flexible employment. KRONES takes into account all interests in objective dialogue with employee representatives and seeks to achieve the broadest possible consensus. The issues at hand are always part of our regular consultations with employee representatives. The company’s management is organised in four levels: In all, 722 people or 8.18% of the workforce are tasked with ensuring the development and implementation of the company’s operational and strategic goals. KRONES AG management structure LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 2012 Total workforce (all employees and supervised workers) 8,826 of which members of the Executive Board 5 of which senior managers (Senior Vice President) 24 of which mid-level managers (Vice President) 248 of which department managers 248 of which team managers 365 Employment types at KRONES AG 2012 Total workforce (all employees and supervised workers) 8,826 of which sales 577 of which technical 1,847 of which production 3,548 of which administrative 2,854 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | WORKFORCE STRUCTURE 81 Birgit Castro, temporary worker in production My work as a certified industrial mechanic with a temporary employment contract at KRONES is to overhaul lift cylinders for filling machines in-house. I developed and designed this position in collaboration with the master craftsman and the team. I am fully responsible for all of my workflows and receive backup from KRONES employees when things get really busy. In my team, no difference is made between KRONES employees and temporary workers. I get full recognition. I like working in this area and hope to be hired permanently by KRONES. Of course, I have already applied for a permanent position at KRONES but they aren’t hiring much in production. Planning security for daily life is important for everyone, myself included. Vacation planning is an issue. My employment agency will only authorise vacation time off that I have already earned up to that point. So, for childcare during school holidays, I have to make sure I have accumulated enough overtime hours. That’s not because of KRONES’ policy. It’s just the way temporary work is organised. All in all, I have a great job here, with great co-workers, and I’d love to have a permanent contract or even a limited-term employment contract with prospects for something more long-term. Josef Weitzer, Deputy Chairman of the Central Works Council LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY KRONES’ Works Council is the point of contact for all employees. It is important to us that our temporary employees feel good and are integrated into all processes. We know that KRONES has to maintain some leeway to respond to changes in the orders situation. During peak times, we manage this by employing temporary workers. On the other hand, we understand our temporary employees’ wish to be able to plan ahead and have a sense of security with respect to their employment. We have to weigh these two opposing interests carefully to ensure the future of the company as a whole and the jobs attached to it and find the best solution for everyone involved. The Works Council team will work closely with human resources to develop suitable concepts for solution-finding. It won’t be easy and it will take a good bit of flexibility on both sides. 82 Diversity and equal opportunity Employee turnover low The rate of employee turnover, including all reasons for employees leaving the According to a survey by the German Engineering Federation company such as retirement, employees quitting or being laid off or fired, limit(VDMA), employee turnover in the ed-term contracts coming to an end, and death, is 1.9% at KRONES, far below the German machinery sector is 6.5%. industry average. The share of employees leaving the company by their own choice was 1.1%. Thus, we can assume that the structures and conditions within the company foster a high level of employee satisfaction and loyalty to the company. KRONES AG employee turnover in 2012 (%, based on the average number of employees) Employee turnover at KRONES AG (%, based on the number 3.90 of employees who quit) 3.25 3.04 2.62 1.1 0.9 0.9 1.64 1.23 1.12 0.20 Age <25 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 >55 2010 2011 2012 Average employee turnover rate: 1.9% Diversity and equal opportunity are key to our success Diversity does it. A heterogeneous workforce in respect to age, qualifications, and LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY gender at all levels of the company is crucial to the company’s success. Mixed teams at all levels of the company make for intensive dialogue and an efficient work atmosphere. We fill every position with the person most qualified for the job – regardless of gender, origin, or age. Anything else – including giving preference to someone solely on the basis of minority status – would go against Germany’s General Act on Equal Treatment (Gleichbehandlungsgesetz) and be grounds for employees or other applicants to file a justified claim against us. Age structure at KRONES AG 1,494 1,518 1,435 1,473 1,073 1,076 996 1,022 1,013 982 918 897 763 700 585 583 <25 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 >55 Average age in 2012 40.8 years (excluding apprentices) 2011 2012 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 83 A healthy distribution of the workforce across all age groups makes possible a fruitful exchange among young and experienced employees. The difference between the 35–39 and 40–44 age groups reflects the fact that less hiring was done during years of weak economic growth such as 1999 and 2003. In order to enable older employees nearing the end of their careers to enter retirement early, we signed a company agreement on partial retirement in collaboration with the Works Council. The agreement makes it possible for employees over age 57 to prepare for retirement through active and passive phases of partial retirement. Since we do not want to lose the valuable expertise of our employees in the 60+ age group entirely and immediately, the company agreement limits the use of partial retirement to 4% of the total workforce. In 2012, we were able to grant partial retirement to all interested employees. The share of women in the workforce is a frequent topic of discussion. Since the machinery sector has traditionally been a male-dominated sector, significantly growing the share of female employees in all areas of the company has been a very slow process. Ongoing information campaigns in conjunction with our recruitment of apprentices, initiatives on the part of the German business community to inform young women about technical careers, and a steadily rising number of women graduating from technical courses of study serve as the framework for recruiting more female employees. In 2012, women made up 13% of our workforce. With respect to vocational training, our intensive communications work is already paying off. The share of young women among our apprentices is up to 20.4% across all vocational training fields. In the previous year, only 17.8% of apprentices were women. Women make up 5.8% of management positions, up from 4.7% in 2011. Although we do not yet have a woman on the Executive Board, a woman has been elected to our SuperLABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY visory Board for the first time. Petra Schadeberg-Hermann brings with her the broad professional background needed for the monitoring and advising the Executive Board on an ongoing basis. Women at KRONES AG (%)* The share of women in our workforce increased slightly in 2012. At 13% it is quite high for the 12.5 12.8 13.0 machinery sector. 12.0* 12.0* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 *Prior year ﬁgures have been adjusted because trainees are no longer included in the calculation. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 84 Mariola Endres, Assembly Support, Field and Lifecycle Services I have been working in Germany for six years and completed an education in industrial engineering alongside my employment here. I was born in Poland but also have a German passport because my family has Silesian roots. Before coming to Germany, I studied psychology in the USA and worked in three different countries. My work at KRONES supports the company’s efforts to become more international and to further grow its decentralised strategy. As a member of the Field and Lifecycle Services division, I am managing the introduction of a centralised control centre that will enable us to plan service technician deployments worldwide in a single, standardised tool. I travel to the various KRONES offices around the world, where I offer training in the system and advise colleagues on site on all aspects of assembly deployment planning. That facilitates good cooperation worldwide. Although KRONES is at home in Bavaria and has the feel of a family-run company, it is also very flexible in every aspect. The company places a lot of value on intercultural understanding, which will serve us well on our road to becoming more international. All KRONES employees are very open and inclusive of co-workers of other nationalities. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 85 The compensation paid to male and female employees alike is based on a job-related A comparative ﬁgure from a colpay scale. For employees covered by collective agreements, our pay ratio comes to lection of data from Gesamtmetall, the Metalworkers’ Employers’ 1 : 0.97. For management employees, it is 1 : 0.92. Compared with the average ratios Association, shows a pay ratio of in the German machinery sector, this is a very good figure that reflects the equal 1 : 0.78 between men and women treatment of women and men. Since men and women receive the same pay for the for the industry as a whole (based same work, the difference shown in the ratios can be attributed to reasons such as on gross monthly pay). differences in age, seniority, or career paths (e.g. parental leave taken by female employees). Reconciling work and family Each employee’s life circumstances are very individual and can change over time. Employees on parental leave With flexible working hours, we make it possible for our employees to structure their 321 working hours to best match their family and personal needs. Company agreements 277 284 establishing flextime accounts make it possible for employees to accumulate a sur213 186 plus or deficit of up to 300 hours. Another option is for employees to convert their 167 overtime into paid time off based on long-term flextime accounts. The legally mandated granting of parental leave is, of course, firmly established within our human resources policy. We are please to state that more and more fathers are making use of this option. Over the course of the year, 321 employees 2010 2011 2012 took parental leave and 66.4% of those were fathers. Total Men Dr. Andreas Sonnauer, Research and Development LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY I have been with KRONES in research and development since 2010 and am now taking parental leave for the second time. For my current parental leave, I am splitting the time: I took one month off completely when my daughter was about six months old. I will take the second month this summer, half time (50%). This solution was relatively unusual since it was really only possible to take two full months of parental leave in the past. I will spend two weeks at home full time and then work the other two weeks full time. The year 2013 is a big trade fair year and there are a few hot topics we are preparing in advance of the fair. I have to weigh how my project will carry on and how it will fit with my being at home. I spoke with my managers and my team about the possibility of parental leave early on and since KRONES is a very socially conscious company, agreeing a suitable plan was never a problem. To ensure that everything keeps moving forward at work, teammates will take over some parts of my work and serve as the point of contact for people inside and outside the company. Parental leave is a wonderful, valuable time that I definitely wouldn’t want to miss out on. It has allowed me to be more involved in raising my children and experience more of their development. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 86 Fairness The majority of our employees (95.7%) work under a full-time employment contract. Full-time and part-time employment Part-time employees make up 4.3% of our workforce, of whom 72 are men. The low at KRONES AG percentage of part-time employees is surely linked to the high percentage of men in 95.9% 96.0% 95.7% our workforce. In Europe, men are often the main wage earner in a family and therefore usually pursue full-time employment. Changing this ratio will require a consciousness shift in the working population rather than a change in human resources policy. The majority of employees in our group companies outside Germany are recruited locally and their work time structures are subject to local standards. 4.1% 4.0% 4.3% KRONES AG employees who are posted abroad receive comprehensive support 2010 2011 2012 from our international human resources management as they prepare for their Full-time employees stay abroad and when they return. KRONES assumes the expenses associated Part-time employees with preparing for the new country, for employees and their families, and also helps enrol the family’s children in suitable schools in-country. Upon the family’s return to Germany, the children can further develop the knowledge and experience gained abroad by attending the international school in Regensburg, which KRONES supports. Fairness at work Together, we are strong. KRONES fosters a fair and trusting partnership with all The values and the mission stateemployees. This fundamental principle of cooperation is part of our mission statement of KRONES AG are binding for all of the company’s locations in ment and one of the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we signed in 2012. and outside Germany. Fair working The Global Compact defines the freedom of assembly as a basic right. Freedom of asconditions are an important part sembly is an important factor of cooperation at all of our locations. In Germany, this of this. basic right and its practical application for employees and young workers (youth and LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY apprentice representative council) are guaranteed under the Works Council Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz). In other countries where KRONES is represented by offices that are legally independent of the parent company, the respective local laws apply. The managing directors of the subsidiaries adhere to KRONES AG values and policy. That means, KRONES AG’s mission statement is a binding guideline for all of our subsidiaries. And that ensures a reliable scope for action for all employees of KRONES AG and the KRONES Group. The General Meeting of the Works Councils was an opportunity for the 81 members of the Works Councils of all five of our German plants to gather and share information about all topics important to the company and its employees in 2012. Many years ago, KRONES AG signed a recognition agreement with the metalworkers’ union IG Metall which provides security for jobs at our German sites. KRONES AG has accepted the result of collective bargaining negotiations between the employers’ association and IG Metall. These agreements apply to 75.1% of employees, who are paid in accordance with the recognition agreement. The remaining 24.9% of employees are exempt from collective agreements. To ensure fair treatment of employees with LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | FAIRNESS 87 temporary employment contracts, KRONES AG has agreed to use only temporary work agencies that are members of one of Germany’s associations of temporary employment agencies (BZA e.V. or IGZ e.V.) and therefore subject to and adhere to the collective agreements for temporary workers signed by these associations and the individual trade unions affiliated with the Confederation of German Trade Unions (DGB). The provisions of the German Codetermination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) ensure that KRONES AG employees are represented equally to the company’s shareholders in the company’s supervisory and monitoring body. Elected employee representatives are informed early on of strategic matters that have an impact on KRONES AG’s workforce structure. They are also included in the decision-making process for major changes to the company’s employment policy at a very early point as required under the Works Council Constitution Act. For example, the establishment of EVOGUARD GMBH as an independent company for our valve technology was agreed with employee representatives by way of a company agreement that stipulates the condiWerner Schrödl, Chairman of the tions for employees moving from KRONES AG to EVOGUARD GmbH and safeguards Central Works Council, informed their employee rights and benefits. attendees at the General Meeting of the Works Councils on all activities aimed at incorporating Beneﬁts help employees employee interests into all of Decent working conditions are a given for our employees. We offer all full-time the company’s plans, including activities to steadily make KRONES and part-time employees at all of our plants the same range of additional employee more international. benefits. Some of the additional beneﬁts offered by KRONES AG Travel health insurance Night shift bonus LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY Company party Sabbatical Company sports club Counselling Childcare during school holidays Assistance fund Birth and wedding assistance (fellowship fund) Grants to support employee-initiated Group personal accident insurance continuing education KRONES childcare centre Anniversary bonus KROKI Neutraubling e. V. 50 th birthday bonus We also ensure individual support services for our employees with disabilities. Disabled employees at KRONES AG The central representative body for employees with disabilities and the elected rep5.8% 5.7% 5.6% resentatives for each of our German sites work to ensure that the needs of disabled employees receive due consideration. In 2012, employees with disability or equal status made up 5.6% of KRONES’ workforce. The disabled employees’ representatives meet twice a year to share ideas and interests. Meetings of disabled and equal status employees are held once a year at the individual sites to discuss in detail topics of current interest for this employee group. 2010 2011 2012 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | FAIRNESS 88 Hearing-impaired meeting – KRONES in sign. This is a very special gathering. Once a year, KRONES’ nine hearing-impaired employees (who work at our Neutraubling and Freising plants) come together for a day to share their ideas and experiences on the daily challenges they face at work. KRONES is a responsible partner for all employee groups even when their lives hit difficult phases. Our company’s social counselling service is available, for example, when the illness of an employee or family member results in seemingly insurmountable difficulties. Most employees find that the support of our counselling service makes it easier to overcome life’s crises. Frank, confidential discussions with a counsellor can yield solutions for handling crises, family problems, addiction, or conflicts at work. Main counselling topics in 2012, KRONES AG LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY Mediation/conflict resolution 9% General counselling on psychosocial and socioeconomic topics 33% In-company integration management 10% Drug use/addiction 21% Debt counselling 4% Burnout/emotional support 24% Programmes for reducing stress (supported by the company health insurance fund BKK) and information days for apprentices on the topic of drug addiction (a programme conducted in collaboration with DrugStop Drogenhilfe Regensburg e. V.) are just two examples of the preventive measures offered by the counselling service to keep employees healthy and help them through life’s difficult patches. Our counsellor devotes particular attention to the topic of burnout and stress among management-level employees, which can result from many sources, including the rising flood of information. The issue of being available at all times by mobile phone and email is something KRONES will have to deal with in the future. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | FAIRNESS 89 Our counselling service has made great strides with our in-company integration management, offering suitable jobs and workstations to all employees who are unable to perform their original jobs for health reasons. Our counsellor now would merely like to speed up the processes of gradually bringing employees with longtime illness back to work. Bullying at work is a topic that comes up repeatedly. To tackle this issue, we are working with human resources, company management, the Works Council, and our counsellor to develop a system for addressing allegations of bullying and suitably verifying their validity. We have an obligation to protect our employees and only take action on allegations that are substantive and to clarify allegations that may be unjustified. Confidential talks with Works Council members trained on the topic of bullying help those involved to clear up situations. In order to safeguard this confidentiality and not to jeopardise the constructive handling of bullying, this information is not made public. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | FAIRNESS 90 Qualiﬁcations Health counselling is critical Illness-related absences often place the burden of extra work on colleagues and reAbsenteeism at KRONES AG sult in an imbalance in the division of responsibilities in individual areas. For this reason, it is in every employee’s interest to take up the offer by management and HR 4.2% 4.2% 4.0% to discuss the causes of absences. It is the only way we can ensure that our workstations are healthy and ergonomic and promote the good health of our employees. Alongside these talks, we also organise health fairs across our plants each year, each one on a different topic. For 2013, we are planning a preventive back care training clinic across all of our German sites. The aim is to get employees moving out of the 2010 2011 2012 static postures that are so common in many offices and to provide employees with professional instruction on back care. The Works Council submits topic proposals for occupational health management, thus ensuring that our health promotion activities are truly relevant to our employees. The Hermann-Kronseder-Unterstützungskasse assistance fund provided €179,270 in additional support to help employees with special situations such as the birth of a child or the purchase of eyeglasses or other medical aids or appliances in 2012. The additional health-related benefits for employees are closely tied to the benefits provided by the company health insurance fund, BKK KRONES. Cooperation between BKK KRONES and the Regensburger Ärztenetz medical network ensures that KRONES patients receive competent care on all health matters and a rapid start to any necessary therapies. For the fifth year, KRONES participated in the annual »Bike to Work« event from 1 June through 31 August 2012. The campaign is very popular among employees LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY and the number of participants grows more each year. In all, over 400 employees took part in this year’s event. Even two colleagues from KRONES’ site in Denmark pedalled in. Qualiﬁcations bring our people forward Maintaining the continually high quality of our products and services depends first and foremost on highly qualified people. Our philosophy is to have a highly skilled workforce wherever needed in all of our plants and offices. Employee qualifications in Germany 17.4% University degree 17.1% University degree 23.5% Commercial 23.4% Commercial specialists/technicians/ specialists/technicians/ master craftsmen master craftsmen 59.0% Qualified 59.5% Qualified professional training professional training 2012 2011 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | QUALIFICATIONS 91 We offer a wide range of training and continuing education options to promote the purposeful development of our employees’ skills and expertise. Courses include specialised and interdisciplinary continuing education measures as well as intercultural training opportunities. In 2013, we are setting up an Across Borders programme for the first time, which will enable exchange among colleagues in and outside Germany. In 2012, 18,200 continuing education measures for employees were carried out, with a budget of €2.5 million, compared to 19,700 measures in the previous year. The reason for the very high figure from 2011 was that we had some catching up to do following the weaker financial years 2009 and 2010. Much of this backlog was taken care of in 2011. 5,820 employees participated in Spending on external continuing education and training at KRONES AG (€ thousand) continuing education measures in 3,115 2,919 2012 – that translates to around 2,551 80% of KRONES AG’s workforce. 1,874 1,415 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In all, 5,820 employees – around 80% of KRONES AG’s workforce excluding apprentices – participated in continuing education seminars in 2012. The range of courses offered by KRONES AG covers more than 450 topics in various specialist fields. Since some of the continuing education measures that are conducted during work times include LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY modules that do not extend over an entire work day and are therefore not booked separately in our time tracking software, we cannot report on the number of hours of continuing education by employee category. Individual development planning is indispensable for positioning each of our employees. As part of our competence management programme, some 60% of all employees received career development reviews based on their current job profile and an assessment by both the employee and his or her manager. For our production staff involved in group work, 270 participants were involved in group development reviews. For 2012, we had set a target of 4,400 development reviews within KRONES AG. We did even better, conducting 4,500 reviews. Continuing education is not limited to courses with a direct work relevance. Many employees wish to expand their horizons with personal professional development that extends beyond their work needs. KRONES supports employee’s interest in lifelong learning and offers a range of programmes within various company agreements including educational leave with company-funded financial assistance, time off for the duration of a qualification measure, and sabbatical. In all activities on all aspects of qualification and continuing education measures, we involve the elected employee representatives in the process to ensure broad consensus. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | QUALIFICATIONS 92 Christian Amann, Department Manager After Sales Service, Plastics Technology I conduct career development reviews with each of my 36 employees once a year. First, I have the employee assess his or her own competence. The employee’s supervisor also prepares an assessment. If there is a difference between these two perspectives and if the employee is not at the necessary level for a specific skill, we arrange for remedial training. For example, English courses or specific technical training. In an extensive information-gathering and preparation phase, we were given a comprehensive skills list from which we could then select the criteria important for our people. We also have access to training materials and a guideline for conducting the reviews. For me, these reviews are an excellent opportunity to talk with my employees. I conduct around 90% of them by phone. The amount of time we take for these talks is completely up to us, so we can speak at ease without time pressure. At first, employees tended to take a cautious approach to the career development reviews but now they really seem to appreciate them. In 70% of all cases, the supervisor’s and employee’s assessments are a perfect match. In 30% of the cases, employees rate themselves too harshly. In these cases, the career development review is an opportunity for us to make a clear contribution to strengthening those employees’ self-confidence. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY Thomas Ederer, Service Technician Labelling Technology New installations, repairs, commissioning labellers – those are the jobs I do as a service technician at work around the world. We receive regular training about what’s new on the individual machine models. I also had the opportunity recently to participate in a seminar on the service code. In the two-day workshop, we took a targeted look at how we can make communications with our customers work for everyone. When we make repairs, we want to achieve the best possible outcome for the user because we know that our product works well. Our number one goal is to get the customer’s machine back up and running at its top performance level as fast as possible. We’re also happy to give customers advice on what measures are most important for keeping their machines running their best. We don’t want to just sell a product, we want to deliver optimum performance. It’s a good feeling when I see a customer again later on and he confirms that my recommendations were correct. Vocational training 93 Many training options ensure highly skilled young talent Training young people has been a vital element of KRONES’ evolution since the company’s founding. We fully acknowledge our obligation towards society, to best prepare future generations for their careers. Long-term, sustainable training work is also an investment in KRONES’ own future. It’s the only way we can ensure a future supply of skilled employees in all areas of the company. In order to meet young people’s varying interests and entry qualifications, we offer seven different training programmes that culminate in a Bachelor’s degree, eight industrial/technical apprenticeship programmes and four commercial apprenticeship programmes. Apprentices at KRONES AG (total and first-year) Highly qualiﬁed young people are valuable to KRONES. In 2012, we employed 515 young people in our 528 515 497 499 apprenticeship programmes. 488 167 150 136 136 145 First-year apprentices Total apprentices 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY In 2012, we employed 515 young people in our vocational training (apprenticeship) programmes. Of these, 368 were in industrial/technical fields and 69 in commercial programmes. We have 78 in our Bachelor degree programmes. In addition, we are offering vocational retraining to six young people. Another seven young people are finishing their vocational training at KRONES following the bankruptcy of their previous employer in nearby Regenstauf. Apprentice entry qualifications are often a topic of discussion. In principle, vocational training at KRONES is available for all school leavers. We select our apprentices in a multi-stage process that includes a selection test and an interview. The personal interview is very important at KRONES. We also include young people finishing middle school in the selection process as relevant. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | VOCATIONAL TRAINING 94 Apprentices and trainees starting in 2012, after secondary school Level of school completed Number Percent of total Completed middle school 14 9% Industrial apprentices 11 Commercial apprentices 3 Completed mid-level secondary school or equivalent 106 65% Industrial apprentices 70 Commercial apprentices 12 Technical apprentices 6 Dual vocational training/university study 1 Proﬁl 21 17 University entrance qualiﬁcation or entrance qualiﬁcation for studying at a university of applied sciences (Abitur/Fachabitur) 43 26% Industrial apprentices 6 Commercial apprentices 8 Dual vocational training/university study 20 Proﬁl 21 5 Trainees 4 Total 163 100% Excluding MAINTEC, including the apprentices taken over from G+R Technology Group, Regenstauf (7 apprentices) KRONES once again hired on all apprentices completing their programmes in 2012. However, in some areas we could only provide limited-term contracts due to the LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY current uncertainties on the world’s markets. An important focus of our vocational training strategy is to prepare our apprentices and trainees for the demands of the international market. We offer our young people additional opportunities to gather experience from the outside world and deepen their knowledge of the English language through exchange programmes as part of the EU’s »Leonardo da Vinci« programme and through stays abroad working for our subsidiaries. The dual vocational training/university study programme, which KRONES developed 20 young people are currently purin collaboration with several universities, has been very popular for years now. At suing a dual course of vocational training and university study. In 4.5 the start of the 2012 training year, we once again took on 20 young people for this years, graduates will have earned programme. In 4.5 years, graduates will have earned both a completed vocational both a completed vocational traintraining certificate and a Bachelor’s degree from the respective university. This ing certiﬁcate and a Bachelor’s dedouble-track education brings advantages for graduates and the company alike. The gree from the respective university. practical training imparts a sound base of knowledge about individual fields of work and responsibility while the university education imparts theoretical knowledge for understanding the bigger picture. We also offer internships and thesis-writing opportunities at KRONES to support university students during their studies. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | VOCATIONAL TRAINING 95 Interns at KRONES AG Internships and thesis writing are excellent opportunities for young 735 717 685 people to gather their ﬁrst career experience at KRONES. 497 466 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Theses written at KRONES AG 269 263 226 178 139 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KRONES launched a new trainee programme in February 2012 to grow our team of sales engineers for our highly specialised machines. The programme enables young professionals to grow into the demanding job of a sales project manager. During the 15-month programme, trainees spend time in each of the departments LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY that they will work with later. These include controlling, the individual product divisions, after-sales service, and assembly. Stays abroad and external training opportunities round out the programme. From the first day onwards, each trainee has a KRONES project manager as his or her personal advisor. These advisors are in turn supported by additional advisors within the individual departments. With our new training centre, which was constructed in nine months’ time, we have more than doubled the amount of space available for training and education to around 4,000 square metres. The new training centre houses areas for mechatronics and electrical engineering, several seminar rooms, and separate spaces for the »Profil 21« and »dual vocational training/university study« programmes. The adjacent building houses additional teaching classrooms as well as the technical drawing, SPS, pneumatic, and measuring and control technology training areas. The new construction has nearly quadrupled the number of classrooms. The KRONES Group invested almost four million euros in the new training centre. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | VOCATIONAL TRAINING 96 The new training centre offers optimal conditions for vocational training. KRONES invested approximately €4 million to improve the learning environment for our young talent. Outside Germany, KRONES supports the Brewing University in Wuhan, China. There, LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY a three-year degree programme was developed to ensure a supply of highly skilled workers in Asia. The first part of the programme follows the Chinese curriculum. The remainder of the programme imparts KRONES specific content. Completing the programme gives graduates a degree in mechatronics with which they can then work as KRONES service technicians. The first cohort of graduates will be ready to apply for work at KRONES in June 2013. Fei Qian, Director of Training and Qualification, China, and the two lecturers from the brewing academy in Wuhan, Zefeng Lao and Zhang An-Quan, spent four weeks visiting our plants in Neutraubling and Nittenau in the summer of 2012 in order to familiarise themselves with the process of testing students for formal qualification under the German system. Lao teaches in the fields of electronics and automation. An-Quan serves as department head for electronics and teaches applied mechanics. Both instructors have been sharing their knowledge with students in Wuhan since the KRONES programme’s inception. When we asked the two lecturers what they will take home from their visit to Germany, An-Quan responded: »I would especially like to take along the approach to teaching problem-solving. I was surprised to see apprentices immediately putting their newly learned skills into practice.« LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | VOCATIONAL TRAINING Occupational health and safety 97 Training young people is a social responsibility KRONES is active in many forums for recruiting young talent. KRONES regularly holds a »Training Day« and participates in »Girl’s Day«, two events aimed at informing school-aged boys and girls about various careers. We are especially proud of the success of our Girl’s Day activities, which have helped us recruit more female applicants and thus apprentices for technical careers. In the fall of 2012, we welcomed 20 girls among our new apprentices in technical fields. Of course, we are also active at the university level and at numerous fairs, where we inform budding engineers and scientists about the career opportunities at KRONES. High level of occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety and rigorous accident prevention have been meeting All topics relevant to occupational a high standard at KRONES for many years. All of our German sites are certified achealth and safety are addressed in decentralised occupational health cording to OHSAS 18001. In addition, our LCS Centre in Brazil was certified in Novemand safety committees for the ber 2012. We also plan to obtain certification of the other LCS Centres with produccompany’s assembly, production, tion operations. after-sales service/on-site assembly, construction, and engineering/ In Germany, the number of formal occupational health and safety committees and technology units. their composition are prescribed by law. Members of these committees are the plant manager or division manager, the safety expert, the company physician, and the works council. Depending on the topics on the agenda, the safety officers might also be included so that they can contribute their personal experience with respect to designing a safe workplace. With this concept, 100% of the total workforce are represented in the formal occupational health and safety committees. Meetings of the LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY four occupational health and safety committees prescribed by law for each KRONES AG plant were held in 2012. Safety officers provide a service to their co-workers. They identify health and safety hazards and help management, occupational health and safety experts, and the in-house medical service to prevent accidents and work-related illness. There are currently 123 safety officers at KRONES’ plants in Germany − in both the industrial and commercial areas of the company. Safety officers perform this job in addition to their regular work. The central company safety and health department describes these employees’ work as an »honorary office«. It is in part thanks to them that the number of accidents in our company has remained low over the past several years. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 98 These extensive measures to coordinate occupational health and safety have kept the number of work-related accidents low. Nevertheless, we have seen an increase in the accident rate, particularly at our Neutraubling site. The number of work-related Reportable work-related accidents per 1,000 employees (>3 days lost time) at KRONES AG accidents per 1,000 employees at 44.40 42.62 43.09 KRONES is far below the industry 45 average. In 2012, this ﬁgure was 40 18.79. 35 36.90 30 25 19.70 20.11 18.01 16.24 18.79 20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KRONES AG BGHM (Berufsgenossenschaft Holz und Metall – employers’ liability insurance association for wood and metal workers) Reportable work-related accidents per 1,000 employees (1 or more days lost time) at KRONES AG 60 55 50 45 40 35 30 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 25 20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 KRONES AG Nittenau plant Flensburg plant Rosenheim plant Freising plant Neutraubling plant This data was collected in accordance with the requirements under OHSAS 18001. In 2012, a special focus of our efforts to ensure safety and health at work was on optimising workstations with raised platforms and machine commissioning work. Our accident analysis for our Neutraubling site shows that, despite the higher accident rate, the number of days of lost time decreased slightly from 3,476 days in 2011 to 3,439 days in 2012. This can be seen as an indicator that the resulting injuries are less severe. By adding personnel to our central safety management department in 2011 and 2012, we were able to work intensively on the issue of travel safety for the year under review. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 99 The framework for organising occupational health and safety is prescribed by law in Germany. As a result, no formal agreements with trade unions are needed. The following are some of the German laws and regulations in which these legal requirements are defined: Safety and Health at Work Act (Arbeitsschutzgesetz) Safety at Work Act (Arbeitssicherheitsgesetz) Workplace Regulations (Arbeitsstättenverordnung) Technical rules for workplaces (Technische Regeln für Arbeitsstätten) Employers’ liability insurance association rules and regulations Industrial Safety Regulation (Betriebssicherheitsverordnung) The Works Council Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz) prescribes that the elected Works Council has a right, guaranteed by law, to be involved in matters of occupational health and safety. The Works Council has established the committee on »occupational safety, health protection, workplace design, environmental protection at work« pursuant to Section 28 of the Works Council Constitution Act, which deals with topics such as safety gear, protective eyewear, workplace conditions, and more. Occupational safety is not limited to employees at KRONES AG plants. Close safety management by KRONES AG is also crucial to the safety and health of our assembly and service employees at work on location worldwide. With precisely defined emergency management processes, the right measures can be taken quickly when unexpected events occur. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY It all began with the revolution in Tunisia. Protests followed in Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, Jordan, and many other countries. In the middle of the »Arab Spring« last year, some of our service technicians were in the Middle East. »We flew 17 German colleagues out of Egypt on a single weekend«, recalls Regina Chaibi, Senior Area Service Manager, who organised the evacuation together with a co-worker. The local service technicians were able to stay home with their families. KRONES also maintains close contact with technicians at work on construction sites. Technicians who are en route to the customer plant must report back to the office on a regular basis – even on weekends since in Muslim countries Friday is the day of rest and Saturday and Sunday are regular working days. »This is a must since many of the countries in our region are on the highest safety alert. We don’t differentiate between German and Arab employees«, stresses Regina Chaibi. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK | OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 100 Michael Adlhoch, Profil 21 trainee, 2nd year Professional training under the Profil 21 programme starts with a basic education in electronics for industrial engineering. In the second year, a mechatronics technician track is added so that I can later work on construction sites abroad. At the end of 4 ½ years, I’ll be a certified technician. This is the right programme for me since I did not want to study at university after finishing school. I loved languages in school and always wanted to get to know other cultures. This career path gives me a chance to gather experience abroad and learn a technical profession. After the intermediate examinations, we’ll be trained on a specific machine model and then, gradually, be put to work on site at customer plants. At first, I’ll shadow an experienced service technician. It’s exciting to move from theoretical school education into a practical work environment and be confronted with specific technical issues. The technician education is distance learning, with extensive preparation and studying at home and only a few blocks of direct instruction. Of course it’s challenging because you are working alongside your studies. But it’s also preparing me well for a pretty exciting career. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 101 Stefan Schnaus, mechatronics apprentice, 3rd year: Training at KRONES is giving me everything I will need for my future career in mechatronics. At the start of my apprenticeship, I received basic electrical technician training, then basic metalworking training. We had special courses in which we learned production skills like milling and turning. Then we received training in pneumatics and all of the courses relevant to electronics engineering, such as VDE standards, motors, and control technology. After four weeks of preparation, we took our intermediate examinations, which tested our theoretical and practical knowledge. Then we started our training in the departments. So far, I have been in inspector construction, in blowing module production in the plastics technology division, and in the pipe machining centre, where I was able to hone my welding skills. We spend four to six weeks in each department. Right now, I am in electrical components assembly. Here, we’re working on subsequent deliveries and upgrades for customers. The electrical components are manufactured on an order-by-order basis, not really mass produced. At first, my co-workers in the departments explained all of the jobs to me. But after a week I was already doing simple jobs on my own. The jobs will get more and more challenging, until I’m handling big, complex jobs myself. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 102 Society Open dialogue with all stakeholders In direct contact with our various Public policy Customers Scientists and academics stakeholder groups, KRONES analyses the opportunities and risks The general public KRONES NGOs associated with the different areas of CSR. Suppliers Employees Cultural institutions When assessing its business activities, KRONES looks not only at the internal effects Selection of stakeholder groups is of actions taken but also at their place within the bigger social framework. In this based on the extent to which they are affected by or affect sustainway, we incorporate contact and dialogue with our stakeholders into our business ability-related topics. Representaactivities. tives of our shareholders and employees are regularly included by Apart from employees, customers, suppliers, and shareholders, the stakeholder way of CSR Committee meetings. groups with which we maintain regular dialogue include representatives of the The committee also includes replocal community and government and elected public officials. We are also actively resentatives from the public policy and academic communities, ensurinvolved in a number of trade and other associations through which our business ing extensive exchange on topics activities are quite visible publicly. Our close ties to various universities ensures of corporate governance and CSR exchange with the academic and scientific communities, making information from topics. our industrial practice available to the institutions of higher learning and allowing us to incorporate the latest research findings into our own research and development. Memberships in associations in 2012, by focus Industrial associations and interest groups Universities/industrial research LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 70 59 Professional/career-related Customer or product-related 30 52 Apart from engaging with stakeholders, we also feel it is important that we – as part of a greater community at each of our sites – look closely at all of the impacts of KRONES’ activities. This also means participating in civic life in the communities by supporting cultural, educational, and social projects. Regarding assistance projects, we are examining the possibilities of using equipment and solutions developed using our own technologies to make a difference in the world’s developing areas or poor regions. We are also looking at ways in which we can take this idea a step further and develop a Corporate Volunteering programme. SOCIETY | OPEN DIALOGUE WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS 103 KRONES up close As a major local employer and thus a key factor for income security for many families in the Neutraubling area and as an important part of the regional economy, KRONES feels an obligation to offer a look inside our production operations. Regular group tours give employees and their family members as well as interested members of the community an opportunity to see for themselves what the manufacturing processes for beverage machinery look like. A total of 2,447 individuals, in 91 groups, toured our production facilities in 2012. The exchange that occurs during such tours raises understanding of the various issues at play in beverage production and processing and what they mean for machine engineering. We organise regular open days at our other German sites in order to provide employees and others a look into our production processes. Visitor groups in 2012 – Number of groups by category (% of total) Business partners 21 (23%) Employees 26 (28%) Business and community organisations/government offices 13 (14 %) Schools/universities 31 (36%) Visitor groups in 2012 – Number of individuals by category (% of total) LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY Business partners 435 (18%) Employees 993 (40%) Business and community Schools/universities 803 (33%) organisations/government offices 216 (9%) Employees and their families are kept abreast of what’s happening at KRONES through the employee magazine »Inside KRONES«, which is available in a print edition for reading at home and in electronic form. Four issues were published in 2012. The magazine, which is presented in an easy-to-navigate newspaper layout, contains a wealth of information on all aspects of KRONES, including updates from the Executive Board and management about company development, news about our latest products, profiles of our customers, and discussions of topics from the Works Council as well as tips for staying healthy and safe at work. SOCIETY | OPEN DIALOGUE WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS 104 Eva-Maria Karl, Social Media Consultant Corporate social media is moving away from the sender-receiver model of traditional marketing communication. That’s why social media is often referred to as »multiple voice communication«. Essentially, target groups have become and are becoming conversation partners. This change is a process that has to happen in stages. KRONES has a central social media department and a select few communications experts who write KRONES’ official posts. KRONES AG started to set up the framework for using social media in 2010. We didn’t open the channels until after the release of our »11 tips for social media«. Those original channels – KRONES’ Facebook page, the company’s Twitter account, and our Youtube channel – have evolved into lively communications platforms. Newer KRONES pages in media such as Instagram, Pinterest, Xing, and Linkedin are also an important part of KRONES AG’s social media mix. In recent years, KRONES AG’s social media team has also been using brand ambassadors and established a trainee blog. KRONES AG’s Facebook fans 2012 50,000 45,000 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY 15,000 10,000 Jan Feb Mar April May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec KRONES AG’s cumulative Youtube video views 2012 580,000 530,000 480,000 430,000 380,000 330,000 280,000 230,000 180,000 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec GESELLSCHAFT – OFFENER DIALOG MIT ALLEN INTERESSENGRUPPEN Engaging with stakeholders 105 We also publish the KRONES Newsletter for subscription. This communication media The KRONES Newsletter has 20,115 is used on an as-relevant basis as a means to provide fast, timely information about subscribers who regularly garner information about the latest news new trends and technologies or upcoming events. on technology, Lifecycle Service, KRONES Academy, trade fairs, and Online, KRONES has been using a variety of social media channels for information CSR. and communication purposes since 2010. KRONES published films on Youtube that present reports, customer statements, features, and technical solutions and give little close-ups on a variety of topics relating to beverage production and filling. In addition, KRONES publishes four issues of its KRONES Magazine each year, with reports on projects, customer features, and technical innovations as well as copious information about events and trade fairs. Recruiting Name recognition is often the key to recruiting. For this reason, we regularly attend Young school leavers and students numerous fairs and events in order to introduce school leavers and students to the have consistently shown a strong interest in recruitment events. opportunities and possibilities in the food and beverage packaging machinery sector and our company in particular. In 2012, we raised interest in our company among attendees at 63 events. KRONES AG participation in recruitment events in 2012 21 17 12 13 LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY Vocational training University Field trips University lectures/ fairs and events job fairs cooperation Ongoing dialogue with investors and analysts It goes without saying that we are in direct contact with shareholders and their representatives. All relevant information is published in accordance with the provisions of the laws applicable to stock corporations and with stock exchange rules. Our finance department maintains a consistent profile through communications with numerous analysts in conference calls and at investor conferences and road shows. All information is made available in the Investor Relations section of the KRONES website in a timely manner. This includes our stock charts and other key performance indicators. SOCIETY | ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS 106 Apart from the traditional financial market topics, communication regarding susA survey conducted by Union Invest tainable business practices is becoming increasingly important. Questions relating in 2011 showed that 59% of German institutional investors give the to our sustainability strategy and responsible stewardship of resources are often topic of sustainability high imporraised during talks with analysts. That is why KRONES began publishing a sustaintance in their investment decisions. ability report back in 2006, containing all information on our responsible and sustainable business practices. In 2008, KRONES began to gradually align its sustainability reporting with the GRI reporting standards. This report is our first Sustainability Report in strict accordance with the GRI Guidelines. This Sustainability Report will be evaluated by external rating agencies. As the sustainability of business activities moves further into the spotlight, these ratings will serve as a basis for many investment decisions. Through our regular communication with analysts and investors at various events, we were able to establish extensive communication and exchange on the topic of sustainable governance in 2012. Community involvement KRONES works closely with the local communities at each of its sites to minimise the impact of our production operations on nearby residents. For instance, we are in regular communication with the City of Neutraubling and the local Volunteer Fire Department to ensure that we are well prepared for any incidents that occur on our property. With a newly installed printer for immediately transmitting the incident location, the positioning plan is available in the City of Neutraubling’s fire brigade control centre before the squad rolls out to the scene. Representatives of our production sites come together with community government representatives on a regular basis to consult on how to best ensure that KRONES’ Visiting KRONES: Herbert Mirbeth, LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY business activities are in harmony with the community’s needs. These meetings District Administrator of Regensburg, (2nd from right), Josef Neidergive us the information we need to reduce the impact of our operations. hell, District Administrator of Rosenheim (middle), and NeutraubThe talks are especially important for directing traffic between different parts of our ling Mayor Heinz Kiechle (2nd from plant in Neutraubling, some of which moves along public streets, and for planning left). Volker Kronseder (right) and truck routes for transporting our machines for delivery. By assigning waiting areas Dr. Helmut Schwarz (left) explained in a targeted manner, we were able to significantly reduce the amount of space occuthe extensive changes to our site. pied on public streets by trucks waiting to pick up loads. Proper processes The establishment of an internal review process in 2012 created an organisational framework for conducting a risk analysis on all of our business units. Representatives of this organisational unit will use the newly developed review handbook to assess whether conditions enable our employees to act dependably and properly as laid out in our global Code of Conduct. In a review plan that was coordinated with our most senior financial management, we will carry out both process reviews and standard reviews of certain business areas. The reviews will cover all of our sites worldwide. SOCIETY | ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS 107 We are also developing a new organisational concept for sensitising employees to anti-corruption topics. In regular management meetings, members of senior management were informed about the rules for proper business transactions on all national markets. The KRONES Code of Conduct is also available for all employees and suppliers online (Internet and Intranet). The Code of Conduct stipulates that »KRONES employees are strictly prohibited from giving anything of value to public officials or business partners in connection with business activity« (Code of Conduct, page 20). No incidents of corruption are known to have occurred in 2012. Likewise, no legal actions were initiated for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices. For all questions relating to customs and export procedures, newsletters are available in the company’s Intranet in which all of the latest laws and rule changes are published. Authorised Economic Operator – KRONES in compliance with Community Customs Code Increasing globalisation and the resulting security aspects have prompted the World Customs Organisation (WCO) to establish a global framework for effective risk management in customs administration. The European Union has implemented this framework in European law by amending the Community Customs Code. A key element of this security initiative is the creation of »Authorised Economic Operator« (AEO) status. The aim is to identify potential risks within a supply chain in order to achieve LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY more efficient monitoring of the international flow of goods, secure the supply chain, and facilitate the lawful trade of goods. A company with AEO status is considered to be particularly reliable and trustworthy. AEO status confers benefits such as certain customs simplifications or facilitations throughout the Community Customs Code jurisdiction. It also serves as an international quality mark. KRONES had to take extensive measures in order to meet the standards and obtain AEO status. Various KRONES departments worked together to develop a relevant sustainability concept. Beatrix Mörschburger led the project. In addition, the Customs and Foreign Trade department was expanded under the leadership of Jennifer Krippner. One of the responsibilities of this department is to ensure compliance with customs regulations. After a successful audit demonstrated the compliance of our customs and security and safety processes, KRONES AG was issued an AEO certificate by the Main Customs Office of Regensburg in August 2012. SOCIETY | ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS 108 Cultural and social involvement KRONES has adopted a policy to govern all aspects of charitable and sponsorship activities that serves as a decision-making basis for financial contributions to external organisations (NGOs). The policy places the focus of KRONES AG’s involvement in the form of donations, grants, and sponsorships on eligible organisations in the areas of education, science and research, and cultural and social programmes. No donations are made to political parties or organisations. KRONES made available €537,000 for 2012. Beneficiaries in 2012, by focus Industrial associations and interest groups Universities/industrial research 75 59 Professional/career-related Customer or product-related 31 52 We are especially proud of the projects our subsidiaries and plants have launched in an effort to provide meaningful, traceable support on social issues in their communities. KRONES do Brasil has been supporting the high-school education of young people since 2011. The programme at College Paulistano Jardim Europa in São Paulo was set up for a three-year period and makes it possible for 20 students from less advanLABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY taged families to complete high school. Company parties offer a fun opportunity to help. The first KRONES company party for 2012 was held at KOSME in Roverbella, as a summer party dedicated to a good cause: Attendees donated five euros each, for a grand total of €1,000 which was donated to the municipality of Moglia in the province of Mantova to support the rebuilding of elementary and middle schools that had been damaged by an earthquake in May. Our Rosenheim plant’s football team played a very special fundraising match against a team of mayors from the county of Rosenheim. KRONES’ team won 6:1 and a generous cheque was handed over to the charitable organisation »Rosenheimer Aktion für das Leben« to assist families in need. Donations from plant management, the Works Council, and employees plus ticket sales for the game amounted to €1,000. SOCIETY | CULTURAL AND SOCIAL INVOLVEMENT 109 Classical concerts held in a KRONES assembly hall are always a cultural highlight. More than 1,000 concertgoers heard a performance of Ludwig van Beethoven’s 9th symphony and »Choral Fantasy« op. 80 on the first weekend of Advent 2012 under the direction of Heribert Ackermann in the KRONES Logistics Centre. In addition to outstanding soloists, various local groups showcased their musical talent, including the chorale and concert band Chorund Musikkreis Neutraubling, the Belcanto/MFC Neutraubling vocal ensemble, the »Sangesfreude« men’s choir of Wenzenbach, Wörthissimo, and Vocalis, in collaboration with the Regensburg Chamber Orchestra, the brass group Ostbayerische Bläsersolisten, and with Lukas Klotz on piano. This is the fourth time KRONES has transformed its factory site – otherwise dedicated to technology and machinery building – into a classical concert venue. LABOUR PRACTICES/SOCIETY SOCIETY | CULTURAL AND SOCIAL INVOLVEMENT 110 Company – Goals and actions Goals Actions Target date Status Sensitise and motivate our employees Regular articles on CSR in the employee Ongoing Topics integrated into editorial calendar with respect to sustainability and magazine »Inside KRONES« responsible action Annual sustainability report Ongoing, Sustainability Report 2012, in accordance with yearly GRI Guidelines, Version 3.1, for the ﬁrst time Create and regularly update a Ongoing The new intranet »KRONES inside« launched; »sustainability« section of our intranet action was implemented successfully Develop a universal CSR campaign 2013 Requesting concept proposal and consulting for internal use on concept Include KRONES’ European sales organiInformation on requirements under End of 2013 Requesting concept proposal and consulting sations in our sustainability reporting GRI Guidelines on concept Deﬁne ﬁrst indicators Develop CSR Strategy 2015 Develop sustainability topics relevant to June 2013 In progress the company and prepare action plan Improve sustainability rating Communicate with analysts and investors Ongoing Participating in informational events on a on sustainable investment regular basis GOALS AND ACTIONS GOALS AND ACTIONS Economic – Goals and actions 111 Goals Actions Target date Status Evolve enviro Transfer aspects of enviro onto Ongoing Retroﬁtting packages with high energy and LCS services media efficiency are available, categorised by purpose; retroﬁt services are being expanded continuously enviro assessment of all machine Expand machine programme to include 30 2010–2012 Assessment of 30 machines complete types by 2015 upgrades enviro assessment of 2 Contiform 3 series December In progress (H and SC) 2013 enviro assessment of 4 products in process technology for breweries enviro assessment of 4 products in labelling technology enviro assessment of 4 monitoring/inspection systems in inspection technology enviro assessment of 3 products in process technology for non-alcoholic beverages Develop ﬁlling technology with lower End of 2013 In progress compressed air consumption Reduce amount of media used in ﬁlling End of 2013 In progress technology Examine sustainability strategies of End of 2013 In progress third-party machinery suppliers and their documentation Improve resource efficiency of bottle End of 2013 In progress washers Increase order quality Make quotation system faster and more End of 2013 Introducing Quality Gates transparent Perform detailed risk analysis in advance Optimise working capital Improve receivables management Ongoing KRONES was able to reduce working capital in 2012 compared with the previous year; a reduction in receivables contributed to the improvement Reduce inventories Ongoing Inventories rose far less steeply than sales in 2012 Increase proﬁtability, bring pre-tax Implement »Value« strategy programme 2015 KRONES improved pre-tax return on sales GOALS AND ACTIONS return on sales up to approx. 7 percent (EBT margin), excluding Le-Nature’s, from 4.5% to 5.1% in 2012; target for 2013: >5.5% Introduce a CRM system across our Train sales workforce in-house and at in2013 Training for 1,000 sales employees scheduled entire sales organisation ternational sales offices to begin in the 1st half of 2013 Roll out an integrated management Certiﬁcation of LCS Centre in Taicang 2013 Preliminary audit March 2013 system (IMS) and certify LCS Centres (China) worldwide Certiﬁcation of LCS Centre in Franklin (USA) 2014 Developing a schedule with milestones GOALS AND ACTIONS 112 Environmental – Goals and actions Goals Actions Target date Status Establish an energy management Measure energy data 2012 Measuring points installed site-wide in Neusystem traubling, electricity and heat can now be measured in the production areas; completed 2013 Deﬁning and installing measuring points in the Nittenau, Rosenheim, Freising, and Flensburg plants Establish performance indicators 2012 Constant internal monthly performance indicators for energy and electrical power consumption for Neutraubling site now available and veriﬁed 2013 Developing forecast data for all sites 2013 Developing constant monthly indicators for energy consumption for the Nittenau, Rosenheim, Freising, and Flensburg sites 2013 Reviewing energy consumption; ongoing monitoring of energy consumption using a forecast based on performance indicators Conserve energy Determine energy consumption per m³ of 2012 Large losses of compressed air detected in compressed air generated in production network (Neutraubling plant) 2013 Increased leak detection in existing infrastructure Use heat recovery systems at compressors; 2012 Heat energy savings of 3% in Nittenau plant use recovered heat in heating systems (natural gas and district heating) Turn off production hall lighting when 2012 Production hall lighting cannot be turned sufficient daylighting available in test off across the board, depends heavily on local areas conditions (shadows cast by machines, windows, etc.) Training centre construction project: Use 2012 LED lighting installed in training centre LED lighting with brightness adjustment Nittenau construction project: Prepare 2013 Performing cost-beneﬁt analysis based on brightness adjustment for lighting bids received Examine paint shops to determine lowest 2012 Tested drying temperature adjustments; possible drying temperatures temperatures depend on information provided by paint manufacturer Coordinate commissioning activities to 2012 Software-supported commissioning planning optimise peak loads in plastics technology using commissioning portal GOALS AND ACTIONS Environmentally responsible behaviour Train and inform employees, giving Ongoing Topic of energy integrated into regular among employees concrete guidelines for environmentally employee training and guidance responsible behaviour Incorporating ideas from »Brainpool« employee innovation portal Conserve resources Ongoing Reusing bubble wrap pouches from deliveries received to ship our own products GOALS AND ACTIONS Environmental – Goals and actions 113 Goals Actions Target date Status Procure resource-friendly materials Develop a concept for giving higher 2013 Including resource efficiency in parts priority to resource consumption in speciﬁcations when soliciting bids for procurement machines of a speciﬁc size or greater 2015–2017 Procuring electric motors with improved efficiency classiﬁcation in accordance with EU regulation 640/2009, IE2/IE3 – efficiency classes Optimise energy supply concepts 2012 Employing co-generation plants for efficient use of primary energy Conserve resources Reduce water consumption 2014 Reduced consumption signiﬁcantly in 2012 Identifying and verifying points with high water consumption and developing a concept for reducing consumption Recycling – further analyse possibilities for In progress Preventing raw materials consumption recycling Verifying improved material efficiency Reduce the amount of waste generated In progress Increased sorting and separation of materials at on-site collection station Intensiﬁed sorting and separation of waste materials Reduce emissions Reduce coolant emissions 2009–2012 Continuous monitoring of coolant emissions launched Reduce emissions due to work-related Develop a new mobility concept for 2013 Concept development and internal travel business travel within Germany consultation Roll-out among service technicians Systematically collect and calculate Introduce a database module 2010–2012 Project was checked and postponed again environmental performance indicators in 2012 in a database module SAP waste management module in introductory phase GOALS AND ACTIONS GOALS AND ACTIONS 114 Labour practices – Goals and actions Goals Actions Target date Status Increase employee qualiﬁcations Introduce KRONES competence manage2012 Employee reviews conducted across the board, ment company-wide 4,500 individual career development reviews and 270 employees included in group development reviews 2013 Planning and conducting approx. 4,700 career development reviews; inclusion of approx. 450 employees in group development reviews Expand training and continuing education Complete Courses are available on around 450 topics offerings Re-arrangement and user-friendly design of SAP training portal completed International workforce structures Ongoing 760 managers have attended the management training seminar to date Management training seminar in planning for 80 employees in 2013 Secure access to the next generation Accept apprentices in a variety of ﬁelds Ongoing 140 new apprentices were accepted of specialists for 2013 Increase service focus with Proﬁl 21 Launched Integrating Proﬁl 21 employees in the service professional training option departments Promote and recruit specialists and Collaborate with colleges and universities Ongoing Budget available for informational events skilled workers at colleges and universities as in 2012 Trainee programme In progress Acceptance of 5 more trainees planned Promote intercultural understanding In progress Across Borders programme offered for the among our skilled workers ﬁrst time in 2013 Occupational health management Coordinate all actions (in-house medical Ongoing Prioritisation of areas to be completed by July service, company health insurance fund, 2013 counselling service, and human resources) Speed reintegration of employees who 2013–2014 Analysing causes; identifying possibilities for have been on long-term sick leave signiﬁcantly reducing reintegration times Work-life balance Pilot project – Develop a lean office 2013–2014 Workshops started for 5 pilot groups concept Support employees and their families Ongoing Employee support programme available on assignments abroad through HR Support management employees’ use 2012 In all, 227 employees have taken sabbatical up of sabbatical to and including 2012; in 2012, 76 employees GOALS AND ACTIONS made use of this option Reduce accident rates Systematic accident analysis 2013 Derive remedial actions from incidents (per 1,000 employees) Step up hazard assessment Involve employees Ensure compliance with existing rules Optimise workplaces with raised platforms 2012 Optimisation measures carried out 2012 Preparation of a company agreement on preventive occupational health screenings for operators and for working at height Reduce lost working days in general Train managers and supervisors in how to Ongoing 400 managers trained in 2012 deal with illness-related absences GOALS AND ACTIONS Society – Goals and actions 115 Goals Actions Target date Status Intensify stakeholder dialogue Conduct surveys Ongoing In progress Establish and continue social media 2012 Social media concept implemented and activities updated continually Provide information for employees’ Regular tours of the production facilities Ongoing Tour concept and volume deﬁned in 2012 family members 2013 Reorganising division-speciﬁc tours Support schools and universities at the RIS Regensburg International School 2013 In progress regional level Conduct university marketing at the Participate in university job fairs, Ongoing Examining project-related initiatives national level ﬁeld trips, and lectures Develop a sponsorship concept Design guidelines for sponsorships 2012 Development and internal coordination of sponsorship guideline completed Make sponsorship guidelines available 2013 In progress online Develop an assistance project using Review calculations and feasibility 2013 Design and production are reviewing our own components and products feasibility Corporate Volunteering programme in development GOALS AND ACTIONS GOALS AND ACTIONS 116 GRI content index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) develops and disseminates guidelines for reporting on the economic, environmental, and societal dimensions of organisations’ activities, products, and services. The GRI works closely with businesses, non-governmental organisations, government institutions, and other groups. The current GRI guidelines (»G3«) were published in October 2006. Use of the guidelines is voluntary. The GRI guidelines have become established as the standard for sustainability reporting worldwide. Section, GRI guidelines Reporting element Page Reporting level 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4–5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4–7, 9–10, 35, 110–113 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. Organisational proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C6 – back . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12–14, AR 16–17, 157 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.3 Operational structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14, AR 14–15, 27, 157 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.4 Location of headquarters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.5 Number of countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14–15, 33 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.7 Markets served (by region, customer type) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.8 Scale of the organisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14–16, www/Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.9 Changes regarding ownership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.10 Awards received. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 – above table of contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.2 Date of most recent previous report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 – above table of contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.3 Reporting cycle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 – above table of contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.4 Contact point for questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C6 – back . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content/materiality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.6 Report boundaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on report’s scope ................................................................. 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.8 Comparability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.9 Data measurement techniques. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.10 Reasons for re-statements of information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17–18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.12 GRI content index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116–118 3.13 Assurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C5 4. Governance 4.1 Governance structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16, 21, AR 118–119 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.2 Independence of Supervisory Board Chair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16, AR 117, 158 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.3 Independent members of highest governance body . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16, AR 117, 158. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders/employees to make recommendations to Executive Board/Supervisory Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16, AR 108 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.5 Linkage between Executive Board compensation and company’s performance . . . . . . . . . 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.6 Mechanisms to avoid conﬂicts of interest. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20, AR 117 point b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.7 Expertise of members of the highest governance bodies with respect to sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . AR 117–118 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.8 Mission statement, values, codes of conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19–22. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance bodies for overseeing sustainability-related risks and opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21, 35, AR 119 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GRI INDEX 4.10 Processes for evaluating management’s own performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . AR 110–111 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GOALS AND ACTIONS 4.11 Precautionary approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21, 35, AR 94 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.12 Support of external initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9, 16, 102 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8–10, 102–103 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation of stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8, 102, 103 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.16 Stakeholder dialogue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8, 11, 18, 102, 103 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.17 Response to key concerns raised by stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9–10, 106 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Economic Management approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4–7, 27, AR 18–21 Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EC2 Financial implications and other risks for the organisation’s activities due to climate change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GRI INDEX Legend: complete, partial, not applicable, not relevant, not reported, AR = KRONES Annual Report 2012, www = KRONES Website 117 Section, GRI guidelines Reporting element Page Reporting level EC3 Coverage of deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28, AR 145–147 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from the government . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wages compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..................................................... EC6 Business policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant locations of operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Environmental Management approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62–66 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN2 Volume of materials used that are recycled input materials. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63–65 ............................................ EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63–65 ............................................ EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63–66 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and resulting reductions in energy requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47–59 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Biodiversity EN11 Land in or adjacent to protected areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN12 Impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN13 Habitats protected or restored . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN15 Red List species affected by operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Emissions, effluents, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and waste EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66–68 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66–68 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN20 NO, SO, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69, 71 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73–74 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GRI INDEX GOALS AND ACTIONS EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by discharges of waste water and run-off . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47–59 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Compliance EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Transport EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for operations and transporting employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67–68. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Legend: complete, partial, not applicable, not relevant, not reported, AR = KRONES Annual Report 2012, www = KRONES Website GRI INDEX 118 Section, GRI guidelines Reporting element Page Reporting level Labour practices and decent work Management approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79, 86–87 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA2 Total employee turnover in percent by age group, gender, and region . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA3 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees only, by signiﬁcant locations of operation . . 85, 87 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Labour/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ................... 86 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . management relations LA5 Minimum notice periods for operational changes, including whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Occupational health LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in occupational health and and safety safety committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97–99. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related fatalities by region . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious illness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88–90 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Training and education LA10 Average hours of training or education per employee by employee category . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90–91, 93–95 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Diversity and LA13 Composition of governing bodies and breakdown of employees by category equal opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80, 82–85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . LA14 Ratio of base salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category. . . . . . . . 85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Human rights Management approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Investment and HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include procurement practices human rights clauses or have undergone human rights screening . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38–39. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Non-discrimination, HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . freedom of association/ HR5 Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise collective bargaining freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GRI INDEX Child labour HR6 Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers with risk of child labour, and measures GOALS AND ACTIONS taken to contribute to the abolition of child labour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Forced and HR7 Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers with signiﬁcant risk of forced or compulsory compulsory labour labour and measures to contribute to its abolition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Indigenous rights HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken . . . . . . . . . 39 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GRI INDEX Legend: complete, partial, not applicable, not relevant, not reported, AR = KRONES Annual Report 2012, www = KRONES Website 119 Section, GRI guidelines Reporting element Page Reporting level Society Management approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102 Local communities S01 Programmes and procedures for assessing and regulating impacts of operations on local communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102–106, 108–109 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Corruption S02 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S03 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures. . . . . . . . . . . . . 106–107 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Public policy S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102, 108. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S06 Contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions, by country ..................................................................................................... 108 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anti-competitive behaviour S07 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Compliance S08 Monetary value of ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations ............................................................................................................... Product responsibility Management approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories subject to such procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40, 44–45 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Product and PR3 Type of product and service information required by law and percentage service labelling of signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements . . . . . . . . . 44 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, by type of outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Compliance PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GRI INDEX GOALS AND ACTIONS Legend: complete, partial, not applicable, not relevant, not reported, AR = KRONES Annual Report 2012, www = KRONES Website GRI INDEX 120 Glossary Compliance Totality of measures to ensure that companies and their employees adhere to laws and regulations and to social and ethical standards and values. Corporate governance Responsible corporate management and supervision that is oriented toward long-term value creation. Corporate social responsibility Voluntary corporate initiative to take responsibility for the company’s effects on social welfare and to integrate environmental aspects above and beyond legal requirements. German Corporate The German Corporate Governance Code presents statutory regulations for the manageGovernance Code ment and supervision (governance) of German listed companies and contains internationally and nationally recognised standards for responsible governance. The Code aims to make the German corporate governance system transparent and understandable. German Emissions Control Act Short form for the German Act for the Protection against Harmful Environmental Effects Caused by Air Pollution, Noise, Vibration, and Similar Factors. GRI Global Reporting Initiative – an international network that supports companies in their efforts to measure, understand, and report on their performance with respect to sustainability. GRI has established and continually evolves a reporting framework that serves as a guideline for companies. GRI reporting relies on transparency and aims to provide standardised, comparable information. SMETA (Sedex Members Audit procedure containing a compilation of good practices for conducting ethical trade Ethical Trade Audit) audits and reducing duplication of effort in auditing. The documents help auditors conduct standardised audits that will be accepted by multiple retailers and brands. Stakeholders All the interested groupings involved in an entrepreneurial process or affected by an entrepreneurial action. Sustainability Fundamental concept for shaping economic, political, and social developments so as to meet the needs of the present-day generation while keeping ecological, social, and economic structures intact for future generations. UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Value chain The value of a product or service consists not only of the product or service itself. In some cases, it may consist of many various components that are produced along the stages of value creation. Several stages of value creation constitute a value chain. GLOSSAR GOALS AND ACTIONS Value creation calculation The value created is determined by subtracting from the company’s performance (sales revenues and other income) the advance payments necessary for bought-in goods and materials, depreciation and amortisation, and other expenditures. The origination of the value creation is set against its use. GLOSSARY KRONES at a glance KRONES offers machinery and complete systems for ﬁlling and packaging and for beverage production. KRONES’ customers include breweries, beverage producers, and companies from the food, chemical, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic industries. KRONES offers all of the products and services they need from a single source – from constructing new beverage plants to getting the ﬁnished product out the door. The company is organised in three segments: Product ﬁlling and decoration Beverage production/process Low output range technology (KOSME) KRONES’ core business area – by far the This segment includes brewhouse Our subsidiary KOSME offers a product company’s largest and most proﬁtand cellar systems (i.e. products for range similar to that of our »machines able segment – offers machines and breweries). Equipment used for treating and lines for product ﬁlling and decoracomplete lines for ﬁlling, packaging, sensitive beverages such as milk and for tion« segment, but for the lower output labelling, and conveying products. Maproducing dairy drinks and fruit juices range. With KOSME, we are able to serve chines for producing PET containers and is also part of this KRONES segment. smaller and mid-sized companies that converting used plastic bottles into food Material ﬂow technology/intralogistics do not need high-speed machines but grade recycled material (PET recycling is also part of the »beverage production/ nevertheless are committed to quality. systems) are also part of this segment. process technology« segment. Thus, KOSME perfectly complements KRONES’ core business. 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 EBT (€ million) 119.2 108.9 EBT (€ million) –13.6 – 19.3 EBT (€ million) –7.6 –15.0 EBT margin (%) 5.3 5.1 EBT margin (%) –4.5 –7.4 EBT margin (%) –8.1 –17.9 Employees* 10,513 10,045 Employees* 671 664 Employees* 495 477 *Consolidated group Revenue (€ million) Revenue (€ million) Revenue (€ million) 2,265 2,137 1,983 1,861 1,512 310 274 260 306 232 89 79 81 84 94 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Publication credits Published by KRONES AG Böhmerwaldstrasse 5 93073 Neutraubling Germany Responsibility Kristina Ebenbeck CSR Officer Editing Kristina Ebenbeck Design Büro Benseler Text KRONES AG Susanne Blüml, pr-büro InvestorPress GmbH Photos KRONES AG, Petra Homeier, Juliane Zitzlsperger Printing Mediahaus Biering GmbH Litho Mediahaus Biering GmbH Paper PhoeniXmotion, Gmund Colors Circulation 550 German 650 English This English language report is a translation of the original German KRONES AG Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2012. In case of discrepancies the German text shall prevail. This Sustainability Report 2012 is also available in German. We would be happy to mail you a copy on request. You can also ﬁnd it in the Company/Sustainability section at krones.com. Print compensated Id-No. 1329023 www.bvdm-online.de The production of and the paper used for the KRONES Group’s 2012 CSR Report have been certiﬁed in accordance with the criteria of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The FSC prescribes strict standards for forest management, thus helping to prevent uncontrolled deforestation, human rights violations, and environmental damage. Because products bearing the FSC label are handled by various enterprises along the trading and processing chain, the companies that process the paper, such as printers, are also certiﬁed under FSC rules. In addition, the CO₂ emissions resulting from the production of this report – including both the production of the paper and ink and the printing process itself – were measured and then offset through the purchase and retirement of high quality emission certiﬁcates. External assurance of the sustainability report Scope and standards: TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH has been engaged to provide external assurance on this Sustainability Report and the GRI Content Index. The assurance process was conducted in accordance with the following guidelines and standards: The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Guidelines for the selection and level of detail of the content and data of the Sustainability Report and the underlying systems AA 1000 standards for the general principles and methodology for evaluation and review DIN EN ISO 19011 – guidelines for auditing, ISO 14001 – speciﬁcation for environmental management systems, BS OHSAS 18001 – speciﬁcation for occupational health and safety management systems In addition, wherever aspects relating to management systems are involved, the auditing methods used are in accordance with ISO 17021. Audit process and depth: For our audit of the report, we reviewed documents and conducted interviews with persons in key positions and at various levels of the company, including management, middle management, employees, and employee representatives. Our review was conducted on the basis of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainable Reporting Guidelines 2001 (GRI G3.1). The objective of the audit was to: Conﬁrm fulﬁlment of GRI application level B Conﬁrm KRONES AG’s self-declaration of application level B+ under GRI G3.1 The following aspects were examined in spot checks: Stakeholder process and CSR materiality matrix Review of data and records underlying the reporting Appropriate and balanced presentation of performance in the selection of performance indicators Role of CSR performance indicators with respect to decision-making process We audited the identiﬁcation of relevant stakeholder groups, the method used to collect and consolidate data for this report, the existing management systems, and the internal control and monitoring functions. Economic and ﬁnancial data were not audited. Instead, they were assessed with respect to the information contained in the audited 2012 Annual Report. The following sites were included in the audit: KRONES AG, Böhmerwaldstrasse 5, 93073 Neutraubling, Germany KRONES AG, Nittenau plant, Heideweg 34–36, 93149 Nittenau, Germany KRONES AG, Steinecker plant, Raiffeisenstrasse 30, 85356 Freising, Germany KRONES AG, Rosenheim plant, Äussere Münchener Strasse 104, 83026 Rosenheim, Germany KRONES AG, Flensburg plant, Schäferweg 9, 24941 Flensburg, Germany Validation Validation of the Sustainability Report: This report provides a comprehensive, accurate, and proper presentation of performance on the basis of reliable, reasonably documented information and fulﬁls the requirements under GRI application level B+. Availability of this report to the general public is guaranteed. TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH Munich, 24 June 2013 Dipl.-Ing. Wolfgang Brandl Dipl.-Ing. Ulrich Wegner Corporate Social Responsibility Auditor Head of the Certiﬁcation Body Environmental Auditor Environmental Auditor Responsibilities: KRONES AG is solely responsible for the content of this report and for selection of the topics. TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH’s responsibility was to review the correctness and credibility of the information and to conﬁrm whether the requirements have been met. KRONES AG Kristina Ebenbeck CSR Officer Böhmerwaldstrasse 5 93073 Neutraubling Germany Phone + 49 9401 701211 Fax + 49 9401 703786 E-mail csr@krones.com Internet www.krones.com
