Communication on Progress Stockholm 20013-03-31 Statement by the CEO I am pleased to present Investment AB Kinnevik’s Communication on Progress for 2012. Kinnevik is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. In our Communication on Progress report Kinnevik documents the progress within Kinnevik as well as our major holdings. I think that the Kinnevik group are making progress in implementing the Global Compact principles as this report will demonstrate. Mia Brunell Livfors President and Chief Executive Officer Investment AB Kinnevik Background Investment AB Kinnevik was founded in 1936 and thus emFurthermore, Kinnevik’s senior management, in cooperabodies seventy-five years of entrepreneurship under the same tion with its Board of Directors, has formulated policies in group of principal owners. Kinnevik’s objective is to increase which all matters relating to sustainability and responsibility shareholder value, primarily through net asset value growth. matters are handled. These matters are expressed in the The company’s holdings of growth companies are focused Code of Ethical Business Conduct (Code of Conduct) and the around seven comprehensive business sectors; Telecom & Whistleblower policy. Every employee and other representaServices, Online, Media, Micro financing, Paper & Packaging, tives of the Company are expected to read and comply with Agriculture and Renewable energy. Kinnevik has a long histhese policies. tory of investing in emerging markets which has resulted in a considerable exposure to consumer sectors in these markets. Implementation and follow-up Kinnevik plays an active role on the Boards of its holdings. For a company like Kinnevik with limited operations, the For Kinnevik, Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) involves majority of the CR issues are found within each holdings’ issues that relate to social responsibility, environmental reoperations. A thorough risk assessment including CR related sponsibility and ethics. In formulating policies in these areas, matters is periodically carried out in every company. The Kinnevik has used as its starting point the UN’s Global Comrisks vary depending on company, industry and country and pact and its ten principles, as well as the OECD’s guidelines consist amongst others of geographical risks, environmental for multinational enterprises. impact, political climate, brand risks as well as supplier risks. During 2011, Kinnevik formally adopted the UN Global Since several of Kinnevik’s holdings are operating in emerCompact ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, ging markets where human rights and risk for corruption the environment and anti-corruption. could be present, it is very important that Kinnevik has firm guidelines on how to handle these types of risks. Strategy and purpose Kinnevik works actively, through Board representation, to The primary purpose of Kinnevik’s operations is to increase assist associate companies and subsidiaries in formulating a shareholder value, primarily through net asset value growth. separate CR policy. The CR policy shall be observed through As owner and investor, Kinnevik also bears great responanalysis and continuous operational improvements, taking sibility to stakeholders for its holdings (subsidiaries and into account social responsibility, ethics and the environassociated companies). For Kinnevik, showing consideration ment. The companies are also encouraged to publicly comfor stakeholders by working actively with CR-related issues is municate the impact of their CR efforts. In the larger listed a prerequisite for high and sustained profitability. holdings, the Board of each company shall elect one person who is responsible for the company’s CR issues and to Guidelines and policies whom an employee with responsibility for CR shall report. Kinnevik has established clear guidelines for the expectaIn 2012, Kinnevik included a GRI report in its Annual Retions of the Group’s holdings how to drive CR issues regarport, available on the Kinnevik website www.kinnevik.se. ding social responsibility, environmental impact and ethical behavior. Communication on Progress Communication of progress Human rights Environment Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a pre-cautioprotection of internationally proclaimed human nary approach to environmental changes rights Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environPrinciple 2 Businesses should make sure they are not mental responsibility complicit in human rights abuses Kinnevik’s policies on corporate responsibility are based on the UN Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Global compact’s ten principles as well as the OECD’s guidelines on environmentally friendly technologies multinational enterprises. The Kinnevik portfolio companies support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights and this is expresActions taken in 2012 – examples from Kinnevik and sed in their respective Code of Conduct. portfolio companies Actions taken in 2012 – examples from Kinnevik In the mobile companies, effective end-¬of-¬life management for both portfolio companies telecom devices and network equipment is critical because those contain precious and potentially toxic materials. Recovery and reuse of For Kinnevik’s mobile companies, questions relating to freedom of these materials prevent them from entering and polluting the environexpression and privacy are important to address. Millicom and Tele2 ment, thus reducing the amount of raw material extraction needed in are founding members of the Telecommunications Industry Dialogue the first place. on Freedom of Expression and Privacy (ID) initiated in mid-2011 to help implement the UN Ruggie framework as it relates to freedom of Tele2 continually strives to increase the percentage of recovered and expression and privacy in the telecom sector. In 2012 the ID members reused material from network equipment. Tele2 continuously strive to jointly developed and made available for comment broadly accepted primarily reuse components; if that is not possible they try to recycle principles for the sector. In late 2012, the Industry Dialogue opened the materials; and as a last option, the energy is extracted in order to discussions with the Global Network Initiative (GNI) to serve as a host minimize the amount of waste going to landfills. Any environmentally organization for the initiative. hazardous waste is always taken care of in the proper manner, in accordance with laws and regulations. Labour Kinnevik has invested in renewable energy production given strong Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of European growth expectations in combination with Kinnevik’s expeassociation and the effective right to collective rience from and activities in agriculture and forestry. Renewable energy bargaining production is expected to see substantial growth in coming years, especially in Europe driven by EU commitments to 20% renewable production by 2020. Kinnevik’s main investment in this space is Vireo Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Energy, with operations aimed at building, owning and operating faciliforms of forced and compulsory labour ties that produce energy from renewable sources. Initially, the company is focusing primarily on projects to recover energy Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition from landfill gas, and other forms of waste based biogas. Geographic of child labour focus is Poland and adjacent. Contracts have been signed for the recovery of biogas with a number of landfills in Poland and Belarus. Vireo are now investing in these facilities and commencing the sale of Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of energy. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Anti-corruption Kinnevik and the Group companies shall ensure compliance with labour and employment laws, including wages and working hours. Principle 10 Businesses should work against Furthermore, the right to collective bargaining is recognized througcorruption in all its forms including hout the Group – in Kinnevik’s case through the Kinnevik’s Code of extortion and bribery Conduct. In the code, it is also stated that no colleagues should be discriminated against because of age, race, gender, religion, sexual It is of highest importance that all Kinnevik companies adhere to and orientation, marital or maternity status, political opinion or ethnic comply with all given legislations and regulations as well as setting their background. Violations connected to discrimination must be reported own bar for how to act and behave in society – always with highest to the Chairman of the Board, HR, closest manager or by our whistle possible ethics. For Kinnevik, the ethical standards as well as reporting blowing system. lines to the Code of Conduct as well as the Whistleblower policy are publicly available. Actions taken in 2012 – examples from Kinnevik and portfolio companies Actions taken in 2012 – examples from Kinnevik and portfolio companies Kinnevik continued to uphold these principles in 2012. In Group companies, Millicom for example, has signed a collective bargaining agreKinnevik and the Group companies continued to work against corrupement in Chad with all employees and in Paraguay with the employees tion in all its forms in all of our businesses. Transparency International who joined the company in the Cablevision acquisition, representing Sweden has reviewed Sweden’s 20 largest companies and looked 5% of total employees in Paraguay. into the reporting and transparency of their anti-corruption work. The survey included three aspects: internal programs, transparency in To better understand the risks regarding child labor, Kinnevik worked organizational structure and country by country reporting. Tele2 was with UNICEF in 2012 in a project to assess how the Child Right’s and rated second best, and Tele2’s results held up well in the international Business principles can be implemented in the Kinnevik Group of comparison, according to Transparency International companies. Millicom commissioned a detailed risk report and country assessment from TwoTomorrows. The scope for the assessment became the “Children’s Rights and Business Principles” jointly developed by UNICEF, UN Global Compact and Save the Children. Millicom piloted the Children’s Rights Checklist, a tool developed by UNICEF and provided feedback on the tool back to UNICEF. Millicom will continue to collaborate towards developing a telecommunications sector selfassessment tool on children’s rights.
