Communication on progress 14 May 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 14 May 2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PEM reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Søren-Erik Svendsen Director Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals • We undertake good governance studies across Africa, Asia and Latin America for our bilateral and multilateral clients. We also do human rights assessments, including business & human rights focused analysis for development projects and programmes. Within the year we have e.g. done formulations of programmes on private sector support for Danida in Nepal and Uganda that included these rights and CSR based components. Implementation • We ensure that our approach is state of the art and that our partners and consultants learn from each other in this area. We engage with highly knowledgeable experts and professionals in the area of good governance and human rights, including centers of excellence on Business & Human Rights, e.g. with The Danish Institute for Human Rights. We complete the global compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) Measurement of outcomes • We monitor through our quarterly board meetings and reporting on the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, the quality of the work that we do is reflected by the assignments of this type entrusted to us. Labour Assessment, policy and goals • We comply with all labour regulations in Denmark and abroad. Similar to human rights, labour rights and Decent Work Agenda are increasingly components or cross-cutting issues that are addressed in the assignments undertaken for clients, e.g. Danida in Nepal, World Bank in Sct Lucia. Implementation • We undertake annual appraisals. Periodically we have used consultants to ensure that office staff have an ergonomically well-equipped working place. Measurement of outcomes • We complete the global compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) Environment Assessment, policy and goals • We comply with all Danish regulations on environment. We provide environmental consultancy services and ensure that our competence in this field is updated. Implementation • Our own impact is very small but we try to manage it through cost-cutting efforts (paper, energy). Measurement of outcomes • We complete the global compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • We have developed a code of ethics and a business integrity management system Implementation • The actions are described in our business integrity management system Measurement of outcomes • We complete the global compact self-assessment tool (last done 26 May 2011) • We report and monitor through our quarterly board meetings
