General Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 1-1-2012 To: 31-12-2012 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). ’ In April 2011, Telenet signed the document confirming its commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact policy initiative. The principles included in this initiative relate to human rights, working conditions, the environment and anticorruption, and are based on a universal consensus. The principles are based on: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work the Rio de Janeiro Declaration on Environment and Development the Convention of the United Nations against Corruption .Telenet undertakes to incorporate the Global Compact principles as a guideline into its strategy, company culture and dayto-day operations, and to make every effort to set up partnership projects to further develop the broader objectives of the United Nations, and in particular the Millennium objectives. Through this commitment, Telenet aims to reflect a clear position with regard to its stakeholders and towards the general public. Telenet’s former CEO, Duco Sickinghe, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Frank Donck, wrote the following in the preface of the integrated 2012 annual report (p.6): ‘(…)and we also continue to support and promote important initiatives such as the UN Global Compact. We recently became members of the advisory board of the Belgian Network of the UN Global Compact, and since 2011 we have adhered to the Compact’s 10 principles.’ Telenet is aware that one of the key requirements for the participation in the Global Compact is the annual communication on the progress that has been booked (Communication on Progress, COP), and, more particularly, on the efforts that the company has made with regard to the implementation of the ten principles. Telenet is in favor of a transparent approach, and is therefore committed to report on the progress achieved regarding the principles, for the first time in 2012. An overview of the Communication on Progress on the basis of a selection of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) indicators can be found at the end of this report. John Porter CEO Telenet Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy & goals Telenet emphasizes its role in respecting Human Rights in two areas: respecting children’s rights and respecting human rights in the supply chain. Respecting children’s rights Specific measures are necessary to increase the protection of children and young people in particular. Telenet is Gold partner of the Safer Internet Day, with the support of principal shareholder Liberty Global. Insafe, the European network that teaches children how to handle the Internet and mobile telephony safely and in a responsible way, organized its Safer Internet Day for the ninth time on 7 February 2012. Hundreds of online and offline events were organized in more than 60 countries on the topic Connecting generations and educating each other, and with the slogan ‘Discover the digital world together … safely’. Respecting human rights in the supply chain Telenet procures indirectly through its more than 3000 currently in use suppliers, while the top 500 companies represent 90% of Telenet's procurement spend. To effectively manage our supply chain, we have defined a formal process to identify our critical suppliers using the Kraljic matrix to determine the 4 main categories: leverage items (15% of suppliers), strategic items (5%), bottleneck items (5%) and non-critical items (75%). Every contract with a critical supplier contains a code of conduct regarding the following topics:  environmental standards for the supplier's activities, products and services;  fundamental human rights (such as forced labour, child labour: ILO agreements);  working conditions (such as working hours, dismissal provisions);  health and safety at work;  company ethics (such as corruption). We will regularly check our supply chain and on suspicion of an infraction, a formal audit will be conducted. In case of a positive case of non-observance, Telenet shall continue to work with the supplier in question to help him take the necessary corrective actions. If no correspondence is found regarding an acceptable recovery plan, Telenet may have to terminate the business relationship. Implementation The Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs, under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and European Affairs, Mr. Didier Reynders, and the Global Compact Network Belgium hosted the first Belgian Children’s Rights and Business Principles Forum on 3 December 2012 at the Egmont Palace in Brussels. The presence and top leadership support of HRH Princess Mathilde of Belgium has positioned Belgium worldwide as a champion in promoting the Children’s Rights and Business Principles. This Forum was established thanks to the support of the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs, the King Baudouin Foundation, the close cooperation with UNICEF Belgium, Children’s rights commissioner office, Save the Children, the Council of Europe, the European commission, the Antwerp Management School, and the private sector. The Forum is a result of the commitment to His Secretary General Ban Ki Moon of two Belgian participants of the Global Compact Network Belgium at the LEAD meeting at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Telenet and Rosy Blue, to promote children’s rights and business principles in Belgium and abroad. They reached out to UNICEF Belgium and the Belgian/European public-private sector to start an engagement process by establishing a multi-stakeholder working group that would prepare the Forum. A website for the forum has been created (www.childrenandbusiness.be) and this site will be maintained after the event to update the stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes Telenet’s Code of Conduct addresses the following issues: equal opportunities and a working environment that is free from harassment fair competition and anti-corruption confidentiality of information and protection of privacy correct accounting and accurate communication conflicts of interest, insider trading and business integrity protection of health, safety and environment whistleblower regulations. The Code of Conduct was signed by the executive committee, Telenet’s top management and staff members in a position of trust. No infringements were reported in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2012. In 2011, one formal complaint was submitted under the category ‘whistleblower regulations’, but this was officially assessed as a complaint outside the scope of the whistleblower regulations by KPMG. This makes 2012 the fifth consecutive year without infringements. Telenet is currently updating its Code of Conduct. The new code, many principles of which have already been incorporated in the Belgian legislation, will be rolled out on a broader basis. This update has been carried out and the discussions with the Works Council have started. There are 3 well trained advisors in policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights relevant to operations. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy & goals Telenet has a formal meeting with the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work and with the Works Council on a monthly basis. In addition, there are frequent ad hoc consultations with both parties. The Works Council is an advisory body at company level that represents all employees. It is established on a joint basis and consists therefore of an equal number of employer and employee representatives. The Works Council is involved in issues that affect the social, economic and financial policy of the company. This general authority includes many areas: the personnel policy, the organization of the work, the financial and economic situation of the company, working conditions, new technologies (Works Council Law, Art. 15). Minutes of the Work Council meetings are published for all employees in the organization, in accordance with the legal provisions. The CPPW is an advisory body at the level of the technical business entity that represents all employees. It is established on a joint basis and therefore consists of an equal numbers of employer and employee representatives, the company doctor and the internal office for prevention and protection at work. The CPPW must be involved in issues relating to the well-being policy of the staff with regard to the performance of their work, as well as the global prevention plan and the annual action plan (RD CPPW 3/5/1999). This general authority includes the areas of occupational safety, medical monitoring, ergonomics, hygiene, embellishment of the workplace and the psychosocial aspects relating to the work, including mobbing, violence and sexual harassment, and the (living) environment. The CPPW makes decisions regarding the appointment or removal of the occupational doctor, the prevention advisors and the confidential counselors. The CPPW has mainly advisory duties regarding new and changing technologies, work processes, the lay-out of the work stations, equipment, protective equipment, training courses, instructions, regular inspections, etc. The committee also appoints delegations for the annual safety rounds in the context of serious risks with imminent damage or serious accidents or incidents with the aim of working with the authorized officials. Telenet’s aim is to attract people of all backgrounds in order to establish a versatile team with the most talented professionals in which all skills are represented. Telenet is convinced that a diverse workforce contributes to creative thinking processes that help the company to serve its customers better. Telenet is currently working on enhancing the diversity of its management teams, including the recruitment and promotion of a larger number of women. Concrete numbers on diversity can be found in our Annual Report 2012 on page 91. Telenet utilizes no diversity indicators other than gender and age, since Belgian law prohibits extential tracking of diversity indicators. Implementation Internal complaints procedure Telenet makes numerous efforts to create a pleasant and safe working environment in which employees can feel safe and comfortable, and where they can perform in the best possible way. In accordance with Belgian legislation, Telenet’s wellbeing policy includes a procedure relating to inappropriate behavior at work. The complaints procedure is integrated in the company rules and relates to inappropriate behavior such as mobbing, including discrimination, violence and sexual harassment. The complaints procedure also applies to permanent third parties. If an employee is unable to solve the problem by himself/herself or with his/her manager, the confidential counselors of the internal office for prevention and protection at work, or the prevention advisor for psycho-social aspects, can be contacted either in a formal or in an informal manner. The informal procedure involving the confidential counselor or the prevention advisor includes an initial relief or intake interview, advice, mediation and/or an intervention by authority figures within the organization. Confidential counselors can also accept a formal complaint and submit this to the prevention advisor for further monitoring. The formal procedure not only aims at stopping the problem and preventing that it is repeated, but also at conducting an investigation in order to determine whether or not the case relates to mobbing, violence or sexual harassment. Moreover, this also involves the recommendation of individual and collective measures to the employer, if appropriate. Telenet started the process of renewing the Code of Conduct (CoC) in 2011. The revised CoC is currently with the works council to be approved. It states the following: “We are committed to equal opportunities for our employees and those seeking employment with our Company. Company employment decisions must be based on individual merit and business needs, irrespective of race, color, ethnic, cultural, community or national origin, religion, sexual orientation/identity, family or marital status, gender, disability or age.” This paragraph is already included in the Vendor Disclosure Form, which is signed by our suppliers with every new procurement contract. Measurement of outcomes 100% of the employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements. The indicators relating to absenteeism due to illness and occupational accidents are discussed annually at the meeting of the CPPW (Committee for the Prevention and Protection at Work). In 2012, 8 occupational accidents occurred with temporary incapacity for work, 144 calendar days in total. There were no fatal occupational accidents or accidents with permanent incapacity for work. In 2011, there were 17 informal and no formal interventions via the internal complaints procedure. The majority of these informal interventions was limited to a recommendation to an employee, since there was clearly not always a case of mobbing, violence or sexual harassment, and in most cases only a mild form of incorrect behavior was involved that could usually be solved by the employee himself/herself with appropriate support or advice. At the recommendation of all actors in the field, the legislative framework will be further refined in this context in order to respond appropriately to the needs and to create a more preventative character. Environmental principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy & goals Reducing the carbon footprint in 2011 was a prominent goal in Telenet’s sustainability program, in line with the goals of the ‘Samen Groen’ (Together Green) plan, which was rolled out in 2009 in a close partnership with main shareholder Liberty Global. Our objective is to be climate neutral in 2015. In order to achieve this objective, we are continuing to mainly focus on measures that will further reduce our own CO2 emissions. We are doing this, for example, by focusing on far-reaching efficient energy usage. Since mid 2008, Telenet exclusively uses green energy and numerous initiatives have been launched since 2009 to drive down carbon emissions even further. We concentrated on two operational priorities: 1. Stimulate energy-efficiency and reduce the carbon footprint of the offices, data centers and the network; as well as the mobility of employees. 2. Manage waste in a responsible way and maximize the purchase of sustainable goods and services. In our ambition to reduce carbon emissions, priority is given to reduction measures in the data centers and the network. We take every effort to optimize the efficiency and activities of the infrastructure and technical systems by stimulating the efficiency in the power supply and cooling of the data centers and by optimizing the efficiency and the use of technological equipment. The efficiency of the electricity consumption compared to the turnover has improved by 7% over the last 3 years and the carbon emissions compared to electricity dropped by 12% in the same period, as a result of the combination of the purchase of renewable AlpEnergy generated by hydro-electric power stations and reduction measures. The data centre in Mechelen has the status of participant to the EU Code of conduct for Data centers. Implementation Continuous awareness-raising campaigns within the company have resulted in a striking number of specific initiatives and inspirational actions combined around various themes, including energy consumption, mobility, network efficiency, and management of premises and spaces. At the same time, Telenet wants to accept its responsibilities towards its customers and other target groups. Telenet wants to enable all its stakeholders to reduce their ecological footprint. With this in mind, the company is investing in innovative applications and services that can make positive contributions to the resolution of sustainability issues. Monitoring and efficiency Based on the continuous monitoring of the technical infrastructure, new investments in energy efficiency can be achieved, for example, by improving less efficient systems or by the adjustment of the cooling or heating of the buildings. Set-top boxes Telenet has defined energy efficiency with our customers as one of our top 11 material issues, and invests explicitly in initiatives to reduce the energy consumption of the set-top boxes. In 2010, a voluntary industry agreement came into effect to speed up the adoption of more energyefficient set-top boxes, which actually involves mutual agreements within the industry. All set-top boxes currently supplied by Telenet comply with this voluntary agreement. Improvements in technology are constantly being sought in association with the partners to make the next generation of set-top boxes even more efficient. Free-cooling air conditioners Investments in the network and a program of replacing old equipment by newer, more efficient appliances are continually providing new energy savings. With the replacement investment for the cooling assemblies of the air conditioning for the data centers, the Services Operations Centre (SOC), and the office area for digital TV in Mechelen, the emphasis was on energy savings. Telenet opted for a free-cooling system that makes the maximum possible use of the exterior air temperature. The compressor only switches on when the heat exchanger has insufficient capacity. This saves Telenet 28 MWh of electricity consumption each year. Replacement of the old 48V power supply systems with new, energy-efficient systems provide a yield increase of 10%, which is intrinsic to the system. The installation of a sleep mode with the 48V power supply systems then also provides extra efficiency gains. The old emergency power supply systems (UPS, Uninterruptible Power Supply) have also been replaced by new, more efficient systems. Planting forests for CO2 reduction While efforts to further reduce carbon dioxide emissions have already achieved astonishing results, which will only improve in the future, compensations are expected to achieve the ambitious goal of climate neutrality by 2015. The most important measure in this context is the planting of new forests, in both Flanders and Ecuador. After all, trees take carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, which helps combat climate change. 2011 was the international year of the forest, because deforestation is responsible for 20% of global carbon dioxide emissions. Telenet plants 1,000 trees every day from 2015, we want this green project to save an annual average of 10,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide. In Flanders, Telenet is planting a substantial forest of 5 hectares in Moerbeke Waas, which is in support of the Bos+ (Forest plus) One Million Trees campaign. In addition, we are supporting a reforestation project in Ecuador. The project area on both sides of the river Rio Mira wants to restore the forest there, a large part of which had been cleared since the middle of the previous century. In addition to these general goals, the project offers numerous benefits for the local population. The poor and unused grasslands are not only converted into a valuable habitat for birds and other animals, but also the trees combat erosion, provide timber, shadow, rainfall, pure air, and all types of food. The residents receive opportunities for local employment, thereby reducing poverty and their not being forced to leave the area. We cooperate for this with the Flemish wildlife organisations Bos+ and Bos+tropen (tropics), and with local NGOs. Since the spring of 2010, as well as professional cyclo-cross, Telenet also supports recreational mountain biking via the Telenet MTB Tours. Telenet Mountain Bike & Cycling Tours joined forces with the Vereniging voor Bos in Vlaanderen (Association for Forests in Flanders) to make mountain biking as sustainable as possible. When organizers make their cycling tour into a ‘Telenet Mountain Bike Tour’ they receive not only logistical support, but also a social and green program. Participants receive a biodegradable bio-bottle and their participation supports Bonjour Afrique, an organization of Telenet employees who, together with partners of Telenet, work voluntarily for various development projects in Africa. Reducing waste by the reuse of set-top boxes Almost all set-top boxes and modems are reused and an approved processing company recycles the remaining versions. The intensive reuse reduced the amount of waste by 650 tonnes in 2012 compared to 374 tonnes in 2010. All returned modems and set-top boxes go to the sheltered workshop IMSIR in Boom, where the processing of the equipment employs 50 enthusiastic staff members. In December 2011, this systematic cooperation under the project name ‘Reverse Logistics with a social touch' won the audience prize of the Supply Chain Awards. Measurement of outcomes A complete overview of Telenet’s CO2 emissions, energy efficiency and waste flows in 2012 can be found in our Online Sustainability Report: http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf Table of Telenet Electricity Consumption 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Electricity consumption (in GWh) 76.9 78.1 78 81.7 83.3 83.6 Revenues (in € millions) 931.9 1,018.8 1,197.4 1,299.0 1,376.3 1,488.8 Energy efficiency as a ratio of income (in %) 82.5 76.7 65.1 62.9 60.5 56.1 The increasing energy requirement is mainly the result of the need to meet the increasing demand for data processing and provision of digital services. In 2012, Telenet further increased its energyefficiency with 7.1%, while Telenet’s total energy efficiency compared to 2007 has improved by over 30%. Calculated at the 2012 electricity prices, this represents a cumulative saving of almost € 4.5 million, or close to 10,400 tons CO2 eq. Reuse of set-top boxes In 2012, 255,550 set-top boxes (+15%) and 51,126 modems (+196%) were re-used. Reuse of set-top boxes 2010 2011 2012 Number of reused set-top boxes 122,170 222,996 255,550 Reduction in amount of waste 374 tonnes 600 tonnes 650 tonnes Savings on purchase costs € 12.7 million € 19.8 million € 17.5 million Energy efficiency with our customers Telenet is focusing on reducing its customers’ energy usage and is therefore investing in various initiatives. The latest hard disk set-top boxes will automatically switch off if left on standby for prolonged periods of time. Furthermore, a special functionality has been rolled out for these set-top boxes, enabling customers to switch to the ‘smart energy setting’. This means that their decoder will be using less than 1W on standby. The most recent design of set-up boxes is also 20x more efficient compared to the first generation of these devices ever marketed by Telenet. Given that increasing numbers of households now have this new type of box, our customerbase is now 4% more energy efficient overall, while the number of connected clients increased by 21%. Calculated per set-top box we reduced the CO2 use in 2012 by 6% compared to 2011. In 2010, we entered into a so-called voluntary agreement in order to accelerate the use of more efficient set-up boxes. These are in fact mutual agreements entered into by the industry and the European Union. Any set-up boxes currently delivered by Telenet fully comply with this voluntary agreement. In 2012 we placed 9% more modems at our customers’ homes. Our newest wireless modem Home Gateway 3.0 caused with his “3-in-1” (Internet, telephony and Wi-Fi) approach an improvement of energy efficiency by modem of 4% compared to 2011. Since January 2013, we have been presenting our latest HD digicorder model in a slightly different jacket. Its cardboard box is now smaller, more efficient, and last but certainly not least, more environmentally-friendly. This is saving us no less than 179 tons in paper and cardboard packaging waste a year, and 600 C02. The box comes with a convenient handle so that our customers can take it away easily, without any need for a carrier bag. As soon as this whole process is complete and all of the decoders will be packaged in this way, it will yield a saving of €3 million a year. Finally, Telenet has not received any fines for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, policy & goals Telenet attaches a great deal of importance to its relations with policy-makers, and this at all levels. We regularly enter into discussion with this target group in order to establish a durable exchange of ideas and knowledge. Our dialogue with legislators and the authorities mainly involves topics that are important to the entire industry, such as regulations and investment policy. With a view to promoting an open dialogue with policy-makers, Telenet has produced a guide on investment, innovation, growth, competition, employment, social involvement and media pluralism. Electronic communications are an important market to Belgium and the Belgian economy. Following years of sustained investment and innovation, Telenet has managed to carve itself a niche in this market. However, we still face major challenges. This is why we call upon the policy-makers to conduct a forward-looking, powerful and balanced (tele)communications policy that promotes both innovation and investment. In 2012, we spent a total of € 591,000 in lobbying activities, including salaries, administration charges and sponsoring. Telenet has not resorted to the use of external lobbyists. Telenet does not support any political parties, in accordance with Belgian legislation. Furthermore, we have not spent any money on political contributions. Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy Telenet’s Code of Conduct relates to the following issues: equal opportunities and a working environment that is free from harassment fair competition and anti-corruption confidentiality of information and protection of privacy correct accounting and accurate communication conflicts of interest, insider trading and business integrity protection of health, safety and environment whistleblower regulations. The Code of Conduct was signed by the executive committee, Telenet’s top management and staff members in a position of trust. Telenet is currently updating its Code of Conduct. The new code, including a non-discrimination and anti-corruption policy, will be rolled out on a broader basis. This update has been carried out and the discussions with the Works Council have started. In addition, the Vendor Disclosure Form, which is signed by our suppliers with every new procurement contract, already contains Telenet’s Anti-Corruption Policy which addresses the following:  Definition of acts of corruption and its consequences  Principles and rules of conduct regarding anti-corruption o General o Granting presents, favors or other benefits o Accepting presents, favors or other benefits Implementation In addition to the written code of conduct that is applicable to all employees, every year Telenet trains its top management on anti-trust, anti-corruption and anti-piracy. The following systems are in place to collect and handle employee grievances and complaints to ensure that workers can raise their concerns confidentially: Helpline Whistle blowing policy Independent person in charge of solving complaints by employees. Counseling Strict confidentiality is ensured: workers are protected against dismissal in case of a formal complaint. Policies and related information is widely circulated in appropriate languages Measurement of outcomes No infringements were reported in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2012. In 2011, one formal complaint was submitted under the category ‘whistleblower regulations’, but this was officially assessed as a complaint outside the scope of the whistleblower regulations by KPMG. This makes 2012 the fifth consecutive year without infringements. As of 2012, approximately 75% of management (company-wide) has been trained on anticorruption. Each year we also organize a comprehensive information session on bribery and corruption. Participation is mandatory for approximately 200 executives. Telenet considers it important that those responsible within the organisation should be au fait with relevant stipulations pertaining to private and public bribery, particularly in view of the serious consequences associated with violations thereof. COP overview on GRI indicators Human Rights Principles EC5 Not available LA4 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf > 100% LA 6 – CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf 7–8> wellbeing at work 9 LA13 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainabilityen/stakeholders/employees > diversity LA14 Not available HR 1 Not available HR2 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainabilityen/stakeholders/suppliers http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainabilityen/stakeholders/employees http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf Annual Report Our People p89 HR3 Annual report Privacy and security p42 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Telenet started the process of renewing the Code of Conduct (CoC) in 2011. The revised CoC is currently with the works council to be approved. It states that: “We are committed to equal opportunities for our employees and those seeking employment with our Company. Company employment decisions must be based on individual merit and business needs, irrespective of race, color, ethnic, cultural, community or national origin, religion, sexual orientation/identity, family or marital status, gender, disability or age.” HR5 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf > consultation with social partners HR6 Not available HR7 Not available HR8 3 well trained prevention advisors HR9 Not material SO5 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/policymakers PR1 Annual report Privacy and security CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/protection-children PR2 Not available PR8 Not available Labour Principles LA2 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainabilityen/stakeholders/employees http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf Turnover 2012: 182 employees LA4 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf > 100% LA5 Not available LA13 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainability-en/stakeholders/ employees > diversity LA14 Not available HR 1 Not available HR2 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainabilityen/stakeholders/suppliers http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainabilityen/stakeholders/employees http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf Annual Report Our People p89 HR3 Annual report Privacy and security HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Telenet started the process of renewing the Code of Conduct (CoC) in 2011. The revised CoC is currently with the works council to be approved. It states that: “We are committed to equal opportunities for our employees and those seeking employment with our Company. Company employment decisions must be based on individual merit and business needs, irrespective of race, color, ethnic, cultural, community or national origin, religion, sexual orientation/identity, family or marital status, gender, disability or age.” HR5 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/duurzaam_personeelsbeleid_en.pdf > consultation with social partners SO5 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/policymakers EC7 Not available Environmental principles EC2 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/corporate-sustainability-en/climateandenvironment PR3 Not available PR4 Not available EN1 Not available EN2 CSR website 255,550 re-used set-top boxes (+15%) and 51,126 re-used modems (+196%) http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/objectives_results.pdf EN3 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf EN4 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf EN5 Annual Report Climate and environment p102 7 EN8 Not material 12 EN13 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/co2-compensation -14 EN15 Not material EN16 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf EN17 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf EN18 Annual Report Climate and environment p102 EN19 Not available -20 EN21 Not material EN22 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/climate.pdf > waste disposal http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf EN23 Not material EN24 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/climate.pdf > waste disposal EN25 Not material EN26 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/co2-compensation http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/energy-efficiency-our-customers EN27 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/climate.pdf > waste disposal EN28 Telenet has not received any fines. EN29 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/tabellen_en.pdf EN30 Not available Anti‐Corruption Principles SO2 Not available SO3 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/gedragscodes_en_0.pdf approx. 75% of management (company-wide) has been trained on anticorruption SO4 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/_webdata/gedragscodes_en_0.pdf SO5 CSR website http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/policymakers SO6 CSR website € 0,http://corporate.telenet.be/en/content/policymakers
