Titel 2012 CSR 1 Corporate Social Responsibility – from voluntary to regulated responsibility Contents Statement by the Managing Partner 3 From soft law to hard law 4 Knowledge is the foundation for growth 6 Diversity is the key to better results 7 CSR due diligence in transactions 9 Expanding in China 10 Entrepreneurship in Kenya 12 Renewed cooperation with Save the Children 13 Sustainable development 14 Bech-Bruun facts 15 CSR 2012 3 Statement by the Managing Partner Over the past year, Bech-Bruun has We also expanded our activities in experienced growth and we have China with the appointment of three To ensure continued growth and fortified our competences among new employees at our representative progress, we kicked off 2013 by other things through new strategic office in Shanghai. welcoming four new partners, who alliances, a renewed partnership with will strengthen our competences Save the Children and a high employIn the spring of 2012, the Danish within public private cooperation/ ee satisfaction. We have strengthegovernment introduced its action partnerships (PPC/PPP), public ned our focus on legal advice within plan on corporate social responsiprocurement, public law, state aid, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) bility ”Responsible growth”. Various competition law and real estate. and on knowledge sharing within pieces of CSR-related legislation have CSR-related legislation. The objective followed, and we have paid close is to integrate CSR and law wherever attention to this development. relevant, and to assume responsibility in respect to our clients, employees, 2012 has been a good year at Bechthe surrounding community and the Bruun. It has, above all, very clearly environment. This CSR report, our shown that CSR and law go hand in fourth running, is also a strong testahand, and that the voluntary aspect of ment to our commitment to the UN CSR is increasingly becoming sustainGlobal Compact. ed by regulated responsibility. 2012 set-off with our large-scale I hope that you will enjoy reading our merger with Philip Law Firm. We also CSR report. welcomed a number of lawyers from Lind Cadovius Law Firm. This has strengthened our market position, in particular within agriculture, energy, Randi Bach Poulsen construction and dispute resolution. Managing Partner Twelve months later, the merger has undoubtedly proven to be a success, however also challenging at times. We tribute the success our pronounced focus on integration and teambuilding activities, including social and professional events. Our workplace assessment results attest the success of our integration efforts. 95 per cent of our employees and partners state that they are satisfied or very satisfied with working at Bech-Bruun. We are very proud of this result and committed to maintaining it. The assessment also exposes a number of areas with room for improvement. Our internal communication is one of our future priority areas. CSR 2012 4 From soft law to hard law In 2011, the European Commission changed its definition of CSR, Mediation and grievance mechaTarget figures for more women in breaking away from the perception nism for responsible business management of CSR as a voluntary activity. CSR is conduct As a consequence of the low renow defined as the responsibility of On 1 November 2012, a new presentation of women in manageenterprises for their impacts on somediation and grievance body for ment, the Danish Parliament in ciety. In practice, CSR is increasingly responsible business conduct was December 2012 adopted new legiincorporated into the value chain of introduced. The new body is to slation according to the comply-orenterprises through integration into handle cases involving potential explain principle to promote a management systems, compliance breaches by Danish businesses of higher degree of gender equality in programmes, product development OECD’s principles for multinational board rooms and at senior manageand sale and marketing. In a Danish enterprises. ment level. Effective as of 1 April context, the first CSR institutionalisa2013, the 1,100 largest businesses tion was the CSR reporting requireThe guidelines include requirements and state-owned public limited ment in section 99a of the 2009 for a company’s due diligence procompanies must determine target fiFinancial Statements Act. cess, a stricter policy on facilitation gures and policies as well as account payments and a higher degree of for their attaining of such targets. In April 2012, the Danish governresponsibility for the company’s ment presented a new action plan supplier chain. The mediation and for corporate social responsibility. grievance body cannot make legal, Towards 2015, the Danish governThe action plan ”Responsible binding decisions. Instead, the body ment is expected to adopt new legigrowth” was based on the internais to handle the cases by way of slation on, among other things, tional principles for social responmediation. public sector transparency. Moresibility under the UN, the EU and over, the European Commission is the OECD. The action plan aims to Reporting on human rights and expected to propose amendments enhance respect for international impact on the climate to the current legislation on financial guidelines, to increase sustainaFor the future, the 1,100 largest statements to increase corporate ble growth through partnerships, Danish enterprises and state-owned transparency on social and environto increase transparency, and to limited liability companies must mental issues. promote a good framework for report on their policies and work to sustainable growth through public respect human rights and reduce sector initiatives. their impact on the climate. This reporting must be made in connecThe action plan reflects a clear tention with the CSR statements in the dency: Soft law in the field of CSR is companies’ annual reports. If a busigradually developing into hard law. ness does not have a CSR policy, this Enterprises and public institutions must as a minimum be stated. must continuously pay attention to new initiatives, and they may With the new act, businesses must benefit from preparing themselves pay particular attention to addressfor the transformation of voluntary ing the risk of violating human rights initiatives into statutory requirein the entire value chain. The act ments in future. Several initiatives moreover encourages businesses were introduced in 2012 such as to link green growth and business the establishment of a mediation development to a much higher and grievance mechanism for degree. The act comes into force on responsible business conduct, the 1 January 2013. introduction of reporting requirements regarding human rights and the climate, as well as target figures for women in management. CSR 2012 5 CSR 2012 6 Knowledge is the foundation for growth Proactivity derives from knowledge. In clients, business partners and other the world of law, it is essential to be in stakeholders. One example is our In 2013, we are planning a two-day the vanguard of new developments. annual Professional Development Day seminar for law students offering legal New legislation, amendments to existargeted corporate lawyers. The Prolessons and inspiration for personal ting regulation or proposals for new fessional Development Day offers a development taught by in-house and legislative requirements can drascatalogue of 21 lessons within various external lecturers. tically change the framework under disciplines of law, and the participants which businesses operate. But new tailor their programmes according to knowledge and changes in the legal their interests and professional areas. framework can be an effective lever The 2012 programme encompassed to growth and competitive strength anti-corruption and bribery, changes when a proactive approach that antito the Code of Conduct for the Danish cipates changes is applied. Bar and Law Society, and updates on personal data legislation. As a knowledge-based business, training is an important element for The Professional Development Day, us internally as well as externally. The that took place in the autumn of 2012, scope and quality of our knowledge focused on public law issues and was is based on a profound legal insight, a big success. The topics of the day constant focus on corporate deveincluded whistleblowing schemes, lopments and our ability to adjust to public procurement and invitations the ever changing circumstances. This to tenders as well as updates on the is why we have established our own area of state aid. Bech-Bruun Academy. As a new initiative, we hosted a Bech-Bruun Academy provides our very successful and well-attended employees with the opportunity to Company Day in the autumn of 2012 develop their personal skills and focusing on company law, CSR, board professional competences embodied room work and cooperation with in their job profiles. Building strong China. competences and resources is how we fulfil our strategic objectives and And for the second year running visions. we arranged our Summer Academy within employment law. The five-day In 2012, Bech-Bruun Academy seminar was fully booked with highly hosted several special events for our committed participants, all eager to learn more about employment law. 2010 2011 2012 Number of clients attending 502 951 1,054 Bech-Bruun Academy Bech-Bruun Academy 4.6 4.5 4.6 client rating (on a scale of 1–5) Since 2007, 150 of our associates have participated in our talent development programme. CSR 2012 7 Diversity is the key to better results Women in corporate management make up a decreasing share the cloin Denmark are in the minority. As a ser one gets to the top management In 2013, we will host a diversity result a new act introducing targets level. This is also a trend we see at conference to generate ideas on how for a more equal gender distribution Bech-Bruun. A little more than half of we and other businesses can break in the management has been ratified all employees are women and slightly the glass ceiling and improve gender applying to the 1,100 largest businessmore than half of the junior associdiversity. es in Denmark. ates are women. But the number of women drops, the closer we get to The figures speak for themselves: partner level. The number of female private sector senior executives has only increased For years, we have recruited qualified from four to six per cent over the past men and women in equal numbers ten years. This trend recurs in the and our management has a 60 per board rooms of Danish businesses. cent majority of women. Our chalToday women make up less than 12 lenge remains to retain our female per cent of the board members of associates and to support them in listed public limited companies. When choosing the path to partnership and employee elected board members senior management. are excluded, the figure is as low as six per cent. We have already launched several initiatives to meet this challenge. We At Bech-Bruun we value employee have a special career development diversity in the daily management programme for women including a of our business and among our high level of job flexibility, and we partners. We believe that diversity address career wishes at appraisal contributes to creating the best posinterviews and offer individual coachsible results for our clients and for our ing. In addition, we have joined an business. As a result, we continuously ambassador corps network aimed pursue initiatives to facilitate a higher at boosting the number of women in degree of gender, age and professionmanagement positions and particial diversity. pated in the Confederation of Danish Industry’s Diversity Think Tank. A tenacious trend among Danish and international large law firms is that We are convinced that diversity in while women are well-represented management is the best starting point in the organisation as a whole, they for long-term and short-term success. Diversity in Bech-Bruun Total 55% 45% Women Men Junior Associates 54% 46% Associates 44% 56% Partners 9% 91% Executive 60% 40% Management CSR 2012 8 CSR 2012 9 ”To provide a realistic and fair view of the CSR challenges and possibilities that lie with a seller, a CSR due diligence must combine information from the traditional due diligence investigations, such as the legal, commercial, financial and cultural aspects.” Morten Hove Henriksen CSR Advisor, Bech-Bruun CSR due diligence in transactions New CSR-related legislation and new unusual to investigate compliance international guidelines for ethical buwith human rights, investments in In 2010, the American anti-corrupsiness conduct mean that, in the futugreen technologies, CSR screenings tion authorities fined American re, it could be advisable for businesses of business partners as well as a RAI Systems USD 2.9 million for to conduct a CSR due diligence in number of business and industry having entered into joint venture connection with acquisitions, mergers, specific CSR aspects. agreements with two Chinese busiand in the conclusion of joint ventures nesses. The company was found and strategic partnerships. If a business decides not to conguilty on two counts: an insufficiduct a CSR due diligence prior to a ent anti-corruption due diligence At Bech-Bruun, we have specialised in transaction, this may – in a worst-case investigation and the failure to conducting CSR due diligences. Today, scenario – result in liability for daact on the basis of the results of very few businesses conduct an actual mages, harm the corporate reputathe due diligence investigations. CSR due diligence in connection with tion and brand, or lead to unforeseen M&A transactions. Some companies surprises when integrating the new incorporate the most important CSR company. components into the existing due diligence investigations, while other A CSR issue is rarely a ”deal breaker”. companies that to a greater extent However, the findings of a CSR due employ CSR as an integrated part of diligence may be valuable at the negotheir business find it to prove profittiation table and in the transfer agreeable to conduct a more extensive and ment and may forestall bad press. separate CSR due diligence. CSR due diligence is one of the many A number of CSR areas have become CSR services we offer to our clients. integrated parts of traditional due We also provide advice on green diligence investigations, for example marketing, corporate governance, environmental reporting and antiduty of care, social clauses and whistcorruption. It is, however, still rather leblowing. CSR 2012 10 中國 Expanding in China With our merger with Philip Law Our Chinese Desk employees have Firm and the employment of a numreceived anti-corruption training As the very first appointment in ber of lawyers from Lind Cadovious taking them through a number of Europe, the arbitration commission in 2012 we increased headcount corruption, bribery and facilitation for the Chinese city Xiamen has by 78 employees. However, we did payments dilemmas. This initiative appointed Bech-Bruun partners not only expand in Denmark, but aims to ensure compliance with Henrik Valdorf-Hansen and Carsten also in China where our presence our ethical guidelines and Danish Pedersen as registered arbitrators. In was bolstered with a new general and Chinese legislation among our addition, partner Jes Anker Mikkelsen manager and two new employemployees – and to provide them was appointed to the panel of arbitraees at our representative office in with the tools to do so. tors at the Southeast China InternaShanghai. tional Maritime Arbitration Court. With To support our efforts we have their appointments, our Bech-Bruun There is an enourmous untapped moreover become a member of partners have been vested with the potential for Chinese investments the Danish Ministry of Foreign authority to act as arbitrators in disin Denmark, and our Chinese Desk Affairs’ anti-corruption network in pute matters in China. focuses intently on closing this gap. China. We expect this network will provide a fruitful forum for learning Following the increase in our actiand knowledge sharing with other vities in China and other countries Danish businesses with activities in abroad, we have defined a clear China. strategy for what we expect of our employees. Our code of conduct entails a zero-tolerance policy in respect of bribery and corruption and originates from our express desire that our clients and stakeholders should feel confident that we always act in a fair and ethical manner. CSR 2012 11 ”For many Danish businesses the joining of forces with a Chinese investor presents a range of new opportunities and can for example help revitalise a business in distress and grant access to new growth markets.” Henrik Brandt General Manager, Bech-Bruun’s representation office in Shanghai Following China’s substantial growth various new pieces of legislation have been designed to ease the administrative burdens and risks facing Danish-Chinese cooperation. These include a new double-taxation treaty between Denmark and China and the signing of a new agreement enabling a fast track procedure for the examination of Danish patent applications in China. CSR 2012 12 ”We are convinced that our work in Kenya has profoundly helped the local entrepreneurs towards becoming sustainable businesses. One of the start-ups we followed closely has already managed to obtain additional funds from external investors, which is a clear indicator of its viability.” Thomas Gjøl-Trønning Partner, Bech-Bruun ”Kenya’s mobile telephone infrastructure is surprisingly developed and the use of mobile phones in daily activities was simply impressive and much more advanced than in Denmark.” Simon Milthers Partner, Bech-Bruun Entrepreneurship in Kenya For many years, Bech-Bruun has focuand individual coaching, we managed sed on business-driven CSR using our Kenya, as many other countries in to fine-tune their business concepts, competences to help businesses the region, is experiencing a boom prepare persuasive investor presenand organisations that would otherin businesses run by young, local entations and pinpoint short-term wise not have had the possibility of trepreneurs, who feel very optimistic priorities. obtaining qualified advice. In 2012, we about the future and its possibilities, provided pro bono advice to organisain particular within the mobile technoThe project was valuable not only to tions such as Foreningen Grønlandlogy industry. the start-up businesses, but also to ske Børn (NGO for the protection us. We have extended our knowledge of children in Greenland), Save the We met with eight Kenyan start-up of the cultural and business-related Children Denmark and Doctors Withcompanies, all with good and visiodifferences between Kenya and Denout Borders. nary business ideas within mobile mark and improved our understandtelephone technology. Every one of ing of operating a business in Africa. Traditional emergency aid versus selfthem needed start-up capital to devehelp schemes is a long-standing delop their ideas as well as assistance in bate. Kresten Buch, the originator of categorising and prioritising the chal88 mph is a social platform serving 88 mph, believes that the best way to lenges they were facing. They were as a contact point between Kenyan create sustainable development is to in urgent need of finding solutions entrepreneurs and mentors from empower people through competenenabling them to survive in Kenya’s all over the world. ce building. At his and the consultancy highly competitive market place. company Quartz+Co’s initiative, we and a number of other specialists and From day one (following intensive preexecutives from Danish companies, parations before our departure), our including BDO, Novo Nordisk, Grundmentor delegation turned every stone fos, COOP and Lego, went to Nairobi to become familiar with the eight to do what we do best: Advising start-ups. Through close dialogue with businesses on how best to handle the the young entrepreneurs, mentoring challenges they are facing. CSR 2012 13 ”Our partnership with Bech-Bruun is a very good example of how a business can make a profound, long-lasting difference for a group of children that would otherwise have had only poor access to education. We are very pleased that the partnership has been renewed.” Mimi Jakobsen Secretary General, Save the Children Denmark Renewed cooperation with Save the Children Every year, we and our employees population living below the UN pover• Renovation of a number of schools, participate in a number of campaigns ty line and an illiteracy ratio of around including the installation of five and charitable activities. In 2012, 57 per cent. toilets and five water pumps. we bicycled for the Danish Cancer Society, distributed the World’s Best We are very pleased to continue our All of the 11 schools are located in News (a Danish campaign formed by successful cooperation with Save the the Ensaro district, north of Addis the UN, Danida and more than 80 Children on support for schooling Ababa in Ethiopia, and include the Danish aid organisations to report on and education. With the construction Mite School that we have previously success stories and progress in the of the two schools we have created sponsored. The partnership also developing countries), turned off the a strong basis for development. Our targets 250 parent-teacher associalights with WWF and collected clothes priority is now to improve the quality tions (PTAs), the parents of the 5,500 for the Danish Red Cross. 2012 also of the education as well as the physipupils, and the local environment. saw a renewal of our partnership with cal learning environment in order Save the Children Denmark. to give the children the chance of a brighter future. In recent years, we have contributed to the construction of two schools Our partnership with Save the Childin Angola and Ethiopia through our ren will result in: partnership with Save the Children. We have now renewed this partner• Supplementary training of 500 ship for an additional five-year period. teachers to improve the quality of During the next five years, we will help their teaching support and improve education in • 2,700 child-to-child support groups Ethiopia at 11 schools, encompassing to reduce dropout rates 5,500 pupils, and provide further • 1,125 tables, sports equipment, education to 500 teachers. Ethiopia teaching material and equipment is one of the poorest countries in the for the science rooms at the 11 world with around 39 per cent of the schools CSR 2012 14 Sustainable development Over the past decade, we have Copenhagen Cleantech Cluster made significant efforts to reduce moreover provides us with a unique In 2013, we will together with Copenour consumption of resources. As possibility of becoming part of a hagen Cleantech Cluster host a large a result, our electricity, water and network of other strong cleantech cleantech conference focusing on inheat consumption per employee companies and research institutions. vestments in new markets and green has never been lower. We have also We can thereby follow international building. managed to reduce the amount of cleantech trends at first hand and waste per employee to a record low. identify market opportunities, which will strengthen our advice to our In 2013, we will continue to release For a long time, we have been one clients. publications and offer seminars to of the leading advisors in Denmark improve the opportunities and within the areas of energy, reuse and China Renewable Energy framework for cooperation between sustainable use of resources. To supIndustries Association Chinese and European businesses. port this strategic focus, we entered Ever since the introduction of our into a number of strategic partnerChinese Desk in 2011, we have ships in 2012 with the objective to worked on improving the framework put our expert competences to use for cooperation between Chinese in a manner that will impact most and European businesses. As part effectively on the environment. of this strategy, we entered into a cooperation agreement in 2012 with Copenhagen Cleantech Cluster the Chinese trade association of As the first and only law firm we have renewable energy, China Renewable joined Copenhagen Cleantech ClusEnergy Industries Association (CREIA). ter and together we will work to create an even better breeding ground Through this partnership we will confor new Danish cleantech technology. tribute to enhancing the business As a stakeholder in Copenhagen climate for Chinese and European Cleantech Cluster we will join major renewable energy companies. Anothcleantech investors such as Dong er area of priority is the promotion Energy, Siemens Danmark, Rambøll of wind energy investment opportuand the City of Copenhagen. nities in Northern Europe among Chinese investors. By combining our expert skills we can improve the framework and the In 2012, we joined forces with CREIA opportunities for the players in the to publish the book ”Chinese Wind cleantech industry, such as startPower – How to Enter Europe Sucups and established companies, cessfully”. investors, education and research institutions, and public authorities. Copenhagen Cleantech Cluster has established a unique platform for knowledge sharing and the promotion of the strongholds of Denmark’s cleantech industry, nationally and abroad. The result is increasing interest among investors and better export opportunities for Danish cleantech products and services. CSR 2012 15 Bech-Bruun facts Employees As of 31 December 2012 9 Total number of employees 512 Number of fee-earners Average age 256 37.1 75 Average seniority 8.6 68 Partners Associates Junior Associates Other fee-earners 104 Green facts 2010 2011 2012 8.2% Electricity consumption (kWh) 992,720 945,094 1,023,777 lower per employee Heat consumption (mWh) 1,050 1,012 903 electricity consumption Water consumption (m3) 521 494 510 10.8% Combustible waste (t) 80.80 80.01 86.54 lower heat consumption Recyclable material (t) 14.23 35.68* 24.05* * Following our merger with Philip Law Firm, a large effort to align and reduce 78 our files resulted in a larger amount of paper recycling than in previous years additional employees – but also in a lower amount of combustible waste per employee. Copenhagen Aarhus Shanghai, rep.office Langelinie Allé 35 Frue Kirkeplads 4 83 Loushanguan Road 2100 Copenhagen 8000 Aarhus Suite 2635, 26/F Denmark Denmark Shanghai, China COP Summary Activities, Objectives and Results Human Rights 1. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and respects the protection of support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights and participated, protection of among others, in the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in internationally proclaimed 2010 to show our support. Furthermore, we participate each human rights; and year in the World’s Best News campaign aiming to spread the message that the efforts against poverty make a difference. Our Code of Conduct explicitly expresses our support for the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2. make sure that they are Bech-Bruun actively helps to prevent the abuse of human not complicit in human rights. In cooperation with Save the Children, we have rights abuses engaged in a number of activities and, for example, built two schools in Angola and Ethiopia for the purpose of ensuring the right to education. In 2012, we renewed our partnership with Save the Children. Over the next five years, we will help support and improve education at 11 schools in Ethiopia, educating 5,500 pupils, and provide further training to 500 teachers. Through our extensive pro bono activities, we support organisations which would not otherwise be able to seek advice. In 2012, we rendered pro bono advice to for example WWF, Doctors Without Borders and Foreningen Grønlandske Børn (NGO for the protection of children in Greenland). Labour Standards 3. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and upholds the freedom of uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining of all its association and the employees. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all Bech-Bruun supports the elimination of all forms of forced forms of forced and and compulsory labour. compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition Bech-Bruun supports the abolition of child labour. With our of child labour; and school in Ethiopia, we have created a gathering point for the local community and now witness an acceptance of school attendance, also among the adult population which now wants to go to school. 6. the elimination of Bech-Bruun supports diversity and the elimination of discrimination in respect discrimination. For many years now, we have taken on an of employment and equal number of female and male lawyers, and Bech-Bruun occupation. has, as its special focus area, the aim of increasing the number of women in management and, especially, at partner level. We have launched several initiatives to reach this goal. We have a special career development programme for women including a high level of job flexibility, and we address career wishes at appraisal interviews and offer individual coaching. In addition, we have joined an ambassador corps network aimed at boosting the number of women in management positions and participated in the Confederation of Danish Industry’s Diversity Think Tank. In 2013, we will host a diversity conference to generate ideas on how we and other businesses can break the glass ceiling and improve gender diversity. The Environment 7. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and advocates a reduction of our own support a precautionary impact and of the impact of our surroundings on the approach to environment. We encourage all our employees to care for environmental challenges; the environment and to help increase our daily focus on recycling, energy consumption, etc. Through our pro bono work, we also support environmental organisations, such as Hold Danmark Rent (Keep Denmark Clean). 8. undertake initiatives to Over the past decade, we have made significant efforts to promote greater reduce our consumption of resources. As a result, our environmental electricity, water and heat consumption per employee has responsibility; and never been lower. We have also managed to reduce the amount of waste per employee to a record low. Through our supplier policy, we strive to promote environmentally sustainable procurement practices. Our new office in Aarhus, ready in the spring of 2014, is the first building in Denmark to comply with the energy rating 1 requirements. 9. encourage the For a long time, we have been one of the leading advisers in development and Denmark within the areas of energy, reuse and sustainable diffusion of use of resources. To support this strategic focus, we entered environmentally friendly into a number of strategic partnerships in 2012 with the technologies. objective to put our expert competences to use in a manner that will impact most effectively on the environment. Such partnerships include agreements with Copenhagen Cleantech Cluster and China Renewable Energy Industries Association. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and complies with the official code of work against corruption in conduct for lawyers. Furthermore, we have developed our all its forms, including own code of conduct which explicitly states that we take a extortion and bribery. zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. In 2012, our Chinese Desk employees received anticorruption training taking them through a number of corruption, bribery and facilitation payments dilemmas. This initiative aims to ensure compliance with our ethical guidelines and Danish and Chinese legislation by our employees – and to provide them with the tools to do so. To support our efforts, we have also become a member of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ anti-corruption network in China. We expect this network to provide a fruitful forum for learning and knowledge sharing with other Danish businesses engaging in activities in China.
