Homeplus Sustainability Report 2011/12 About the Report Purpose Celebrating the 13th anniversary of Homeplus, we can reflect on the contributions we have made to the development of local communities and the country as a whole, as well how we have enhanced the quality of our customers’ lives Homeplus Sustainability Report 2011/12 based on our vision ‘Most Highly Loved by Customers’. This report is developed to upgrade Homeplus’ sustainable management further by publishing our sustainable management performance and enhancing transparence of this report through communication with stakeholders. Guidelines This report is the sixth sustainability report issued by Homeplus since 2007. It is referenced in the ‘GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Reporting Guideline’ used as a global standard. In addition, core subjects and issues of ISO 26000 published in 2010 and 10 principles of UN Global Compact are identified in relation with this report to help readers understand. Scope and Period The reporting period spans from March 1 2011 to February 29 2012 based on Homeplus’ fiscal years, and the data is presented sequentially for the last three or four years for easy comparison on the years’ achievements. It states the activities and accomplishments outside of its scope when necessary. The scope of the report encompasses the sustainable management activities by Homeplus, Homeplus Tesco, Homeplus Bakery, and eParan Foundation. Assurance of the report This report has been verified by an independent external institution. Refer to 94~95 pages for the verification report. Information For further information on this report, please contact Head of CSR. Head of CSR at Homeplus Tel: 82-2-3459-2510 Fax: 82-2-3459-7680 Email: eparan@homeplus.co.kr * 2011 fiscal year of Homeplus covers March 1, 2011 to February 29, 2012. Homeplus Environment Character, ‘eParan’ eParan was the first CSR character in the industry and was introduced by Homeplus in 2000, along with its declaration of becoming a socially responsible company. It symbolizes the innovative and active environmental management policies of Homeplus. ‘e’ stands for everlasting, environmental, ethical, Head of CSR at Homeplus extended education, exciting, e-world, and ‘Paran’ stands for the wave symbolHomeplus is implementing company-wide sustainability management izing green, campaign, expansion, and promotion. with the faith that only a company admired by customers and the society can become a respected company. The Head of CSR coordinates sustainability strategies at the level of divisions, assesses the compliance status, evaluates related performance and promotes internal and external communication in this area. Samjung Bldg. 701-2, Yeoksam-dong, Gangnam-gu Tel: 82-2-3459-2510 Seoul, Korea 135-080 This report is printed on paper processed chlorine free and Fax: 82-2-3459-7680 Tel: 82-2-3459-2510 Fax: 82-2-3459-7680 certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Email: eparan@homeplus.co.kr www.homeplus.co.kr Council (FSCTM). Contents About Homeplus Economic and Industrial Growth 10 Message from the Chairman 66 Contribution to National and Local Economies 12 2011/12 Homeplus Highlight 68 Spurring Retail Innovation and Development 14 About Homeplus 23 Sustainable Management at Homeplus Staff Satisfaction 26 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 74 SynbaRation Corporate Culture 76 Tesco∙Homeplus Academy Corporate Social Responsibility 77 People Development 32 Structure of Social Contribution Activities 79 People Rewards 35 Love Sharing 80 Work & Family Balance 38 Love Neighbours 82 Staff Communication 40 Love Family 41 The Sports CSR eParan Youth Football Club Delivering Customer Value 86 Value Management for Greater Customer Satisfaction Love Environment 88 Effort to Better Satisfy Our Customers 44 Environment Management System 45 Green Stores Appendix 46 Carbon-Zero Tesco·Homeplus Academy 94 Independent Assurance Report 46 Green Process 96 GRI G3 Index 47 Green Movement for Children 98 UN Global Compact 48 Green Customer 99 ISO 26000 49 Green Management 101 Stakeholder Questionnaire 50 Green Network Shared Growth and Fair Trade 54 Effort for Shared Growth with Suppliers 58 Ethical Management 62 Transparency Homeplus strives to become Carbon-Zero Tesco·Homeplus Academy admired and respected company. Tesco·Homeplus Academy was established in July 2011 as the world’s first carbon zero academy. The Academy pursues a goal of “Carbon Zero” by reducing carbon emissions of 50% and by producing new renewable energy to reduce For last 13 years, Homeplus has stood by a mission to create increasing the rest of 50%. In order to do that, value to our customers and communities. We have been working towards the Academy applies 70 green initiatives, specifically energy reduction factors like LED lighting, Building Energy continuous growth along with economic development, local community Management System (BEMS), contributions and environment. We commit to balance ‘growth’ and ‘social and inverters and facilities to generate new renewable energy using sunlight, solar heat, and geothermal heat. contribution’ and become the most admired and respected company. Tesco Museum & Homeplus Historium Green Facility Exhibition showing yesterday, present and future of Tesco Group and Homeplus Sunlight panel generating electricity using through high-tech digital equipment natural energy, and charge system of an electric car International Garden Outdoor garden displayed with sculpture sent from 14 countries, standing for harmony between the East and the West Ferry Pub & Ocean Café Traditional British style of pub and cafeteria where cultures from various countries are shared Homeplus’ Craft School Marine Craft School, Livestock Craft School and Chakhan Service School that are equipped with facilities specially-designed to nurture excellent experts in each area My Fit Vision Bridge & Vision Deck Fitness center equipped with Passage and observation platform where Accommodation Building modern style while enjoying determination to accomplish visions is made while enjoying sea Sea Side type of guest rooms with a terrace a beautiful scenery of sea facing sea Homeplus commits to make sustainable economy, environment and society. Sustainable management indicates a corporate management method comprehensively covering economical proficiency, environmental soundness and social responsibility by reflecting a social expectation of a sustainable growth into a corporate management structure. Integrating the comprehensive social expectation into the corporate management stands for ceaseless innovative activities. In this regard, sustaining competitiveness capable of responding to ever-changing management environment should be strengthened. That is the main reason why Homeplus focuses its companywide resources on sustainable management, while at the same time it is the ultimate purpose of social responsibilities. * 12th eParan environment painting contest participants Blue Sky Award, Min-Kyung Kim (5th Grade in Incheon Buill Elementary School) Homeplus positions as the most admired company through the Great Stone Face. Homeplus’ Great Stone Face, a corporate value realizing market value and social value, is a sustainable itself. The Great Stone Face is tow-fold of ‘Face of Growth’ and ‘Face of Contribution’ on which Homeplus aspires to become an admired company, rather than a giant company. Homeplus puts strategies and plans for the sustainable growth into practice. Therefore, we are doing our part to realize market value through effort to pursue the sustainable growth while at the same time by designating some projects as our key areas in terms of social value; for example, carrying out ‘4 Loves’ of Love Environment, Love Sharing, Love Neighbours, and Love Family; ‘contribution to the economy and industry’; and ‘Shared Growth and Fair Trade’. Homeplus will focus our company-wide capabilities on the pursuit of sustainable management to make all members of our society happier. 12th eParan environment painting contest participants * 12th eParan environement painting contest participants 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report eParan Award, Min-Kyung Ju (6th Grade in Seoul Euncheon Elementary School) eParan Award, Yoo-Jin Kim (5th Grade in Yale Elementary School) 9 Message from the Chairman Dream of a Great Stone Face Hoping to make Homeplus an admired company more than a Homeplus aspires to realize the dream of a Great Stone Face. large company, for the last thirteen years Homeplus has been Combining the two faces of an admired company, we will create dedicated to creating the two faces of growth and contribution. one Great Stone Face. One face of an admired company is the ‘Face of Growth’, which To realize the dream of a Great Stone Face, Homeplus intends is delivered through sustainable growth. Rather than short-term to ignite a fire that spreads the culture of contribution throughfast growth, the challenge is whether a business can deliver out the country. Through the establishment of the Homeplus consistent growth amid rapidly changing business environments eParan Foundation, we will realize more specific and practical and increasing market competitions. social values. Homeplus also plans to actively participate in Little Help Club, a network-base CSR alliance to join hands with The other face of an admired company is the ‘Face of Contribupeople who want to engage in contribution activities and focus tion’ of realizing social value. A company cannot be admired on contribution in specific fields for example, through Every Litsimply by raising its market value though sustainable growth. In tle Helps. addition to market value, a company must realize social value through social contribution activities, fair and ethical manageThe culture of contribution has not yet taken root among the ment, contribution to the economy and industry, contribution to Korean people. The Homeplus eParan Foundation and the Little local communities. Help Club will set a model for grass-root social contribution activities that continuously gives a little help to the society. Of the elements of realizing social value, corporate social responsibility is not a cost but an investment and must be conIn addition, Homeplus joined the UN Global Compact to suptinuous not one off. Like in the market, corporate social responport 10 principles about human rights, labor, environment and sibility should also be competitive. anti-corruption, and declared that we will comply with each of the principles. We will continue to make efforts to reflect these Against this background, Homeplus is concentrating its compeprinciples in the future. tencies in its ‘4 Loves Campaign’ of Love Environment, Love Sharing, Love Neighbours and Love Family. In particular, our A dream dreamt by one person is just a dream, but if we all social contribution activities towards Love Neighbours are the dream together, the dream becomes reality. I hope Homeplus’ largest of its kind in the world. At present, in Homeplus stores dream of a Great Stone Face sets a new model for the sustainacross the country, 117 Schools of Extended Education are in able management of companies and becomes a beautiful reality operation with over 6,800 instructors, annual memberships of where companies strive to fulfill their social responsibility. over 1.1 million, setting an unprecedented example in the history of retail industry around the world. Thank you. A dream you dream Homeplus is implementing enterprise-wide sustainability management with the faith that only a company admired by customalone is only a dream, Seung-Han Lee ers and the society can become an admired company. Now Homeplus Group Chairman but a dream you dream together is reality. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 11 2011/12 Homeplus Highlight 1 2 3 4 5 6 Playing a leading role Responding to fast Leading Social Strengthening 6 Plans Opening New Company name as in green growth by changing digital Contribution for Shared Growth for “Homeplus ‘Homeplus’ opening the world first environment through for the Better Tomorrow suppliers Smart Virtual Store” carbon zero academy mobile application On the expiration of the joint venture conHomeplus has provided a momentum to Tesco·Homeplus Academy was opened in Homeplus leaves no stone unturned to In coping with virtually smart era with The world’s first ‘Homeplus Smart Virtual tract with Samsung C&T Corporation, move one step futher in Korea’s CSR July 2011 as a world’s first carbon zero share its vision with suppliers and to joining of 20 million users, Homeplus has Store’ opened in August 2011 that is the Homeplus has ushered in a new era of activities through ‘4 Loves campagin ; training facility and as a hub of nurturing encourage suppliers to grow. Regarding attracted more and more customers ‘Multiplied Forth-Generation Store Model’. company with new brand name ‘HomeLove Environement, Love Sharing, Love global leaders. The Academy has 6 major realization of a shared growth with supplithrough Homeplus Application and corThis new concept store combines the serplus’ giving very close and familiar image Neighbours, Love Family’ of eParan concepts namely Green, Smart, Culture, ers, ‘Shared Growth Division’ was formed porate online homepage by offering vices provided by both online malls and to customers. In an effort to reinforce new Foundation. eParan Foundation founded Leadership, Service and Craft to create an in April 2011 and a 6 support specific Mobile Application and online services to offline stores so that customers can enjoy brand image, Homeplus has implement‘eParan Youth Football Club’ as the environment that is capable of building strategies required for partnership to genstaffs and customers for good communiconvenient shopping environment regarded a successful communication plan for world’s first Sports CSR model and supsmart and environment-friendly learning erate a sustainable growth engine with cation. More than eight hundred customless of time and space. We developed an the media, government, NGOs, customported actively the Social Responsibility facilities. The Academy is built by applysuppliers. The characteristics of the ers have made a good use of our Homeapplication technology that can recognize ers and suppliers. Activities in collaboration with other instiing 70 innovative green technologies to shared growth policies are to provide plus Application just eight months after barcodes of all products by interfacing tutions both at home and abroad by reduce energy use by 50% and to gener‘customized’ support centering on needs launching. In the face of SNS era, the information embedded in our internet establishing Social Responsibility R&D ate energy by 50% to realize carbon zero. of suppliers. Based on such characterisnew opening of Homeplus Twitter and shopping mall interfaced with offline center. These innovative technologies include tics, we gathered opinions and suggesFacebook has served as an open forum to stores. Therefore, for products with their Additionally, the UN Global Compact Energy Management System (BENS) – tions from 1,273 suppliers and six suphear ideas, opinions and feedback from barcodes and QR codes, customers Korea Network led by chairperson, generates 1,000,000 kWh, inverters, LED port systems for suppliers were defined; customers as well as staff members. The who use the Smart App using their smart Seung-han Lee, hosted a Global CSR lights and geothermal heat. The Academy ‘fair trade’, ‘funding’, ‘cooperation and Homeplus Smart Media has achieved a mobile phones are able to shop anyConference with attendance of large is an environment that is capable of technology support’, ‘export support’, maximum outcome. where, anytime and anyplace, referred to number of participants for the first time in building smart learning and accepting dif‘educational support’, and ‘management as ‘3A Shopping’. The 1st ‘Homeplus Korea. These proactive CSR initiatives ferent cultures of other countries accomsupport’. As such, all support plans idenSmart Virtual Store’ was launched in Seolhave contributed to elevating CSR status modating 24,000 staff per year. tified in areas necessary for suppliers will leung Station, Seoul, consisting of approxto a higher level while presenting a new be accomplished by utilizing Homeplus’ imately 500 major products selected paradigm for the development of CSR infrastructure, knowhows, knowledge and according to customers’ preferences. The globally. information to help them in a practical 2nd store was in Seomyeon Station, manner. Busan. We will expand the ‘Smart Virtual Store’ in areas of high population density such as subway stations, schools and parks to continuously provide diverse services, products and values to consumers. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 13 ABOUT HOMEPLUS Artience House Homeplus is doing its part to achieve the vision of ‘Most Highly Loved by Customers’ on the Chairman & CEO Seung-Han Lee Homeplus started it business with 2 stores in 1999, and now operates 133 hypermarkets basis of its own management structure called ‘Artience House’. Date established May 15, 1999 and 372 express stores with almost 11 trillion KRW in sales, which in turn becoming a comNumber of staff 26,748 (as of Dec. 2012) pany highly loved by customers. Homeplus is the leader in modernizing the retail industry What is ‘Artience’? Sales 11 Trillion KRW Artience is creating perfection by integrating art and science with the eye of insight. It is with ‘Value Store’, the ‘Third-Generation Touching Store’, and opening Korea’s first ‘3.5 Gen(2011/12, including Tenant) mashing-up the unlimited imagination of art with the knowledge and information of science, eration Green Store’ as well as the ‘Forth-Generation Smart Virtual Store’. Number of stores 133 hypermarkets, and analyzing and testing it to create perfection. 372 express stores Homeplus acquired 35 Homever stores in May 2008 and rebranded as the Homeplus What is ‘House’? (as of Dec. 2012) Group with Samsung Tesco, Homeplus Tesco, and Homeplus Bakery. Homeplus has posiManagement framework is linked to a house structure, logically explaining the correlations tioned as one of Korea’s most admired companies that provides a higher value to our cusin each pair of elements. Management is like building a house. Deciding the size of the roof, tomers and the society at large through the unique management model of ‘Great Stone firming up the foundation after geological survey, driving the piling into the ground, laying Face’. Homeplus established the ‘Homeplus eParan Foundation’ in October 2009 and plays the floor, setting a cornerstone, building pillars, placing a girder, and putting a roof can be the role in making real social contribution for society as a whole. compared to the important elements of management such as vision, mission, value, corporate culture, management principle, strategy and steering wheel. Currently, Homeplus group has main business portfolios consisting of hypermarkets, express stores, bakery business Homeplus Bakery, new retail services, and online shopping. Vision Roof The first step to build a house is deciding the size of the roof. The size and shape of a roof We also operate a nonprofit entity of eParan Foundation and Homeplus Academy. On top of dictate what the house looks like. Roof is vision in corporate management. The scale of this, Homeplus operates online shopping malls of ‘Online Mart’ and ‘e-Special Mall’ and vision dictates the size and shape of the business. Our vision is to become the company retail services with more than 38 different services including insurance, communications, most highly loved by customers. and travel. Number of Staff 2012 26,748 Opened world’s first 2011 28,024 Established the Launched carbon zero Established Selected 2010 25,196 Sales hit the 1 Homeplus group Opened 100th the global academy the joint venas the Best trillion-won mark in Oct. 2008 Express Store fashion brand, July 2011 Ranked number Employer 2009 23,700 CEO ture Artisee ‘Florence & Fred’ the shortest time in one in KS-SQI for Nov. 2008 in Asia Seung-Han Lee Boulangerie Recognized as Mar. 2010 the retail industry 3 consecutive year Mar. 2009 receives Gold Aug. 2007 ‘Hall of Fame’ Oct. 2001 Aug. 2003 Number of Stores Tower Order for the Korea Joint Venture of Industrial Opened ‘ThirdManagement as Samsung Won the National 2012 133 Service Merit Generation Award Tesco Quality Award Mokcheon Nov. 2004 Hypermarket’ in Oct. 2008 2011 131 May 1999 (Presidential Award) Distribution The 50th Jamsil Nov. 2002 Service Centre, Declaration Homeplus Selected as 2010 Sept. 2007 121 Asia’s largest of commitAcquisition of store opened the ‘Hall of Declaration Aram Mart 2009 distribution ment to social Oct. 2006 Fame’ in 117 of environFamily Card Mar. 2005 Launched centre, opened responsibility ‘Korea’s Most ment manlaunched Smart VirMar. 2003 and launching Admired Comagement Nov. 2002 tual Store of the staff pany Award’ Aug. 2001 Aug. 2011 volunteer group Recognized as Oct. 2010 May 2004 ‘Hall of Fame’ for the Korea Opened the Established the Service Award first Green Homeplus eParan Nov. 2008 Store in Foundation Released the Korea Oct. 2009 first Oct. 2008 Fresh food Sustainability Selected as Korea’s Launched networkLaunched The first Express distribution service Report Most Admired based CSR model Launched centre opened in May 2007 Acquired 35 Homeplus Ansan e-commerce store opened in Company for 2 ‘Save the Young Price Investment Haman Homever stores Store, the first business Junggyedong, Seoul consecutive years Lives campaign’ Mar. 2003 July 2005 May 2008 ‘Value Store,’ opened Mar. 2002 June 2004 Feb. 2009 Mar. 2012 Aug. 2000 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 15 Core Purpose Foundation After geological survey, foundation is laid. This is the foundation to build the house on. THE VISION HOUSE Foundation is ‘core purposes’ for corporate management and standards for running busiVision Roof ness and treating employees, which clearly explains the reason of our existence. Our core purpose is to ‘create increasing value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty’. Values – Piling World Best Value Retailer To firm up the foundation, piling is driven into the ground. Piling is ‘values’ in corporate Objectives Girder management. Our values are ‘No one tries harder for customers’, and ‘Treat people how we would like to be treated’. Our values are the center of business execution, and they guide Steering Wheel us to our goal. To live these values, we abide by the Business Code of Conduct on customers, employees, suppliers, local community, nation, and shareholders. Strategy Pillar Create Differentiate Innovate Cultivate Collaborate Contribute Culture – Bottom After firming up the foundation and driving piling into the ground, floor is laid and solidified. Principle Cornerstone Solid floor is required to make the house earthquake-resistant. Floor is ‘culture’ in corporate Better / Simpl management. Our corporate culture is ‘Sinbaration’. It is a combination of eastern concept er / Cheaper / Faster ‘sinbaram(excitement)’ and western concept ‘rational’. Culture Bottom Sinbara tional Principle – Cornerstone Customer / Colleague / A cornerstone is set on the floor. To prevent the house from collapsing, the cornerstone Supplier / C ommunity Core Purpose | / Country / Sharehold Foundation needs to be set at the exactly right spot. Cornerstone is ‘management principles’ in corpoValues We mak er |Piling e what m rate management. Our management principles are ‘Better, Simpler, Cheaper, Faster’. We atters b etter, to make decisions and lead changes based on these four principles. gether Strategy – Pillar Copyright © SH Lee Pillars are built on the cornerstone. Horizontal and vertical forces cross to shape the framework of the building and support the girder. Pillar is ‘strategy’ in corporate management. Our management strategy is to become an excellent and competitive business through differentiation, innovation and creation, and to become the most respected company that leads a sustainable growth through collaboration, cultivation and contribution. Art Management Organization Chart (as of Dec. 2012) Steering Wheel – Girder Management like Art A girder is placed on the pillars and a roof is put on top of them. Girder is an important beam that joins the pillars and the roof together. Girder is ‘Steering Wheel’ in corporate Marketing Food Non-Food New Retail Express Tenant Property Finance Coporate People think, Commercial Commercial Service Affairs ‘Art is a state of Perfection’ management. Steering Wheel is a tool for consistent and balanced management of company performance targets. It consists of five key areas that are crucial to business success. Artists think, They are customer, operation, finance, talent and local community. COO ‘Art is a state of Imperfection’ This is why they devote all their passion and energy to attain the state of perfection. HR & Strategy LP & I I believe, Likewise, we can elevate the management quality to the state of art. This comes true when we strive for Product Devlopment Site Research perfection with our heart and energy. I believe Management is like art. Chairman & CEO Copyright by SH Lee 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 17 Corporate Governance – The Board of Directors Meetings Homeplus Store : total of 133 stores (as of Dec. 2012) Important decisions concerning Homeplus group are made through a shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors and are implemented in a transparent and lawful manner. Homeplus Group holds regular general meeting of shareholders and non-regular general meeting of shareholders to allow shareholders to fully understand and legally execute their rights allotted in accordance with commercial law and articles of association. The regular general shareholders’ meeting is held every year, after the year-end closing, within 3 months. To enable shareholders to decide important decision-making agenda in a timely Homeplus is consisted of 10 specialists in finance, marketing, design and academia. manner, non-regular general shareholders’ meetings are held by the decision of the board of directors, on a needed basis. Regular general meetings of shareholders are held on a quarterly basis throughout the year in order to allow the board of directors to decide and implement agenda entrusted in the general meeting of shareholders in accordance with commercial law and articles of association and non-regular general shareholders’ meeting are held if necessary. The ‘Homeplus eParan Foundation’ holds its regular board meeting two times a year. Homeplus consists of four directors including chairman Seung-Han Lee, and one auditor. Homeplus Tesco consists of five directors including Hyo-Seok Wang, CEO and one auditor. The board of directors of Homeplus Bakery, merged by both Homeplus and Shilla Hotel, consist of five directors including Won-Hoe Kim, CEO and one auditor. eParan Foundation consists of eight board members and one auditor. Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee is a law-abiding decision-making body to reduce potential legal risks in advance by detecting violations against laws and rules of a company, illegitimacy of procedures and so on ranging from all business areas of Homeplus Group. The Compliance Committee meets 4 times a year to examine and review 30 areas identified in advance, and if problems that can be improved are found their countermeasures and supplementary actions are discussed and taken immediately. Corporate Governance Return Corporate governance refers to an internal control system or corporate governance structure to hold each other in check in accordance with commercial law and articles of association in order to guarantee legitimate and transparent management activities. Main points of the corporate governance indicate the roles and responsibilities of directors and auditors, Gaya, Gayang, Gajwa, Ganseok, Gangdong, Gangnueng, Gangseo, Geojae, Gyeongi Hanam, Gyeongju, Gyeryong, Gyesan, operation of the board of directors, and principles and regulations that should be required Goyang Terminal, Gwangyang, Gwangju Gyerim, Gwangju Hanam, Gumi, Guwol, Geumcheon, Gimje, Gimpo, Gimhae, when it comes to governing a company’s day-to-day functioning by executives. Corporate Nam-Daegu, Namyangju, Naedang, Nonsan, Daegu, Daegu Suseong, Daegu Stadium, Daejeon Gao, Daejeon Dunsan, Governance Return is a document reporting a company’s compliance status with regard to Daejeon Tanbang, Dong-Gwangju, Dong-Gimhae, Dongdaemun, Dong-Daejeon, Dongrae, Dong-Suwon, Dong-Cheongju, its corporate governance structure, procedures and policies. Homeplus conducts verificaDeungchon, Masan, Myeonmok, Mokdong, Mokpo, Mungyeong, Munhwa, Miryang, Banghak, Byeongjeom, Boryeong, tion of compliance status to identify its transparency and efficiency through Corporate GovBusan Gamman, Busan Banyeo, Busan Yeonsan, Busan Jeonggwan, Bucheon Sangdong, Bucheon Sosa, Bucheon ernance Return and notifies its stakeholders of the results. Yeowol, Buk-Suwon, Bundang Ori, Samcheok, Samcheonpo, Sangin, Seogwipo, Seo-Daejeon, Seomyeon, Seo-Busan, Seo-Suwon, Seongseo, Centum city, Songtan, Suncheon, Suncheon Pungduk, Shihwa, Siheung, Sinnae, Sindorim, Homeplus Strategy Advisory Group Asiad, Andong, Ansan, Ansan Gojan, Ansan Seonbu, Anyang, Yatap, Ulsan Bukgu, Woncheon, Worldcup, Yusung, Inha, Homeplus is operating a group of strategy advisors to assess the efficiency and success of Ilsan, Yeongdo, Yeongdeungpo, Yeongju, Yeongtong, Ochang, Ulsan, Ulsan Namgu, Ulsan Donggu, Wonju, Wolgok, overall management from 2008. This strategy advisory group is made up of 10 specialists, UiJeongbu, Iksan, Incheon Nonhyeon, Incheon Yeonsu, Jakjeon, Jamsil, Jangrim, Jeonju, Jeonju Wansan, Jeonju Hyoja, in different fields, such as finance, marketing, design. The term lasts for a year and can be Jochiwon, Jukdo, Junggye, Jungdong, Jinjeob, Jinju, Jinhae, Changwon, Cheonan, Cheonan Sinbang, Cheongju, renewed after termination. Strategy advisory meetings can be divided into regular meetings Cheongju Seongan, Chuncheon, Chilgok, Kintex, Paju Munsan, Pyeongchon, Pyeongtaek Anjung, Pocheon Songwoo, and functional meetings. Regular meetings are held quarterly whereas functional meetings Pohang, Pungmu, Haeundae, Hwaseong Dongtan, Hwaseong Hyangnam are held whenever consultation with a specialized advisor is required. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 19 Awards Homeplus has made contributions to enhancing customer value through a consistent effort Awards by Year (180 awards for 13 years) to continuously enhance the quality of our products and price competitiveness and broaden Year Award Presented by the variety of living services. To do that, Homeplus, under its philosophy of ‘creating higher 2000 Customer Service Management Grand Award Korea Management Association Consulting value for customers at all times’, creates ‘Value Store’ of 2nd generation hypermarket, ‘EmoPrime Minister’s Award in Industry Cooperation The Federation of the Korean Industries tional Store’ of 3rd generation hypermarket, and ‘Smart Virtual Store’ of 4th generation store Prime Minister's Award in Foreign Investment Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy that combines online and offline stores. These efforts were acknowledged when Homeplus 2001 New Corporate Culture Grand Award Korea Management Association Consulting received ‘Hall of Fame’ in both the ‘Korea Service Grand Award’ and ‘Korea Management Korea Marketing Grand Award Korea Management Association Consulting Grand Award’. Also, Homeplus was selected as ‘The Most Admired Company’ All Star in the Customer Service CEO Award Korea Management Association Consulting shortest time among enormous competitors in Korea by the Korea Management Association. 2002 Presidential Award in National Quality Korea Standards Association Hankyung Marketing Award Hankyung Newspaper Korea’s Corporate Image Grand Award Korea Management Association Consulting Selected as the Most Admired Company in Korea 2003 International System Management Award Korea Standards Association Homeplus was selected as ‘Korea’s Most Admired Company’ in 2008 and 2010 by KMAC. Best Foreign Corporate Award The Citizens´ Coalition for Economic Justice Homeplus was highly recognized for its CSR activities as well as excellent performance 2004 Gold Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit Ministry of Commerce through systematic management of unique business model and a management team of Ministry of Government Administration and Home Presidential Award in Korea Retail Grand Award industries and financial analysts invariably evaluated Homeplus as a top-notch company. Affairs No. 1 in NCSI Korea Productivity Center 2005 Presidential Award in Convention on Quality Control Circles Korea Standards Association Inducted to ‘Hall of Fame’ in the Korea Service Grand Award and Korea Management Grand Award BCCK CSR Award British Chamber of Commerce The Korea Service Grand Award is presented by the Korean Standards Association to compa2006 Dasan Management Award Korea Economic Daily nies, organizations and individuals, who achieved a dramatic enhancement in the quality of serMinistry of Education & Human Resources DevelopLifelong Education Grand Award vices they provide to customers. Other standards include bringing noteworthy innovations to ment their service processes using a service management system. Homeplus’ outstanding accom2007 Korea Service Grand Award Korea Standards Association Creative CEO Award Korea CEO Summit plishments in this area made it the winner of this prestigious award for six straight years between 2008 Most Admired Company All Star Award (14th) Korea Management Association Consulting 2002 and 2007 to be inducted to the ‘Hall of Fame’ in 2008. Also, Homeplus received ‘Hall of CBE (Commander of British Empire) The British Government Fame’ in the Korea Management Award by KMAC. This award is given to companies that conKorea Service Award ‘Hall of Fame’ Korea Standards Association tribute to the development of the industry, on a national level, and the strengthening of corporate Korea CEO Award Korea Management Association Consulting competitiveness with implementation of innovative 21st century management paradigms. Mecenat Grand Award Korea Business Council for the Arts EU-Korea Awards EUCCK Received ‘Green Management Hall of Fame’ in Global Standard Management Awards EU-Korea Awards EUCCK Homeplus was given ‘Green Management Grand prize’ for five consecutive years due to 2009 National Environment Management Grand Award MaeKyung Safety & Environment Institute Korea Green Award Hankook Newspaper continuous efforts and outstanding achievement to implement the green responsibility. Asia’s Best Employer Award Hewitt Homeplus has led the retail industry for reducing CO2 emission by constructuring world’s Korea Service CEO Grand Award Korea Standards Association first Corbon Zero Academy and Korea’s first green store. Also, Homeplus has organized the 2010 Most Admired Company Grand Award ‘Hall of Fame’ Korea Management Association Consulting green campaigns with customers to expand green consumption and has championed Social Responsibility Management Grand Award ‘Hall of Fame’ Korea Management Association Quality Assurance Korea’s largest children green movement to foster our children as green leaders. Order of Civil Merit (Dongbaeg Medal) Ministry of Environment No. 1 Contributing Company in Arts & Culture Korea Business Council for the Arts Topping Customer Satisfaction Indices International ARC Gold Awards (SR Report) MerComm. Winning the top spot in KS-SQI for six consecutive years by the Korean Standards AssociaBest Family Friendly Management Certificate Ministry of Gender Equality and Family 2011 Ethical Management CEO Grand Award New Industry Management Academy tion from 2001, Homeplus topped NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) published No. 1 Contributing Company in Arts & Culture Korea Business Council for the Arts by the Korea Productivity Centre for two times. Ranked as number one in KCSI of Korea Green Power 21 Weekly Kyunghyang / Korea Green Foundation Management Association, Homeplus achieved an honorable feature of topping three major Excellent Enterprise Recogniton for Job Creation Ministry of Employment and Labor customer satisfaction indexes in Korea, NCSI, KCSI and KS-SQI. Korea’s Most Loved Brand Grand Award Chosun Biz Major Awards 2012 No. 1 Korea Sustainability Index Korea Standards Association No. 1 Korea Standard – Service Quality Index Korea Standards Association Green Management Awards ‘Hall of Fame’ Korea Management Association The World Retail Awards The World Retail Congress The 1st Green Logistics Company Ministry of Land, Transportation Maritime Affairs 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 21 Major Activities with External Organization SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT AT HOMEPLUS 1999 ~ 2012 Category Name of Organization Activities The Great Stone Face to be the Most Loved Company Government / Local Ministry of Environment Join programs like Green House Gas Emission Trading and Green Consumption Campaign Since the foundation of the company, Homeplus has lived up to the vision of ‘Most Admired Authorities Ministry of Knowledge Economy CO2 Partnership between Large and Small Companies Company’ that strives to help every single person’s dream to come true, under sustainable Ministry of Healthy & Welfare ‘Save the Young Lives campaign’ for children with cancer and foster children management. In particular, sustainable management growth and contribution is a core Ministry of Gender Equality & Family Strategic Partnership practice at Homeplus. To make greater and substantive progress toward our sustainability Green Growth Committee Chairperson for Sustainable Development of Green Life City of Seoul Seoul City Forum, Representative goals, we organize our efforts into customer value, CSR, contribution to industry and econoCity of Gimpo Strategic Partnership my, win-win growth & fair trade and staff satisfaction. Association Korea Chamber of Commerce Retail Committee Chairperson, Presentation of Business Case Studies, hosting committee meetings Seoul Chamber of Commerce Vice President, Seeks Collaboration and Development between the Sustainability Philosophy Government and Commerce Industry Homeplus’ corporate value is two-fold, consisting of market value and social value. To gain Korea management Association Strategic Innovation leaders Club Chairperson lasting competitive advantages, a company must, therefore, emerge above the pack in both Korea Standards Association Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies Korea Chain Store Association President, promotion of the growth of retail industry of these two values. A company’s value grows only when it is capable of achieving harmony Korean Business Council for the Arts Forum Member, Presentation of Case Studies between the two values. ‘Market Value’ is about generating value for customers. Hence, Korea Association of Human Resource Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies clearly understanding the needs of customers and providing value according to their conKorea Foreign Company Association Corporate Member Korea CEOs Association of Multinational Corporations Corporate Member cerns and needs is the key to maximizing market value. Meanwhile, ‘Social Value’ is the Manufacturing and Retail Collaboration Committee Chairperson outcome of a dynamic interaction between a company and its various stakeholders. CreatBISD (Business Institute for Sustainable Development) Corporate Member ing social value, therefore, requires knowing who these stakeholders are and understanding Academic Societies Korean Society for Quality Management Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies Korean Marketing Association Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies the values desired by them. Only sustainable growth can increase customer value and satKorea Distribution Association Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies isfaction over the long-term. Homeplus, as a corporate citizen, makes continuous efforts to Korean Society of Supply Chain Management Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies shape a higher market value founded on social contribution. Growth and social contribution Korea Logistics Society Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies AIEES Joint Study for Green Consumption are the two fundamental objectives for Homeplus, paving our way to becoming the most SNU CEO Sustainability Management Forum Function as a Co-Head Professor respected company in the world. Sustainability Forum Forum Member, Presentation of Case Studies Industry SC First Bank Non-Executive Director Foreign Organizations ECCK (The European Chamber of Commerce in Korea) Corporate Member, PR and Marketing Committee Chair, Presentation of Case Studies BCCK (British Chamber of Commerce in Korea) Corporate Member EKF (Europe Korea Foundation) Funding Member Korea Britian Society Forum Member, Holding Conference NGOs National Council of YMCA Strategic Partnership Beautiful Store Strategic Partnership, Co-Sponsor of charity activities The Foundation for Preventing Youth Violence Strategic Partnership Seoul Council on Neighborhood Child Center Conducted Joint Sharing Programme Great Stone Face The Forest Interpreters' Association of Korea Co-Sponsor of children’s environment programmes International Organizations UN Global Compact Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies Global Compact Korea Network President, Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies, Holding Conference Growth Social Global Compact LEAD Corporate Member, Presentation of Case Studies UNEP Korea Non-Executive Director, Co-sponsor for Environment Program for Market Value Contribution Children Social Value GS 1 Vice President, Presentation of Business Case Studies EAN Executive Director Homeplus held the first Y-CSR Conference with UNGC for 1,000 college students to raise awareness of Social Responsibility. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 23 45,487 Strategy for Sustainable Management Sustainable Management Organization One of the ways through which Homeplus tries to spur sustainable business practices Aimed at becoming the ‘most admired company,’ Homeplus is implementing specific suschildren across its business is linking sustainability goals with its corporate brand value. Just as tainable management practices not only at the head office level but also at all of the Homegrowth and social contribution are two principal axes in our efforts to realize sustainability, plus stores, express stores and distribution centres. Large directions and strategies in susHomeplus had conducted the largest children environment programme since 2000. 45,487 market value and social value are strategic aims guiding these efforts. tainable management at Homeplus are established by its CR (Corporate Responsibility) children participated in the eParan Children Meanwhile, we strive to increase the customer value we create, through a strategy consistCommittee overseeing by the chairman, and their actual implementation is overseen by the Environement Painting Contest in 2012. ing of providing our customers with high-quality products in ever-greater variety at prices Corporate Affairs Group. that are low and competitive at all times, as well as great services. Social contributions undeniably make up the most important and central area of Homeplus’ Comprehensively in charge of community contribution activities by our business, the Head sustainability strategy. That a business ought to give back some of the fruits of its economic of CSR coordinates sustainability strategies at the level of divisions, assesses the complisuccess to the community, in the form of direct or indirect contributions, and take an active ance status, evaluates related performance and promotes internal and external communipart in initiatives for social and community progress is an idea heartily espoused at all levels cation in this area. On top of this, as a promotional group for the sustainable management of our business. The goal-orientedness, principle of selectivity and concentration, and the program, the ‘Community Plan’ implementing the CPG (Community Plan Group) is a prime importance of long-term sustainability that characterize our business operations also define responsibility. Meanwhile, Homeplus’ functional groups and regional offices establish their our modus operandi in terms of our social responsibility activities. own sustainability goals in accordance with the organization-wide policy and directives and In our effort to contribute to the community, we concentrate on ‘4 Loves’ Love Environengage efforts to attain these goals through their respective sustainability officers. ment, Love Sharing, Love Neighbours, and Love Family. Schools of Extended Education that are operated at Homeplus stores across the nation offer wide range of education proManagement of Sustainability Performance grammes on a scale unprecedented in the world. These facilities, providing local residents Under our sustainable management related performance is monitored and managed in the with lifelong education opportunities, have grown into Community Centres that are indissame manner as business performance. Sustainability performance is measured in relation pensable neighborhood resources used and appreciated by thousands. to clearlydefined targets, just as our business performance is measured in relation to specific sales targets. This process is carried out through ‘Steering Wheel Objective Management.’ The Steering Wheel Objective is a MBO (Management by Objectives) system where each of segment including ‘customer’, ‘community’ ‘finance’, ‘people’ and ‘operation’ is given specific objectives and are assessed using KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). Steering Wheel Assessment of Sustainability Accomplishments Homeplus has implemented the systematic and scientific Community KPI since 2006 to COM ACTIVELY SUPPORTI MU more accurately evaluate the sustainable management performance. The Community KPIs N LOCAL CO NG R MMUNITIE consist of ten indices that include areas of environment, supporting local communities and ME BUY S Y ING IME LOYALT AN O SHOP OUR D SELL Y suppliers satisfaction. ST IC PING PRO CA RESPO UCTSD ING IT EARN LIFET AN RI NSI B CU IS EA EN NG LY TH GE VI FO S SY AN RO R ER TW M ES E PR NM TH EN E TO OIC The assessment system consists of different factors to measure the progress made by our ID IC HA D EN S ON T ES TI LE T CU C G HY H 2011/12 Community KPI business in sustainable management. These factors are grouped by corresponding tasks, JOYAB E D QU AR N IN T OO EU WA ID EAL GG S V TIN REER E O THE GO T R O H E A A and an ‘owner’ is appointed for each of the factor groups. The owner establishes specific STA D NO-ONE TRIE P ITH CR ND C FF S W A Reduce CO2 emissions ARE TR S JOB H GR EAT AT E targets against its performance, and the performance is evaluated every quarter. R ET IT DE Y TO G Reduce carbon emissions per case delivered PE AR WE TR IRST TIME GROW SA OPLE R IG H T F LES Percentage of Waste recycled FOR CUST WE DELIVER We have put into place a grading system called ‘BGAR (Blue, Green, Amber, Red) Traffic IK EL CONSISTENTLY Staff and Customer Fundraising EVERY DAY Light System,’ under which the four prime colors each correspond to a degree of attainment HO W W OPER ANCE OM WE FIT MAK PRO E Helping customers live healthy lives A E EO IMIS E TO RS EAS UR JO of set goals, and the relative degrees of accomplishment are defined at the time of goal setT MAX BE VI IER B TO D S ION TREATED TA W Supplier Viewpoint E LO K O UR NO ting, according to established guidelines. At the end of each quarter, quantified results of FIN R VE JO W H School of Extended Education member numbers S BS O OU T SA EY AR W the performance items are automatically assigned a BGAR grade. Community KPIs are conAN INTE N GE ME AN S N E A AY O Number of children in eParan green leader programme AN S T O W DM M VE PP AL AN sidered essential information to evaluate the performance of the each owner. The list of A MANAGER IN O E D R W E TE T RESTIN TO TUNI TI M EA TR PEC Homeplus supports local community (Image Track) GE T TO Y BE ES overall performance evaluation items used at Homeplus are specified in the statement of WHO HELPS ME N TO TH R WI G JOB company objectives as well as the statement of the CEO’s objectives. PEOPLE 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 25 Business Continuity Plan and Crisis Management Plan survey of suppliers and assessment of relationship quality); and Media Analysis Survey The objective of the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) is to ensure that all required critical (identification of current, future, actual and potential issues through analysis of press coveractivities, can be recovered in a timely and controlled manner following a crisis with miniage). In addition to the regular surveys, results of studies published by third party institutes mum financial and reputation impact, including protecting our people, our customers & are analyzed and reported at management meetings. stakeholders. The plan covers all people, activities & infrastructure required in supporting the delivery Regarding our staff, we conduct a Staff Viewpoint (staff satisfaction survey) and a Staff and recovery of each function in line with the Business Continuity Policy. Tracker on social contribution. Besides, the staff’s opinions are also solicited through comThe first key step in our approach to Crisis Management (CM) is to establish the right strucpany-wide events, such as Town Meeting and Company Conference. ture to enable us to manage a situation as it develops. Experience demands that we put in place a CM structure to enable us to do this, Crises are dynamic, often multi faceted and To monitor the level of customer satisfaction, we regularly conduct customer satisfaction challenging. It is predictable that there will be volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambigusurveys in all regions served by Homeplus stores, Image Tracking Survey, CQT (Customer ity, therefore by having a structured crisis management response, the impact of these charQuestion Time), and FGD (Focus Group Discussions). We also invite customer input acteristics can be minimised and managed more effectively. through informal, yet effective channels like customers’ opinion-monitoring groups and This Crisis Management structure will enable Homeplus to manage and coordinate recovery feedback boxes located throughout our stores and on our corporate website. Homeplus also of affected business functions in the event of a crisis or predictable disruption. The leader & actively seeks to meet and discuss with local associations and organizations, tapping into membership of the LP & I is determined by the nature of the crisis ideally led by the most the opinionsof local communities. appropriate functional Director, dependent upon how/where the crisis impacts Homeplus. We value the opinions of our customers and stakeholders, as they contribute to point the way for our future sustainability efforts. These opinions are dutifully reflected in our related policies, goals and strategies. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY Stakeholder Engagement and Opinions A company’s ability to adequately meet the standards of sustainability vitally depends on open communication with all its key stakeholders. Stakeholders refer to all interested parties of Homeplus, who have actual and potential impacts on our current and future business operations. Homeplus has defined its 10 stakeholders including customers, staff, local community, and suppliers, to engage in active communications to gather a wide range of Ten Stakeholders and Their Interests opinions on corporate social responsibility and is working towards strengthening the rela• Contribute to local economy tionship with the stakeholders. Nation.Industry • Shared growth • Reduce energy use and tackling climate change •C ontribute to local communities and • Strengthen food safety and hygiene The Head of CSR, PR Team and Governance Relation Team are in charge of surveying the Local economy Customer • Environment-friendly stores and local communities opinions of various internal and external stakeholders of Homeplus and analyzing and iden• Expand social contribution activities contribution through culture centres • Contribute to revitalizing the local economy tifying their needs and demands. Their role is also to serve as official channels of interaction • Strengthen personal information security with major stakeholders, thereby communicating with them, both directly and indirectly, to •F  acilitate development of • Upgrade staff training consolidate partnerships with these parties. Our Customer Insight Unit (CIU) Team conSmall local economy Staff • Provide a vision for growth retailers • Expand practical support for • Corporate culture with trust ducts various types of regular or occasional research projects more than 240 times per small businesses year, for example, Customer Satisfaction, Image Tracker, Exit Survey, Housewives’ Monitor and CQT. • Respond to climate change • Win-win growth and fair trade The subsequent results of customer feedback surveys are analyzed into quantitative and • Strengthen social NGO Suppliers • Fair working process and responsibilities communication qualitative data and are then reflected into the sustainability strategies. In addition, Home• Personal information security plus conducts a corporate social responsibility review named CR Tracker on our customers each quarter and a qualitative research survey once a year, in an effort to gauge how much • Shared growth with suppliers • Obtain food safety contribution we actually have made to local communities. • Strengthen social responsibilities Think Tanks Media • Environment activities (CO2 reduction) • Win-Win growth • Modernize distribution system We identify key issues between our business and our stakeholders using a variety of analytiInvestors cal methods including the Stakeholder Audit (identification of key issues through in-depth • Bring continuous financial results interviews with different stakeholders and measurement of the organization’s reputation • Expansion of corporate size concerning each of the issues). An additional method is the Supplier Viewpoint (satisfaction 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 27 Materiality Process Corporate Responsibility Issues derived from the opinions of customers and stakeholders One of the reasons why we have open and efficient communication with stakeholders is Community Plan Projects are selected annually on the basis of social responsibility issues that it is the key to identifying potential sustainability issues. In order to ensure its long-term derived from the opinions of customers and stakeholders. In 2012, 3 community projects viability, a business must constantly keep an ear open to the issues that interest and affect were selected. The Community Plan is a program that improves and understands social its stakeholders. As for a company’s sustainability, it is important to have the ability to deterissues to actively serve our social responsibilities. Through this yearly process, Homeplus is mine whether an issue is a potential opportunity or a potential risk. Homeplus makes its able to bring more positive results for local communities. best efforts to identify sustainability issues concerning its operations, through formal and informal communication channels. Effects on the company are analyzed by ‘Brand Review’ on the basis of the market issue and social issue derived from various stakeholders. The issues identified in the Brand <Social Responsibility Issues> <2011/12 Community Plan Projects> Review and related assessments reflected in our innovation initiatives including Community • Increasing demand for local community Plan, Customer Plan, People Plan, and Operation Plan. The issues identified are assigned a contribution due to economic downturn and polarization priority, and related projects are selected at the management meeting. A sponsor, chosen • Need for practical contribution to among executive directors, is appointed for each of these projects along with project team. neglected people • Being  a good neighbour for local • Increasing demand for differentiated community The project leader is responsible for resolving issues assigned to the team and staff. Followand specialized courses by School of ing an additional study of the issue, the project team develops possible solutions to the Extended Education • Promoting Extended Education • Need for providing cultural benefits to issues and plans budgets needed. local community • Growing together with suppliers • Importance on fair trade with suppliers is increasing The results of these projects are evaluated at the end of each quarter, and performance • Need for shared growth with small result is attributed to individuals involved in the project including the sponsor and each retailers member of the team. Most importantly, the result is also evaluated by customers or other relevant people through opinion surveys. To guarantee the proper functioning of this innovation process, the three programmes are each overseen by a group of people supporting their operation: Customer Plan Steering Group, Community Plan Group, and People Matters Group. Homeplus Community Insight Structure Homplus Importance Evaluation Process Sustainable Management Process When Target Methodology Content 4,560 consumers Survey on Most Admired 5,520 industry Telephone, online, elements of Most • Identify major issues and 3rd Party Annual (Jan.) Strategic direction of Company Survey 230 analysts visit Admired Reflecting stakeholder opinions implement step change Company Sustainable Management programme Customers, staff, suppliers, media, investors, think tanks, NGOs, local • Market value strategy Customer Plan communities, nation Community Plan -A  ffordable price, wide People Plan Stakeholder Audit Annual (July) 204 stakeholders Interview, questionnaire HMP CR image range of products, Stakeholders Operation Plan excellent quality and Media Media Visibility Annual (July) 13 Newspapers Press monitoring Press analysis • Analyze major Issues best service • Identify market value issues Suppliers -C  onsider opportunity and Leadership Supplier Viewpoint Annual (Apr.) 210 suppliers Questionnaire (online) Supplier satisfaction -1 4 different customer surveys on challenge quality, product, price and service Financial Performance Analyze market value and • Execute and Review social value • Social value strategy -R egular performance review Questionnaire Staff awareness • Identify social value issues Social contribution (monthly and quarterly) Staff Staff tracker Annual (July) 3,981 staff (Plusnet) in CSR CR Tracker, CR CQT (4 Loves), contribution Steering Wheel KPI Stakeholder Audit to industry·economy, Report to leadership team Supplier Viewpoint win-win growth & fair CR CQT Homeplus CR Annual (May) Customers (4 groups) FGD Media analysis trade, staff satisfaction Customers Quarterly 350 customers (quarterly) Questionnaire (online, mail) image compared Staff Viewpoint, Staff Tracker CR tracker to competitors 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Contributing to the local community is the no.1 value of Homeplus. “Homeplus, where I, eParan, was born is a corporation that contributes to the local community through its diverse social contributions. It is the company that not only emphasizes economic accomplishment but also corporate social responsibility. Expanding our culture of grassroots sharing through more than 100 charity bazaars and providing extended education opportunities for local communities is a very natural routine for Homeplus. I support the creation of a happier world in which the social contributions of Homeplus can be found in every aspect of our lives.” 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 31 Wid e Ran ge 4L ove Corporate Social Responsibility ment on earth by establishing green management systems and opening the first Green ty s Store in Korea. For neighbours, Homeplus operates the world’s largest School of Extended ali Hig hQ Homeplus selected the principal areas of social contribution Education providing lifelong education opportunities, supports needy children in art educau in the direction of drawing full benefits from our capabilities tion and provides cultural benefits to local communities. Homeplus is also committing to & Industrial Growth Low Price Economic Most as much as possible by considering the characteristics of pursue Love Sharing to help local communities by holding charity bazaars, giving donaMarket Admired Social tions, providing training for the importance of sharing values, and serving volunteer activiValue Company Value retail industry. Based on such principles, we carry out a ties. As part of implementing Love Family, we support to develop professional nannies in Great red Grow grassroots-style corporate social contribution activities in a order to solve low birth rate and job creation for women. vic th Ser e Sha systematic and practical manner through ‘4 Loves campaign’ nan cial CSR programmes in environment, sharing, neighbours and Fi Perf ce In addition, in December 2010, Homeplus eParan Foundation supported to launch ‘Little orma k pla nce Wor Leadership family. Helps Club’, a networked alliance for social contribution that plans and implements CSR activities in cooperation with 54 companies and organizations that have interest in social contribution activities. To generate much bigger synergy than individual activities are made, the Club is carrying out various charitable activities. Loves campaign Structure of Corporate Social Responsibility • eParan Children Environment Painting Contest • Save the Young Lives campaign • 100,000 eParan Children Green Leaders • Sharing bazaar • Green ConsumptionCampaign • Staff volunteering & sharing fund Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Philosophy • CO2 Reduction by 50% by 2020 • Customer talent donation Beneficial Circulating Management Struc• Green support for suppliers • Customer fundraising Homeplus recognizes that CSR is important management factors with regard to improving Love Love ture • Carbon Zero Academy • Value of sharing education e Ran ge corporate values, and fully commits to fulfilling corporate social responsibilities by recognizEnvironment Sharing Wid 4L ove ali ty s ing them as an investment, not a cost. Systematic and long-term CSR activities boost the Hig • Nanny development programme • 117 schools of Extended Education hQ u CSR pride felt by members of a business organization and enhance its corporate image, ulti• Job creation for women Love Love • Art & Culture class for needy people mately improving its business performance and corporate value. Being more effective and • eParan Youth Football Club Family Neighbours • Opportunity for young people & Industrial Growth Low Price • Improving health campaign • Scholarship for local community Economic Most broader in scope, in turn, becomes a base for a virtuous circle in which a company is • Scholarship for staffs • Culture & Art support Promoting Beneficial Market Admired Social Increasing aggressively able to pursue social contribution activities. • Work & Family balance • Education consulting for local community Corporate Value Value Brand Company Circulating Corporate Great Management Value Image red Grow #BTJD Ser vic th ‘4 Loves’ CSR Programmes through Homeplus eParan Foundation • Red : Major activities • Social Responsibility R&D Center Sha • Green : Minor activities e • Nerwork-based CSR Alliance (Every Little Helps Club) nan Homeplus has been focusing its capacity on fulfilling corporate social responsibilities since cial Fi Increasing e Perf ac orma kpl its inception in 1999. Homeplus developed and launched the first CSR character called nce Profit Leadership Wor ‘eParan’ in 2000 to express willingness to keep continuous CSR activities. In 2001, HomeEar of rabbit in plus declared its company-side environment management, and ‘social contribution corpo‘eParan’ – The CSR Character natural leaf ration’ was declared in May 2004 when Homeplus marked the 5th anniversary of its founHomeplus developed and launched the dation. Since then, Homeplus regarded CSR as the most important factor to become an first CSR character called ‘eParan’ in ‘Admired Company’, and has conducted various activities in a continuous way. Appearance of a cute, 2000 to express its commitment being a smart puppy socially responsible company. A word ‘e’ In commemoration of the 10th anniversary in 2009, Homeplus established ‘Homeplus stands for 6 different meanings includeParan Foundation’ in order to realize ‘Great Stone Face’ based on contribution through ing environmental, ethical, extended Four fingers that look like lucky clover petals diverse channels, and to strengthen practical contribution activities. The foundation carries education, exciting, e-world and everBody of a reliable and Koala hands out CSR programmes through ‘4 Loves campaign’ – Love Environment, Love Sharing, Love lasting. The word ‘paran’ means a blueand friendly bear (which are on the brink wave and expansion in Korean language. of extinction) Neighbours and Love Family based on CSR know-hows Homeplus has accumulated for the past 10 years in its operation. Each campaign theme contains 3 major and 3 minor activige e Ran ties by choice and concentration. Wid 4L ove Feet that look like the ty s lion, a symbol of bravery ali Hig hQ u Homeplus makes strong focus on children in doing its CSR activities. For environment, we Homeplus established eParan Foundation to carry our focus on improving children’ awareness about the environment through the nationwide chil& Industrial Growth social contribution activities for the sake of more Low Price Economic specialized and practicalMost social contribution activities. dren green movement, while at the same time taking the lead in preserving the environMarket Admired Social Value Company Value 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 33 Great red Grow vic th Ser Sha e nan Fi Social Responsibility R&D Center Milestones in CSR Homeplus eParan Foundation, in a bid to lay the foundation for social contribution to the development of local communities, has established a ‘Social Responsibility Research & Development Center’ for the purpose of research and development about how to facilitate • 1999 –R  eceived the Social Contribution Award and – Established Homeplus ‘eParan Foundation’ social contributions to enhance local communities in 2011. – Opened Homeplus’ 1st culture centre at SeoEnvironment-Friendly Management Grand Award – Ranked as 2nd largest contributing company in Busan store – Organized the 1st and 2nd Homeplus Culture art & culture in Korea (Mecenat) – Launched staff charity fund Festival The R&D center has developed customized CSR programs and provided CSR consulting for – Launched environment campaign ‘Clean & • 2010 firms, local governments, and suppliers. The tailored CSR programs for suppliers including Green’ • 2005 – Dedicated into ‘Hall of the Fame’ in Most Homeplus eParan Foundation established a Social – Established CSR Team Admired Company Grand Award(KMAC) ‘Making Tomorrow Together’ of P&G Korea, ‘Healthy Eating education’ of Pulmuone, ‘Big Responsibility R&D centre and developed joint CSR programme with P&G Korea. • 2000 – Opened Homeplus Gallery (Gangseo, Gwang– Conducted joint research on green consumpWalk campaign’ of Johnson & Johnson help improving corporate brand image as well as to – Declared ‘Environment-Friendly Company’ yang and Gumi stores) tion with AIEES support social contribution activities. A more broad range of social contribution activities are – Launched eParan Children’s Green Movement – Culture centre membership hits 1 million – Established 100th School of Extended Educa– Developed the industry’s the first environment – Held conference on culture centre instructor tion implemented along with local communities by operating education programs for multiculcharacter ‘eParan’ – Won the CSR award from the British Chamber – Established ‘Little Helps Club’ first networked tural families, particularly to publicize the importance of practical thoughts. Also, the center of Commerce in Korea (BCCK) social contribution alliance has provided CSR consulting to large and multinational companies including Danone, LG • 2001 – Implemented process for goods donation and – Dedicated into the ‘Hall of the Fame’ in Social – Declared environment management performed the donation activities regularly Responsibility Management Grand Award Electronics based on CSR know-how of eParan Foundation. The center concentrates on CSR Budget Investment (Unit: Billion KRW) – Selected as ‘Best Environment-Friendly Com(KMAR) strengthening knowledge on CSR and sustainability of domestic and global societies by 2012 72.3 pany’ by Ministry of Environment • 2006 – Recognized as Korea’s No. 1 contributing comexploring relevant resources and studies to play a leading role in acting as a knowledge– Won the Environment Management Grand – Initiated Community KPI and management of pany in culture & art 2011 75.9 Award performance measurement –W  on International ARC Gold Awards (MerComm.) based channel through which various network routes can spread from them. – Initiated ‘Making a Garden’ for elementary – Hosted Homeplus Family Music Concert – Received Order of Civil Merit (Dongbaeg Medal) 2010 58.1 schools – Received CR Management Grand Award (Korea in environment management (Ministry of EnviCSR Achievement 2009 51.6 Management Association) ronment) • 2002 – Received the Forbes CSR Excellence Award Homeplus has continued to participate in corporate social responsibilities in conjunction – Signed MOU with UNEP Korea on joint envi– Ranked number one in the Green Product Ser• 2011 with our area of business. In recognition of our efforts, Homeplus has been evaluated as ronmental initiatives vice Index (Korea Management Association) Opened world’s first Carbon Zero Academy No. 1 in corporate social responsibilities by both customers and stakeholders. Moreover, we – Joined the Europe Korea Foundation (EKF) as a Held eParan Children Green Festival at the founding member and funded its scholarship• 2007 Blue House have been awarded the Most Admired Company ‘Hall of Fame’, Social Responsibility Manprogramme – Won Sustainability Report Grand Award (Korea Ki-moon Ban, UN Secretary-General encouragement Grand Award ‘Hall of Fame’, and ranked No. 1 in Sustainability Index for 2 con– Launched an staff environment campaign of Management Association) aged children green leader secutive years, No. 1 company in contributing culture and art for 2 years in a row, and ‘Let’s Reduce Food Wastes’ – Received CR management Grand Award for two Launched ‘Green Card’ with Ministry of Enviconsecutive years (Korea Management Associaronment Green Management Grand Award. Homeplus’ active CSR activities increased the CSR bud• 2003 tion) Lauched customer talent donation program – get from 58.1 billion KRW in 2010 to 75.9 billion KRW in 2011, which is increased by 30%. – Received the Best Foreign Corporation Award – Launched Community Plan (Innovation pro‘eParan Talent Donation’ (Citizens’ Coalition for Economic Justice) gramme for contribution to community) Launched eParan Culture & Art program – Obtained ISO 14001 – Established a system of Homeplus Direct CarLaunched Prpfessional Nanny Development – Established Green Hexagon System bon Footprint program with YMCA Love Sharing – Opened eParan website – Number of participants at eParan Green MoveMOU with Ministry of Gender Equality and – Started staff campaign to promote volunteering ment surpassed 100,000 Family for supporting job creation for women Homeplus tries to be a good neighbour for local communities through ‘Save the Young activities – Launched CSR System with career break Lives campaign’, Sharing bazaar, Sharing education and staff and customer volunteer pro– Donations to the victims of the Daegu subway MOU with Kimpo city for supporting multiculdisaster • 2008 tural families grammes. To be able to extend a helping hand wherever it is needed, Homeplus is working – Cash and goods donations to the victims of –Opened the first green store in Korea (Bucheon Launched eParan Youth Football Club on developing a nationwide program to reach the most diverse segments of the population. Typhoon Maemi and participation in recovery Yeowol) efforts – Held ‘Reduce secondary packaging waste cam• 2012 World’s first Network-based CSR model ‘Save the Young Lives campaign’ paign’ (Ministry of Environment) Established Social Responsibility R&D Center • 2004 – Launched the Culture Centre online community Launched world’s first network-based CSR In 2012, Homeplus launched world’s first network-based CSR model ‘Save the Young Lives – Declared vision for the best CSR Company – Organized ‘MBC Youth Football Tournament’ model ‘Save the Young Lives campaign’ campaign’ with customers, local governments, suppliers, staffs, and hospitals as a part of – Developed corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sponsored ‘National Handball Team’ Supported Corbon Labeling certificate with ‘Warm Management to Change the World’. The campaign is the Creating Shared Value of Emblem – Held sharing education for children (2,670 Seoul National Univ. AIEES for suppliers – Made sharing partnership with the Beautiful participants) 2nd place in HMB National Youth Football model which gives hope to children, provides opportunities to participate in sharing activities Store tournament – eParan Youth Football Club to customers, and offers chances to increase sales and improve brand value to suppliers. – Launched staff volunteer group • 2009 Published ‘The Most Admired Company Report When customer purchases campaign products, 1% of purchase amount is donated by sup– Held the 1st Homeplus Charity Bazaar at Yeo– Signed MOU on response to climate change of Homeplus’ ngdeungpo store (Ministry of Environment) No. 1 Korea Sustainability Index in 3 consecupliers. At the same time, Homeplus donates equal amount according to the matching grant – Donation of Homeplus Mobile Store and started – Introduced Carbon Label for the first time in tive years system to support children in the blind spot of social welfare. Total of 234 suppliers with circulating operation at all stores the industry Green management ‘Hall of fame’ in Global 1,267 products, and 21 million customers have participated in the campaign including staff – Won the Green Management Grand Award – Conducted green consumption campaign Standard Awards and customer fundraising to collect 3 billion KRW. All collected donation is used to support 100 children with cancer and 1,000 foster chil2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 35 60,608 Goods Donation dren. Recipients are selected through transparent process by selection committee comStaff Engagement in Charitable Activities (Unit: Billion KRW) posed of 20 professionals such as doctors, social workers, NGOs, and suppliers. Also, Homeplus runs a company-wide ‘Staff Volunteer Group’, an umbrella organization for volun2012 21.3 Homeplus signed MOU with Ministry of Welfare, Korea Association for Children with leuketeer activities. All staff carry out volunteering activities such as supporting social welfare facilhours 2011 15.7 mia & Cancer, Save the Children to offer appropriate and practical support for children. ities at local communities, throwing birth party for children in needy, free meal distribution to Homeplus runs a company-wide ‘Staff Volunteer 2010 10.8 the elderly living alone, training about traffic safety for children, and environmental cleanup. Group’ for volunteering activities regularly, and 2009 8.4 Sharing Bazaar and donation In 2012, Homeplus staff spent total of 60,608 volunteering hours in Sharing bazaar, Homeplus staff spent 60,608 volunteering hours in 2012. The Homeplus Sharing Bazaar is a nationwide charity activity held more than 100 times Homeplus Day, storelevel charity activities, and sharing events at stores. In addition, we every year. The Homeplus Sharing Bazaar is a national event in which the company, cuscarried out company-wide ‘Sharing Volunteering campaign’ from May to July. In the tomers, staff, suppliers, media, and local community participate and ‘Homeplus Day’, held meantime, those staff wishing to make direct financial contributions to the neediest in their Staff Volunteer Hours Unit: hours simultaneously in Beautiful Stores around the country are the representative programmes. communities donates a portion of their payrous through ‘Staff Fundraising.’ The collected 2012 60,608 The Homeplus Sharing bazaar was held for the first time in 2004 at the Yeongdeungpo fund is used for charitable causes decided upon by the Labor-Management Council and the store and was subsequently hosted in Busan, Daegu and Daejeon afterwards. It quickly CR Committee. 2011 56,605 grew in scope to become the nation’s largest charity bazaar. The entire proceeds from 2010 52,441 goods sold are donated by our suppliers, customers and staff and are used to assist famiCustomer Engagement in Charitable Activities 2009 43,345 lies and children in need. For the Homeplus Charity Bazaar, 1,000 Homeplus staff volunIn order to encourage customers to participate in social contribution, Homeplus eParan teer annually. Foundation provides various charitable programs including customers’ talent donation, volIn addition, to make goods donation a more consistent and regular practice, Homeplus has unteer services and so forth. developed a standard donation process to be used across our stores. Since 2005, we have Homeplus serves as a liaison between local communities and customers who are willing to Homeplus organizes over 100 charity bazzars annually engaging customers, staff, suppliers and local donated 2,130,000 goods, worth 21.3 billion KRW. These goods are donated through either participate in social contribution activities. In particular, ‘eParan Talent Donation Procommunities to spread out value of giving. our own charity bazaars or Beautiful Stores, and the charity fund is used for charitable purgramme’, a talent donation volunteer programme by customers who want to share their talposes. ents related to culture and arts, is operated to allow them to provide educational programs for vulnerable children. The ‘eParan Talent Sharing Program’ is designed to provide various Education about Sharing Value cultural and artistic programs including chorus, painting, traditional crafts, and drama play Homeplus runs ‘eParan Children Sharing Value Programme’ to spread a sharing culture to in support by P&G in March 2011. Total of 202 customers and 6 educational institutions children since 2004. In 2011, 4,340 children participated the programme The Programme has participated in the programme, and total of 2,905 children from 176 children welfare consisted of ‘Sharing Story with Fairy Tale’, ‘Making My Sharing Tree’. By taking those centers received this programme. opportunities, children were able to understand the value of sharing and make it second Homeplus eParan Foundation placed ‘Customer Collection Box’ in all stores to engage cusnature to share with others. tomers in donation. All collected fundraising is donated to help underprivileged neighbour in Homeplus provides an orientation curriculum for the newly-employed and the manager by the local community. adding sharing education and volunteer activities. We actively use company communication tools such as the broadcasting system and staff magazine to encourage staff to carry out charitable activities, and also support staff volunteers. In addition, as a means of encouragement of volunteer work, staff showing outstanding accomplishment in volunteer work is honored through the CSR Awards at the annually-held company conference. Homeplus supports 100 children with cancer and 1,000 foster children through ‘Save the Young Lives campaign’. Homeplus supports customer’s participation in sharing activities through ‘Talent donation prgramme’. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 37 No. of School of Extended Love Neighbours space for both members and instructors by providing convenient services such as Internet Education & Members Course Application, Online Café (for building up friendship and information sharing among Members (accumulated) The ‘Love Neighbours’ is realized by operating the world’s largest School of Extended EducaNo. of School (accumulated) members) and Class Review Section (for writing members’ review after completion of classes). tion through which opportunities for lifelong education are provided to local communities, There are more than 300,000 contents created by members and instructors regarding stories 1,056,569 cultural education is delivered for the vulnerable and neglected, and support for culture and 2012 117 on the Café Bulletin Board, course syllabus, introduction of curriculum and course reviews. arts is given to local communities. The love for neighbour is one of the key CSR activities 1,078,089 In addition, a mobile service of Homeplus Application was launched in 2011, which allows 2011 113 considering business capabilities. In this regard, Homeplus makes great efforts to provide search for courses. The video clip courses are also provided so that the smart mobile phone cultural education opportunities to metropolitan areas and small & medium cities as well. 943,444 users can have access to the Homeplus School of Extended Education anywhere and anytime. 2010 105 Homeplus provides scholarship for local students as a More interestingly, we use the blog where interesting contents created by customers are part of ‘Love Neighbours’. 793,871 Provide Extended Education Opportunities through the School of Extended Education 2009 filled with, for instance, behind episodes and column by famous instructors. Through vivid 95 Homeplus currently operates 117 Schools of Extended Education across Korea that offer contents created by ‘Supporters’ consisting of members, instructors, managers and experts, various learning programmes attended by over 1.1 million members annually. Over 400 we commit to spreading information to more customers and encourage them to get involved. courses are taught at each of the school by 6,800 professional instructors. More specifically, quality education programmes are provided such as well-being programme for health, Extended Education R&D happy plus with family, art or English programs associated with Museum of Art, British Homeplus School of Extended Education carries out a variety of research and development Council and others. The total space of the school of extended education is the size of 5 (R&D) activities as part of contribution to extended education and cultural & art education hypermarkets and is by far the largest of its kind in the country. The total staff involved in in local communities based on its operational know-hows. the management of the school, in both the head office and stores, totals 470 people. The school has developed and implemented various programs, for example, training for multiHomeplus provides various cultural benefits for local residents including ‘renting a book for cultural families, environment education programs, and on-site experience programs by linkfree from school’, ‘installation of a desk for free web search’, ‘operation of galleries’, and ing together with private and public organizations in local communities. Specifically, we took ‘holding free lectures’. classes for child rearing of multicultural families such as calisthenics for pregnant women, Most notably, the 'eParan children culture and art' programme was launched in partnership Homeplus runs the world’s largest School of Extended making baby products classes about Korean food and Korean culture. Approximately 600 peoEducation to make contributions to cultural with Korea Business Council for Arts, which was participated by 450 children. This prople from multicultural families in Gimpo too part in this programme. To do that, useful prodevelopment of local communities and expansion of gramme encourages the socially neglected to participate in cultural activities, and provided lifelong education. grams specified for multicultural families were developed in accordance with MOU signed with Ethical Consumption through the good opportunities for art groups and councils from the local communities so that they were Homeplus Fair Trade a city of Gimpo, which partly contributed to helping the families settle in Korean society. able to develop new education programs through joint projects with the art groups, thereby Additionally, we are now expanding the scope and target of R&D activities by developing The Fair Trade first began around 50 years ago making contributions to expanding the base for culture and art for children. in Europe and the US in an effort to resolve children environment training requested by the city of Suncheon; by planning history eduIn addition, School of Extended Education provides the instructor training programme, poverty issues in the Third World. It is a system cation programs about local communities supported by Gyeonggi Tourism Organization, in which the consumer pays the fair price for which is the first in the industry. In 2011, 2,242 instructors participated in the programme. conducted more than 20 times. goods they want so as to protect the human The instructor training has been developed to be utilized as a channel to develop teaching rights of farmers and to help maintain their School of Extended Education is the subject of benchmarking from both Korea and overindependence. The Fair Trade provides the basis skills and communication skills. seas. Many countries including China, Turkey, Malaysia, Thailand and the Czech Republic for independent economy of the producer, finds a fair share for the producer, provides ethical have benchmarked the operational know-hows and how to construct facilities of the School products to the consumers, minimizes and Online and Mobile Service in Smart Environment of Extended Education. justifies the interim processes that bring the Homeplus School of Extended Education provides various online and mobile services to allow product to the consumer, reduces distribution margins and ensures production costs to the customers to enjoy the programmes regardless of time and place. It also offers a common venue Support Children in Culture and Art producer. to encourage members and instructors to participate and interact each others. The online comHomeplus took the initiative in the industry with Given the social demand for art education, our society’s infrastructure is not yet well estabmunity promotes active information exchange through offline classrooms and online services. the partnership with Beautiful Store in January lished, in particular, children from the socially vulnerable and the neglected have few 2007 providing ‘Fair Trade Coffee’, which were The online community of School of Extended Education serves as an open communication oppourtunities. Homeplus started ‘eParan Children Culture and Art Class’ targeting children bought directly from the coffee producers in the Himalayan mountain lands of Nepal and the in local children centers across the country jointy organized with P&G Korea and the KoreAndes in Peru. We plan to expand the fair trade an Business Council for Arts. product including tea in 2009 and provide more choices for customers to practice the ethical The programme allows children to have opportunities of learning cultural and artistic expericonsumption. ences. The programme was participated by 450 children from 16 children welfare centers. Homeplus’ many programs affecting children’ sensitivity and joint programs with art groups in local communities have made contributions to help children have easy access to cultural and artistic experiences. Additionally, Homeplus provides scholarship programme linking with schools within communities. The scholarship is given to students in financial difficulty in 15 small cities like Miryang, ChunHomeplus Schools of Extended Education provide lifelong education for local communities through diverse courses. cheon, Mokpo and Iksan, making contributions to nurturing young leaders in the communities. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 39 Contribute to Culture and Art Benefits for Local Communities personality enhancement like the understanding of the human rights of children, Art PsycholHomeplus runs an in-store art gallery at its store including Gwangyang, North Suwon, Gumi, ogy and others. Masan, Dongnae, Jamsil, Gangdong and so forth. Eight galleries with open-style are designed On the other hand, this programme is not just to provide courses, but also serves as a chanto be accessible to all members of the community, hold special exhibitions displaying works nel to create jobs thanks to trainees who completed all courses of the program if they work created by eminent Korean and international artists, and by members of the Homeplus as teachers taking care of children at home. Furthermore, after the completion of the regular School of Extended Education. The gallery space is rented out free of charge to artists, stucourses, we will continuously support trainees to become specialized family child-care dents and local residents, in an effort to promote cultural exchange in the community. teachers by additionally providing regular refresher training on a quarterly basis. ConseOne hundred eighty exhibitions have been hosted such as Picasso Exhibition, Classical quently, Homeplus will never stop contributing to creating a childbirth-friendly social enviHomeplus actively supports women’s reemployment with the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. Exhibition of Overseas Art, Open-space Exhibition for up-and-coming artists, Big Heartronment by reducing low birth rate caused by child care burdens, and by helping women Small Painting Exhibition, and Member Exhibition of School of Extended Education. The whose careers were interrupted because of child caring and housework to be reemployed. sizeable collections of paintings and sculptures owned by these galleries offers residents opportunities for experiencing art work first hand to small towns and cities where there is Support to Provide Reemployment of Women less chance to enjoy them. Homeplus signed MOU on ‘Expansion of Fair Employment Opportunity to Career-InterruptIn addition, Homeplus holds ‘Family Concert’, featuring Nan-Se Gum and the Euro-Asian ed Women’ with the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family to help women become reemPhilHamonic Orchestra for local residents. The ‘Family Concert’ held in such areas as ployed. By making ‘Employment Assistance Service Center’ at 90 stores across the country. Mokpo, Suwon, and Gimhae was a good opportunity for the residents to consume cultural At the centers, employment planners from the Ministry provide comprehensive and profesevents and served as a catalyst for them to raise cultural cultivation. sional employment assistance services such as job consultation, introduction of occupational training programs, and follow-up control after being hired. Love Family Social Contribution through Sports eParan Youth Football Club Love Family is pursued based on support for programs to develop professional nannies, ‘Homeplus eParan Youth Football Club’ is a children football club operated by a company support for the reemployment of ‘Career-Interrupted’ women. More importantly, activities for the first time in Korea and was launched in April 2011 as a new concept of social contriabout Love Family are implemented as part of social contribution in order to respond to bution programme in sports. The eParan Youth Football Club is designed to nurture football social issues such as low birth rate and need to create jobs for women. leaders who do well at ‘playing football, studying at school and sharing with others’, and Professional Nanny Development Programme plays a critical role in making contributions to the development of Korean football as well as In a bid to resolve issues of low birth rate due to child care burdens, and to create jobs for cultivating future football players in Korea. It also supports children to be active and healthy women, Homeplus has made a MOU with YMCA in October 2011 to jointly initiate the prothrough the football. gram to develop professional nannies. The programme is specialized in family child care The eParan Children Football Club is consisted of 30 children for Elite Class (professional) eParan Youth Football Club keeps growing as the best and 75 for Hobby Class and the Club is headed by Eul-yong Lee, a former national team football club by winning several tournaments. and the curriculum consists of eco-centered early childhood educational programs, actual theory and practical education necessary for caring for infants, advanced programs of each player. The football skill programme is offered at global level as the ‘FA Skills Programme’ subject, infant programs useful for prospective parents or parents or grandparents who are was offered in partnership with the FA (Football Association) in Britain. The FA Skills Protaking care of their children or grandchildren. There are also various programs, for gramme ran by the FA coaches who are professionally trained to coach the children with instance, useful living information necessary for child raising such as health care tips, food advanced football skills. The FA Skills Programme was participated by 123 prospect chiland nutrition and safety control methods at home; advanced educational courses regarding dren players in Korea. The eParan Youth Football Club also helps to develop social skills for children by offering educational programmes in environment, sharing with others and arts in order to encourage them to become leaders with sincerity. The eParan Youth Football Club has positioned as the best football club in Korea by winning national & local tournaments, and Korea Youth The eParan Youth Football Club is designed to nurture football leaders who do well at ‘playing football, Football Club League. The club plans to contribute in developing football leaders in Korea. studying at school and sharing with others’. Homeplus runs programme to nurture professional nannies in cooperation with YMCA in effort to reduce low birth rate The FA Skills Programme was first introduced in Korea in in Korea. partnership with the FA (Football Association) in Britian. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 41 Love Environment Homeplus promises to reduce CO2 by 50% by 2020. “Our future belongs to our children. What can we do to make them realize the preciousness of the environment? Homeplus raises awareness about the environment through operation of the nation’s largest ‘eParan Children Green Leader’ and ‘eParan Contest on Environment Painting’. Moreover, we have committed to cut our CO2 emissions by 50% by 2020 and are taking necessary steps to realize this goal. You will be able to witness our efforts in the Homeplus Green Store. And you can imagine the future of the green earth if you go to the Carbon-Zero Academy. Homeplus and I, eParan, are taking the lead in making our earth a greener place.” 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 43 Wid e Ran ge 4L ove Love Environment Green Stores ty s ali Ever since the designing stage for our stores, we have been implementing green stores in Hig hQ u Homeplus is at the forefront of green initiatives by dealing consideration of the environment and continue with our various efforts on energy saving with global environmental issues such as climate change and & Industrial Growth and environment preservation to increase the number of green stores. Low Price Economic Most Market Admired Social global warming. We opened the first Green Store in Korea Value Company Value and introduced the Homeplus Carbon Footprint tool to take In October 2008, we opened the first ‘Green Store’ in Korea which reduces carbon emission Great red by 50% and energy by 40%. In our innovative Green Stores, we integrated 69 innovative Ser vic Grow th the initiative in competent environment management to Sha saving initiatives, including ice thermal storage utilizing nighttime electricity and solar enerreduce our CO2 emissions by 50% by 2020. e nan cial gy generation facilities. As a result, the Green Store attained the first Green Building CertifiFi Perf ce orma k pla nce Leadership Wor cation in Korea. In addition, we are minimizing the environmental load through our design and execution system using environment-friendly materials and environment pollution reduction technology, as well as installation of parking lamps to minimize exhaust gas. Environment Management System Homeplus believes that corporate environment management not only elevates corporate value, but saves the environment and the economy at the same time. We are also convinced that the companies’ role not only lies in controlling and reducing their negative impact on the environment, but should be focused on engaging in creating a decent envie Ran ge ronment. Wid 4L ove ty s This environment philosophy is faithfully embodied in our unique ‘Green Value Manageali Hig hQ ment’ system through which our various environment initiatives are implemented. It Saving Initiatives at Homeplus Green Store u involves six major areas including ‘Green Stores’, ‘Green Process’, ‘Green Movement for Concept Saving Initiatives & Industrial Growth Low Price Economic Most Children’, ‘Green Customer’, ‘Environment Management’, and ‘Green Network’. Market Admired Social Energy Solar Energy Generation System (Rooftop Parking Lot Value Company Value Generation Sunshade), Building Integrated Photovoltaic System 50 Great red Homeplus Green Value Management (Green Hexagon) (BIPV), Wind Generation System, Wind Energy and Solar Grow vic th Energy Combined Streetlights Ser Sha e nan Energy generation cial Fi Perf ce Suppliers Energy saving orma k pla Green Movement nce Leadership Wor AIEES Government, local government Energy Waterless urinal, illumination standard modified and T5 Green -E  nergy saving Reduction fluorescence light, LED lighting (stores, culture center, % Reduction Stores distribution system Fresh coldchain food court hall), ice thermal storage systems, CO² refrigsystem eration facilities, showcase electric inflation valves, We are making every effort to reduce our CO 2 emissions by 50% per unit area by 2020. Green Green Green operation expansion of 15 minute unit remote inspection, applicaprocess Network Process tion of high efficiency motors, refrigerant drainage tracking inspection systems, atmospheric electricity blocking Green timers, food waste recycling facilities, reinforcement of Value Green outdoor landscapes, indoor landscape and wall flowing Green eParan character fountains, elevator air cleaning systems, planting trees Movement for 100,000 children along outdoor walls, recycled clay bricks, natural lighting -E  nvironment KPIManagement Children green leaders ISO 14000 eParan Children of basement floor moving walks, green blocks on rooftop Environment Painting Homeplus created the ‘Green Store’ in CO2 reduction by 50% by 2020 Contest consideration of environment from the parking lots, etc. very beginnings of the design stage. In Green our ‘Green Store’, we introduced 69 savMy Green Reducing secondary packaging, green points, green ge Carbon labels Wid e Ran 4L Customers Secondary package reduction ing initiatives, such as solar energy genCampaign bicycles, freezer doors, green bags ove eration facilities and ice thermal storage ali ty s Green Green bike campaign systems using nighttime electricity. Hig hQ Academy u & Industrial Growth Low Price Economic Most Market Admired Social Value Company Value 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 45 Great red Grow vic th Ser Sha e nan Fi The World’s First Carbon-Zero Tesco∙Homeplus Academy vehicles with a capacity of 5 tons or less, Homeplus by introducing vehicles larger than 8 tons reduced the total number of vehicles in operation while saving on fuel, thereby creating Tesco∙Homeplus Academy was established in Muuido, Incheon in July 2011 as the world less pollution and lowering traffic congestion. first carbon zero academy. The Tesco∙Homeplus Academy values 6 major concepts in Green, Leadership, Craft, Service, Culture and Smart. In the distribution center, we are focusing on 13.716 meter length delivery trailers for our The Homeplus Academy is especially recognized as an eco-friendly training institute stores. We introduced the Draw-bar, the only and longest vehicle in Korea, to enhance fill because it is built based on successful accomplishment of energy efficiency and energy rate by 17% compared to the main unit; this 13.716 meter trailer thus promotes greater production for the first time both in Korea and in the world. “Carbon Zero” indicates that transportation efficiency. Moreover, fill rate was increased to 98.2%, which is the largest Homeplus has established an advanced green logistics net emissions of green house gases generated in the process of operating the building ratio in the world, to establish an energy saving distribution system through optimization of and operation process that includes establishment of an energy saving logistics system and promotion of became zero through sophisticated eco-friendly facilities; thereby energy efficiency is maxilogistics efficiency. Additionally, we are making efforts to reduce CO2 by applying new techtransportation efficiency. mized by reducing energy consumption to 50% compared with other institutes. At the same nologies like digital tachograph and by providing Eco-Driving training training to all staff in time, we designed the facility to be operated using energy produced through the light of the the distribution centres. sun, solar heat, and geothermal heat. Homeplus also monitors per case carbon emission (kgCO2/case) which was reduced by 10.8 % in 2011 (0.169kgCO2/case in 2010 vs. 0.150kgCO2/case in 2011). Homeplus is When it comes to energy efficiency, we installed LED lighting, air conditioner and pump working towards reducing per case carbon emission by 7.7% in 2012. inverters, the Building Energy Management System (BEMS), the Occupancy-Related Automation System, total heat exchangers, high efficient distributing boards, high efficiency Disposed waste generated from stores was 129 tons in 2011. Among them, 81 tons were motors and a waterless urinal system, and have systems operated using heavy-water and recycled. The ratio of recycling increased to 62.7%, up from 56.1% in 2010 by recycling rain water. In addition, strengthened insulators are used in outer walls, roofs and windows; boxes, bottles, paper, plastic and vinyl as well as promoting self-packing stands in the roof planting design is introduced to reduce building’s temperature taking advantage of stores. sunlight; hybrid ventilation grill is installed in 5% of the windows in outer walls to prevent Moreover, with regard to execution of eco-friendly working process, we use environmentcooling load during summer and in-between seasons using gravity ventilators. friendly merchandising units, and at the back of the stores, we minimize product processing to reduce city garbage generation. In the meantime, to generate energy to be consumed in the Academy, we installed solarpowered generation systems, water heater systems and geothermal heat pumps. The solarpowered generation system produces more than 1.12 million kWh every year that would Green Movement for Children reduce 526 tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) per year. It is expected that water heater systems designed for accommodations and kitchen facilities will reduce 87 tons of CO2 per year, In order to educate our children about the seriousness of climate change, and the imporand the geothermal heat pumps will be used in heating systems for the winter season and tance of saving our environment, Homeplus champions Korea’s largest children green cooling systems for the summer, which will reduce 25 tons of CO2 per year. movement through eParan Children Green Leader, eParan Environment Painting Contest and eParan green children festival. Green Process The eParan Children Green Leader programme that cultivated total of 39,197 green leaders since 2000 is the Korea’s largest programme educating children about the environment. Homeplus is actively working on reducing CO2 and saving energy by building an advanced environment-friendly distribution and operation process. The participating children take part in a variety of experiential programmes, such as learning By maximizing efficiency in distribution service centres, a green logistics system was introabout carbon footprint, making wind power generators. The children also increase their duced to reduce carbon per case delivered. This will enable the Green Process revolution awareness in CO2 reduction and climate change. from the place of origin to supporting functions. While other large retailers in Korea use The Homeplus Academy is equipped with solarpowered generation system that reduces 526 tons of CO2. Homeplus eParan Green Leaders met UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and expressed their love for environment. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 47 In addition, eParan Green Leaders had a chance to see UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon In addition, we have installed bicycle racks near the main entrance of our stores to offer in August 2011 and showed their environmental handicrafts using recyclable materials. By greater convenience to cyclists. We also give 50 green points to customers who visit us on Carbon Dioxide Emission by Source taking the opportunity, the Leaders were able to remind their dream as a future leaders in their bicycles as an initiative to promote the use of bicycles. In opening new stores, we protecting environment. donated 100 bicycles to the local community to promote our ‘Green Bicycle Campaign’. The eParan Environment Painting Contest, first hosted in 2000 with UNEP, is Korea’s largHomeplus encourages green consumption of our customers in providing green products. est contest dedicated to climate change and an environmental theme. The number of parWe first launched the carbon label products in the hypermarket sector in partnership with Awards ceremony and prize-winning paintings exhibition ticipants has grown steadily over the years reaching 45,487 in 2012. Winning entries of this the Ministry of Environment. We now have a total of 43 SKUs of carbon label products were held at the Blue House. contest represent Korea at ‘the World UNEP Children’s Painting Competition’. Forty Korean including milk, bottle water, detergent and potato chips. Also, by providing extended range 74.1% children selected through the Environment Painting Contest have won at the world UNEP of package reduced products namely shampoo and conditioners with extra green points, we Electricity competition. In particular, the prize-winning paintings were displayed in exhibition at the strongly encourage our customers to be more green. Gas Refrigerant 10.3% Blue House and 19,129 people visited in 2012. Homeplus is also contributing to the expansion of the culture which restrains the use of disFuel 6.7% Business trip The eParan Children Green Festival is held on the World Environment Day on June 5 to posal plastic bags and is providing over 100,000 green bags to the customers. In order to 7.3% 1.5% raise our children’s environmental awareness. The Green Festival provides many opportuniexpand benefits to the customers, we recently launched the Green Card with the Ministry of ties for children and for the public to have their eyes opened to the preciousness of our Environment. The Green Card provides to earn green points upon purchasing the73.0% green * Includes all stores (Hypermarket, Express), environment. The various environmental programs include a Green Fashion Show and a products and the green points can be redeemed with gift vouchers. head office, R&D centre, online delivery, Home Bakery Solar Energy Car Race. To better reach Korean children and youth with our message of * Total of carbon dioxide emission in 2012 : environment protection, we operate an online environment learning portal (www.eparan. 12.4% 469,038 tons Homeplus has a plan to cultivate 100,000 children green leaders by 2020. or.kr). The website offers an online gallery showcasing the winning entries from the environGreen Management 5.5% ment painting contest. 7.6% 1.5% In order to tackle climate changes, Homeplus has set a target to reduce carbon emission by 50% by 2020 for business. Homeplus has developed and implemented the ‘Homeplus CO2 Emissions per Area (Unit: kgCO2/ft2) Green Customer Direct Carbon Footprint Tool’, one of the core processes introduced for the first time in the industry in terms of reducing carbon emissions, to measure and monitor the carbon genera2012 31.80 Homeplus has organized the green campaigns with customers and the local community to tion created by business in the five areas of electricity, gas, refrigerant, retail, and business 33.24 2011 be at the forefront of expanding green consumption and promoting green lifestyle. trips. In particular, Homeplus established an environmental accounting system by introduc2010 33.90 We engaged our customers to respond to climate change by saving energy through the siming accounts categorized by transportation means in order to have accurate measurements ple act of opening and closing the door of refrigerators while shopping. We installed sliding of carbon generated through business trips by Homeplus employees. Homeplus successful2009 36.91 doors on the open-type freezers in all stores. This was clearly communicated this to our cusly reduced CO2 emission by 4.3 % per area in 2012 compared to the previous year. tomers so that they became well-aware about their involvement in saving energy and help*E  xcluded CO2 emissions generated by business trips ing to reduce carbon emission. This also enhanced the refrigeration capacity by 30% and Meanwhile, consumption of electricity was 800,514 MWh, gas was 18,621,676 m3, district energy consumption was reduced by 9%, which is equivalent to a reduction of 9,134 tons of heating was 31,144 Gcal in 2012, 14,217,675 liters of diesel (vehicles), 1,872,138 liters CO2. of gasoline (vehicles), 286,536 liters of LPG (vehicles), and 61,969 liters of diesel for emergency generators. Homeplus uses CO2, R-22 and R-404 as refrigerant. Among them, emissions (charge) of R-22 for 2012 were 13,281 kg. In its effort to continuously measure, review and improve its environmental management activities, Homeplus has adopted an environment management Key Performance Indicator (KPI) under Steering Wheel goal control system, which is a company-wide management system to evaluate environmental management performance on a quarterly basis. To do that, its role was selected by one of the executives who are in charge of energy division, and we reorganized the existing Facility Management Team into Eco-Environment Facility Service Team to reinforce the organization’s role in relation to better management of CO2 and energy reduction. Also, each store has an Energy Checker responsible for practical energy management and Energy Champion to teach the importance of energy reduction. Homeplus distributed ‘Green bag’ for free with Ecomom Korea on the Earth Day. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 49 Green Network Long-term CO2 Reduction Target (50% Reduction by 2020) (Unit: kgCO2/ft2) Saving Rate Homeplus is committed to responding to climate change on the global level by building various networks with government bodies, academia and private organizations to share environmental issues and spread the best practices. 60-60% 44.9 In accordance with the government of green growth policies, Homeplus conducts various 50-50% activities to facilitate customers’ green consumption through the Green Consumption Cam45.6% 50% 36.5 paign with the Ministry of Environment. For example, we joined the government-led pilot 38.4% 4033.6 -40% Homeplus organized ‘Green Audit’ to reinforce energy project of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management System. We also participated in a pilot operations and management through energy monitoring 29.3 26 conducted every 15 minutes, store energy audit and a project called ‘Energy Target Management System’ in cooperation with the Ministry of 30-30% 27.1% 22.45 general evaluation conducted 450 times annually. Knowledge Economy in order to contribute to accomplish Korea’s medium-term goal of 20-20% reduction in green house gas. 18.1% 10-10% We established strategic partnership with the Asian Institute for Energy, Environment & Sus0% tainability’ (AIEES). The AIEES was founded as a strategic research institute by Seoul 0 -0% 2006 2007~09 2010~12 2013~15 2016~18 2019~20 National University specializing in the area of environment and sustainability. The AIEES conducted a practical research on how to change the existing consumption patterns in the direction of spreading a green consumption culture, developed a measurement index that Green Retailers can adopt and announced such research results. In addition, we developed a “Green Leadership Curriculum” together with Seoul National University and the Ministry of Environment. When students complete the courses, a Green Leader Certificate is issued to them, which is one of the ways we join forces to alleviate the seriousness of the global climate change from the nurturing talents who lead the future perspectives. Homeplus provides know-hows about CO2 reduction and useful technologies for suppliers to allow them to pursue an efficient environment management. On top of that, we conduct energy audit by visiting suppliers to offer guidelines on reduction in CO2 and provide education on energy saving and CO2 reducation for executives and staff as a part of sustainable growth with suppliers. In April 2010, Homeplus joined ‘Caring for Climate’ initiated by the UN Global Compact to do our part as one of members of corporate community founded for the purpose of alleviating climate change issues from the global point of view. Homeplus provide environmental education, eco friendly facilities, and CO2 reduction & energy saving guideline for suppliers with Ministry of Knowledge and Economy. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 51 Shared Growth and Fair Trade The power to move Homeplus is the shared growth with our suppliers. “Birds can fly because they can maintain their balance using their two wings. The reason that I, eParan, can implement the environment movement is that the shared growth culture is balanced by the two wings of Homeplus and its suppliers. Without assistance from Homeplus, suppliers cannot grow and likewise, without help from its suppliers, Homeplus cannot grow, either. Let’s make the better future with Homeplus.” 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 53 Shared Growth and Fair Trade ge Fair Trade e Ran Wid 4L ty ove s Homeplus strives to make efforts in various and continuous manner to promote fair trade ali Hig hQ and free competition with both suppliers and customers. In its internal structure, Homeplus u Homeplus established ‘Shared Growth Division’ to strengthens overall functions of the Fair Trade Office under the Shared Growth Division to proactively implement the shared growth policies in a & Industrial Growth intensify fair trade structure, and allow the Office to strongly promote the shared growth polLow Price Economic Most icies by reflecting the results made by staff into evaluation process on management perforMarket Admired Social systematic manner based on active communication with Value Company Value mance. In particular, a standard contract was used for compliance with a fair trade, and Great red suppliers. The Division came up with support plans for 6 MOU on shared growth and fair trade was signed with each supplier. Grow Ser vic Sha th major suppliers. Further, the company’s long-standing ethic management and transparent management have contributed e nan Fi cial Currently, Homeplus’ sustained efforts to promote a fair trade have been made in fair tradPerf ce orma pla ing training and self-compliance program by annual plan. Training concerning fair trade is nce Leadership Wor k to fulfilling its social responsibilities. taken every year for all staff, particularly, specially-designed courses are included in the options programmes for new store managers, assistant store managers, new staff and new buyers, so that our staff members acquire knowledge and information on fair trade issues needed in their jobs. We also encourage all staff to raise awareness about the importance of fair trade through provision of training for directors and buyers offered by the Fair Trade Commission twice a year. The Friday Morning Academy, an internal programme designed Effort for Shared Growth with Suppliers for new buyers, provides them with the opportunity to acquire basic knowledge and skills required for fair contracting with suppliers. Meanwhile, our internal compliance manual, Structure and Organization for Shared Growth distributed to all staff using the internal network of Plusnet provided by e-Learning process, In line with strengthening various shared growth related activities that have been conducted contains related laws and regulations, which are a mandatory course for staff members to since its inception in 1999, Homeplus expanded the existing team to ‘Shared Growth Division’ in broaden their understanding about fair trade. April 2011. Under the division, there are Shared Growth Cooperation Team, Fair Trade Team and Government Relation Team. These teams are responsible for establishing specific details Homeplus runs a Self-Compliance Program to detect if there is unfair or illegal treatment in ge e Ran required for ‘building up partnership for a sustainable driving engine with suppliers’. order to upgrade staff’s recognition and understanding about fair trade, while at the same Wid 4L ove ali ty s time the program serves as a means to urge them to not get involved in illegal acts. The Hig hQ u Basic direction of the shared growth policies is to provide ‘customized’ supports based on the results of the detection process are notified to all staff to assess their cases of illegal activity needs of suppliers. To develop ‘customized’ support policies, the Shared Growth Division gaththemselves. & Industrial Growth Low Price Economic Most ered opinions and comments from 1,273 suppliers to define support structures in 6 major We comply with laws in regards to marketing promotions and advertisements as well as Market Admired Social areas. consumer protection on e-commerce. Value Company Value Homplus shared growth support structure consists of ‘fair trade’, ‘funding’, ‘cooperation and Great red Grow technology support’, ‘export support’, ‘education support’ and ‘management support’. Each of Funding vic th Ser Homeplus identifies that we need various funding support policies appropriate our supplie Sha the policies is implemented to enable supplier to get practical supports by utilizing Homeplus’ nan cial infrastructure, know-how and information to the fullest. ers, especially the small sized companies. To meet the demands, Homeplus operates VenFi Perf ce orma k pla nce Leadership Wor dor Financing System that introduces Network Loan and various loan products to help operate SMEs to allow them to take out loans with low interest rates. Notably, ‘Homeplus’ Chakhan Plus Loan (one of Network Loan products) associated with Industrial Bank of Homplus Shared Growth Structure Korea (IBK) is one of the financial products that suppliers can utilize depending on their previous performance accumulated with Homeplus. The maximum loan allowance is 57.5 Fair Trade billion KRW for 2012. Moreover, future bond secured loans signed with Shinhan Bank allow suppliers to receive Management Funding up to 80% of payment in advance from the first working day after the delivery of products to Support Homeplus. The maximum amount of the loan is KRW 25 billion for 2011. On top of that, we came up with various programs to support suppliers according to the size or situations of Shared Growth suppliers. Cooperation Education and Cooperation and Technology Support Support Technology Homeplus provides cooperative measures and technical support for suppliers for the sake Support of efficiency of distribution. By doing so, we not only reduce transportation costs but also Export Support minimize effects on the environment. Through strategic alliance among Homeplus, TESCO (Merchandising and KOTRA, we support our suppliers to make exports Development) When it comes to the efficiency of distribution, we introduced a Primary Distribution System in in overseas markets. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 55 which suppliers can deliver all products at one time, rather than the individual delivery of prodthe same time promoting a shared growth activity differentiated through sharing of training ucts to Homeplus’ distribution centers. And with regard to the reduction of environmental programs. effects, we encourage drivers to change minor things in their daily lives, for example, getting rid of bad driving habits. In this regard, we conducted ‘Eco-Driving’ training which is about how to The Academy’s training programs are carried out covering various areas including leaderdrive vehicles economically and efficiently. ship skill for managerial level. Specifically, leadership training is designed for executives of suppliers that have been rarely got systematic training by far. Furthermore, at the end of the Export Support (Merchandising Development) training, we also invite Homeplus’ executives and team leaders to have opportunities to Homeplus, promotes shared management by developing PB products with suppliers and communicate with suppliers. On the other hand, working-level group training includes more makes every effort to help outstanding SMEs expand into overseas markets. By doing so, specific occupational courses including HR management, SCM strategies and so on. We Homeplus supports suppliers in quality management in order to bring product competitiveness. amounts ordered by 18 suppliers that provide their products to Tesco in other counties trained 350 executives and staffs of suppliers by December 2011. If there are some supreached $ 23 million in 2011, and we expect the amount to increase to $ 30 million in 2012. pliers who want to get in-depth training about HR management, Homeplus’ internal experts will visit to them and provide customized consulting services, for instance, recruitment, salWe signed MOUs for outsourcing among ‘Tesco-Kotra-Homeplus’ in October 2010. As a ary and labor. In addition, we are offering many other programs, including ‘Excellent Service result, in July 2011, the first Korean food promotion was held in Tesco in the UK. The proAcademy,’ ‘Marine & Livestock Craft Academy’ and ‘Smart Mobil School’. motion was held in the Tesco store in New Malden, London, England for one month and showcasesd 90 kinds of Korean products. In particular, the event was a success because Management Support (Strengthening Communication) 15 food companies participated in the event ranging from giant companies like Lotte ConHomeplus contributes to improve product competitiveness by strengthening quality control fectionery and CJ Cheil Jedang to SMEs like Kukje Confectionery and Haeorum. system of suppliers in cooperation with external and internal experts. We have conducted more than 540 times various assessment processes and consultations for SMEs, and introIn the meantime, Homplus will introduce outstanding SMEs into Purchasing Meeting of duced Tesco Food Manufacturing Standard (TFMS) to monitor quality control and PB prodTesco Group held in International Sourcing Office of Tesco both in Shanghai and Hong ucts. For non-food PB producing suppliers, we allow verified external organizations to audit Kong every month, and hold an Export Plaza by inviting Tesco’s buyers into Korea. We will and provide consultation. Based on such external organizations’ recommendation and sugalso have purchasing conferences and exhibitions for excellent SMEs along with governgestions, we improve quality control systems in the workplace. ment and local authorities to exchange information with other suppliers and SMEs to explore new suppliers. On the one hand, we plan to conduct safety inspection on quality and hygiene over 4,000 times in 2012. Thirty five technical managers (TM) carry out consulting over all areas of the We are also improving supplier-oriented systems such as Induction System, WEB EDI and product development process, and occasionally conduct quality control activities over the others in order to help suppliers. For example, distribution centers introduced a new proyear. In particular, TM supports suppliers to secure safety and appropriateness ranging cess providing suppliers’ information based on ‘Performance System by Incoming by Store’, from selection of raw materials, manufacturing process to finished goods, provides training and trying to encourage a more transparent trading by developing the Electronic Contract about laws and regulations towards suppliers, and conducts inspection on hygiene safety to and its relevant system. Specifically, we provided specific information on how to use the encourage suppliers to produce quality products in optimal working environment. Electronic Contract System by posting to our website. In order to identify satisfaction levels by our suppliers, Homeplus has conducted Supplier Viewpoint since 2007. The Supplier Viewpoint is a survey in which suppliers evaluate fairEducation Support ness in working procedure, communication, information sharing fair trade. Homeplus conHomeplus provides quality training services customized for suppliers through the Tesco tinues to make efforts in communicating with our suppliers and reflect their opinions in Homplus Academy in order to make the Academy ‘Mecca of nurturing suppliers’ while at developing support programmes. Homeplus hosted the Korean Food Promotion in the TESCO store in UK to support our suppliers to promote export. Homeplus provides tailored education programme for suppliers and tries to communicate at all times. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 57 Ethical Management Codes of Business Conduct Homeplus encourages all staff to observe its internal ethical standards as well as complying with legal obligations. The reason behind this encouragement is to enhance global competitiveness to maximize profits that are then returned to society by carrying out all business pracCustomer Value | Delight Colleague Value | Synbaram tices based on the highest level of ethical awareness. In other words, ethical management involves the strenuous efforts of all employees to make Homeplus a respectful company. ▒ No one tries hader for customers. ▒ Treat people how we like to be treated. · Always treat customers with kindness ·W  ork as one team, and trust & respect each other, In the 2001 Vendor’s Conference, Homeplus promised ‘fair trade and sound partnership and say thank you with suppliers’. Since then, Homeplus has been promoting ethical management through a · Keep the products fresh, safe and hygienic to bring health · Promote equal opportunities irrespective of gender series of activities, such as establishing and revising its code of ethics and ethical stan· Provide good quality products at lower price dards, proclaiming its ethical management and strengthening its internal investigation sys·P  romote equal opportunities irrespective of age, disability, tem. As of 2009, Homeplus is offering an e-learning program of the ‘Hexagon Ethical Man· Provide easy and enjoyable shopping environment religion or political beliefs agement’, and preparing to publish its own ethical management casebook. We have · Protect customer’s personal information · Share knowledge and experience launched revised Code of Business Conduct in 2010 based on 6 values. Homeplus staff is ·C  arry out ‘4 Loves campaign ; Environment, Sharing, · Never use company information for personal benefit trying to comply with the world class anticorruption law of the Bribery Act (2010) of UK to Neighbours, and Family’ with customers conduct anti-bribe and anti-corruption activities, and are committed to encourage suppliers · Serve first for the better tomorrow to embrace ethical management. Code of Ethics and Rules of Engagement Community Value | Contribution Supplier Value | Shared Growth In October 2002, Homeplus established a guidance system for business conduct within the business, consisting of 5 codes of ethics and 8 ethical standards. In 2005, three new ethi▒ We provide contribution to the community. ▒ We deal fairly and grow together with our suppliers cal standards, relating to legal and regulatory compliance and transaction disclosure were ·P  rovide extended education opportunities for community to · Treat each other with trust and respect added. In 2010, as many as 36 specific ethical standards were established by considering improve the quality of life · Trade fairly and honestly and do not limit business opportunities major stakeholders such as customer Value, Colleague value, Community value, Supplier ·R  educe CO2 to prevent global warming and to love for value, Country value, Shareholder value in order to pursue the company’s growth and environment ·E  stablish mutual win-win relationship with our vendors by improve reputational status of ethical management. information sharing and cooperation building ·H  elp needy chiildren, vulnerable family group, Homeplus’ codes and standards of ethical behavior include specific behavioral guidelines and underprivileged elders ·A  void trading with unethical companies involved in unsafe based on 6 major values to be implemented by executives and staff. They can easily under·S  upport education, employment for multicultural families’ products, minor labor exploitation, illegal logging, etc stand desirable behaviors according to the following guidelines when it comes to occupastable settlement in Korean society · Prevent fraud, bribery and corruption in all forms tional execution, in particular, in case of facing ethical dilemmas. ·T  rain professional nannies to resolve the low-birth rate issue ·C  reate shared value on merchandise and promote work & family balance to support our vendors · Contribute to job creation and local economic growth Country Value | Serve Shareholder Value | Return ▒ We contribute to the country with a good corporate citizenship ▒W  e achieve sustainable growth and maximize returns to shareholders · Stabilize consumer prices to enhance the quality of everyday life ·M  aximize investment benefits of our stakeholders through · Increase direct trading with agricultural farms and fisheries to making optimum profits contribute the rural economy ·P  romote sustainable growth by maintaining sound financial structure · Improve the supply chain to contribute to the development of · Manage efficiently and effectively to build increasing competitiveness the retailing industry ·F  ollow the law and principle of business accounting to deliver · Keep political neutral and do not make any political donations management clarity, and open our finance status in a lawobservance way · Comply with corporate regulations and codes of conduct · Listen to shareholders and protect their due rights ·C  ontribute to the national economy by sustainable growth of the ·B  uild admired brand value through genuine corporate social company contribution Homeplus has established a code of ethics and ethical standards, fitting to its goal of becoming a world best retailer practicing ethical management. To ensure organization-wide compliance, we provide ethical training to all our staff. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 59 Ethical Training and Communication Bribery & Corruption Policy Homeplus developed its own ethical management of e-learning program called ‘Hexagon Giving and accepting bribes hampers the competition and the market and, therefore, Ethical Management’ in 2009 to help all staff understand ethical management and ethical increases the cost incurred by customers, leading to a worsening in quality. Thus, it rules promoted by Homeplus. More importantly, a more practical ethical education is being impedes the development of democracy and economical growth. Homeplus (including staff promoted by suggesting exemplary cases and its countermeasures. staying overseas) considers even the most trivial case of bribery as an illegal activity, and any activity violating national law is subject to criminal punishment. Every kind of bribery is In addition, all staff is given an ethical training that is provided by job rank to address areas banned at Homeplus, and all employees are clearly aware that both giving and taking of business conduct that are the most appropriate to given levels of authority and responsibribes and helping others to violate the rules are prohibited. bility. We have organized group training sessions held annually for managerial-level such as Homeplus is committed to ethical business practices store managers, team leaders and section managers, including quarterly preparatory sesIn addition, Homeplus sets strict anti-corruption rules in an attempt to eagerly comply with audits well-displayed through company website. sions for staffs newly promoted to managerial rank. All non-managerial staff, including new the Bribery Act 2010 (the UK) that takes effect since 2011, and various programs and recruits and senior staff, attends two ethics training sessions every year. Contractors and plans were established and applied to prevent staff and suppliers from getting involved in part-time staff joining our organization as full-time employees are trained carried out by each giving and accepting bribes. office, where ethical training sessions are also held twice a year, for a combined total of eight annual sessions. Meanwhile, the Magic Monday course for new recruits, with and without Whistle Blower experience, at the headquarters, is designed to enhance awareness of the codes and stanHomeplus’ whistle blower policy is an internal reporting mechanism allowing our staff to dards of ethical behavior, as well as ‘understanding of ethical management’ and ‘security recognize all illegal behaviors and properly respond to them, and enabling them to report training’; and further Homeplus emphasizes the importance of informational security. suspected misconduct done by an internal member of our organization. Our whistle blower policy is coupled with measures to assure the anonymity of whistle blowers and protect Homeplus utilizes Ethic Box to create a sound and transparent corporate culture. Ethical training is also offered during orientation at each store. In these orientation held on them from any retribution. Wednesday of every week, new staff and tenant staff learn about Homeplus’ ethical guidelines, while receiving LP (Loss Prevention) training to prevent inventory loss. We also A safety net referred to as the Protector Line is in place to protect staff that raises issues encourage the inclusion of ethics education in the programs of division or team-level workthrough legitimate lines of communication from being discredited or discriminated against shops, when the schedule permits. Ethical training, further, is an essential component of all at work. staff skill training programs offered at Homeplus. This training is held twice in each half of the year and focuses on case studies to spread faults. Human Rights In addition, human rights protection training is held for security staff twice each year to Homeplus scrupulously respects civil and human rights of our employees and treats them raise awareness on the necessity of protecting major human rights from unexpected probwith the dignity they deserve as men and women. We observe the basic human rights stipulem occurred required during stores operation. lated in the Korean Constitution and thoroughly comply with all related domestic and international laws. The ethical training for regional heads of express stores, store managers and deputy managers is included in the express store nurturing program to raise the ethical awareness of Forced Labor and Child Labor staff members. In order to accommodate the unique operational features of our express Homeplus’ labor policy conforms strictly to the Korean Labor Standards Act and the ILO stores, communication at the headquarters level is strengthened to achieve optimal ethical treaty banning forced labor and child labor. We respect and promote the autonomy of our management. employee concerning labor in which they take part, and are firmly opposed to any labor involvement by children under the legal age for employment. More recently, our stores also started posting information on how to report ethical violations and highlights of ethics incidents, to sharpen ethics awareness among their employees as well as provide guidance on any ethical dilemma they may encounter. Meanwhile, in all conference booths, an open letter to our suppliers requesting their cooperation in promoting ethical trade is on prominent display. Shortly before every major national holiday, all directors send out written requests for cooperation in fair trade enforcement to all their respective collaborators, stating that they shall accept no cash, gifts, favors, entertainment or other business courtesies. All executives and staff actively participate in ethical management activities promoted by Homeplus, and review their activities for the year and submit the results to the company. By analyzing the feedback results from executives and staff, items to be further improved or supported by the company are identified and selected as critically-promoting tasks for the next year. Discrimination is strictly prohibited in our HR policies as well as compensation practices. We combat all forms of discrimination and have made, in particular, gender equality a core value in our corporate culture. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 61 Discrimination guarantee a higher level of integrity and equitability in our tender process through open and Internal Control Systems All discrimination, direct and indirect, is strictly prohibited at Homeplus, whether on the competitive tenders. In addition, a variety of audit programmes are in place in Homeplus to basis of education, sex, religion or race. Our non-discrimination policy is enforced throughprovide compliance guidance in different areas of our business and prevent corruption. Expense Reimbursement System out the complete spectrum of personnel affairs and employee compensation matters, from recruitment and promotion to wage, education and discharge and retirement benefits. An Managing the Law (MTL) Audit example of our efforts in this direction is the online education program on gender equality, The MTL Audit programme monitors whether unit processes at our stores and facilities at which has helped us eradicate sexual harassment from all workplaces under our purview. our job sites are in compliance with related standards required under Korean law. It offers Homeplus’ sexual harassment preventive education program involves yearly meetings. And guidance for any corrective actions and encourages our staff’s spontaneous participation in for those who could not participate in the program, due to business trips or other reasons, the company’s legal compliance efforts. A company-wide MTL audit is conducted annually, extra on-line education was conducted. while store-level audits are held on a quarterly basis. Homeplus in 2008 has paid 33.22 million KRW in surcharges and made consistent improvements to prevent any reoccurrences. A simpler and more transparent expense reimbursement process Freedom of Association Just like freedom of expression, freedom of association is a constitutional right. As an Risk Assessment employer respectful of basic civil and human rights of employees, Homeplus makes its best This process provides guidelines by identifying in advance various crisis and risks that can Consolidated Purchase System efforts to guarantee their freedom of association to the fullest extent acknowledged under occur at stores and inspecting the level of asset protection. As we go through such assessthe Korean Constitution, Labor Standards Act and the Labor Union Act. Homeplus through ment process, staff corruption and work errors are either exposed or restricted. As such, ‘Hanmaeum Consultation’ holds conversation between top management and staff representhis process gives the benefit of keeping the our employees from falling into unethical cortatives to discuss major company policies and staff welfare. The Hanmaeum Consultation is ruption. Experts in each regional office inspect and improve the weaknesses in product Homeplus publishes ‘Hanmaeum Happy Letter’ consisted of ten staff representatives in offices (headquarters, distribution service centres management, information security, handling of cash, stocks and bonds at all stores, prosponsored by Hanmaeum Association to facilitate a smooth communication with our staff. and stores) and ten from leadership including the CEO, with its regular meetings held quartecting the company assets. terly. Recently, the consultation agreed to revise the rules to protect maternity (including the An open and competitive tender system for expansion of paternity leave from one day to three days), to extend the payment period of ESCORT greater transparency the allowance for employees, and to place chairs in the checkouts. This programme monitors the status of compliance with company rules, procedures and policies concerning food and non-food products carried by our stores, their environment, Information Security customer service and support, and hygiene and safety, and provide education and support Homeplus information security policies are in place to protect the company’s valuable inteltoward raising the level of compliance. ESCORT is a company-wide programme, conducted lectual property. We go to great lengths to ensure that personal security and IT security are on all stores four times a year. Good practices discovered through ESCORT are shared with perceived as a priority by all Homeplus employees. Information security is closely managed the rest of stores, recommended as best practices, and support and guidance are proposed by holding regular training sessions for all employees and small-sized groups at each site to in areas needing improvement. strengthen our information security level. Moreover, the ‘personal information protection policy’ was established to protect the valuIT Security Report able personal information of our customers to ensure that customer information is not illeIn an effort to protect the intellectual properties and information assets of our business, all gally disclosed to outsiders through regular system upgrade and check. outgoing email messages are checked on a weekly basis, for any information liable to cause financial and operational losses to the company. As a tool to Homeplus’ information security policy, the IT Security Report also serves as a precautionary measure to warn our employTransparency ees against mistakes that may have severe consequences for the business. Global Accounting Standards Checker Audit To guarantee a greater level of accurate and transparent accounting settlement, financial One of internal financial misconduct in retail businesses is cashier theft. To reduce the incistatements of Homeplus are audited twice every fiscal year by a credible external accountdence of misconduct of this kind, we conduct performance reviews on certain cashiers with ing firm. We strictly comply with processes for internal control and external audit in accora track record warranting special scrutiny. Employees with past records of an unusually dance with the Korean financial accounting standards and global accounting standards of high count of mistakes or suspected of involvement in financial misconduct, are audited IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). according to a pre-established checklist provided in the audit manual. The main purpose of this audit process is to prevent and deter misconduct through education. Internal Control Systems Following its declaration of ethical management in October 2002, Homeplus has set up a Supplier Assessment System series of internal control systems to assure compliance with its ethical guidelines and maintain All suppliers are evaluated around the time of expiration of their contract with Homeplus to an oversight on anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies within its organization. Our expense determine whether their performance of contract terms has been satisfactory to renew for reimbursement program, for instance, helps increase transparency in expense accounting, another term. This assessment is conducted along a pre-established set of performance critewhile making the reimbursement process simpler and more convenient for our staff, concernria, which include reliability and the quality of service. Other internal control systems include ing both personal and general expenses. Also, the consolidated procurement system contribinspection-type programmes such as the service patrol and the new store patrol, which effecutes toward the efficiency and transparency of our purchase process. Our e-bid system helps tively assist Homeplus’ efforts to maintain high ethical standards in its business practices. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 63 Economic and Industrial Growth Homeplus is at the center of contributing to the economic growth and development. “My name, eParan, has multiple meanings. One of them is economy. Homeplus has vitalized the national economy and the industry by opening stores nationwide, creating jobs, and invigorating the local economies through direct sourcing. In addition, it is creating a new trend in the retail industry, introducing a new concept of hypermarkets allowing customers to enjoy culture and art as well as shopping and living. The ‘e’ in my name stands for everlasting. It refers to our wish that customers are fulfilled with happiness with Homeplus.” 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 65 Economic and Industrial Growth ge customers. As we bypass the supply chain to deal directly with farm cooperatives in proe Ran Wid 4L ove ty s ducer regions, growers are guaranteed fairer prices for their crops, and this makes prices ali Hig hQ substantially lower for the customers as well. u Homeplus’ sustainable business practices have ensured This mode of purchase also gives us greater control over the quality of products we provide steady growth of national and local economies. Homeplus & Industrial Growth Low Price Economic Most to customers and enables us to have first-hand knowledge of the source of goods we sell at Market Value Admired Social Value creates new jobs for local communities and contributes to our stores. It is a win-win formula, inciting farmers to improve the quality of products they Company supply and allowing customers to buy products they can trust at affordable prices. Great red stabilize consumer prices. In addition, Homeplus is leading Grow Homeplus conducts ‘Good Price campaign’ to th Ser vic e Sha the retail industry by advancing distribution system and Holding regular consultative meetings with producers’ groups, Homeplus is continuously contribute price stabilization and economy growth. nan cial creating new concept stores. Fi e Perf ac involved in developing new and strategic products, improving product quality, and cooperorma kpl nce Leadership Wor ating actively in developing joint production areas. It also inspires local communities through its affection for their hometown and contributes to the local economy by selling local produce. Boosting the City Competitiveness and Improving the Quality of Life By choosing visually-pleasing architectures for our stores, we help make cities we serve more appealing and attractive. Radically different from conventional warehouse-style discount stores, Homeplus stores are designed to be a landmark for their host cities. They come in a variety of styles, adapted to the individual characteristics of cities; some are Contribution to National and Local Economies designed to look sporty, some are in a park-like structure and some have the layout of an art gallery. Contribution to Job Creation and Price Stabilization These stores each accommodate School of Extended Education providing extended educaSince its establishment in 1999, Homeplus has brought foreign capital of nearly KRW 7.9 tion opportunities to members of local communities. They make sizeable economic contritrillion into Korea, and added as many as 88,000 jobs to the economy. 25,196 of these jobs butions to their respective communities by increasing tax revenues for local administrations are accounted for by direct employment, and 60% of the staff were women. In particular, and purchasing a variety of services from regional businesses. Homeplus, committed to creating more local jobs, offers over 90% of new jobs first to local residents whenever it opens a new store. Homeplus plans to reinvigorate the depressed job market and solve the youth unemployment by creating as many as 82,000 jobs by February 2012. In 2011, it will recruit more Presenting a new concept stores in the Korean hypermarket than 3,000 new employees, both in regular and non-regular posts, and will contribute to creating local job opportunities by hiring local residents first. Opportunities for non-regular workers to become regular workers will be expanded, as will the university student intern One stop 1st Warehouse style program. shopping ▶ Stores selling products in ‘bulk’ Generation service At the same time, Homeplus will contribute to stabilizing consumer prices through a price investment policy and a price stabilization campaign. ‘Value Store’ offering one stop living One stop One stop service 2nd Generation shopping + living ▶ A new concept store equipped with a service service Stimulating Local Economies through Direct Sourcing culture center, a food court, clinics and other service facilities Starting in 2002, Homeplus has been procuring farm produce it distributes directly from growers. Under this supply arrangement made possible through a strategic alliance with the 3rd One stop One stop One stop ‘Emotional Store’ for enjoying culture National Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives, over 99% (excluding contracts to pay Generation shopping + living + ‘touching’ ▶ An ‘Artience’ store merging art and based on sales volume) of the farm produce we carry is purchased directly from local agriservice service service science cultural cooperatives or farmers’ unions. This means the need to go through wholesale distributors or any other intermediaries has been removed. As the number of stores grows, the direct sourcing system is also expanding and becoming more efficient, accounting for an 4th One stop One stop One stop Multiplied ‘Smart Virtual Store’ Homeplus offers job opportunities to seniors and fully increasing share of products we distribute. Generation shopping + living + ‘touching’ + Smart Virtual Store ▶ Providing Access to Customer to Shop service service service ‘Anywhere, Anytime and Anyplace’ leverages their seasoned skills and experience, thereby enhancing customer satisfaction and extending the social contribution of the local community. The benefits of this direct sourcing system have been tremendous for both producers and 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 67 How to Use Smart Virtual Store Spurring Retail Innovation and Development The Smart Virtual Store concept was created based on ‘customer-oriented’, which we directly go to our customers rather than waiting them to come to the stores. Furthermore, New Concept of Hypermarket Model Homeplus will continue to play our role in advancing the retail business of Korea by providBack in 1999 when Homeplus made its debut, most hypermarkets were warehouse-like outing differentiated services and innovative shopping environment. Scan QR codes using Smart Phones to Press the button of ‘Purchase’, and just lets selling products at the cheapest prices. As a latecomer to the hypermarket business, install Smart App! wait in a place where you want to get! Homeplus introduced a new concept of hypermarket called a ‘Value Store’ through which we Cutting Edge IT Systems created customer-oriented Korean style discount stores by adopting new strategies of ‘One Homeplus took the leading role in the Tesco Group’s IT development. We set up the PMS Stop Shopping Service’ providing various products with low prices and offering optimal shop(Product Management System), an ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) package selected ping services, as well as a clean shopping area equipped with various convenient facilities for its group-wide implementation under a project that began in 2002. Take a shoot of QR code or The selected barcode on displayed products go to mobile shopping cart~ and offering financial services. Furthermore, we adopted another new concept, the ‘Thirdproducts what you want to buy! Generation Hypermarket’ in Jamsil in September 2007 which serves not only as an ‘emotionPMS (Product Management System) al store for enjoying culture,’ but applied with four concepts including Art-being, Well-being, In February 2004, Homeplus implemented an advanced Product Management System Touching and High-Tech to offer the highest satisfaction to customers. (PMS), unprecedented in the Korean retail industry, in terms both of performance and proThe selected products go to mobile shopping cesses supported, raising the bar in what technology can be expected to do for business cart~ Multiplied 4th-Generation Store Model ‘Homeplus Smart Virtual Store’ efficiency. ‘Homeplus Smart Virtual Store is the ‘Multiplied 4th Generation Store’ model breaking its original retail business tradition and combining services provided by both online malls and This Oracle-developed system features demand analysis and promotion tools, considered offline stores. This innovative store model provides customers to enjoy convenient shopping the best of their kinds in Korea as well as around the globe. Processes supported like environment regardless of time and space. We developed an application that can recognize demand prediction, ordering and profitability management are based all on accurate analybarcodes of all products by interfacing information embedded in the online shopping mall. sis. One of the most impressive things about this system is its data management capability; Through the smart phone application, customers have access to 35,000 types of products it enables the management of more than two year’s worth of data. Homeplus Virture Store opened at Gatwik Airport in London. to shop anywhere, anytime and anyplace (referred as 3A). This PMS, as it effectively supports functions that are traditionally the weak areas of existing We have launched the first Smart Virtual Store in Sellong Subway Station, one of the busiest domestic systems, namely, research, demand analysis and order projection, is expected to station in Seoul, followed by Seomyeon in Busan and bus station at Kwanghwamoon in have a major impact on enterprise system standards in Korea’s retail industry. The system Seoul. These Smart Virtual Stores display the images of over 500 products with barcode or is expected to help us cut costs in all areas of our processes including product ordering, QR code that consist of 3 categories with 11 sub themes. These include Daily Takeouts, merchandise management, price inventory analysis and planning, and thus boost producTesco Direct Souring, most frequently selected items known as Best 100 and Happy Range tivity as well. These changes will help boost productivity by supporting every function even consisting of infant cares. The Smart Virtual Store has great potential in expansion that after the number of Homeplus stores exceeds 350. could be tailored for anyplace demanded by customers including individual house, offices, parks and college campus. Homeplus opened the world’s first ‘Smart Virtual Store’, providing open access to shop anywhere, anytime and Homeplus for the first time in the industry implemented the self-checkout to reduce waiting times and protect the anyplace (3A). personal information of customers. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 69 Self-Checkout System The Mokcheon Distribution Service Centre has dramatically improved the product flow at Homeplus introduced the Korea’s first self-checkout stand now operating at 58 stores. The Homeplus and its overall competitiveness. Average distribution spending among Korean self-checkout not only reduces wait time, but also protects the customer’s privacy. By scancompanies is over 1.5 times the amount among their developed world counterparts, which ning their goods by themselves, customers can prevent their personal credit card data from translates into as much as 16% of national GDP. Our investment in an advanced, automatbeing disclosed and what products they purchase. Thereby, we were able to provide ed and standardized distribution system, therefore, is an example of innovation with farupgraded shopping environment for customer. reaching implications for companies in the retail sector as well as Korea’s overall industry. This has had a positive spillover effect on thousands of suppliers collaborating with HomeAutomatic Queuing System plus, driving up the efficiency of their distribution operations and cutting related costs for Homeplus introduced automatic customer queuing system in our Yeongdeungpo store and them. Jamsil store to reduce customers’ wait time and maximize their convenience. By replacing the existing system, in which cashiers input the queue information manually, the automatic We opened a distribution center for fresh products with a size of approximately system improves the convenience of customers and the efficiency of cashiers. Thus, the 100,000m2 in northern area of Wongok-Anseong Complex in November 2012. The center information gathered is utilized as basic information for flexible checkout operation to foster has replaced the 3rd party warehouses in Anseong and Youngin, contributing to the provia more convenient shopping environment. sion of higher quality of services to stores and enhancement of logistics efficiency. Leading Innovation in Distribution ‘Automatic customer queuing system’ installed in the As sales rapidly increased due to the opening of new stores, Homeplus built the Mokcheon Yeongdeungpo store and Jamsil store reduce customer Distribution Service Centre, in April 2003; and Asia’s biggest agricultural and fishery prodwait time and improve the efficiency of cashiers. ucts distribution centre, the Haman Fresh Food Distribution Service Centre, in July 2005. Mokcheon Distribution Service Centre offers a total floor area of 56,000m 2, built on a 148,000m2 land. This size is big enough to accommodate eight football fields, 750 million aluminum coke cans or 100 Homeplus stores. The Haman Fresh Food Distribution Service Mokcheon Distribution Product category Ambient goods Service Centre Centre, which distributes agricultural and fishery products, offers a total floor space of Region covered Nationwide 22,000m on a total land area of 102,000m . It can annually process 40 million boxes of 2 2 Size Land: 148,000m2 Build: 56,000m2 products for about 60 hypermarkets and 200 express stores. Especially, the centre is Throughput capacity 130 million boxes annually designed to be extended in three phases to account for future store openings. Storage capacity 30,000 pallets Haman Fresh Foods Product category Fresh foods Distribution Centre Region covered Central and southern Korea Size Land: 102,000m2 Build: 22,000m2 Storage capacity 4 0 million boxes annually (expansion planned to upgrade the capacity to 100 million boxes) Anseong Fresh Foods Product category Fresh foods Distribution Centre Region covered Capital area, Gangwon and Chungcheong region Size Land : 102,000m2 Bulid : 22,000m2 Storage capacity 73 million boxes annually Homeplus Anseong distribution centre is the largest fresh food distribution centre in Korea. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 71 직원 만족 Staff Satisfaction Homeplus is a great place to work as well as the place where you can harvest your future hopes. “Do you know why eParan is so optimistic and hopeful? You will understand the reason after spending just one day with any Homeplus staff. Homeplus is providing an exciting working environment through its balance of work and life, and its ‘Synbaration’ culture that allows all staff to become experts in their working area. Hence, Homeplus was selected as the best employer in Asia. Staff satisfaction from hope for the future to great working place will lead to deliver the best customer value.” 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 73 Staff Satisfaction ge ge ing programmes on leadership and job capabilities. These include the Talent Spotting proPeople Promise e Ran e Ran Wid 4L Wid 4L ty ove s ty ove s gramme to support career development of employees; My Job, a manual on how to carry ali ali Hig hQ Hig hQ out tasks and the core responsibilities of each level; Core Skill, a training programme to u Staff satisfaction is an indispensable condition for an u educate employees on basic working methods, such as conducting meetings; and the Per1 Pr ise pec t My m om & Industrial Growth & Industrial Growth sonal Development Plan (PDP), an individualized strategic plan for implementing skill an Low Price organization’s success and is essential Most for the happiness of its Low Price res Economic Economic me ag Most We t ro d her. to e ise development. Furthermore, Homeplus-specific R.A.C.I (Responsible-responsible person for rus m ot do ts por b. P Admired Admired a 2 Market Value Social Value members. Homeplus strivesMarket Value an exciting and to createSocial Value a certain task, Accountable-decision making authority, Consulted-divisions that need to be ta up Company Company ea n jo ch r s ood Great red Grow rewarding workplace for our staff, supports their professional Great red Grow consulted, Informed-division that needs to be informed) provides a clear division of roles People g vic th vic th and responsibilities. Ser Ser e Sha and personal growth. e Sha I ha Promise nan nan in cial cial tee Fi Fi Perf ce Perf ce ve orma k pla orma k pla Decisions on major issues with an important impact on business operation are made stin nce Wor nce Wor an eg op g. Leadership Leadership p through internal meetings, such as SOM (Store Opening Meeting, consisting of professions i to t o ortu is m n. nity job 3 Pro se My i se specialized in opening a new store), PMG (People Matters Group, specialized in training 4 om Pr and human resources), PAG (Property Acquisition Group, for purchasing construction site), RFM (Review Forecasting Meeting, for reviewing managerial performance) and RDG (Retail Design Group, for architecture design and plan for store). Synbaration Corporate Culture People Promise People Promise plays a role in increasing workplace satisfaction among our staff and thereSynbaration, from ‘Synbaram’ (a Korean word for excitement or enthusiasm) and ‘Rational’ by enhances customer value we deliver, committing various members of our organization to (the Western’s culture) stands for Homeplus’ unique corporate culture. Synbaration is all certain standards of conduct. ‘People Promise’ is the promise made by the company to the about a balance between life and work. In other words, it is about providing a work environstaff and staff to staff. It consists of four core areas that are derived from the belief that ment where each and every one of our employees can attain both personal satisfaction and when staff works with excitement, the company can provide a higher value service to its professional development. customers. ge ge e Ran e Ran Homeplus will establish policies for human resources, rules and system to incorporate ‘PeoWid 4L ove Wid 4L ove ali ty s Homeplus has a variety of incentive programmes ali ty in place to give s concrete shape to this plePromise’ into all of its current and future human resource-related policies. The main Hig Hig hQ u organizational vision. We were Korea’s first retail company to implement a five-day workhQ u points of the ‘People Promise’ are mutual trust and respect among employees so that all in week and offer one of the most competitive compensation and benefit packages in the our organization feel valued and appreciated. Also, Homeplus is making sure there is no & Industrial Growth & Industrial Growth Low Price Low Price Economic Economic Most industry. Most discrimination of any of staff, in regards to gender or age by providing fair opportunities for Market Admired Social Market our various We practice positive reinforcement through Admiredemployee Social reward programmes such all employees. Value Company Value Value Company Value as ‘Value Mileage’ and ‘Value Awards’ recognizing outstanding achievements in areas of To assess how effective our efforts in this direction have been, we conduct ‘staff satisfaction Great red Great red Grow customer, operation, finance, cultivating manpower and community. With regard to creating Grow surveys on a yearly basis. Any areas requiring improvement are detected through this provic th vic th Ser Ser cess and included in our ‘People Plan.’ e Sha Synbaran corporate culture, an annual company conference is held by gathering all of our e Sha nan nan cial staff to celebrate success and share visions cial Perf and goals. Fi Fi Perf ce ac e orma k pla orma kpl nce Wor Meanwhile, we make sure rationality reigns nce across Wor Leadershipour professional development proLeadership People Plan grammes and decision-making process. The best talent is developed through various trainThe People Plan is an innovative programme, designed to help enhance our staff’s key performance indicators to contribute to the company’s value and the staff value it offers. Homeplus derives its core projects after reviewing the findings of the staff satisfaction Synbarational Culture research and company-wide People Review. With this information in hand, Homeplus can better implement changes in its internal and external business environment, core strategic Customer tasks, and the needs of staff. Passionate Oriented The main projects of 2010 were focused on realizing work and family balance, strengthening business capability, nurturing female talent and improving a system for human resource. In 2011, two projects are ongoing. One is to create a corporate culture of Synbaram and Analytical Synbarational Creative another is to put learning management in place. Each of these projects is overseen by a Culture sponsor (appointed among executives) and a leader (appointed among division directors) who are responsible for establishing and implementing a detailed yearly action plan. Project progress is evaluated on a quarterly basis, by looking at a set of key performance indicators 프로・합리 (KPI), and monitored in a continuous manner. Speedy Humble (Rational) Synbaration is Homeplus’ unique corporate culture By utilizing this People Plan, Homeplus not only pursues staff’s loyalty but also improves creating the most exciting working place. Synbaration their occupational capabilities, thereby enhancing our value. culture is well integrated into our business operation and provides rewarding experience for our staff. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 75 Green Leadership Homeplus Academy People Development Academy Academy Mecca of Nurturing Global Leaders People Development Philosophy Homeplus has philosophy of ‘People are the most important assets’ and continued our Valuable staff-members are individuals with the potential to effectively help attain HomeMajor 6 efforts in developing staff. Based on this, Homeplus Academy was opened on 7th July plus’ vision as ‘Most Highly Loved by Customers’ and carry out related missions, who furSmart 2011 as the first carbon zero academy in the world. The Academy is 100% invested by thermore closely share its corporate mission and values. In other words, people we need Learning Concepts Premium Tesco Group and has a land area of 59,390m2 and total area of 16,020m2. The Academy is are ‘Employee with decent attitudes (Integrity)’, building trust and cooperation based on Academy Service Academy equipped with 22 classrooms with library, indoor-outdoor performing stage and hotel-typed basic principles, ‘Experts (Professionalism)’, having GloCal (global and local) competitiverooms. ness based on continuous learning, and ‘Innovators (Creativity)’, creating new values with Cultural Diversity Craft challenging spirit and passion. We are nurturing people who do our part in serving basics Academy Academy The Academy will train 24,000 staff annually from Asia regions and it aims to cultivate like working together, building trust and volunteering, who continuously have passion for world’s renown experts in the retail industry. The Academy’s training programme is learning how to be qualified with professional capabilities while responding to a GloCal envidesigned based on major 6 concepts in Green, Leadership, Service, Culture, Craft and ronment, and who creates new values for both customers and co-workers. Smart. In particular, Master School trains the utmost experts in different sectors in the retail business. Homeplus is continuously training all our staff, including the employees of suppliers and outsourced companies, to nurture such talent to realize its full potential. These training Homeplus will demonstrate great efforts in making the Academy as the leader in training courses are designed differently depending on the audience. The actual content of training the professional global leaders. The Academy will bring wave of K-Du (Korea-eDucation) as varies between these groups, as their core competencies are different. Homeplus implelike the K-Pop and K-Food. ments staff development programmes each designed for full-time staff, part-time or temporary contract employees and even the staff of suppliers to provide customer service training. Notably, training towards executives of suppliers has been provided since 2011, to realize a win-win growth. Medium to long-term personnel training strategy is developed annually to closely correspond with our overall business strategy in the long and medium term. People Development Structure Until 2011, the focus for developing the staff talent to drive future growth was on settling the leadership of Homeplus by pinpointing staff with the potential to step up and making them bigger people. The training strategy will need to be approved by a group of selected executives, every year. Since 2012, our new focus on training is to realize a learning management by creating favorable conditions where sales capabilities are strengthened and executives are studying by themselves in order to provide the best value products. In addition, we will improve the appropriateness of the training programme by continuously communicating with staff. Homeplus provides systematic training programme for staff so that each staff can become experts in their areas. People Plan Process Implement People Review Create People Plan People Plan Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Conduct Produce Conduct Agree people Produce detailed Launch Interim People viewpont priorties People Plan People Plan viewpont Review People Plan Progress Check (Quarterly Review through KPI) Homeplus Academy leads Korean wave in education. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 77 Financial Investment in Staff People Development ProEducation and Training Programmes by Type of Staff Education grammes Homeplus H model for People Development (Unit: Million KRW) Type of Staff Programmes People development proLeadership, Team Leaders, Customer Service Training, CS specialist Programme, Intensive 2012 6,950 grammes include Talent Managers, Staff Service Course, Buyers Special Course, Distribution Special Spotting and the Personal Course, Retail System Training, Core Purpose & Values Service 2011 6,400 Leadership Course, Leadership Nurturing Course, Team Leader Nurturing Development Plan, along Behaviors Course, Senior Staff Nurturing Course, Section Head Nurturing 2010 6,000 with the e-Learning Centre, Course, New Staff Introductory Course, Experienced Staff Homeplus Academy and Introductory Course, Partnership Training for Advanced 2009 5,000 People Distribution the Reading and Distance Capability Managers, Part-time Staff Basic Job Skills Training (for staff at stores), Special Training Learning Programme. about Service Basic Vision CEO∙Senior Manager∙Staff of Leadership Course, Marketing Course Average Education Hour per Staff Talent Spotting Attributes Professionalism Suppliers Purity (Unit: hour/person) Homeplus recruits our peoCEO∙Senior Manager∙Staff of Basic job skills training programmes Passion Service Agencies 2012 216 ple through new hiring or Androgyny Teamwork reassignment of internal 2011 214 staff. Talent Spotting is a 2010 212 staff redeployment proPeople Rewards gramme, designed to sup2009 210 port staff’s career development to enable the most appropriate assignment of staff, based Staff Benefits on their competencies and capacities, through a process that is optimally fair and transparHomeplus offers comprehensive benefit packages to employees and operates a variety of ent. According to this Talent Spotting programme, Career Discussion is conducted to talk incentive programmes in order to provide the best customer services by securing talented about a division and regions to which they desire to be reassigned based on annual people with competitiveness and increasing staff satisfaction. resource plans. Afterwards, each team holds Talent Planning Meetings to allocate staff in Homeplus has corporation insurance that will support the medical expenses if members of categories of promotion, transfer, continuing current position or need capability. Once all staff or their family members are hospitalized. We also joined a retirement pension system staff members’ pool categories are decided, they can be newly deployed into appropriate since 2008 that grants educational expenses dependent of all ages without restriction on positions when vacant positions are opened. age (college, middle and high school and kindergarten) or the total number of recipients. In addition, other benefits are given, for example, money for congratulations and condolences, Personal Development Plan (PDP) leave for condolences, an allowance for proceeding to a new post, reward for long-term Homeplus’ staff completes objectives every year and they make their individual Personal employed persons, and the use of company-owned resort facilities. In 2010, we opened an Development Plan (PDP) in consultation with their line managers in order to accomplish the online community relief center to support all employees to receive welfare benefit services objectives. In the Plan, issues to be improved are included such as leadership, operation in a convenient and easy way. What is a PDP skills, and necessary capabilities. Progress is reviewed by regular checks with the manag(Personal Development Plan)? ers, and support is given, if necessary. Support for Staff Clubs Homeplus, for the sake of making an amicable organizational atmosphere, supports staff’s Subsidy to Staff Clubs A Personal Development Plan is an People Training Programme hobby activities by providing financial grants for participants to an extent of 2 clubs per per(Unit: Million KRW) action plan for employee career Homeplus’ training system is based on the ‘Homeplus H Capability’ which combines leadson. To help tighten the bond between members of our organization and encourage person2012 2,336 management and professional ership training with general training, job training and Hexagon Leadership. al development activities, we support costs on a monthly basis associated with their particigrowth. These plans, drawn up by 2011 2,189 each employee with the help of their In each area, more than 500 different training courses are provided annually, specifically pating in employee hobby clubs. Currently, there are 374 total employee clubs including managers, are used to review their regarding leadership, various operation skills and language courses through Group Training, 2010 1,810 volleyball, football, baseball, cultural activities, leisure sports, bowling, fitness, table tennis, progress in career development. e-Learning, and Book Club Communication. Homeplus provides a wide range of training skiing, travelling, climbing, research on food culture, billiards, trips for taking pictures, ten1,509 2009 • Individual strengths and courses to all employees even including employee members of suppliers and service agennis, pocket ball, fishing, remote-controlled model collecting and volunteer services. weaknesses assessed through an cies all serving different types of roles and responsibilities. In particular, Options Prointerview using 9 critical success gramme is Homeplus’ unique programme that provides participants with opportunities to Staff Counseling factors (CSF) • Advice offered as to how to improve be promoted to next position. Homeplus addresses various issues arising from day-to-day operations including conflict areas of weakness that need to be In addition to large group training, Homeplus operates an e-learning centre (www.homeamong team members and harassment. The Staff Counseling System is set up and consistaddressed in order to qualify for the plusuniversity.co.kr) a first in Korea’s retail industry offering training courses to staff so that job rank or assignment desired ed of 4 members, including 1 female staff, to listen, review and resolve difficulties. Staff can they can learn anywhere and anytime. In 2012 , Homeplus staff invested an average of 216 also share their problems through e-mails or Voice of Employee (VOE) and consult with • Used in parallel with individual objectives hours in training, and this participation is encouraged in connection with PDP support. managers and counselors. • Manager participates in developing the plan and follows up on the progress, providing advice and guidance In an effort to bring One Team Spirit and support their personal growth, Homeplus covers costs associated with staff participation in hobby clubs. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 79 Resolution Channel of Staff Complaints Work & Family Balance Category Organizer Frequency Main Activity Staff Discussion Staff / Director of Once a Month / Acceptance and resolution of each region Quarterly group grievances raised by each store/regional division Complaints Complaints Occasionally Acceptance and resolution of Work Family Consultant System Consultant individual grievances raised by each store/division Homeplus family offering Homeplus family promoting Discussions by Manager Quarterly Counseling and resolution of more values to customers childbirth and childcare Class grievances by each class Customer Chick Improving Staff Health Homeplus family Homeplus family working filled with With regard to creating a safe working environment, Homeplus fully commits to preventing professionally happiness at work accidents and practices environmental safety laws based on strict rules at the same time. Professional Balance Club and home Also, we conduct training based on various emergency scenarios, provide proper education, and carry out audit or surveillance to reduce dangerous factors in the job site. As of 2010, the occupational accident rate is 0.09%. Synbaram Guide Homeplus family Homeplus family We have selected safety managers at each store and head offices to prevent both customenjoy pleasure sharing love ers and staff from exposure to accidents. The Human resources department regularly gathand happiness at all times ers all information about safety accidents and industrial disaster statistics by the head office and reports them on a regular basis at leadership meetings. To ensure the health of our staff, annual health checkups are offered to all staff (once every two years for the headquarters), and the opportunity for a full health checkup is provided to those who have worked for Homeplus for more than a certain number of years. Also, Balance Homeplus was the first in the industry to put chairs at cashier stations across the nation to provide a better working environment for its employees. Work & Family Balance Best Family-Friendly Management Certificate Homeplus declared its initiative of ‘Family-Friendly Management’ in 2010 along with a In recognition of Homeplus’ various programmes initiated to pursue a ‘Work and Family theme of ‘Homeplus filled with love’ to pursue Work & Family Balance. With a belief that Balance’, we received a certificate of ‘Best Family Friendly Management’ organized by the staff members who feel excited in their work can provide much value to customers, we set Ministry of Gender Equality and Family on November 2010. The certification of ‘Best Family a goal of ‘Making time for balance of work & family’ to improve the way of how to accomFriendly Management’ is awarded to companies that sincerely implement familyfriendly policies including child support, education support and support for staff. 157 companies plish objectives and performance by encouraging staff to immerse themselves in their work have received the certification from 2008 to 2011. Homeplus was the first to get the and implement various family-friendly programmes. certification in the retail industry. We have a ‘Family Day’ to urge staff to leave the office at the regular time so that they can enjoy the rest of the time with their family members for the purpose of improvement of working efficiency. ‘Flexible Working Hours’ is operated for employees that need flexible working times because of their personal or physical conditions. ‘Online Search’ function is used inside our website to allow staff to have easy access to any information necessary for their work. We also have ‘Mobile Internet’, which is also operated to enable staff to check their emails, schedule and electronic baking using their smart mobile phones anywhere and anytime. In the meantime, Homeplus provides various opportunities to encourage staff to spend their time with their family members through ‘Family Farm’, ‘Book Camp’ and a family picnic at ‘Synbaram Festival’. There are many other family-loving programmes and services; Group Accident Insurance giving benefits to staff and their spouses and children; e-Learning Support System in which children of employees and family members can learn using remote training system; Fitness Club & Medical Services with discounted prices through alliance Homeplus runs family-friendly programs, for example, Homeplus runs online welfare centre with various Family Farm so that employees and their family benefits to improve employee welfare. with specialized bodies; and setting up blind dates for unmarried staff. Homeplus encourges staff to spend their time with family through ‘Family camp’. members can experience farming culture. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 81 87.6 Staff Communication good opportunity for staff to listen to company’s news and to communicate each other because staff working at stores cannot easily access to computers or TV. In the meantime, Viewpoint effort to improve internal communication channels are being made by reflecting feedbacks ‘Viewpoint’ staff satisfaction survey, enables it to gather objective information on the level of from leadership and staff after conducting a survey on satisfaction about internal communi% staff satisfaction towards their work and work environment. The survey is conducted biancation channels using the company’s online survey system at the end of every year. On top nually and its findings are reflected in people development policies. of that, active communication between the head office and stores is being made with the Homeplus conducts biannual staff viewpoint. Staff The survey is concerned with our staff’s perception and attitude toward their work place, help of correspondents at each store. They exchange main news with other stores and satisfaction level has reached an historical high of jobs and job conditions. It measures the trust and respect they have in and for the busideliver the news to staff members. 87.6 % in 2012. ness, whether they are satisfied with the support provided and how interested they are in their jobs and assignments. Based on responses obtained from the survey, improvement strategies are developed and reflected annually in the ‘People Plan’. Viewpoint is an important tool permitting Homeplus’ management to measure how well the Internal Communication Channels Homeplus’ values are understood and shared, and practiced by our staff and how satisfied Type Description they are with their workplace. The results of the survey are shared with all staff through Staff Magazine <Tong> This monthly staff magazine keeps our staff updated on key each director, so that they can develop an objective understanding as to what the strengths business highlights and stories from our staff. and weakness of their respective teams are, and draw up an action plan to address any Company News Broadcasting Internal news broadcasting delivering business updates (twice a weaknesses. month) The level of staff satisfaction at Homeplus has been steadily rising ever since 2000, to Audio News Company news delivered to store staff in a form of radio reach 87.6 % in 2012. Homeplus plans to make continuous efforts in this direction to raise Team Talk Highlights of monthly activities from each team across the business (once a month) the level of employee satisfaction to an even higher level. Company Conference Annual staff meeting to celebrate success and share vision Town Meeting Annual company event to share group’s performance and celebrate Internal Communication Channels success Nurturing the kind of dynamic corporate culture, Homeplus values open communication CEO Management Essay Monthly essay from CEO between all members of its organization. The communication channels at Homeplus are Bulletin Board Post press coverage on Homeplus and other general company powerful tools to ensure that our values are shared and all information is cascaded to all, notices serving to motivate our employee and unite them under our vision of the ‘Most Highly Loved PlusNet Intranet system enabling speedy and efficient job communication by Customers.’ Homeplus Morning Forum Guest lectures attended by directors, team leaders and store managers held monthly To facilitate internal communication, Homeplus runs a variety of channels such as Staff Magazine ‘Tong’, Company News Broadcasting, Audio News at stores, Team Talk, PlusNet Hanmaeum Consultation A regularly-scheduled meeting between staff representatives and the management to discuss company operations and staff welfare (Intranet), Bulletin Board, various communities, Store Message and clubs. Furthermore, we Store Staff Forum A monthly store staff forum attended by store managers and carry out active communication activities through company-wide events including Company assistant store managers Conference and Town Meeting. In particular, the company magazine, ‘Tong’, which has Voice of Employee Online forum available for all staff to share difficulty and been published since 2000 for the first time in retail industry, marked 131th issue in information in their workplace. December 2012. ‘Tong’ is one of the most important internal communication channel in terms of recording the history of Homeplus, and delivering the company’s performance and news to all staff. Also, Audio News at stores is Homplus’ unique media and served as a Viewpoint Survey Process • Level of staff motivation, job attitude and career outlook Key Surey Areas • Level of satisfaction with current jobs and tasks Analysis of Survey • Changes in staff attitude and outlook conerning their company Resulets and job Reference for People • Use for determining furure directions in people management Management Policies Reference for • Reflected in management planning Management Policies Homeplus held ‘2012 Company Conference’ and shared new version & plan with staff at the Homeplus Academy. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 83 Delivering Customer Value You can experience the best service, high quality and value at Homeplus. “The reason why we have only one mouth but two ears is because we are to listen more than to talk. eParan and Homeplus listen to our customers and understand their needs. Furthermore, we think about our customers and local communities. eParan will strive to listen more carefully to make Homeplus the best it can be; where the best service is provided with the best quality products at a reasonable price, the place where the best value resides in the most pleasant shopping environment. The place where an emotional service is provided to bring culture closer to our customers.” 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 85 Delivering Customer Value ge ge lower than our competitors. Meanwhile, thanks to consistent quality management efforts at e Ran e Ran Wid 4L Wid 4L Core Values ty ove s ty ove s our TL&T, we maintain the highest quality and safety standards for all products we carry. ali ali Hig Hig hQ hQ No one tries harder for customers. u Homeplus offers the utmost value to our customers through u Our friendly staff is happy to attend to our customers’ needs, and the store environment is • Understand customers & Industrial Growth & Industrial Growth always kept clean and agreeable so that shopping at Homeplus is an enjoyable experience. Low Price wide range of high-quality products Low Price at reasonable prices. • Be first to meet their needs Economic Economic Most Most The one-stop living service is another thing many of our customers appreciate about Home• Act responsibly for our communities Admired Admired Market Value Company Social Value Furthermore, we leave noValue stone Company Market unturnedSocial to provide the best Value plus. Our customers can bank, drop off dry-cleaning, have their photos taken, buy pharmaTreat people how we like to be treated. Great red Grow quality for customers by introducing new concepts of stores Great red Grow ceuticals, get a haircut and open a credit card account at the same time as they fill their • Work as a team vic th vic th grocery cart. Better yet, they can learn, pursue their cultural interests and find entertainSer Ser e Sha like ‘Value Store’, ‘Emotional Store’, and ‘Smart Virtual e Sha • Trust and respect each other nan cial nan cial ment at our school of extended education serving as the community centre. • Listen, support and say thank you Store’. Fi Fi Perf ce Perf ac e orma k pla orma kpl • Share knowledge and experience nce Leadership Wor nce Wor Leadership Homeplus not only provides various functions of Value Store, especially for customers, but … So we can enjoy our work. also offer creative services beyond those of the existing hypermarkets such as new distribution services, premium bakery and other. These creative approaches of Homeplus have not just helped improve the quality of life in communities and their competitiveness, but also have provided a welcome stimulus for the Korea’s retail industry. Homeplus provides the most pleasant service so that customers can shop in the most enjoyable and pleasant environment. Customer Parliament Value Management for Greater Customer Satisfaction Homeplus is relentless in our effort to pursue the vision to become ‘Most Highly Loved by Customers’. Homeplus’ clock tower, reminiscent of Big Ben at the British Parliament, symHomeplus created a new concept store called ‘Value Store’ maximizing customer value. To bolizes ‘customer parliament,’ which describes the utmost importance we assign to our deliver ever-greater value to our customers and better satisfy them, we continuously implecustomers’ voices. e Ran ge ment differentiated services. ide R ange Wid 4L ove W 4L ove ali ty s ali ty s Listening Our Customers Hig hQ ‘Value Store’, the hypermarket that puts customers’ value first Hig hQ We are always willing and eager to hear from our customers so that we serve them better. u u The ‘Value Store’ has been an industry-changing innovation for Korea’s hypermarket busiFor this, we conduct regular/irregular research, over 240 times annually, on more than & Industrial Growth & Industrial Growth Low Price Low Price ness. In a market where big box style stores were the norm, we stood out by coupling a Economic Economic Most Most 120,000 customers to include level of satisfaction, image trackers, exit surveys, panels of Market Admired Social pleasant shopping environment withMarket Admiredservice. premium-quality Our ‘Value Store’ is about Social household wives, CQT (Customer Question Time), and online customer panels. Homeplus Value Company Value Value Value offering an all-around shopping value by adding Company superior service and an attractive setting to is also the only retail company in Korea to operate a Customer Insight Unit (CIU) exclusively Great red Great great products that are affordably-priced. Our one-stop shopping service and one-stop livred Grow Grow in charge of customer surveys and analysis. The CIU Team helps us remain in touch with vic th vic th Ser Sha Ser ing service offer just that: a wholesome shopping experience and value. Sha our customers through their regular monitoring activities. e e nan cial Fi e As many of our products are globally nasourced, ncia l we are able to ceoffer prices that are 3-5% Fi Perf ac Perf pla Homeplus provides kpl orma the most pleasant service so that orma k nce L Wor nce Leadership Wor e a de r shi p customers can shop in the most enjoyable and pleasant environment. Customer Parliament Customer Plan Process Value Store Concept Customer insights and Community analysis Customer Plan in 2011 CIU Team • No.1 Quality of Fresh Foods • No.1 Price Image Improve Key • No.1 Delly custoner improvement Cozy areas selected New retail Enjoyable Full range satisfaction shopping service environment of goods Leadership All stores meeting Interesting Extensive culture & Best Lower ge ge e Ran e Ran customer 4 price Wid 4L ove entertain facilities Wid Lov Customer service -ment Various ty s ty es Homeplus’s Clock Tower, similar to Britian’s Big Better Plan ali education ali Ben, symbolizes ‘customer parliament.’ Hig hQ Hig hQ quality u programmes u On CIU Team On e ic e eS eS top Living Ser vic top erv Shopping S & Industrial Growth & Industrial Growth Low Price Low Price Economic Economic Most Most Market Admired Social Market Admired Social Value Company Value Value Company Value 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 87 Great red Great red Grow Grow vic th vic th Ser Sha Ser Sha e e nan Fi nan Fi 18,634 Customer Insights fruits, vegetables to livestock products with lower prices based on results of price survey conType Description Frequency ducting through main channels to strengthen price competitiveness of fresh products. products Image Tracker Customers’ evaluation on Homeplus and other competing retailers on store image 4 times / yr As such, Homeplus invests billions of won every year to sustain price competitiveness, Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction level on shopping trip provided by each store 12 times / yr which in turn, inducing stabilization of domestic economy for households and realizing Homeplus provides 18,634 various different (Hyper CS) economy of scale for partners. products to customers with the best service at the Customer Question Meeting between customers and store employees to identify issues of each store and seek ways of 50~55 times / yr best quality and the lowest price. (As of Dec. 2012) Time (CQT) improvement Mystery Shopping Store service and fresh food quality evaluation by professional shoppers 72 times / yr (6 times of month) Local Sourcing CR Tracker Evaluation on Homeplus’ social responsibility activities 4 times / yr By buying farm produce we distribute directly from growers, we are able to keep the prices E-commerce Satisfaction level of major E-commerce services 12 times / yr lower and guarantee better quality. The direct purchase programme, made possible Satisfaction through a strategic alliance with the National Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives, will Tenant Satisfaction Satisfaction level of Tenant shopping trip 12 times / yr further gain in scope in the near future, as we put into place an efficient buying system to Express Satisfaction Satisfaction level of Express shopping trip 12 times / yr Client Assembly Attain instant feedback on HMP shopping trips As needed support its operations. Brand Review Survey Evaluate client response on HMP shopping trips yearly and conduct research for customer plans, 1 time / yr community plans and functional plans for the following year More Directly-run Businesses Ad-hoc Other survey on Homeplus and store related issues As needed Fresh grocery sections and bakeries and pizza places inside a large retail outlet are often run by tenant businesses. Rental paid by these businesses and extra operating costs incurred by the store are inevitably shifted to customers, driving up the prices at their end. In an effort to cut operating costs and thereby keep its prices low across all product categories, Homeplus is progressively increasing the share of businesses that are directly run by it. Lowest Price Guarantee Programme Customer Plan Homeplus is continuously striving to provide the best quality products at the lowest price. The Customer Plan is a step change program addressing customers’ needs that are defined Hence, Homeplus implemented a guarantee program that gives back twice the difference through a number of customer insights and analysis on market circumstances. Under this between what you paid at Homeplus and what you would have paid at a different hypercompany-wide process, corrective actions are taken in any areas identified to need market store if Homeplus did not offer you the lowest price. improvement, and the results of these actions are evaluated through customer surveys. The Customer Analysis Service Team, a specialized research group at Homeplus carries out Expand Basket Price Items customer surveys and analysis about 200 times every year. Based on the survey results, At Homeplus, we offer especially competitive prices on a list of items that are most freSteering Committee Meeting defines core issues, and intensive process for improvement is quently purchased by our customers. These low-priced basic goods are referred as ‘Basket made for one year. Price Items.’ By cutting prices on items that are needed and bought daily, instead of infrequently -purchased items, Homeplus makes sure that the benefits of its low price policy are concrete and real. Currently, about 7,000 items which account for 70% of Homeplus’ reveEffort to Better Satisfy Our Customers nue are classified as Basket Price Items. The Basket Price Items include clothing and home appliances as well as fresh food. Homeplus offers the industry’s best value to its customers by providing the largest variety of high-quality products that are always low priced, and coupling them with a great service. Wide Range of Product Increasing Global Sourcing Low Price Homeplus offers wide range of products through global sourcing. Our Global Sourcing Homeplus’ lowest pricing policy offers lower prices than our counterparts and is essential to Team chooses products through a global sourcing network, applying the most exacting Homeplus provides PB products qualified with excellent quality and price competitiveness competitiveness. our effort to offer the best value to its customers. To keep the prices of our products affordquality and safety criteria. 4,484 products including fresh food, home appliances, clothing, able at all times, we invest in price stabilization through our ‘Price Investment’ and buy home wares and toys are sourced globally. directly from local growers and producers. Our lowest price guarantee comes with a compensation programme whereby we pay customers who found better prices elsewhere an Private Brand Development amount twice the price difference. Our basket price programme and Enuri Coupons are Homeplus categorizes private brands into 3 areas-Good Zone (Homeplus’ frugal products), also smart ways for our customers to save money. Better Zone (Homeplus’ good products) and Best Zone (Homeplus’ premium products). Good Zone products are food and other everyday necessaries offered at a deep discount Price Investment and Price Stabilization Campaign price. Better Zone products, comparable in quality to normal-brand products (NB), are Homeplus’ Price Investment, begun in 2003, is distinct from other forms of sales or disbrand about 20% cheaper than national brands. Premium products under the Best Zone count campaigns, as it lowers prices on a permanent basis. Homeplus applies the Price are superior in quality to national brands. Also, Homeplus has satified wine lovers through Investment policy on approximately 4000 types of products each year. launching new concept of wine brand ‘Simply Wine’ and premuium wine ‘Finest’ with Homeplus makes contributions to stabilizing prices by gradually lowering prices on about 600 Tesco. Furtheromre, Homeplus provides a wide range of products according with customHomeplus launched Florence & Fred, an European style Homeplus offers best value to customers by providing major daily necessaries at 6-week intervals, and providing 100 product items ranging from wide range of products, low price, high quality and ers’ changeable needs. brand to provide trendy products with reasonable prices. great service. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 89 PB Sales (Unit: Billion KRW) Environment-Friendly and Well-Being Product State-of-the-Art Fresh Distribution Centre To tap the increasing interests of customers and demand for food safety, Homeplus proThe opening of the Anseong Fresh Distribution Centre in November 2012 put an advanced vides its healthy food brands named ‘Environment-Friendly’ and ‘Well-Being Plus’ products. distribution system to our disposition, giving a tremendous boost to our ability to maintain 2012 23,471 (24.5%) ‘Environment-Friendly’ indicates fresh food including fruits, vegetables, livestock and the freshness of our produce. The key to having fruits and vegetables reach customers at 2011 20,981 (24.2%) marine products. ‘Well-Being Plus’ products include snack, glass noodles, tea etc. the end of the supply chain in their original freshness is to reduce the amount of handling. The more handling they go through, the quicker they go bad. At Homeplus, we use basket2010 21,167 (25.9%) Homeplus Bakery style containers. These containers allow fruits and vegetables to be transported to the distri2009 19,127 (25.6%) Homeplus Bakery operates at 132 hypermarkets and 251 express stores. By taking advanbution centre in the original crates in which they were shipped by growers. The fruits and Homeplus’ ‘Well-being Plus’ range offers high quality tages of a customer-based distribution network of Homeplus and bakery knowhow, Homevegetables are also washed in their original crates and are removed from them only once healthy organic products. plus Bakery positioned itself as a leading place in the hyper bakery market. Successful perthey are in our stores. Replacing containers alone has cost us over one billion won. Further, formance such as opening one hundred bakeshops in the shortest period of time, bakeryto minimize environmental damage to our fresh produce, we lowered the brightness of lightproducing lines’ acquirement of HACCP certification in the shortest time of one year since ing in our distribution centre. Finally, we now employ a full cold chain. The use of refrigeratthe plant started its business in Anseong, Gyeonggi-do in September 2008, and developed trucks, previously limited to transportation between the distribution centre and the ment of at least five new products on average every month, Homeplus Bakery increased its stores, is now extended to the grower sites and the distribution centre, for greater freshness sales so that it will record 100 billion KRW in sales as of February 2012. Thanks to such of the produce we sell. growth; Homeplus Bakery was selected as one of companies in the category of ‘100 Excellent Corporation in Job Creation 2010’. The One and Only Local Quality Control with Participation of Customers In two stores, Yeongdeungpo and Centum City, we operate a customer value creation station in order to live up to the quality expected by our customers. At these stations more Product Range than 2,500 products are evaluated by customers every year, and Homeplus PB products Category Type Item will only be displayed on the shelf after customer evaluations. Also, products that are on the Fresh Food Fruit, Vegetable, Livestock, and Fish & Marine 1,520 SKUs Homeplus has ‘Value Creation’ to evaluate product shelf are evaluated once or twice per year to provide the best quality products. Moreover, quality thus providing high quality products to our Fast Cooking Bakery, Processed Fresh Food, and Dairy Products 32,340 SKUs we have a professional panel made up of 80 prosumers (consumers who lead new product customers. Grocery Processed Food, Tea & Alcoholic Liquors, Baking & Beverage, 11,730 SKUs and Daily Necessaries development by actively requesting the development of certain products and by providing Living & Culture Home Appliances, Household Commodities, Cultural Goods, 14,391 SKUs new product ideas to companies) and develop products on the basis of prosumers’ opinion. and Sports Products These newly developed products go through prosumer group panel tests and home-use Fashion General Merchandise, Man Clothing, Women Clothing and 9,573 SKUs Children’s Wear tests (test method where consumers use the product several times at home; this method is Total 39,554 SKUs usually used for detergents, household cleaners, clothes, etc) before their launch to provide * SKU is the acronym for ‘Stock Keeping Unit’. the safest and the best quality products. FOP/GDA Nutritional Labeling In an effort to provide customers easy-to-see information on the safety and nutritional value of its food products, Homeplus has introduced the ‘front-of-pack’ nutritional labeling for all High Quality processed food products under its all private brands. The FOP nutritional labeling displays Satisfaction or Refund Policy macro-nutrient content (protein, fat and carbohydrates) and nine other nutrients, including Homeplus implemented its quality satisfaction program so as to take full responsibility for sugar, saturated fat, cholesterol and sodium, on the front of the package using icons. It also the quality of all its products in every way. Homeplus always exchanges or refunds if the gives information on the nutritional content of the products and recommended daily nutricustomer is not satisfied with the quality (for fresh food, freshness and quality) of one of its ent intakes, as well. The front labeling, which applies to over 1,300 products, offers cusproducts so long as the customer provides the product and the receipt. tomers more transparent information on its food products, thereby helping them lead a high-quality, healthy life. Fresh Produce Sell-by Date Labeling Fruits and vegetables at Homeplus stores are marked ‘sell-by’ dates that are far before Great Service legally required sell-by dates. This is another way we ensure that only the freshest food Green Line products reach our customers through our stores. Homeplus runs ‘Green Line’ managing queues line in front of checkout counters so that our customers can checkout as quickly as possible without having to wait. Expiration Date We drew a lime green line on the floor behind POS so that our store colleagues can easily To ensure the freshness of our food products, our staff routinely checks their expiration monitor. If a customer is waiting behind this green line we immediately open up a new POS dates. Some products, which freshness is an utmost concern, are removed from shelves to reduce the queue time. and replaced even before the expiration date. In most cases, we employ more stringent Homeplus Bakery leads a pioneering position in freshness standards than those enforced by law. hypermarket bakery market. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 91 Service Accountability Customer VOC All our store staff directly interacting with customers wears a name badge. This makes it posWe operate a Call Center for the first time in the industry to listen to the voices of customsible for our customers contacting the store management about service-related satisfaction or ers, and there are also various channels such as an Inbox for Customer Feedback at dissatisfaction to name individual employees who served them. This practice promoting indihomepage and a Customer Service Center in stores. Complaints and opinions received from vidual accountability in our staff’s dealings with customers allows us to more effectively to customers are promptly dealt with within 24 hours to resolve problems as fast as possible. redress any shortcomings reported by customers and give recognition to employees that We put customers’ satisfaction first by gathering suggestions and recommendations needed made us proud through friendly and professional service. In addition to name badges, the for operation of stores and product improvement. names of the store manager and persons responsible for each of the store sections are postVia Homeplus Online Shopping mall, one can purchase ed along with their photos and phone numbers, across the store, to let know our customers Homeplus Family Card Convenient and Provides Various Services products sold at stores with just a few clicks a t home. who we are and that we are happy to hear from them about any service-related issues. Family card was launched in November 2002, and within 10 years, the services and numbers of members has grown continuously. Family card member, as of October 2012, Pricing Error Policy reached more than 17.10million making it the hypermarket card with the largest number of In some rare cases, customers may be charged a wrong amount for a purchase due to a members. Homeplus’ quarterly mailing system to members with more than 2,000 points Homeplus where customer’s health is scanning error. If this happens, we promptly rectify the error by refunding any overpaid provides diverse information for customers such as cash coupons in exchange for points, our first priority, we have health carts amount and issue the customer a 5,000 KRW gift voucher as a compensation for the inconvarious product discounts, and accumulative coupons. Segmented services, according to in stores so that our customers can be reminded of health while shopping at venience this error may have caused. At Homeplus, we strive to eliminate this type of scanconsumers’ needs, are provided through the Baby & Kids Club, Wine Club, and Big Bonus our stores. ning errors as much as possible by checking our computer systems and price tables every Coupon. In addition, the function of the family card is included into the ‘Homeplus App’ morning before the store opening and routinely training our staff. that was developed in 2011, thereby enhancing customers’ convenience to enable them to accumulate points and use coupons if they are smart mobile phone users. Also, the family Guaranteed Safe Delivery Policy card provides a green point program as a link to raising awareness about climate change. Homeplus, first time in Korea, has signed an Mobile Home appliances or furniture purchased from our stores are delivered to customers. When The bicycle riding campaign started at the Jamsil store in 2007 (providing extra points to Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) contract with KT for the delivery of an item is delayed or the item arrives damaged due to a mistake or oversight customers who rode their bicycles to the shop) is widely spreading to all stores since March reinvigoration of thrift phones. on our side, we promptly redress the situation and issue the customer a store gift voucher 2009. We are also taking the lead in encouraging customers to consume green products by worth 20,000 KRW as a token of our apology. This policy applies only to delivery requested giving four times the amount of points when products with no secondary package and ecoin one of our stores. friendly products are purchased. Online Shopping Mall Homeplus’ efforts for the food safety Homeplus, in line with rapid development of the Internet environment and customers’ increasing demand for convenient shopping, started e-commerce business in March 2002, 1. Operating Professional Technical Managers 3. Operating Specified Quality Control Inspectors at Distribution Centers and now runs a nation-wide internet shopping mall. Thanks to advantages of the provision Professionals in different fields visit to guide suppliers, maintain hygiene of Specified quality control inspectors conduct inspection on all fresh food food provided from suppliers and original producing areas, and ensure products that require scrutiny in our distribution centers, through a scientific of diverse and quality products to customers, and convenience of shopping with less time safety management. This program enables suppliers to voluntarily control sampling method. Through this process, products with safety problems are and effort, the number of customers using the online shopping mall is rapidly increasing. the food safety. At the same time, Homeplus is making efforts to select filtered and inspected prior to entering the stores. By introducing same day delivery in two hour intervals and the ‘Cold Chain System’ for the suppliers already in line with HACCP standards or are managing hygiene standards equivalent to those of the HACCP. 4. Implementing Freshness Managers at all Stores first time in this industry, we are providing differentiated services so that customers enjoy Homeplus freshness managers, who are present in all stores, check safety fresher and higher quality products. Recently, product range, for example, baby & kids 2. C  omplying with Core Safety and Freshness Regulation Standards elements, such as freshness, expiration date, origin of product, and storage products, fashion and furniture are included into our product category so that more diverse ·H  ACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) methods, on a day to day basis, to secure food safety and the freshness of For stock farm products, Homeplus works with HACCP certified fresh food and ready-made food. value is provided to customers’ life. companies (certified by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry). Homeplus currently only sells fresh meat from butcheries that have 5. Inspection for Potentially Dangerous Chemical Substances and been certified with HACCP. Also, in order to further help suppliers in Microorganisms New Retail Services understanding HACCP, Homeplus conducts an external professional Homeplus ensures the safety and quality of its products in alliance with the Homeplus offters new retail services including insurance, loan, telecom and travel services. training system more than once a year for superior suppliers. Korea Food Research Institute (KFRI) under the Ministry of Knowledge This mode of service marketing, enabled through partnership with insurance companies, ·F  resh Packaging MAP Economy. The KFRI has acquired various certifications from food hygiene Homeplus implemented MAP packaging technology to strengthen the inspection institutions, KS certified institutions, etc. The KFRI enables banks, telecom operators and travel companies, allows us to offer prices that are cheaper freshness and sanitation of its stock farm products. MAP (Modified Homeplus to monitor store safety and the security of all its products with than the prices our customers would pay through standard channels. Atmosphere Packing) is a packaging technology that maintains the scientific analysis, sample examinations, and standardization of inspection internal environment of the packaged material at a different temperature methods. Homeplus conducts food safety inspections on all of its fresh food, and moisture to the external environment, so that packaged products processed food, and on-the-spot cooked food to provide the best food Convenience Facilities and Tenant stay fresh for a longer period of time. Currently, about 40 different beef hygiene and safety possible. and pork products are sold in MAP, and we plan to further provide more Our car parks asiles and walks are spacious. We provide a playground, rest area, food stock farm products in MAP. court, restaurants and the kids’ cafe that are great sources of refreshments. Homeplus · Introduction of Egg Cold Chain System and Antibiotic Free PB accommodates bookstores, hair salons, optician’s as well as popular clothing brand. HomeHomeplus provides fresh eggs by controlling processes for distribution plus’ onestop living service also features a desk where most common administrative formaland refrigerator storage after introducing the Cold Chain System. We provide only 100 % Antibiotic Free (AF) eggs meeting our own strict ities can be completed. quality standards for consumers. 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 93 Independent Foreword Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been interviews, we held several discussions with Homeplus on the revision of the Report. We Assurance engaged by Homeplus to verify the contents of its 2011/12 Sustainability Report (the reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for Report). Homeplus is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within improvement and revisions have been reflected. Report the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the verification scope stipulated below. Economic performance It is compared with financial statements prepared based on UK International Financial Dear Readers of Reporting Standards, and data on financial performance contained in this report was 2011/12 Homeplus Our independence extracted from financial statements of Homeplus. With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any Sustainability Report other Homeplus business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any Environmental and social performance conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. Verification scope Homeplus described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. Recommendation for improvement The verification process was designed to provide readers with the following information; KMAR verified the 6th ‘2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report’ and we confirmed that Homeplus carried out systematic research and in-depth analysis of views from key Verification of the economic section: Review whether financial performance data has been stakeholders and reflects them into its sustainability management. extracted appropriately from Homeplus 2011/12 Financial Statements Audit Reports and Moreover, the results and performance of the sustainability management have been Annual Reports as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors strengthened compared with the previous report. In particular, it is highly recognized that remarkable progress has been made in areas of social contribution. KMAR recommends the Verification of environmental and social section: Review whether environmental and social Report to contain more detailed and quantitative data to enhance its report quality. information included in the Report is presented appropriately. “Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are Janury 25, 2013 appropriately reflected in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we based our evidence gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. Verification standards KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. Verification process and conclusion In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess Homeplus’ internal processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. • Reviewed media information related to Homeplus sustainability during the reporting period • Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data • Assessed internal documents and materials Korea Management Association • Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances Registrations & Assessments Inc. CEO Ki Ho Park 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 95 GRI G3 Index •_ Reported N/A_ Not Available •_ Reported N/A_ Not Available G3 Indicator Description Status Page G3 Indicator Description Status Page G3 Indicator Description Status Page G3 Indicator Description Status Page Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Operations identified in which the right to exercise Strategy and Analysis of the members of the highest governance body for EN26 and services, and extent of impact mitigation • 45~51 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Statement from the most senior decision maker of the 4.7 guiding the organization’ s strategy on economic, • 18, 25 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not a HR5 at significant risk, and actions taken to sustain these • 62 1.1 organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior • 10, 11 environmental, and social topics EN27 materials that are reclaimed by category • manufacturer rights position) about the relevance Internally developed statements of mission or values, Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Operations identified as having significant risk for 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities • 24~29 4.8 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, • 15~17, 23, 58, EN28 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance violation • No case HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to • 61 environmental, and social performance and the status of 75, 87 with environmental laws and regulations contribute to the elimination of child labor Organizational Profile their implementation Operations identified as having significant risk for Procedures of the highest governance body for Labor Performance incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 2.1 Organization’s name • 14 overseeing the organization’s identification and Total number and rates of employee turnover by age HR7 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory • 61 4.9 management of economic, environmental, and social • 18, 25~29 LA1 group, gender, and region • 15 labor 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services • 14, 15, 89~93 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, Total number and rates of employee turnover by age Society Operational structure of the organization, including main and adherence or compliance with internationally agree LA2 group, gender, and region • 15 2.3 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint • 14, 17 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes ventures 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, • 18 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements • 15, 62 SO1 and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, • 45, 49 environmental, and social performance 2.4 Location of headquarters • Back cover Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational operating, and exiting Number of countries where the organization operates, 4.11 approach or principle is addressed by the organization • 26, 45, 46 LA5 changes, including whether or not it is specified in • 82, 83 Percentage and total number of business units including names of countries with major operations or collective agreements SO2 investigated for corruption related incidents • 61 2.5 ones that are specifically relevant to the sustainability • 19 Externally developed economic, environmental, and About the issues covered in the report 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which • Report, 22 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by • 80 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures • 58~62 the organization subscribes or endorses region 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form • 18 Memberships in associations (such as industry SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption • 61, 63 4.13 associations) and/or national/international advocacy • 22 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk2.7 Markets served • 19 organizations LA8 control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members • 80 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy • 49, 50 development and lobbying Scale of the reporting organization, including number of 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization • 27, 28 regarding serious diseases 2.8 employees and net sales, total capitalization, quantity of • 14, 15, 96, 97 Average hours of training per year per employee by Monetary value of significant fines and total number of products or services provided 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage • 26 LA10 category • 78 SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations ● No Case Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 regarding size, structure, or ownership • 14, 15 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Product Responsibility 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and stakeholder group • 28 LA13 employees per category according to gender, age group, • 15 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period • 20, 21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Report Parameters 4.17 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has • 27, 29 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee PR1 and percentage of significant products and services • 57, 90~92 responded to those concerns, including through its own LA14 category • 74 categories subject to such procedures 3.1 Reporting period • About the Report reporting Type of product and service information required by Economic Performance Human Rights 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) • About the Report PR3 procedures, and percentage of significant products and • 49, 91 15, 66, 90, 96, Percentage and total number of significant investment services subject to such information requirements 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) • About the Report EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed • 97 HR1 agreements that include human rights clauses or that • No Significant Investment have undergone human rights screening Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its • About the Report EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change • 45, 46, 47 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that PR6 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, • 89~93 contents including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan HR2 have undergone human rights screening and actions • 63 3.5 Process for defining report content • 26~29 EC3 obligations • 79 taken Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions • PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and • 63 3.6 Boundary of the report • About the Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government • No case HR4 taken 61, 62 use of products and services State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary 3.7 of the report • About the Report EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally • 66, 67 based suppliers at significant locations of operation Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 3.8 can significantly affect comparability from period to • About the Report EC7 management hired from the local community at • 66 Declaration on GRI G3 Application Level period and/or between organizations locations of significant operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments Sustainability Report 2011/12 of Homeplus was written by referring to the G3 guideline of GRI. Through a comparison and evaluation of the Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit • 33, 37 ~ 39 Report and GRI Application Levels Table, all the requirements that meet an A+ standard are satisfied. Therefore, Homeplus declares the 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of • About the Report through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement indicators and other information in the report Environmental Performance application level of GRI G3 of its Sustainability Report 2011/12 as an A+. It was also confirmed through the review of KMAR that the report is Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of in accordance with the A+ standard. Not a 3.10 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons • About the Report EN1 Materials used by weight or volume • manufacturer for such re-statement Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Not a Significant changes from previous reporting periods in EN2 materials • manufacturer 3.11 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied • 49, 91, 96, 97 in the report EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source • 49 Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 Disclosures in the report • 98, 99 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source • 49 Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3.13 external assurance for the report • 98, 99 EN8 Total water usage by source • 49 G3 Profile Disclosures Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high • No case 2.1-2.10 1.2 biodiversity value outside protected areas 4.1 Governance structure of the organization • 17, 18 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Description of significant impacts of activities, products, 4.1-4.4 , 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance • EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas of high • No case Standard Disclosures 4.2 18 body is also an executive officer biodiversity value outside protected areas For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by G3 Management Approach Not Required Management Approach Management Approach state the number of members of the highest governance EN16 • 49 • OUTPUT 4.3 18 weight disclosed for each Indicator disclosed for each Indicator body that are independent and/or non-executive Disclosures Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Category Category members EN17 weight • 49 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance • 18, 82 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight • 49 G3 Performance Indicators Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 and body NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type No fixed Linkage between compensation for members of the EN20 and weight • emission source & Sector Supplement Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at Sector Supplement indicator with highest governance body, senior managers, and including at least one from least one from each of: due regard to the materiality No fixed Performance Indicators 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the • 25 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination • emission source each of: social, economic, economic, environment, Principle by either: a) reporting organization’s performance (including social and and environment. human rights, labor, society, on the indicator or b) explaining environmental performance) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method • 47 product responsibility. the reason for its omission. Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided • 18 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills • No case 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 97 ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is a standard designed to propose corporate social responsibilities and its relevant guidelines developed by ISO (International Organization for UN GLOBAL COMPACT Standardization) and includes ‘principles of social responsibility’, ‘recognizing social responsibility and engaging stakeholders’, ‘guidance on social responsibility core subjects and associated issues’ and ‘guidance on integrating social responsibility throughout an organization’. This following table shows each subject of Homeplus’ report by page regarding social responsibilities, core subjects and associated issues. Core Subjects Issues Page Organizational Governance Decision-making processes and structures 10, 11, 17, 18, 25, 26 Homeplus joined UN Global Compact in September and supports 10 principles Human Rights Due diligence 59~63 in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption Human rights risk situations Not relevant for business sustainability. This report includes our efforts in complying these principles. Avoidance of complicity 60, 63 We also have joined the Global Compact LEAD to achieve higher levels of Resolving grievances 80 corporate sustainability performance as outlined by the Blueprint for Corporate Discrimination and vulnerable groups 39, 62 Sustainability Leadership. Civil and political rights 60~62, 80 Economic, social and cultural rights 32~40, 60, 62, 76, 78~81 Fundamental principles and rights at work 61, 62 Category Principles Page Labour Practices Employment and employment relationships 15, 62, 66 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Conditions of work and social protection 79~81 61~63 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Social dialogue 62 Human Rights Health and safety at work 80 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 60, 63 Human development and training in the workplace 76~79 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the The Environment Prevention of pollution 45~47, 49 62 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Sustainable resource use 45~50 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 44~51 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 61, 63 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 46, 47, 49 Labor Fair Operating Practices Anti-corruption 55, 59~61, 63 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 61, 63 Responsible political involvement 22, 40, 47, 49, 50, 69, 70 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Fair competition 55 61~63, 66, 74 and occupation. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 35~37 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Respect for property rights 60 45~47 environmental challenges; Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual Consumer Issues 89, 90 practices 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 45~51, 91 Protecting consumers' health and safety 90~92 responsibility; and Sustainable consumption 39, 48, 49, 89 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 45~51 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 87, 91~93 friendly technologies. Consumer data protection and privacy 62 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 49, 50, 54, 55, Anti-Corruption Access to essential services Not relevant including extortion and bribery. 60~63 Education and awareness 39, 47~49 Community Involvement and Community involvement 32~40 Development Education and culture 36~39 Employment creation and skills development 15, 40, 66 Technology development and access 50, 55, 56 Wealth and income creation 55~57, 66 Health 40, 48, 49 Social investment 32~41, 66 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 99 Stakeholder Questionnaire Head of CSR at Homeplus 701-2, Yeoksam-Dong, Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, Korea| Tel 02-3459-2510 Fax. 82-2-3459-7680 1. How can you describe Homeplus Sustainability Report 2011/12 in general? Very Low Low Moderate High Very High 2. What are your areas of interest? (Multiple answers possible) Corporate Social Responsibility Love for environment in responding to climate change Shared growth and fair trade Economic and Industrial Growth Staff satisfaction Delivering customer value 3. How would you rate the overall quality of Homeplus Sustainability Report 2011/12 in the following aspects? Absolutely No No Moderate Yes Absolutely Yes The Report fully explains the important issues. This report is easy to understand. The contents are credible. Sustainability has consistently guided our business practice at The Report’s design is excellent. Homeplus since our founding. The ‘Homeplus Sustainability Report 2011/12’ is the sixth publication by Homeplus, documenting its efforts toward realizing sustainability and the accomplishments it 4. If you did not find this report helpful, please state why. has made in this area. We welcome feedback about this report, and we encourage you to contact us with any questions and suggestions. Your feedback helps us make this report better. 5. Which of the following applies to you? Government Suppliers Media Investor Association/Academy Civic Group Local Residents Others 2011/12 Homeplus Sustainability Report 101
