SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 CONTENTS Introductory Word by Governor 2 About the National Bank of Serbia 4 History 6 128 Years Since Foundation 7 Membership in the United Nations “Global Compact” 8 Application of the Ten Principles in Practice 10 Community 12 Protection and Education for Financial Consumers 12 Corporate Liaisons Office 15 Chief Economist's Office 16 Education on Elements of Banknotes Protection and Familiarisation with Known Types of Counterfeits 16 Financial Education of the Young 17 Exhibition Activities 19 Donations 22 Socially Responsible Activities of Employees 25 Fight against Corruption 27 Role of the National Bank of Serbia in the Fight against Money Laundering and Financing Terrorism 27 Code of Professional Conduct 28 Public Procurement 29 Employee Care 30 Occupational Health and Safety – Head Office 30 Occupational Health and Safety – Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins 30 Benefits 32 Education, Training and Professional Development 32 Environmental Protection 34 Wastewater Treatment 34 Technological Waste and Dangerous Chemicals Management 34 Gas Emissions Control 34 Waste Sorting in the Head Office and Branches 35 1 INTRODUCTORY WORD BY GOVERNOR The National Bank of Serbia and its employees work every day on the achievement of our principal, legally defined objectives. Committed to these objectives – the achievement and maintenance of a stable dinar, keeping inflation within the projected band, strengthening of financial stability, we always have in mind our citizens, never forgetting that the National Bank of Serbia exists for them and that we are accountable to them for our work. Therefore, we aim to make the National Bank of Serbia, which represents the bank of all banks and its citizens, also an open door house. We demonstrate our openness through long years of working in the area of social responsibility for various target groups in our society. In house, we do this through our relationship with employees, by developing their responsibility in preserving the reputation of the National Bank of Serbia. In the wider community, apart from the legally defined goals, we are active in the fields of fight against corruption, protection and education of consumers of financial services, children and the young. In the field of fight against corruption, we continually work on the education of employees in commercial banks in terms of money processing, the most important part of which is the detection of counterfeits. Furthermore, in the fight against money laundering and financing terrorism, the National Bank of Serbia has a double role – of a regulator and a supervisor. At the international level, the National Bank of Serbia, through its representative, actively participates in the work of the Moneyval, one of the Council of Europe committees that gathers experts on the issue of preventing money laundering and which operates on the principle of mutual evaluations by member states. In regard to financial services consumers, through the work of the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education, we strive to provide assistance to citizens in exercising their rights, as well as assistance in understanding and using services of the financial sector. During last year, there were a great 2 number of educational forums throughout Serbia, in Child and Youth Finance International, the National which citizens could get further information on financial Bank of Serbia received an award for its extraordinary products and services. efforts, visionary and innovative approach which it has With the aim of establishing more active two-way in the field of financial education of the youth in its communication with the corporate sector, corporate country. liaisons offices were opened in the National Bank of During 2012, we implemented numerous Serbia branches. One year after they were opened, humanitarian activities. Our employees are happy to entrepreneurs evaluated the work of these offices participate in traditional activities such as Christmas highly appreciatively, satisfied with the fact that they and Easter sales exhibitions, collecting food for are able to communicate with representatives of the vulnerable categories and other. Also, we organised a National Bank of Serbia directly and to exchange views voluntary activity in which employees tidied the Red on the situation in the economy, current economic and Cross boarding house in Vršac. macro-economic trends, the effects of economic and As one of the founders and active members of the monetary policies and the like. United Nations “Global Compact” in Serbia, the During 2012, more than 34,000 children, young National Bank of Serbia fully supports the ten “Global people and citizens saw exhibitions, participated in Compact” principles relating to the protection of human educational programmes and cultural and educational and labour rights, environmental protection and fight activities of the National Bank of Serbia. With its against corruption. The existence of such an initiative participation in traditional cultural events such as the not only allows for the recognition and development of “Francophonie Day”, the “Night of Museums” and many the concept of social responsibility, but also gives other, and ceding the space of its exhibition hall in the business entities an opportunity to learn from the Slavija building for events with various cultural and experiences of others and share good practices. It is social activities, the National Bank of Serbia is within this very initiative that the National Bank of recognised by the public as an active partner in projects Serbia has entered into many partnerships in the of broader community significance. community and implemented joint projects. In line with its strategic decision to expand the In the following years, we will continue to work with number of partner institutions with which we cooperate maximum dedication and professionalism, being in the field of financial education of children and youth, responsible towards ourselves, our 129-year tradition, in cooperation with libraries, the National Bank of and of course towards citizens, always bearing in mind Serbia implemented educational activities in Kraljevo, the effect of our measures on them. Bor, Dimitrovgrad, Čačak and Požega. We are especially proud that in the first Child and Governor Youth Finance International Summit, organised by the Jorgovanka Tabaković, PhD ON THE REPORT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA The Report on Social Responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia for 2012 is the sixth report published by our institution. The report includes activities carried out in the field of social responsibility and explains the approach that our institution has in terms of social responsibility. At the same time, it follows the tendencies of modern corporate management according to which social responsibility becomes an integral part of every institution, company or organisation. Also, publication of this report commits to continuous work on improving this field. By regular reporting on social responsibility we:  identify new solutions and continuously set new directions for the development;  demonstrate our commitment to understanding current challenges posed by modern business, especially in the financial sector;  contribute to the establishment of open dialogue with stakeholders. The decades of existence and tradition of the National Bank of Serbia oblige us to measure social responsibility through the impact it has on expanding and promoting social values. With its professionalism, by preserving the credibility of the institution, through its relationship with citizens and its employees, the National Bank of Serbia wishes to give a positive example and influence other institutions, companies and organisations. 3 ABOUT THE leasing providers, insurance companies and voluntary pension fund management companies, in accordance with the law;  issuing banknotes and coins and managing cash flows; NATIONAL BANK   regulating, overseeing and promoting uninterrupted functioning of domestic and international payment operations, in accordance with law; performing statutory tasks for the Republic of Serbia or OF SERBIA tasks established by treaties, without jeopardising its autonomy and independence. The bodies of the National Bank of Serbia include:  the Executive Board,  the Governor, and  the Council of the Governor. The position, organisation, mandate and functions of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the relationship between The Executive Board is in charge of determining the National Bank of Serbia and other bodies of the Republic monetary and foreign exchange policies, as well as the of Serbia and international organisations and institutions are activities related to maintaining and strengthening stability regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of the financial system, and in particular, it determines: the Law on the National Bank of Serbia.  monetary policy programme of the National Bank of The National Bank of Serbia is independent and Serbia; autonomous in executing its functions as regulated by the  manner of setting the interest rate of the National Law on the National Bank of Serbia and other legislation, and Bank of Serbia and the manner of calculation, is accountable for its work to the National Assembly of the collection and payment of interest on loans and other Republic of Serbia. receivables of the National Bank of Serbia, and on Basic objective of the National Bank of Serbia is to the funds the National Bank of Serbia pays interest achieve and maintain price stability. Apart from that, without on; compromising the fulfilment of this primary objective, the  the terms and conditions of issuing securities of the National Bank of Serbia contributes to the maintenance and National Bank of Serbia; strengthening of the stability of the financial system.  the terms and conditions under which the National The National Bank of Serbia has the following functions: Bank of Serbia conducts open market operations and  determining and implementing monetary and foreign performs discount activities; exchange policies;  the short-term loan policy;  managing foreign exchange reserves;  the dinar exchange rate policy;  establishing and implementing activities and measures  the base for calculating required reserves and the coming under its remit, relating to the maintaining and reserve requirement ratio, and the manner, terms strengthening of financial stability; and timeframe for allocation and use of banks’  granting and revoking operating licences, supervising required reserve balances; bank solvency and legality of operations, and  the foreign exchange reserves policy, and guidelines performing other activities in accordance with the law for foreign exchange reserves management; governing banks;  other instruments and measures of monetary and  granting and revoking operating licenses and/or foreign exchange policies; authorisations to insurance companies, supervising these companies and performing other activities in  the measures for maintaining banks’ liquidity; accordance with the law governing insurance;  the measures and activities coming under the remit  granting and revoking operating licenses to voluntary of the National Bank of Serbia, relating to the pension fund management companies, supervising maintaining and strengthening of financial stability. these companies and performing other activities in The Executive Board sets the key policy rate and other accordance with the law governing voluntary pension rates applied by the National Bank of Serbia in the conduct funds; of monetary policy. Furthermore, upon the proposal of the  granting and revoking operating licenses to financial Administration for Supervision of Financial Institutions, leasing companies, supervising these companies and the Executive Board issues regulations relating to performing other activities in accordance with the law supervisory functions of the National Bank of Serbia, in governing leasing operations; accordance with laws governing the discharge of this function. It also decides on granting of preliminary  providing protection of the rights and interests of approvals, as well as on granting and revocation of consumers of services rendered by banks, financial 4 operating licenses to/from financial institutions (banks,  appoints and dismisses employees who manage insurance companies, financial leasing companies, organisational units in the National Bank of Serbia voluntary pension fund management companies). and performs other tasks defined by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and other law in manner that The Executive Board makes decisions by the majority does not conflict with the objectives stipulated in the vote of its members, and in case of a tie, the Governor's Law on the National Bank of Serbia; vote is decisive. The members of the Executive Board are: Governor Jorgovanka Tabaković, Vice-Governors Veselin  as the Chairperson of the Executive Board, signs the Pješčić, Diana Dragutinović and Ana Gligorijević, as well decisions issued by the Executive Board. as Đorđe Jevtić, General Manager of the Administration The Council of the Governor comprises five members for Supervision of Financial Institutions. including the President, elected by the National Assembly The National Bank of Serbia is headed by the Governor, at the proposal of the National Assembly's committee who represents and acts on behalf the National Bank of responsible for financing. Members of the Council are Serbia. Governor of the National Bank of Serbia is elected elected for the period of five years with the possibility of by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a re-election. term of six years, with the right of re-election. The Council of the Governor: The Governor:  adopts the By-Law of the National Bank of Serbia, on  manages operations of the National Bank of Serbia proposal of the Executive Board; and organises its work;  determines the dinar exchange rate regime, on  implements decisions of the Executive Board and of proposal of the Executive Board and with the consent the Council of the Governor; of the Government;  enacts regulations, general and individual acts under  adopts the strategy for foreign exchange reserve the remit of the National Bank of Serbia, which are management, on proposal of the Executive Board; not assigned by law to the authority of the Executive  decides on membership in international Board and the Council of the Governor; organisations and institutions;  proposes regulations, general and individual acts to  adopts the financial plan of the National Bank of be adopted by the Executive Board and the Council of Serbia; Governor, unless provided otherwise by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia;  adopts annual financial statements of the National Bank of Serbia;  regulates the internal organisation of the National Bank of Serbia and job classification in the National  appoints the internal audit manager at the National bank of Serbia, as well as labour relations of Bank of Serbia; employees in the National Bank of Serbia;  appoints the external auditor; Governor Jorgovanka Tabaković Vice-Governor Vice-Governor Vice-Governor Administration for Veselin Pješčić Ana Gligorijević Diana Dragutinović Supervision of Financial Secretary General General Manager Institutions, Director Miladin Pantelić Branko Hinić Đorđe Jevtić Monetary Financial Foreign Exchange Operations Stability Department Directorate for Accounting and Department Department Bank Supervision Economic Finance Chief Department Department Economist’s Research and Corporate Office Cash Department Centre for Statistics Liaisons Financial Office System Insurance IT National Development Supervision International Department Payment Relations Card Centre Payment System Department Department Human Resources Governor’s Pension Funds Office Supervision General Affairs Enforced Collection Department Internal Audit Procurement Centre Centre for Compliance and Information Operational Systems Branches Risk Supervision Control Centre for Financial Consumer Legal Protection and Department Education The National Bank of Serbia has 2,226 employees (Source: according to data of the Human Resources as at 31 December 2012) Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins 5  considers the external auditor’s report and monitors At the time of the formation of national pillars, the the implementation of audit recommendations at the financial system of Serbia was characterised by the National Bank of Serbia; absence of national money and the use of as many as 43 currencies of other countries.  oversees the systems of financial reporting, risk management, and internal control at the National The necessity to establish a central bank became ever Bank of Serbia; more apparent. In the Srpske novine in the article The Current Monetary Crisis , published in 1854, we find the  assesses the adequacy of accounting policies and first written reference of the necessity of establishing such procedures adopted at the National Bank of Serbia; an institution. However, three decades passed between  adopts the annual plan of internal audit at the the first initiative on this and its realisation. It was as late National Bank of Serbia and periodically considers as in 1884 that such an institution came to life under the internal audit reports; name of the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia.  oversees the performance of internal audit and compliance at the National Bank of Serbia; The Bank was organised on the model of the Belgian National Bank, which, at the time, served as the model of  adopts the development strategy of the National contemporary organisation of a banking institution. The Bank of Serbia, proposed by the Executive Board, Shareholders' Committee, the Principal Council, the and monitors its implementation. Governing Council, the Supervisory Council and the As part of the National Bank of Serbia, in accordance Discount Council were formed, and the function of the with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the ByGovernor (the first Governor was Aleksa Spasić, Law of the National Bank of Serbia, the Administration for previously Minister without portfolio) and of the ViceSupervision of Financial Institutions is established. The Governor were established. Administration for Supervision of Financial Institutions Initially, the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of executes the following tasks: Serbia was situated in the very centre of the city, in Knez  supervision of banks; Mihailova street, and after that in a representative, purpose-built building in Kralja Petra street, where it is  supervision of insurance companies; still located. The project was made by a famous architect  supervision of voluntary pension fund management from Vienna Konstantin Jovanović, the son of Anastas companies; Jovanović, the first Serbian lithographer and a majordomo of Prince Mihailo Obrenović. For his work styled after neo supervision of financial leasing companies; renaissance academism, which could, as reported by Felix  protection of financial services consumers; Kaniz, be a true ornament of any big city”, he was awarded in 1890, when the building was first occupied.  oversight of domestic and international payment operations; After World War I and the unification of the South Slavs, in accordance with the law, on 26 January 1920, the  research in the field of supervisory functions of the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia was National Bank of Serbia; transformed into the National Bank of the Kingdom of  cooperation with financial supervision international Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, under which name it took and domestic institutions. over the operations throughout the territory of the Kingdom. Due to the needs arising from the increased The National Bank of Serbia is a legal entity volume of its operation, the building of the Bank was headquartered in Belgrade. It may set up branch offices craftily expanded (between 1923 and 1925), in which do not have a legal entities status. The internal accordance with its original author's design, so that an organisation, scope of operation and responsibilities of exceptionally successful whole was obtained. branches are defined by the By-Law of the National Bank of Serbia. Although established as the first privileged shareholder institution, the operations of the Bank were An integral part of the National Bank of Serbia is one constantly monitored by the state. Until 1920, when the specialised organisational unit, the Institute for territory it was responsible for was expanded, the Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider, whose legislator thought of the Bank only as a credit institution, duties and responsibilities are regulated by the Law on the and from 1931, its primary function became – monetary National Bank of Serbia and the By-Law of the National policy, and the secondary one – credit policy. The first and Bank of Serbia. most important task of the Bank, which, from 1929, in accordance with the name of the state, operated under History the name of the National Bank of the Kingdom of After the liberation from the Turks, the Serbian state Yugoslavia, became governing money and maintaining its began its modern times existence by establishing the stability. most important government and cultural institutions – the During World War II (from April 1941 until October National Library (1832), the Lyceum – a predecessor of a 1944), it operated from its representative office in professional higher education institution (1838), the London. In September 1946, the Bank was nationalised Society of Serbian Letters – later the Academy of Sciences and started operating under the name of the National (1841), the National Museum ( 1844) and the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Theatre (1868). 6 In accordance with the Law on Implementation of the Internal and external requests for research Constitutional Charter of the State Union of Serbia and in the period of 2008–2012 Montenegro, which came into force on 4 February 2003, the National Bank of Yugoslavia continued to work as a 700 body of the Serbian state. The Law on the National Bank of 600 Serbia, which came into force on 19 July 2003, stipulates the position, organisation, powers and functions of the 500 National Bank of Serbia. 400 Cultural Heritage – Archives of the National bank of 300 Serbia; 200 During 2012, the Archives of the National bank of 100 Serbia continued its activities with the aim of popularising 0 the archive material related to the history of the National 2008 2009 2010 Bank and promoting values, which was described in the 2011 2012 Internal requests publication “Georg Weifert – Visionary and Enthusiast External requests (1850–1937); the Illustrated Personal and Professional Illustrated Biography”. This book, which was published by central bank and the state in period of 1883–1970 and the National Bank of Serbia in 2010 to mark the 160th offered these images to the public in the reading room of anniversary of birth of the famous Governor Georg the Archives Marko Stojanović. Weifert, was presented in Kostolac as part of the “Kostolac Cultural Summer” manifestation. During the event of European Heritage Days , which was organised in collaboration with the Communications Confirming in practice that the documentation of the Division, there were several lectures for visitors on National Bank of Serbia can serve the widest variety of donations and endowments cherished by the Serbian purposes, including those that make up cultural activities, financial elite in the 19th and early 20th century. with its choice of photos, videos and documentary records, as well as its participation in the recording and 128 Years Since Foundation submission of objections and suggestions, the Archives of the National Bank of Serbia had an important role in the Each year on 2 July, an event is organised for Bank implementation of the feature-documentary about Georg employees, called the Bank's Day in memory of the day Weifert. the Privileged National Bank of the Kingdom of Serbia first opened its counters. As part of the activities related to the presentation of archive material of the National Bank of Serbia, the In addition to celebrating 128 years of operation, the Archives prepared an exhibition catalogue for the aim of this event, which in 2012 was held under the slogan exhibition of central banks of Serbia and France during the ... because we foster good tradition of our institution, First World War. The exhibition Belgrade–Paris: History of was to promote communication among employees a Cooperation (1886–2012) was displayed in the marble through a pleasant socialising event. The fact that this hall of the Bank of France. form of commemoration of the Bank's Day has positive response among employees is reflected in the fact that Based on previous activities aimed at digitalisation of the number of employees present increases each year. Srpske novine , the official journal of the Kingdom of Serbia in the period of 1883–1919, as well as the Some of the comments of the employees are: exchange of digital archives with the National Library of Despite economic hardships our country is Serbia to complete this journal (1834–1919), the Archives experiencing, the National Bank of Serbia has remained of the National Bank of Serbia took part in the national faithful to its tradition of respecting its employees through programme of digitising all Serbian official journals for the various forms of social life occasions: professional, sports period of 1813–2013, managed by the Official Gazette and cultural. These occasions offer great hope for and of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, a protocol on reassurement about a much better present and the cooperation was signed, scanned copies of the journal future”. were provided, and the support in the form of the required archives was provided. “First and foremost, I wish to convey to you the beautiful impressions and the wonderful feeling of In connection with the topical issue of restitution of positive energy my colleagues from the branch office in property confiscated after the Second World War, the Užice who were present at the celebration of 128 years of Archives presented their original material that is related to the National Bank of Serbia had. Given the fact that we this topic in the media, primarily the material created in are the furthest branch office, it took us more time and the process of expropriation of property in accordance effort to participate in the common celebration. However, with the so-called First Law on Expropriation it did not prevent us from joining other colleagues from (1947–1958). the National Bank of Serbia in this special occasion.” Intending to complete its sources base as much as “Thank you all for a wonderful evening we have spent possible through research in foreign archives, the and the extraordinary atmosphere in Topčider, with an Archives of the National Bank of Serbia made more than exceptionally well-planned programme where employees 2,500 pages of documents of the Archives of the Banque of the National Bank of Serbia could socialise.” de France relating to the past of the Serbian/Yugoslav 7 MEMBERSHIP IN THE UNITED NATIONS “GLOBAL COMPACT” After the establishment of the “Global Compact”, on 6 December 2007, the National Bank of Serbia, as one of the founders and an active member of this initiative, continued with its commitment to promote and affirm this most massive voluntary association in the world (with over 10,000 members from more than 130 countries), dedicated to promoting corporate social responsibility. “Global Compact” requires from its members to adopt, support and promote the ten universal principles in the protection of human and labour rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. During the five years of work in Serbia, the number of members increased to 90. Apart from large companies, members also include representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), business associations, academic institutions, cities and trade unions. In 2012, the National Bank of Serbia actively participated in the work of the Working Groups for Corporate Social Responsibility in Banking and Finance, Social Inclusion, Education and Development of Corporate Social Responsibility, Environment and Support in Emergency Situations. As chair of the Working Group for Corporate Social Responsibility in Banking and Finance, the National Bank of Serbia, together with other members of the working group worked on the implementation of two projects in the field of financial education, which is the primary objective of this group. Within the project of cooperation with secondary schools which have the educational profile “banking clerk”, schools were enabled:  one-week/two-weeks practice for third/fourth grade students in branches of member banks;  visit to the National Bank of Serbia’s Visitor Centre and the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider;  thematic lectures for students and teachers; and  attending professional seminars of the Academy of Banking and Finance for teachers of this educational profile. 8 The cooperation was formalised by signing a cooperation with the participation of more than 450 citizens. The protocol between the Association of Schools of Economics, participants graded the organisation (location, time, and Law and Administration, Trade, and Hospitality and Tourism in venue), intelligibility and presentation, as well as the the Republic of Serbia and the “Global Compact” in Serbia. usefulness of the workshops, with highest grades. This cooperation will be continued in 2013 as well. The greatest benefit from workshops was a better Free workshops for citizens under the title “Managing overview of expenses and incomes in personal household Personal Finances are the result of the cooperation between budgets, a new look at planning and achieving goals, new the “Global Compact” in Serbia and the Croatian Banking insights into the possibilities of saving, a realistic Association. Following the positive experiences of Croatia, understanding of financial opportunities, and future members of the working group decided to organise and improvements in managing personal/household budgets. launch free interactive workshops for citizens on planning and In 2012, members of the working group made an emanaging personal finances in Serbia as well. Apart from learning application “Managing personal finances” which was financial education, great importance should be placed on uploaded to the project's website. A new cycle of workshops is mutual cooperation between member banks and business planned for 2013, and the focus will be placed on organising entities participating in the organisation and realisation of this workshops in smaller towns in cooperation with local project. The project puts the client and his education in the organisations, as well as on developing the network of focus of its attention, and it was launched with the aim that, partners in the implementation of those workshops. through training and counselling, citizens learn about financial services, strengthen their trust in the banking sector, as well More information about all activities of the „Global as to help them manage their household finances more Compact“ in Serbia is available at the website efficiently. www.unglobalcompact.rs. Total 36 workshops (31 in Belgrade, one in Niš, in Novi Sad and in Kraljevo, and two in Kopaonik) have been organised, 9 Application of the Ten Principles in Practice Ten “Global Compact” principles in the field of protection of human and labour rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption are based on: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The International Labour Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Declaration on Environment and Development, and The United Nations Convention against Corruption. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Application: the National Bank of Serbia with its participation and membership in the “Global Compact” acknowledges and affirms the values and human rights protection policy of the United Nations. Planned Activities: support to projects of social inclusion and education of persons with disabilities. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the elimination of all forms of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Application: the Trade Union functions within the National Bank of Serbia as an independent, democratic and autonomous organisation of employees; 1,274 employees are union members; in 2012, the Trade Union became member of the Standing Committee of European Central Bank Unions; in terms of employment and legal, financial and socio-economic status of employees, a number of activities were implemented within the Union, 26 employees were returned to work by court order, four individual cases of employees were resolved, 17 meetings with the employer or persons authorised by him were held, 158 members used the possibility of cash loan in the total value of 4,470,000 dinars, 155 members used financial aid, in the total amount of 1,550,000 dinars; out of the total number of employees in the National Bank of Serbia, 54% are women, and 46% are men; out of the total number of employees in managerial positions, 52% are women, and 48% are men; under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the National Bank of Serbia covers the costs for the assessment of employees' working ability; 31 persons with a status of a person with disabilities are employed in the National Bank of Serbia; during 2012, seven employees got the status of persons with disabilities; a notice on the rights and obligations of employers and employees about the prevention and protection from abuse at work was received and communicated to the employees via web house. 10 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Application: reducing the use, sorting and recycling of paper, PET packaging and stationery; the Slavija building of the National Bank of Serbia is one of the highly automated buildings so that considerable energy savings are made; checking the efficiency of the implementation of new technologies in the field of wastewater treatment, rationalising the consumption of resources (fresh water and energy) at the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins; managing waste as secondary raw material, waste with special flow management and hazardous waste in accordance with the legislation – at the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins; managing dangerous chemicals for safe handling and their consumption – the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins; monitoring gas emissions in order to prevent pollution – the Institute -Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins. Planned Activities: we continue to apply measures for efficient consumption of resources; launching an initiative for recycling paper towels; we continue applying rationalisation measures in the consumption of natural resources, waste management, in line with the regulations, and are making a waste management plan for the period of 2013–2013, rational consumption of dangerous chemicals, with possible substitution with less dangerous chemical; we continue to support, promote and apply all activities related to environmental protection. Fight against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Application: the National Bank of Serbia publishes the Annual Report on Activities and Results of Work, approved by an accredited auditing company; in accordance with the Code of Professional Conduct in the National Bank of Serbia, nine presents were reported, eight of which were estimated not to be appropriate and were returned to the giver; in the past period, 16 positive opinions on the possibility that certain jobs an employee would be doing outside work hours could pose conflict of interest (writing articles, books, making presentations on certain topics, etc) were issued; four quarterly reports were submitted to the Anti Corruption Agency on the activities taken within the implementation of the National Strategy for Fight against Corruption and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the National Strategy for the Fight against Corruption; in the 40th regular meeting of the Moneyval, the Progress Report was successfully presented and adopted in the third round of evaluation of the measures and activities the Republic of Serbia is taking in the field of preventing money laundering and financing terrorism; in 2012, there were 41,000 visits to the web page of the National Bank of Serbia related to public procurement, and there were 460 procurement procedures, out of which 378 procedures were public, and in accordance with them, 216 agreements and 190 orders were concluded. The remaining 82 procedures were exempt from the public procurement procedures and 87 agreements were concluded in accordance with them. Planned Activities: the National Bank of Serbia will continue to undertake activities directed towards the fulfilment of obligations arising from the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the National Strategy for Fight Against Corruption, and the Action Plan for Implementation of the National Strategy for Fight Against Corruption, and the National Bank will submit quarterly reports on this to the Anti-Corruption Agency; during 2013, new activities will be organised to improve the education of employees in the field of ethics. 11 COMMUNITY Protection and Education for Financial received, which is a slight increase compared to the previous year. The greatest number of complaints related Services Consumers to motor third party liability insurance (48%), life During 2012, the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection insurance (16.7%), and full coverage insurance (8.5%). A and Education actively provided assistance to citizens in the total of 18 complaints on the operations of other financial exercise of their rights by acting upon complaints, through services providers were made, i.e. 1.1% of the total mediation in resolving disputes, and by informing and number of complaints. education of consumers of financial services. Mediations Acting Upon Complaints In 2012, 136 mediation procedures were scheduled, or Throughout 2012, the Centre for Financial Consumer less than in the previous year by 24.9%. Given the fact Protection and Education received a total of 2,617 that the number of complaints rose in 2012 by about 60% complaints and early complaints against operations of when compared to 2011, it can be concluded that an financial institutions, which is 39% more than in 2011. increased number of complaints is resolved in the first stage upon receiving a client's complaint. Total 1,777 complaints were received, or more by 58.4% than in 2011. Of these, most complaints, 85.1%, Of the total number of mediations for which the were related to the operation of banks, which is an procedure was finalised, in 48% cases an agreement was increase of 77% compared to 2011. reached between financial institutions and their clients. The largest number of mediations related to disputable Out of 1,513 complaints on the operation of banks, the relationships between banks and their clients, 37% of largest number related to loans (61.1%), current which related to loans, 14% current accounts, and 13% to accounts (17.3%), and payment cards (12.4%). Total 246 payment cards. In terms of disputable relationships complaints on operations of insurance companies were Number of complaints by financial service providers in the period of 01/01 – 31/12/2012 Financial services Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Total In % providers Banks 127 160 134 127 127 100 104 132 115 138 118 131 1513 85.1% Insurance 16 15 18 25 24 24 16 14 26 21 26 21 246 13.8% companies Leasing companies 1 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 3 0 4 4 16 0.9% VPF management 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0.1% companies Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0.1% TOTAL 144 177 152 152 152 124 121 147 144 159 148 157 1,777 100% Source: National Bank of Serbia. Number of mediations by financial service providers In the period of 01/01 – 31/12/2012 Financial services providers In progress Settlement Suspension Abandonment Total Banks 11 40 39 0 90 Insurance companies 5 18 23 0 46 TOTAL 16 58 62 0 136 Source: National Bank of Serbia.. 12 between insurance companies and their clients, the largest number of mediations was related to motor third party liability insurance (12%). Informing financial services consumers Throughout 2012, the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education received a total of 934 questions regarding financial services and consumer's rights arising from using such services, which is 34% more than in 2011. Consumers made 19,546 calls. Excluding questions related to service information, the majority of questions were related to banking services, exchange operations and insurance. Total 1,171 enquiries were received through email with questions about the procedure for submitting complaints on the work of financial institutions, exchange rate, replacement of banknotes, enforced collection, payment transactions, etc. All enquiries were answered within the prescribed deadline. Financial Education of Citizens The most common topics in forums In order to provide comprehensive and Voluntary pension understandable information about the financial market funds and products available to consumers in this market, Financial leasing develop new and advanced multimedia and interactive 5% educational materials, continuously improve online 5% What to consider when content dedicated to financial education, organise 12% 25% borrowing workshops and forums around the country (to ensure Rights of consumers 7% financial literacy of citizens, businesses and the general 7% 14% Saving through life insurance public), the Executive Board of the National Bank of and VPF 8% Serbia adopted the Financial Education Strategy of the 17% Life insurance National Bank of Serbia for the period 2012–2015. Loans refinancing In line with the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, in 2012 Housing loan there was the first public survey to measure financial literacy of Serbian citizens. Interest rate and foreign Source: National Bank of Serbia. currency clauses The aim of this survey was to measure and evaluate the level of financial literacy of the population in Serbia at the national level, as well as at the level of individual social groups. Based on these results, it was concluded that certain social groups need to be better educated, and that the National Bank of Serbia would direct its educational activities towards this aim. This survey on financial literacy in Serbia will be the basis for the next (follow up) surveys that will show the effects of implemented financial education activities. In 2012, the National Bank of Serbia held 32 educational forums in 24 towns in Serbia, which were related to numerous financial topics and tailored to citizens and businesses. The aim of these forums was to disseminate information to citizens about financial products available in the market in Serbia, as well as on the opportunities and methods to protect financial service consumers. The forums were organised in cooperation with employees in charge of education of financial services consumers in the branches of the National Bank of Serbia in towns across Serbia (Belgrade, Kraljevo, Bor, Novi Sad, Valjevo, Užice, Kragujevac, Zaječar, Prokuplje, Bačka Topola, Čačak, Sremska Mitrovica, Kruševac, Leskovac, Vlasotince, Trstenik, Senta, Prijepolje, Sokobanja, Krnjevo, Jagodina, Aranđelovac, Priboj, Temerin, Bečej, and Pančevo). 13 A total of 80 presentations were organised, and the topics were selected in accordance with the interests of participants in the forums. According to their frequency and the questions asked after the presentations, the most attractive were the topics of saving through voluntary pension funds, what matters should be considered when borrowing, as well as those about loan refinancing and financial leasing. In addition, there were also presentations on the following topics: life insurance, housing loan, buying a car – a loan or lease, savings, current accounts and payment cards, how to realise the rights of consumers of financial services, agricultural insurance and loans, motor third party liability insurance, and interest rates and foreign currency clauses. Total 1,026 citizens attended the forums, and 12 local TV stations provided media coverage. About 360,000 leaflets with information on financial products were distributed, and there was also a survey on the activities that were implemented. As part of its regular activities, the National Bank of Serbia continued providing information to citizens in its regional branch offices for financial education. During 2012, 1,382 citizens visited regional branch offices. They mainly asked questions about banking services (54%), primarily about saving, loan refinancing, method of calculating annuity, warranty, early loan repayment, the procedure for closing an account, changes in interest rate, the procedure for lodging a complaint against the work of banks, activities from the scope of the National Bank of Serbia's jurisdiction, etc. In the field of insurance, the largest number of citizens were interested in life insurance, motor third party liability insurance, and insurance related to loans. In the previous period, ten new newspaper articles were prepared on various financial products. The topics discussed in these articles related to agricultural insurance, assignment of receivables, differences between operational and financial leasing, full coverage insurance, new method of cashless payment, financial frauds, closing inactive current accounts, steps to be taken before taking a loan, methods for calculating annuity, etc. The “Tvoj novac” (Your Money) website, which is aimed at financial service consumers, is updated regularly with new contents, as well as with announcements on educational forums planned in towns across Serbia. Planned Activities In order to strengthen the trust of citizens in the financial sector, the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education will continue to work on further improvement of the mechanism for protection of financial services consumers and increasing transparency of the terms and conditions under which financial institutions offer their services. In addition, it will also work on harmonising and improving regulations relevant for the work of the Centre with regulations of the European Union related to the protection of financial service consumers. 14 We will continue the activities related to public opinion surveys related to the quality of the offer of financial services. In order to provide as comprehensive information and education for the citizens as possible, the Centre for Financial Consumer Protection and Education will continue with educational forums and workshops across Serbia. Corporate Liaisons Office In order to strengthen its institutional capacities and improve communication with business entities, and having in mind the experiences of a great number of countries and their central banks (Great Britain, the USA, Russia, France, Canada, Austria, Hungary, Norway, Switzerland, Poland, Belgium, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Israel, Azerbaijan, Armenia, the Check Republic, Slovakia, Australia, New Zealand, Montenegro etc.), in its plan of activities for 2011–2012, the National Bank of Serbia envisaged the establishment of the Corporate Liaisons Office. The main objective is to establish and constantly improve two-way communication between the National Bank of Serbia and businesses so that, by monitoring and analysing economic trends, it is able to provide timely and accurate information about the state of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, notice early signals of expected changes in the most important trends in the economy that are important for the achievement of the objectives and implementation of monetary policy, as well as to continually report to the Executive Board of the National Bank of Serbia on the state of economy. Evaluation of Experiences so far in Contacts and Communication with Businesses The experience so far in contacts and communication with businesses can be evaluated as highly positive. The entrepreneurs, according to their own evaluations, are quite satisfied with the fact that they are able to communicate with the representatives of the National Bank of Serbia directly and to exchange views and attitudes on the situation in economy, current economic trends, current and expected macro-economic trends, the effects of the economic and monetary policies, as well as on the expectations regarding business and investment opportunities in the following period. Furthermore, they may approach advisors in order to solve problems, or obtain answers to questions related to daily life in business environment, which are, as a rule, related to banking operations, the implementation of laws and bylaws in the field of foreign currency operations, payment transactions, enforced collection etc. The Office strives at finding a solution for each problem, i.e. to give tcorrect, good quality, clear and as fast as possible answers to each question – independently or in cooperation with competent organisational units of the National Bank of Serbia. With this respect, by means of its overall activities in 2012, the Corporate Liaisons Office met the expectations set before it. At the same time, it made a significant contribution to the overall efforts of the National Bank of Serbia to improve communication with the public and realise the principles of social responsibility. 15 Chief Economist's Office In June 2012, the Chief Economist's Office held its Second Annual Conference of Young Economists, with over 100 participants and exhibitors from leading European universities. Professor Charles Engel from the University of Wisconsin, one of the world's leading macroeconomists and Professor Boyan Jovanović from New York University, one of the world's leading economists, were the main panelists, which gave this conference global quality and importance. The Bank continued to organise top research seminars, in which lecturers from leading universities in Europe and the USA took part, as well as other central banks, whose papers were published in major international journals in the fields of macroeconomics, finance and econometrics. Research seminars of this type are of paramount importance for raising the standard of economic surveys in Serbia and are unique not only in the country, but in the whole region as well. Their quality makes the National Bank of Serbia recognisable in Europe, which places it among the leading central banks in this respect. Furthermore, the Chief Economist's Office organised additional activities in this direction. In order to promote and encourage empirical studies, it established the award, Dr Dragoslav Avramović for the best analytical/research paper in the field of macroeconomics and finance that uses data from the Serbian market. The award winners were Milica Travica from Belgrade for her paper Forward as a Possible Solution for Currency Induced Credit Risk Identified in Non-Performing Loans – Foreign Exchange Rate Regression Model and Igor Veličkovski from Skopje for his paper Assessing Independent Monetary Policy in Small, Open and Euroized Countries: Еvidence from Western Balkan. Education on Elements of Banknotes Protection and Familiarisation with Known Types of Counterfeits In accordance with the Decision on Cash Flow Management of 14 June 2012, in October the National Bank of Serbia began conducting intensive training provided for all employees in banks for processing money, the most important part of which is the detection of counterfeits. The training was conducted by experts from the Department for national centres for the fight against counterfeiting and analysing banknotes and coins. During 2012, about 2,000 employees in banks were trained, and the plan is to train more than 7,000 employees until the beginning of July 2013. Trainings last for one day and about four hours on average, executed on the premises of the National Bank of Serbia (head office and branch offices), as well as in the training centres of banks. During the trainings, the trainees learn about the regulations governing this field, the standards and criteria they need to adhere to when processing money, as well as with protective elements of cash. In the practical part of the training, employees receive current types of forgery and, with the help of experts from the National Bank of Serbia and the use of technology, they have the opportunity to identify the 16 faults of imitated protective features, paper quality and Number of counterfeit banknotes other characteristics of counterfeits. in foreign currency The goal of the training is to acquire additional knowledge and skills based on which participants will be EFC able to easily and reliably identify counterfeits and thus CURRENCY NOTE PIECES AMOUNT prevent their further circulation in payment transactions. BAM 50 1 50 In parallel with the completion of this cycle of training of BAM 100 3 300 employees in banks, we executed the planned activities CAD 100 2 200 CHF 1000 6 6,000 on informing general public about the importance of being DEM 100 3 300 aware of the protective elements of banknotes in order to EUR 10 4 40 prevent receiving of counterfeits. EUR 20 64 1,280 EUR 50 295 14,750 The overview of the number of counterfeit banknotes EUR 100 197 19,700 detected in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 EUR 200 345 69,000 shows that the most counterfeit banknotes are those in EUR 500 7 3,500 denominations of 500, 1000, and 5000 dinars. In terms GBP 20 2 40 foreign currency, the most usually counterfeited are euro USD 50 2 100 banknotes in denominations of 50, 100, and 200. USD 100 93 9,300 TOTAL EFC 1,024 Financial Education of the Young Source: National Bank of Serbia. During the year, the programmes of financial education of young people, which have been taking place in the Visitor Centre since 2005, were attended by children from three pre-schools, students from 41 primary and 29 secondary schools and 16 higher education institutions from Belgrade and other parts of the country. Number of counterfeit banknotes in dinars In the first Child and Youth Finance International Summit, held in Amsterdam in April, and organised by the international movement Child and Youth Finance RSD International, the National Bank of Serbia received an NOTE PIECES AMOUNT award for its extraordinary efforts, visionary and innovative approach which it has in the field of financial 10 1 10 education of the youth in our country. This award is an 20 7 140 additional stimulus for the efforts that our institutions 50 12 600 invest in financial education of young people, since 100 315 31,500 Europe recognised us as leaders in this field in the region. 200 52 10,400 500 1,561 780,500 During the summit, a letter of support for the 1000 2,106 2,106,000 movement of financial education of young people came 2000 725 1,450,000 from the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, with a 5000 1,206 6,030,000 recommendation for the introduction of this kind of education as part of the global movement for maintaining TOTAL 5,985 financial stability in the world, reduction of poverty and the Millennium Development Goals proclaimed by the Source: National Bank of Serbia. United Nations. For the first time, the Summit gathered the majority of participants in the field of education of young people worldwide – university professors, organisations, foundations, central banks, experts in economics, nongovernmental organisations, media, etc. Number of participants in exhibition and In cooperation with institutions of higher education, educational activities by year the exhibition space of the National Bank of Serbia was 40,000 visited by students of the second, third and fourth years of 35,000 33,371 35,340 34,098 the Faculty of Economics and the Law Faculty in Belgrade, 31,064 30,000 the Faculty of Engineering, the Police Academy, the 25,742 Faculty of Organisational Sciences, Singidunum 25,000 Business School, and the College of Valjevo, the Faculty of 20,000 Management from Sremski Karlovci, as well as and students of the Vienna University of Economics and 15,000 12,147 Business and members of the European Association of 10,000 Law Students. Apart from the exhibits, the students 5,000 3,603 learned about the goals, function and role of the National 1,619 Bank of Serbia. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: National Bank of Serbia. 17 Also, as part of cooperation with GIZ, in schools that provide education for “banking clerks”, we organised lectures for students and teachers, as well as visits to the Visitor Centre and the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider. As part of this programme, the Bank was also visited by students of a trade school from Germany. Financial Education Programme Tours Across the Country During this year, we held educational workshops Dinar our Money , Me and My Budget , Money and the Five Senses , and Distinguished Serbs for elementary and secondary schools in the Stefan Prvovenčani“ library in Kraljevo, the National Library in Bor, the National Library Datko Petrov in Dimitrovgrad, the City Library Vladislav Petković Dis in Čačak, and the National Library in Požega. Also, during the year, there were workshops for pupils and students of primary and secondary schools on the premises of the Exhibition and Education Unit in the building of the National Bank of Serbia at Kralja Petra Street no. 12. Monetura In order to present the domestic general public with basic methods of monetary policy making by means of the board game “Monetura”, there were presentations and tournaments for students of the Faculty of Sciences – Department of Mathematics and Informatics from Novi Sad, the Faculty of Business from Valjevo, Belgrade Business School, the Faculty of Legal and Business Studies from Novi Sad, the Faculty of Economics in Subotica and the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. The same activity was also organised for students of secondary schools: Ruđer Bošković” grammar school, School of Economics from Zrenjanin and School of Economics 9 May from Sremska Mitrovica. Protocol on Cooperation with the Youth Office The National Bank of Serbia and the Youth Office signed a protocol on cooperation for providing the conditions for financial education of younger people. The envisaged cooperation means that the Bank organises and implements the workshops so that service users of the Youth Office could learn about the functions and activities of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as with basic economic terms and financial products and become active consumers of these products. During 2012, we organised eight workshops for adults Managing Personal Finances , three tournaments in the board game called Monetura and three forums with presentations on the following topics Saving through voluntary pension funds and life insurance , What to consider when borrowing“, and How to exercise your rights. “Visa Young Leaders” Representatives of the National Bank of Serbia participated in the Young Leaders Forum for the sixth time, in which topics such as financial literacy, promoting and encouraging entrepreneurial potential were discussed with young people. Also, in the round table called “Entrepreneurial spirit of the young in Serbia today”, the media and professionals were presented with 18 results of the research done by the Visa company on the entrepreneurial spirit of young people. Exhibition Activities Exhibitions, educational programmes and other cultural and educational events, organised for the general public by the National Bank of Serbia in the course 2012, were attended by the total of 34,098 visitors, out of which 13,857 visitors attended the events organised in the building located at Kralja Petra Street and 20,241 visited the National Bank of Serbia building at Slavija Square. Exhibition Space at Kralja Petra Street In addition to individual visitors, the exhibition space of the Visitor Centre had group visitors from many preschools, primary and secondary schools and higher education institutions, apprentices at the National Bank of Serbia and trainees of the summer internship. During the year, the Visitor Centre also hosted officials, delegations and guests of the Governor and ViceGovernors, as well as a number of official delegations from central banks of Montenegro, Hungary, Poland, the Check Republic, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as journalists from electronic and print media, veteran journalists, participants of seminars at the National Bank of Serbia, and the Diplomatic Women's Club. On the occasion of the Days of Belgrade , the exhibition space of the National Bank of Serbia was visited by a number of groups of local people and foreign nationals. For foreign nationals, the exhibition material was presented in English and in French. Exhibition space at Slavija The lobby of the office building in Slavija featured the following exhibitions and cultural events:  “100 women – 100 miniatures”, and exhibition of handicrafts by EthnoNetwork of the National Alliance for Local Economic Development;  “Enjoy Smoke-Free Environment”, an exhibition by the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health “Batut”;  “Harmony of Mosaic Letters”, an exhibition of mosaics by the art group “Ametist”;  “A Ship in a Bottle”, an exhibition by Ivan Bata Šoškić;  “Threads of Light”, an exhibition of paintings by Marko Mitić;  “Absolute Union”, an exhibition by Peđa Gavrilović;  A concert by the choir “Belgrade Madrigalists”;  “Memorial Concert” organised by the Serbian Medical Society;  The twenty first International Review of Composers;  An exhibition of paintings by Saša Montiljo;  A concert by “Ljubica Marić” chamber orchestra;  The sixth festival of science Physics of recycling and Scientific Christmas Tree ;  Life Balance, an exhibition of 120 photographs from 19 an international competition, in cooperation with the Photo Association of Serbia and the International Federation of Photographic Art. Cooperation with other institutions, participation in cultural events The National Bank of Serbia is a cultural institution that is adequately involved in the activities of the Tourist Organisation of Belgrade. This cooperation is reflected in the celebration of the Days of Belgrade , organised between 16 and 19 of April. As a result of cherished and successful cooperation with higher education institutions, in addition to the lecture on Communication in the National Bank of Serbia , thirty students from Brazil, Russia, USA, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro, the participants of the sixth annual International Student Week in Belgrade, had the opportunity to learn about the history of the National Bank of Serbia and see permanent and thematic exhibitions in the exhibition space. Also, the Exhibition and Education Unit was visited by students from several member states of the European Union, participants of the international project called Changing the World under the auspices of the European Union. The guests learned about the National Bank of Serbia and its activities for the public. In line with the strategy that we used in planning the contents for all social groups, we paid special attention to persons with disabilities. Taking care of the interests of all populations and adapting to their needs is the key motivation for working and planning in a museum. On the occasion of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, we organised the round table Open to All on accessibility of the Visitor Centre of the National Bank of Serbia and museums, as well as the availability of educational and exhibition facilities for people with disabilities. The round table was attended by representatives of disability organisations, museums and employees of the Communications Division – the Exhibition and Education Unit. 20 The National Bank of Serbia is an active member of the history of the Bank and the period of hyperinflation. At the International Council of Museums. At the annual end of the tour, each visitor got an original and unique conference of the International Committee for Money and present – an imitation banknote featuring their own Banking Museums in the Central Bank of Morocco, portrait issued by the National Bank of Serbia. This event representatives of the National Bank of Serbia presented will become traditional and will take place once a year, on the exhibition and educational activities of the National the first Saturday in April. Bank of Serbia. “Night of Museums” Exhibition “Serbian Money from the 13th to the 21st For the sixth consecutive year, the National Bank of Century” Serbia took part in the “Night of Museums”. In the building The National Bank of Serbia and Matica Srpska at Kralja Petra 12, visitors had the opportunity to see the presented to the domestic and international public the innovated exhibition “Money in the Territory of Serbia” rich cultural and scientific heritage, which links the and thematic exhibitions, with a short video on the Serbian nation with other cultures and nations, and at the activities. With the aid of the numismatic, archive and same time makes it unique and distinctive on the regional historical material, visitors learned more about the and international scene, through the exhibition Serbian history of development and use of money in our country. Money from the Thirteenth to the Twenty-First Century“. There were also interesting interactive contents such as With the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of checking the weight of gold bars and authenticity of Serbia and the Provincial Department of Culture and banknotes, as well as an old hand press for making coins Public Information of the Autonomous Province of from the 19th century. The visitors had a unique Vojvodina, the exhibition was presented in the Mission of opportunity to go through underground rooms and the Republic of Serbia to the European Union in Brussels treasury vaults, where they saw the exhibition “The in the end of May. National Bank of Serbia – a National and European Institution”, and recreated images of the past by following Innovated exhibition “Money in the Territory of Serbia” the signs for time travel. In the end of April, in the exhibition space at Kralja “European Heritage Day” Petra street, we set the innovated exhibition Money in the Territory of Serbia , which was opened during the With the exhibition “Gifts and Endowments” we Museum Night in December and updated with new traditionally marked the “European Heritage Days”. As in contents. In a simple and practical way, this exhibition previous years, the National Bank of Serbia joined chronologically illustrates the course of development and numerous cultural and public institutions and presented use of money from the earliest days of pre-monetary to the public a part of its cultural heritage and once again payments to the most recent use of electronic cash. drew attention to the people who, with their acts and generousness, contributed to the wealth, diversity and The exhibition Belgrade-Paris: History of Cooperation cultural identity of Belgrade and Serbia. (1886–2012)” A joint exhibition by the National Bank of Serbia and the Banque de France titled Belgrade–Paris: History of Cooperation (1886–2012)” opened at the Banque de France in Paris in mid-June. The exhibition is devoted to cooperation and rich historical ties between the two central banks. This cooperation dates back to the foundation of the National Bank of Serbia when the Banque de France provided advisory assistance to its Serbian counterpart in organising activities and personnel matters. An important part of this cooperation was also related to producing banknotes. International Francophonie Day As in previous years, in March this year, the National Bank of Serbia participated in the event the International Francophonie Day , which on this occasion was held in the National Library Stefan Prvovenčani in Kraljevo. On this occasion there were also educational workshops Dinar our Money , Me and My Budget , Distinguished Serbs and Draw a Banknote of your Choice for elementary school children. “Open Door Day” Celebrating the event Open Door Day , National Bank of Serbia called the citizens and its employees to visit the exhibition space of the National Bank of Serbia with their families and friends and in see the permanent exhibition, themed exhibitions, as well as video recordings of the 21 Donations In 2012, the National Bank of Serbia allocated RSD 3,970,988 in donations. The National Bank of Serbia does not award funds for sponsorship, given that the Decision on Terms and Conditions for Allocating Donations and Humanitarian Aid in the National Bank of Serbia does not provide for sponsoring legal entities and persons. Overview of funds allocated for donations in 2012 Amount Item no. Beneficiary Purpose in RSD 1. 248,000 Humanitarian citizen's Financing a one day trip to Palić for organisation “Will Power children with disabilities, students at to the Realisation”, “Dragan Hercog” school and for purchasing Belgrade tracksuits and trainers for children without parental care from “Drinka Pavlović” care centre. 2. 150,000 Association of the Blind Purchasing five pieces of speech software of Serbia AntiRider for the needs of the association 3. 250,000 Association “Always Financing the purchase of 50 New Year gifts with Children”, for children treated at the Institute for Belgrade Oncology and Radiology of Serbia 4. 40,000 Association of pensioners The purchase of the most basic provisions of Serbia “Independence”, for the most vulnerable pensioners in Vladičin Han this association 5. 40,000 The Muscular Dystrophy Purchasing food and hygiene packages for Association of Šumadija the most vulnerable members district, Kragujevac of the Association 6. 50,000 Association of Disabled Purchasing gifts for children of the Veterans of Belgrade, Disabled Veterans of Belgrade Belgrade 7. 60,000 The Child Cerebral Palsy Purchasing gifts for fifteen children Association, members of the Association Priboj 8. 50,000 Children Roma humanitarian Purchasing gifts for Roma children living in centre The Vlach Roma”, the territory of Zvezdara Municipality Belgrade in Belgrade 9. 994,740 Purchase of MoleMax system device that “Zvezdara” helps in early detection of precancerous, Medical Centre, cancerous lesions and malignant melanoma, Belgrade for the Department of Dermatovenerology 10. 120,000 Association of Paraplegics Covering annual transport costs for the and Quadriplegics “Danube”, members of the Association Belgrade 22 Amount у Item no. Beneficiary Purpose in RSD 11. 100,000 Regional Talent Centre Covering part of the cost for the participation Belgrade II, of five students who attended the Regional Belgrade Centre at the International Conference of Young Scientists, which was held at the University of Nijmegen in the Netherlands in April 12. 80,000 Pensioners Association Covering part of the costs for purchasing of the town of Jagodina, 150 packages of foodstuffs for the socially Jagodina and health-wise most vulnerable members of the Association 13. 500,000 The Faculty of Law, Covering part of costs for the participation University in of a team of students from the Faculty of Belgrade Law in the international competition Willem C Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot, held in Vienna, Austria, in March 14. 50,000 The Association for Persons For covering costs for the drama section of with Disabilities Stari Grad the Association (purchasing costumes, Let's Live Together , equipment, travel expenses, education Belgrade materials, rehearsal materials, materials for shows, etc) 15. 121,800 Kidney Patients Covering costs for the purchase of a total of Association, 1,400 ampoules of Beviplex vitamin, Sremska Mitrovica prescribed to patients who undergo daily dialysis – the amount necessary for one month 16. 54,000 The Red Cross of Vršac, Covering part of costs for a three day stay for Vršac 36 children aged five to ten (from the Education Support Programme for Roma Children) in the Red Cross House 17. 114,000 SASA Institute of For hiring a tourist bus for transportation of Musicology, Belgrade the members and choir and the conductor at the Department of Musicology Institute of SASA in order to participate in the annual pilgrimage to Novi Pazar and Sopoćani, which was held in April 18. Association “Milan Printing 500 copies of the catalogue as 310,785 Milanković”, part of the project “Milanković as Part of Belgrade His and Our Own Time” 19. 500,000 The Red Cross of Serbia To cover the cost of the ten-day recovery at sea for children from the most vulnerable groups from the poorest parts of Serbia 20. 137,663 The Faculty of Medicine, Covering the cost of providing products for University in Belgrade a special diet used in studies of liver disease TOTAL 3,970,988 23 List of donated IT equipment (work stations, monitors, printers, scanners, laptops, photocopiers) Item Beneficiary IT equipment (number of items) no. 1. SOS telephone for women and children victims of violence, Belgrade 3 2. National library “Bor , Bor 15 3. Association of Persons with Disabilities “Phenix”, Belgrade 7 4. Centre for Education in Fine Arts, Belgrade 5 5. The Cerebral Palsy Association, Priboj 10 6. Primary school “Vuk Karadžić”, Ćuprija 24 7. Secondary school Branislav Nušić”, Sokobanja 57 8. National library “Stefan Prvovenčani”, Kraljevo 10 9. Secondary school 22 October”, Žabalj 12 10. Primary school “Dušan Popović”, Belušić 26 11. Primary school “Svetozar Markovic”, Belgrade 10 12. School of mechanical engineering “Radoje Dakić”, Belgrade 30 13. The first primary school “Kralja Petra II”, Užice 10 14. Centre for Contemporary Society–– Urban Initiative, Senta 6 15. Medical school “Zrenjanin”, Zrenjanin 9 16. Primary school “Nikola Tesla”, Novi Banovci 5 17. School for primary and secondary education “Milan Petrović”, Novi Sad 9 Company for vocational rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities DES , 18. 6 Belgrade 19. Chess club “Belgrade”, Belgrade 3 20. Gerontology centre Zrenjanin, Zrenjanin 7 21. Primary school “Svetozar Marković – Toza”, Elemir – Taraš 12 22. Primary and secondary school “9 May”, Zrenjanin 10 23. School of music “Josif Marinković”, Zrenjanin 7 24. Primary school “Ivo Lola Ribar”, Sutjeska 10 25. Sports Softball club WILD CATS, Belgrade 3 26. Children Roma humanitarian centre The Vlach Roma”, Belgrade 3 27. The school of electrical and civil engineering “9 May”, Zrenjanin 10 28. Educational and cultural community of the Roma Romanipen , Kragujevac 2 List of other donated assets Name Item Applicant of the donated Quantity Donation value in RSD number asset Written off 1 School of graphic art Belgrade 441.30 litres 1, 250 paint Secondary school Lipljan 2 Books 889 95,750 Kosovo and Metohija Primary school “Knez Lazar” Donja Gušterica, 3 Books 222 26,000 Kosovo, and Metohija Primary school “Braća Aksić”, Staro Gacko 4 Books 195 20,800 Kosovo and Metohija Agricultural school Lipljan 96,400 5 Books 758 Kosovo and Metohija Primary school “Braća Aksić”, Lipljan 6 Books 191 21,500 Kosovo and Metohija Primary school “Vuk Karadžić”, Lepine 7 Books 201 21,200 Kosovo and Metohija TOTAL 2,456 281,650 24 Socially Responsible Activities of Employees ACTIVITIES RESULTS HEAD OFFICE AND BRANCH OFFICE IN BELGRADE In cooperation with the humanitarian organisation „ “Mali veliki ljudi”, we organised the traditional event Gift for an Unknown Friend – an activity for collecting toys, sweets 150 New Year gifts were collected and used clothes for beneficiaries of facilities for mentally challenged children in and handed in Kragujevac, Stamnica, as well as in the Maternity Home in Belgrade Inclusion event “Let's be Happy Together”, which exhibited works of mentally More than 200 children and parents took part. challenged children from three towns and a number of institutions that provide care The children of the employees also attended for mentally challenged persons the event Volunteer activity “Inspired „ by the Power of Giving”, in, which, in cooperation with the Red Cross of Vršac, we cleaned the Red Cross Boarding House in Breg hill in Vršac 35 employees took part Traditional Easter humanitarian sales exhibition in cooperation with the Centre for accommodation and day care for the mentally challenged children and young, the 100,000 dinars were raised Association “Let's Live Together” and the Association for assistance MNRO New Belgrade Charity event for raising funds for the operation of a colleague's son 1,100,000.00 dinars were raised In cooperation with humanitarian organisation “Food „ Bank”, we “, organised an event where canned food was collected for the needs of beneficiaries of the 1,282 cans were raised Soup Kitchen in Belgrade Traditional Christmas humanitarian sales exhibition in cooperation with the Centre for accommodation and day care for the mentally challenged children and young, the 100,000 dinars were raised Association “Let's Live Together” and the Association for assistance MNRO New Belgrade An event for collecting sweets and school supplies for the children from Kosovo and Metohija. Representatives of the National Bank of Serbia visited schools in Lipljan and 138 gifts were collected and handed in Staro Gracko and handed in the gifts In cooperation with the humanitarian organisation “Mali veliki ljudi”, we “, organised traditional event Gift for an Unknown Friend – an activity for collecting toys, sweets 50 gifts were collected and handed in and used clothes for beneficiaries of the Veternik Home BRANCH OFFICE IN NOVI SAD In cooperation with humanitarian organisation “Food Bank”, we “, organised an event where food was collected for the needs of the beneficiaries of the Association of the 100 kg sweets were collected Disabled with Down Syndrome Traditional Easter sales exhibition in cooperation with the School for Primary and Secondary Education Milan Petrović from Novi Sad and the Centre for 35,000 dinars were raised accommodation and day care for mentally challenged children and young Traditional New Year sales exhibition in cooperation with the School for Primary and Secondary Education Milan Petrović from Novi Sad and the Centre for 15,000 dinars were raised accommodation and day care for mentally challenged children and young BRANCH OFFICE IN UŽICE In cooperation with the Centre for Social Work Užice, , we organised an event where we distributed New Year's gifts from the National Bank of Serbia for children from 15 gifts were handed in economically disadvantaged families BRANCH OFFICE IN NIŠ In cooperation with the humanitarian organisation “Food Bank”, we „ organised an event where canned food was collected for the needs of beneficiaries of the Centre for 137 kg of food were collected mentally challenged children and young Dušan Radović Niš BRANCH OFFICE IN KRAGUJEVAC On the occasion of the Universal Children's Day and in cooperation with the Shelter 250 kg of sweets and hygiene for street children and victims of violence, we organised a campaign to collect items were collected sweets and hygiene products 25 26 FIGHTAGAINST Recommendations of evaluators were incorporated in the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering in 2005, which expanded the number of taxpayers and further improved the national system for the prevention of CORRUPTION money laundering. The current Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which entered into force on 27 March 2009 included the fight against financing of terrorism and represents further harmonisation of national legislation with international standards in this field, primarily with regulations and standards of the European Union, in line with the efforts made in the process of accession to full membership in the Role of the National Bank of Serbia in the European Union. Fight against Money Laundering and In May 2009, Moneyval conducted the third round of Financing Terrorism evaluations, and the recommendations of the Report on the performed evaluation were incorporated in the Money laundering (the process of disguising the illegal amendments to the Law on Prevention of Money origin of money or assets acquired through crime) and the Laundering and Financing of Terrorism of 2010. The first financing of terrorism (a specific form of financial crime) Progress Report on the measures and actions taken by are global issues that have a negative feedback effect on Serbia to eliminate the identified deficiencies in the third the economic, political, security and social spheres of the round of evaluation was adopted on a regular Moneyval country. Money laundering and financing of terrorism plenary session, in December 2010. have the following consequences: undermining the In the 40th regular meeting of the Moneyval, held stability, transparency and efficiency of the financial between 3 and 7 December, the second Progress Report system of the country, economic disturbances, was successfully presented and adopted in the third round endangering the reform programme, reducing of evaluation of the measures and activities the Republic investment and loss of reputation of the country. of Serbia is taking in the field of preventing money In Serbia, fight against money laundering started in laundering and financing terrorism. 2001 when the first Law on Prevention of Money Representatives of the National Bank of Serbia, who Laundering was passed. participated in the plenary sessions as part of the In the fight against money laundering and financing delegation of the Republic of Serbia, contributed by terrorism, the National Bank of Serbia has a double role – answering questions from the jurisdiction of the National of a regulator and a supervisor. Bank of Serbia. The function of the National Bank of Serbia as the Additionally, the National Bank of Serbia actively regulator in this field is to draw, or participate in drawing participated in projects funded by the European Union. In and implementing individual laws and bylaws which, order to prepare the candidate states and potential among other things, are aimed at reducing the candidates for membership in the European Union, the possibilities for money laundering and financing terrorism Council of Europe launched a new project of technical through financial institutions whose operations are assistance for Serbia MOLI Serbia in mid-November controlled by the National Bank of Serbia. It also actively 2010. The goal of this project is to strengthen the capacity cooperates with domestic and foreign institutions working of the Republic of Serbia in the field of fight against money in this field. laundering and financing of terrorism and related forms of economic and financial crime, considering primarily the At the international level, the National Bank of Serbia, legal framework, operational skills and capacities. The through its representatives, has been taking an active main partner of the Republic of Serbia is the Office for part in the work of the Moneyval, one of the committees of Money Laundering Prevention, and the National Bank of the Council of Europe that gathers experts on the issue of Serbia is also included as one of the beneficiaries/target preventing money laundering and which operates on the groups. principle of mutual evaluations by member states. Moneyval reports are very detailed recommendations for As part of the project, Serbia was implementing improving the effectiveness of the measures and actions national risk assessment according to the methodology of of individual states in fighting money laundering and the World Bank, and the final report on the risks of money financing of terrorism, as well as the capacity to cooperate laundering and the recommendations for action was internationally in these fields. completed in the end of 2012. The Republic of Serbia was the first in the region to start the realisation of this Reports adopted by Moneyval are public and are used complex endeavour. With the latest amendments to the in the assessment of financial stability and investment international standards on money laundering, the security in individual countries. The International development of national risk assessment has been Monetary Fund and the World Bank take these reports and introduced as a compulsory standard with the aim of integrate them in their analyses and reports. Experts from investigating the possibilities for effective engagement of Moneyval performed the first round of evaluation of the available financial, technical and human resources in the system for fight against money laundering and financing fight against financial crime. of terrorism in the Republic of Serbia in 2003. 27 A representative of the National Bank of Serbia led the working group that carried out the assessment of the vulnerability of the banking sector in relation to the risk of money laundering, while other representatives participated in the working group that evaluated the vulnerability of the life insurance sector, voluntary pension funds and financial leasing sectors. In the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia has been actively participating in the work of the Standing Coordination Group for monitoring the implementation of the National Strategy for Fight against Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia established in order to monitor the activities and authorities proposed the necessary measures to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism. The role of the National Bank of Serbia as a supervisor is defined by the sectoral law and Article 82 of the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and is reflected in the direct and indirect monitoring of the activities of financial institutions. In the process of direct supervision of financial institutions it is determined whether they comply with regulations and, among other things, whether the system for the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism is adequate for precluding financial institutions from carrying out such activities. If weaknesses in the way of the implementation of the measures to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism are observed, the National Bank of Serbia takes corrective measures, or penalties in accordance with regulations in case of major irregularities. The National Bank of Serbia has established the practice of indirect monitoring of the activities of banks and financial leasing companies in the field of risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism by obtaining information and data from submitted questionnaires, the analysis of which the National Bank of Serbia publishes on its website. During 2012, as part of its regular activities, the National Bank of Serbia has performed direct control of risk management related to money laundering and financing of terrorism, in accordance with the approved plans for control, in banks, insurance companies and pension funds. The cooperation with the Prosecutor's Office for Organised Crime and the Crime Investigation Police Department regarding the tasks and duties for which the National Bank of Serbia is competent continued. Also, employees of the National Bank of Serbia actively participated in the activities of international and local seminars and workshops on fight against money laundering and financing of terrorism. Code of Professional Conduct Ethical and professional standards of behaviour for employees at the National Bank of Serbia are regulated by the Code of Professional Conduct for Employees at the National Bank of Serbia. In order to improve such standards, we have continually engaged in activities aimed at promoting these standards, and it is insisted that they are applied consistently. 28 In order to inform them about obligations arising from saved, the safety of the society is strengthened, and it is regulations of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Governor, also possible to improve environmental protection. Vice-Governors, Director of the Administration for Strengthening effects are achieved if the legal and Supervision of Financial Institutions, and members of the institutional framework, standards and practices are Council of the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia improved simultaneously. The work on building a were informed about amendments to these regulations – functional and efficient system relies on numerous factors they received a guide for officials „How to act in within the National Bank of Serbia, and beyond as well. It accordance with the rules and regulations applied by the is an on-going process and the positive effects of this Anti-corruption Agency“, i.e. in case when the assume approach are reflected in a number of direct and indirect office, terminate office, or in cases when they receive a impacts, and the National Bank of Serbia itself has been gift etc. recognised by relevant national institutions and The employees who, prior to their employment at the international organisations and, most importantly, by the National Bank of Serbia, gained some shares, which, purchasing entities themselves, as a responsible and open according to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, they participant in the public procurement system. are not allowed to possess, were given instructions on The largest contribution is observed in the application how to dispose of such shares. of the principles of transparency, resulting in the Obligations of the National Bank of Serbia and its strengthening of competitiveness. Transparency of work officials arising from the provisions of the Law on the Fight in public procurement is reflected in the fact that the against Corruption and the regulations adopted under website of the National Bank of Serbia in a separate that law were timely met. section, which is marked as Tenders , publishes invitations to all public procurement procedures that are Planned Activities initiated, as well as all documents related to these The National Bank of Serbia will continue to undertake procurements. In 2012, there were 41,000 visits to this activities directed towards the fulfilment of obligations web page, and there were 460 procurement procedures, arising from the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the out of which 378 procedures were public, and in National Strategy for Fight Against Corruption, and the accordance with them, 216 agreements and 190 orders Action Plan for Implementation of the National Strategy were concluded. The remaining 82 procedures were for Fight Against Corruption, and the National Bank will exempt from public procurement procedures and 87 submit quarterly reports on this to the Anti-Corruption agreements were concluded in accordance with them. Agency. Since it was estimated that it is possible to further enhance the training of staff in the field of business ethics, we have developed a project whose goal is to develop and organise three types of training in 2013, based on the analysis of the current situation (survey data on how many employees know the rules of ethics, and what their experience regarding the application of these rules is):  for apprentices – a short general introductory note on the code of ethics in the National Bank of Serbia;  for apprentices – a workshop where they would be familiarised with all the rules interactively, through ethical problem solving activities (three months after the completion of the first training);  for all interested employees and/or the exposed category of employees” – thematic workshops dedicated to specific ethical issues. Public Procurement In the area of public procurement, social responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia is based on maintaining and enhancing confidence of bidders and strengthening the capacity of the public procurement system, which has an impact on the society as a whole. Improving the system and strengthening the capacity of public procurement in the National Bank of Serbia and its importance are recognised as such at all levels of decision making. Capacity building will primarily contribute to the increase of transparency, efficiency and effectiveness, it reduces corruption, increases professionalism and strengthens trust in public institutions and the rule of law. Consequently, we get better value for money, financial resources are being 29 EMPLOYEE those through web house. For the identified and recognised faults in the field of safety and health at work, we developed a plan, within which the Information Technology performed the CARE following activities:  a commission was formed, which reviewed all statements in the letters from other organisational units and performed activities to eliminate them, in which non-ergonomic mice and keyboards were replaced, as well as all CRT monitors in user environment; Occupational Health and Safety – Head  network cables in all premises of the National Bank of Office Serbia were laid down in a manner that is consistent with the recommendations of the programme for The National Bank of Serbia started a review of risk gradual elimination of deficiencies in the field of assessment determined in the Act on risk assessment at safety and health at work. the workplace and in the working environment. In addition to persons in charge of safety and health at work, Planned activities involve the purchasing of monitors, this procedure also includes employees' representatives adjustable by inclination angle and height, as well as the for safety and health at work, as well as representatives of purchase of ergonomic mice, keyboards and anatomic gel the representative union. mouse pads. We have developed a Programme for gradual Vocational rehabilitation and employment of persons elimination of deficiencies in the area of health and safety with disabilities, i.e. legal protection of employees with at work, the elimination of which requires significant disabilities or with impaired working capacity (health investments, and where life and health of employees are conditions) not seriously compromised. Since the deficiencies were Under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and partly removed, we developed the Programme for 2013. Employment of Persons with Disabilities, seven Upon recommendation of the National Bank of Serbia, employees got the status of a person with disability at the the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund of the Republic expense of the National Bank of Serbia (two in basic of Serbia issued a record of workplaces where the organisational units and five in the Institute for duration of insurance is calculated at an accelerated rate. Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider). Their supervisors were informed of such status and health We performed studies on the condition in work impairments so that they can take the necessary environment during the winter, as well as on the efficiency measures. In accordance with the decisions on the of central ventilation systems in buildings used by basic established status of persons with disabilities, employees organisational units. In accordance with regulations, we may be transferred to other job positions that do not performed inspection and testing of work equipment used compromise their health, their work description may be by basic organisational units. Findings of competent adapted to their condition, and their supervisors may not authorities were posted on the web house, and the ask from them to perform work that may compromises General Affairs were notified of these in order to remove their health. Total 31 persons with the status of persons the faults detected. with disabilities are employed in the National Bank of In accordance with the Plan for training the employees Serbia. In accordance with the provisions of the Labour in safe and healthy operation at the National Bank of Law, we have carried out the procedure for the protection Serbia, 552 employees from basic organisational units of one employee in General Affairs, who was allocated were trained. different work tasks the performance of which does not compromise his health. We performed additional purchase of protective apparel to be used by employees at the General Affairs Occupational Health and Safety – and the Cash Department. For the purposes of basic organisational units, branch offices and the Institute for Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – Topčider, we Coins initiated the procedures for centralised procurement of In accordance with regulations in the field of safety goods (personal protective equipment and devices) and and health at work, the National Bank of Serbia developed services (inspection and testing of personal protective a programme for gradual elimination of deficiencies in the equipment). area of health and safety at work, the elimination of which We prepared the Guidelines on the procedure in case requires significant investments, and where life and of injury at workplace, occupational diseases and work health of employees are not seriously compromised. related diseases, which were sent to employees in charge Based on this programme we took measures/activities to of safety and health at work in the Human Resources, remove the deficiencies and the results for 2012 were branch offices and the Institute for Manufacturing reported in quarterly reports of the units in charge. Banknotes and Coins – Topčider for the purposes of uniformed treatment. The employees were notified of 30 One part of uneven areas (dangerous areas), floors, holes, and bumps were repaired, shelves were fixed to the floor and the wall, buffers and fixations for vault doors were made and installed, and distribution elements for air infiltration were rotated. Because of noise, employees were transferred to other premises, and automatic door closers were installed in several places. We adopted the decision on initiating the procedure of risk assessment at workplace and in the working environment in order to partially amend the act on risk assessment and the Implementation Plan for the process of making partial amendments to the Act on risk assessment. We implemented activities on amending the act on risk assessment. In accordance with the Plan for training employees in safe and healthy operation at the National Bank of Serbia, employees were trained (in theory and practice) in cooperation with their supervisors. We performed studies of work environment in the summer in the facilities of the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins – for chemical and physical hazards (apart from ionizing radiation), microclimate and lighting conditions. Based on competent findings of the studies of work environment, we proposed and implemented measures to eliminate or reduce the risks and hazards to the health of employees. We inspected and tested the work equipment. Based on findings, we proposed measures to eliminate or reduce the risks and hazards to the health of employees. In accordance with current acts, we distributed personal protective devices and equipment (clothes, overcoats, shoes, gloves, masks, etc). Employees at workplaces with an increased risk, and as necessary, are referred to periodic and follow-up medical examinations. In accordance with legislation, employees are sent to the National Employment Service in order to acquire the status of persons with disabilities. In order to reduce possible injury to employees, and as a preventive measure, we performed alcotests on random samples of employees. The concentration of alcohol was not determined in any of employees. Based on the analysis of the number of injuries and reports on temporary inability to work, it is possible to determine the number of injuries and days of absence from work (sickness leave). The safe and healthy work activities of employees aimed at reducing the number of injuries to the employees at work, and in the working environment, continue. We have made the Guidelines on the procedure in case of injury, occupational disease or work related illness arising from working at the National Bank of Serbia. In order to prevent, eliminate or reduce risks and hazards to the health of employees, we regularly perform the analysis of measures taken and make plans for improving the conditions for safe and healthy work for employees. We have good cooperation in terms of the implementation of safety and health at work measures with the companies and institutions with which the 31 Institute shares a common workspace, in accordance with Education, Training and Professional Article 19 of the Law on Safety and Health at Work and the agreement signed. Development The forms required by the Rulebook on the records in Given the importance and the necessity of continuing the field of safety and health at work, were filled in and to strengthen the institutional capacity, the National Bank signed. of Serbia encourages professional development of employees and creates working conditions and In the previous period, no diseases or work related environment that enable individual development of each condi ti ons w ere detected at the Insti tute for employee. Manufacturing Banknotes and Coins. Employees of the National Bank of Serbia have the Benefits opportunity to educate themselves and acquire the appropriate degrees and certificates, as well as to attend In 2012 as well, the National Bank of Serbia continued seminars, courses, study tours and workshops in the to expand cooperation with the central banks of European country and abroad. A total of 387 employees attended countries enabling bank employees to use the sporting professional trainings abroad, while 184 attended and leisure resorts of those central banks. The National seminars, conferences, courses and workshops in the Bank of Serbia has this form of cooperation with nine country. countries (the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Cyprus, Finland, The National Bank of Serbia organises foreign and Germany) and, thanks to that, employees of the language courses (English, German, Russian and French) National Bank of Serbia can use the benefit of staying for its employees. This programme segment is intended under favourable conditions in the countries with which to provide easier communication with colleagues and such cooperation was established. The plan for 2013 is to experts from abroad, as well as the use of literature in establish cooperation, i.e., exchange of the use of resorts, foreign languages. A total of 262 employees attended with the central banks of Latvia, Italy, Romania, and foreign language courses in 2012. France. I n o r d e r t o d e ve l o p a n d i m p r ove p e r s o n a l During 2012, one employee of the Central Bank of characteristics and competencies of its employees, the Russian Federation and two employees of the Central National Bank organised in-house trainings with the Bank of Poland visited our resorts. During 2012, our following topics: teamwork, presentation skills and public employees visited the resorts of the central bank of the appearances, communication skills and conflicts, and Check Republic (two), Germany (one), and the Cyprus stress management. Union of Bank Employees (seven). In order to improve neighbourly cooperation, in 2012 Furthermore, continuing the practice so far, the the National Bank of Serbia was actively involved in the National Bank will pay a contribution in the amount of 3% implementation of the protocol on business cooperation of the employee's basic salary for those employees who with the central banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina, opted for membership in a voluntary pension fund, and Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia in the field of this contribution may not be below RSD 2,000 or above professional trainings of the employees. The cooperation RSD 10,000. That amount is increased by the amount that was realised through the organisation of 18 mutual study the employee pays into the voluntary pension fund, up to visits, involving 55 employees working in partner the maximum amount determined by the law regulating institutions. citizens' income tax established as the non-taxable The National Bank of Serbia has good bilateral amount. cooperation with many central banks from European The National Bank of Serbia cooperates with 15 Union member states. As part of this cooperation, theatres in the city, including four children's theatres. This employees at the National Bank of Serbia have the cooperation implies discounts for theatre tickets, which opportunity to exchange knowledge and experience with vary depending on the theatre and the play. The discounts eight colleagues. In 2012, there were 13 study visits, with range from 20% to 50%. the participation of 48 employees, there were two international seminars organised in Belgrade, and one The employees are able to go for recreation in the seminar for employees in the National Bank of Serbia. Business Recreation Centre – Topčider. There they have courts for tennis, volleyball, football, and basketball at Once a year, the National Bank of Serbia organises their disposal. summer practice, thus enabling students to gain valuable experience and recommendations for further The list of benefits for the employees in the National development of their careers. In July and August, 22 Bank of Serbia includes continued cooperation with six students of final years of faculties in Serbia, as well as four tourist agencies. Due to this cooperation, the employees students who study abroad attended summer practice at at the National Bank of Serbia are entitled to discounts the National Bank of Serbia. and payments for travel arrangements via administrative salary garnishment. 32 Education, Training and Professional Development of Employees in 2012 Number of No. Type of education, training and professional development participants Education 1. Second degree studies – Master Degree and Specialist Studies 6 2. Third degree studies – Doctoral – Academic Studies 5 3. Professional training, licenses and certificates 32 Professional development 4. Seminars, workshops, counselling and conferences in the country 184 5. Seminars, workshops, counselling, study visits, and conferences abroad 387 6. Seminars in the NBS organised as part of bilateral cooperation with foreign central banks 57 7. Foreign language courses 262 8. In-house trainings 67 9. Seminars in the NBS organised by engaging external lecturers 140 Vocational training 10. Internship 26 Summer practice 11. The practice of university students from the country and abroad in the period – of July–August 26 33 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Despite following global trends in the printing industry disposed of in this manner, and the costs amounted to (replacing old technology with new, more modern), it is 2,611,000 dinars. not possible to exclude and completely eliminate the Solid hazardous waste, which is collected and sorted at associated by-products such as waste water and industrial the headquarters, or at the source, was not adequately waste. Activities of the Institute for Manufacturing treated at the Institute for Manufacturing Banknotes and Banknotes and Coins are focused on minimising their Coins, which is why we made plans to purchase environmental impact. equipment for the aggregate collection and to find companies to manage these forms of waste. In addition, Wastewater Treatment there are plans to purchase equipment to annihilate waste The new technology for preparing the wiping solution from security printing, since it is subject to special and waste water treatment, purchased in the previous measures of annihilation, in accordance with safety and period, justified the investment in this year as well. The legislation requirements. positive effects were achieved through the rationalisation Safe management of chemicals should be provided at of basic resources (fresh water and electricity) and all stages of the life cycle of such chemicals, especially in reduced consumption of hazardous chemicals, and the part when they are used in the workplace, through consequently, their impact on the environment. risk control and the protection of workers in the work The device in which, prior to being discharged into the process. At the same time, it is necessary that chemicals city sewers, the already treated wastewater is treated are handled with care in order not to harm the once again, is highly efficient (99%). Also, the quality of environment. the treated wastewater which is being discharged into city Results of hazardous chemicals management sewers is in line with the norms prescribed by law. Their activities quality is regularly controlled by licensed laboratories. In order to control the processing and recognise possible We regularly updated the inventory lists with all the contingencies, and well as for the purposes of rapid characteristics of new chemicals for each change of the response, we often perform internal on-site quality type of chemicals used, and in these cases, we also control of wastewater by means of mobile test analysis. regularly updated material safety data sheets and their availability at the site of application. The chemicals are Technological Waste and Dangerous also stored in a safe manner, and their consumption on Chemicals Management daily and monthly bases is monitored regularly in production directions, while competent state institutions Waste and hazardous waste management involves the are informed about their consumption on annual basis. implementation of measures prescribed for the treatment of waste in order not to endanger human health and the Gas Emissions Control environment. In this regard, the Commission for Developing a Waste Management Plan was formed. The In order to preserve and protect the environment in Plan will comprehensively define all waste generated in compliance with relevant regulations, the boiler room was the work processes, and the manner of its disposal. regularly controlled and maintained, which involves a series of activities aimed at regulating the operation of Results of waste management activities burners and adjusting burning parameters, as well as gas So far, place of origin of all types of waste in the emission control from burning crude oil which reduces the processes has been recognised and defined. The majority amount of sulphur in the boiler room, which was of those were characterised, which ensured adequate performed in both boilers during the year. The results of disposal, i.e. destruction. Furthermore, a part of these measurements have shown that the values hazardous waste storage was adapted and adjusted for obtained are within allowed limits. Halon fire storing liquid waste. extinguishers systems, which pose danger on global level, were replaced by those that do not use this harmful gas. A part of waste in the form of secondary raw materials (paper, metal, plastic, tonners) and waste which requires Within these activities and measures, we cooperated special management (tyres, batteries, waste oils, with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water electronic equipment) is sold, which generates income Management – The Water Management Department, the (7.22 million dinars in 2012). Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Belgrade city authorities and other We performed testing and characterisation of liquid organisations in the field of waste management and waste hazardous waste, which is ceded to companies licensed water management, in compliance with laws and for waste management for a certain financial regulations. compensation. In this year, 27,110 kg of waste were It should also be noted that the activities undertaken 34 in these areas were aimed at providing the prerequisites auto activated at about 6 a.m. and heats the premises to for obtaining the ISO 14001 certificate, which would 19°C. Upon the arrival of employees, the temperature complete commitment of the Institute for Manufacturing rises to optimal 22°C. When somebody opens a window, Banknotes and Coins to create conditions for a safe and the heating or cooling system automatically stops secure work environment for its employees. operating. Although the nature of activities in the printing Consumables, including toner cartridges, paper and industry does not allow full elimination of dangerous PET packaging, are regularly recycled. technologies, through these activities, we are trying to Below every employee's signature, there is a message minimise their impact on work and living environments. – “Think, before you print” – suggesting that paper should Staff training and raising awareness of risk factors is very be considered a resource used in everyday work. By using important. In this way, we improve their motivation, e-mail as a means of communication, we pointed to the which results in better organisation of work and lower importance of environmental protection. chances for any adverse impacts. Finally, let us say that the National Bank of Serbia's Waste Sorting in the Head Office and Social Responsibility Report is printed on a certified paper Branches that is produced in accordance with the principle of controlled forest growth. At the level of the National Bank of Serbia head office, employees were sorting and collecting paper, PET packaging and mixed waste on their premises since April 2008. In 2011, employees in branch offices in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Užice and Niš also started sorting waste. Electrical energy in the National Bank of Serbia's buildings is consumed responsibly: regular bulbs are replaced with the energy saving ones. The building at the Slavija Square is among highly automated ones. All the rooms have presence detectors, which are activated automatically and regulate temperature. The system is PAPER 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Head office and Branch office in Belgrade 43,230 kg 47,270 kg 59,490 kg 32,213 kg 13,404 kg Branch office in Novi Sad 3,272 kg 1,500 kg Branch office in Kragujevac 14,160 kg Branch office in Niš 4,230 kg 477.50 kg Branch office in Užice 3,020 kg PET 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Head office and Branch officies in Belgrade and Novi Sad 4,130 kg 4,250 kg 3.640 kg 1.750 kg Branch office in Kragujevac PET is separated Branch office in Niš and taken by utility companies Branch office in Užice TONER CARTRIDGES 2012 2011 Head office and Branch office in Belgrade 871 pcs 93 pcs. 35 CIP Каталогизација у публикацији Народна библиотека Србије, Београд 658(497.11) Друштвена одговорност.../ Народна банка Србије. 2007. Београд (Краља Петра 12) : Народна банка Србије, 2007(Нови Сад: Стојков). 29 cm Годишње ISSN 2217-3048 = Друштвена одговорност COBISS.SR-ID 513350999 Published by: National Bank of Serbia Printed by: Printing Stojkov Contact: National Bank of Serbia 12 Kralja Petra Street 11000 Belgrade Telephone: 011/3027-100 Website: www.nbs.rs All rights reserved This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents.
