UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 2013 In This Report ✴ From the Managing Partner ✴ Company Identity ✴ Dunamis Organization Services ✴ Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi (Dunamis Foundation) ✴ Implementation of UNGC Principles ✴ Human Rights ✴ Labor Standard ✴ Environment ✴ Anti-Corruption ✴ Partnerships in Support of UN Goals ✴ Distribution of this COP From the Managing Partner STATEMENT OF SUPPORT June 2013, On behalf of Dunamis Organization Services, I am proud to reconfirm our company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact. This year is marked as the 7th anniversary of Dunamis’s signatory to the UN Global Compact. It has been seven year since we joined it and we remain committed to its ten principles. We furthermore remain fully committed to sustainability in its broadest context and operate day to day on the basis that we have a responsibility to balance economic interests with those of the environment as well as with those representing the needs and interests of the communities in which we operate and serve. This Communication on Progress report showcases the implementation of UN Global Compact principles through the policies and practices of our company and the work of the Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation. It serves also as a baseline report against which we can measure our future accomplishments. With this publication of this report, Dunamis reaffirms our continued support to the principles of the UN Global Compact, covering human rights, labor rights, protection of the environment and anti-corruption. Satyo Fatwan Managing Partner Dunamis Organization Services Company Identity Company Name : Dunamis Organization Services Address : Jl Bendungan Jatiluhur No. 56 Jakarta 10210 Country : Indonesia Contact Name : Asri Larasati Contact Position : Corporate Communications Contact Telephone : +62 21 572 0761 Membership Date : April 8th, 2006 Number of Employees :130 Sector : Support & Services Company Identity Brief Description of Nature Business Dunamis Organization Services is an Indonesian professional services firm incorporated in 1991 and dedicated to enable greatness in people and organizations everywhere. Our clientele is across industry of Indonesia's most progressive institutions. Dunamis Organization Services is the licensee partner of FranklinCovey (USA) and VitalSmarts (USA) in Indonesia. Our Practices include Leadership & Trust, Execution, Productivity & Sales Performance, VitalSmarts Skills, Knowledge Management, Human Capital System and Education. Company Identity Mission We enable Greatness in people and organizations everywhere Vision To be recognized as a world class professional services firm – an OASIS for Indonesia Values ~ ROCK 1. Result Oriented We deliver superior results to all our stakeholders. That’s our bias. 2. Open Feedback We have respectful but genuine and open communication. That’s how we grow. 3. Strong Character Integrity. Maturity. Abundance Mentality. That’s our basic character. 4. World Class “K”ompetence Applied Competence. That’s how we produce superior performance. Dunamis Foundation YAYASAN DUNAMIS MITRA PERTIWI Established in 2001 by Dunamis Organization Services Mission: To Unleash The Leader Within Every Child in Indonesia Education Services Community Development OUR PROGRAM 1.The Leader in Me 2.7 Habits Curriculum 3.7 Habits for Educators 4.Introduction to 7 Habits of Highly Effective College Students 5.7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens 6.7 Habits Teens SuperCamp for Junior High School 7.7 Habits Teens SuperCamp for Senior High School 8.In-House The 7 Habits Teens Camp 9.LAPAS or Juvenile teenagers 10.Keynote Speaker at University 11.Community Capacity Building – Early Childhood Education= Preschool Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle of practicing good management and being a responsible business. Here in Dunamis, we reflected the implementation of the human rights into our vision, mission, values policies as well as the advancement opportunity, competitive compensation and benefits, work environments and obligation to the community in location where we are operating (Corporate Social Responsibility). ✤ Working Conditions Dunamis offers favorable working conditions to its employees. Conditions of employment at Dunamis are outlined by the company regulations document approved in 2003 by the Department of Manpower. The policy under Chapter 1, Article 3(e), states that all employees have the right to equal treatment in line with their Human Rights. It also outlines the company’s remuneration standards, working hours as well as employees’ rights to holidays and leaves and to practice their faith. The policy also outlines a warning system and disciplinary guidelines which provides employees with protection against unemployment. ✴ Well beyond the minimum standards of employment, staffs at Dunamis are free to enjoy a healthy company-provided lunch on every work day, served at our indoor and outdoor lunchrooms. Staffs not at the office receive a lunch allowance. Outcomes: Dunamis staffs enjoy a healthy lunch everyday. We increase employee relationship by having better communication each other There were no boundaries between employees and the management team. To increase the food quality, staffs are free to give feedback to the lunch menu. We also regularly change the menu to increase our service to the staff. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✴ Dunamis policy defines that all hiring process, promotion and business decision are taken strictly on qualifications, business imperatives and merit. Every employee also has the equal employment opportunity. Dunamis established a comprehensive compensation and benefit and adequate allowance including medical, transportation, health assistance and pension plan. ✴ For all new Dunamis employees we conducted New employee induction to share about the company profile, company policy and, code of business conducts. ✴ Dunamis implemented a new Human Capital Management System to strengthen its employees relationship and management guideline. Employees could easily upgraded their job description and set their key performance indicators. Outcomes: Every year Dunamis renew its employee compensation based on the quarterly and yearly evaluation. By having a set target and a win win agreement in every new quarter, employees felt involved in improving their career plan. By having such a planned benefit for their health and safety, the employees can have a favorable working condition and support their well-being. Employees enjoying lunch in the dining room Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Community Access to Land As an act of respect for the rights of the community surrounding Dunamis’ training facility in Pasir Angin village, the property remains unfenced, allowing for community access to and from their livelihood. Although this was and still is an uncommon practice in Indonesia, the decision was made not to close-off the property during construction of the facility, when it was recognized that fencing off the property would create a difficulty for the local community who would need to circle the area to get to and from home. Outcomes: By not fencing our property, the community around us could easily access to and from their livelihood. By giving them the access, they also help us in securing our property. Future Targets: The policy to unfenced the property will remain the same, we will also increase the community involvement in improving our property facilities. Dunamis procedures for using security personnel are based on human rights principles and include guidelines and restrictions on the use of force. Villagers were easily access our training center in their daily activities Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Media Presence Dunamis facilitates its personnel to contribute regularly to major Indonesian publications. Each month, around ten articles written by Dunamis staff appear in one of leading Indonesian newspapers and magazines. The articles represent themes that are of our business interest, covering organizational effectiveness and training, as well as wider ranging issues including corporate social responsibility, democracy and social justice. With this activity, while increasing our company’s contribution to the nation, we also become champions of another right presented in the UDHR: “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.” -UDHR, Article Outcomes: By having articles in major publications, Dunamis could touch millions people and share our knowledge to the larger public in Indonesia it is in accordance with our mission “enable greatness in people and organizations everywhere”. This activity also unleash Dunamis’s employees talent, we recognize their talent by providing the column in the media. Future Target: In 2013 we will keep maintaining also expanding the relationship with media; newspapers, magazines and radio. We are expanding our relationship by conducting some studies in leadership and human capital area. We’ll also continue the policy to uphold the freedom to associate and the right to collective bargaining following the guidelines provided under the relevant national law. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Media Presence Bermula dari Tanya Dr. Alex Denni Partner Dunamis Organization Services “ Apa yang dapat Anda lakukan unBicara tentang prioritas, ada banyak Anda relakan untuk tidak menjadi priotuk membuat tahun ini berkesan?” tauladan yang bisa dijadikan cermin. ritas. Dengan tegas, Ram Charan menyeItulah pertanyaan Stephen R Covbutkan bahwa seorang pemimpin yang ey di akun Twitter-nya di awal tahun. Masih teringat jelas, tahun lalu Steve mengatakan memiliki 10 prioritas adalah Dua hari kemudian, penulis buku The 8th Jobs meninggal. Banyak orang merasa pemimpin yang tidak paham apa yang dia Habit: From Effectiveness to Greatness kehilangan dengan sosok pendiri perusaucapkan. Dalam buku Execution karya Ram itu melontarkan lagi pernyataan lanhaan Apple itu. Ia tidak hanya dikenang Charan dan Larry Bossidy, dikatakan bahwa jutan. Ia menuliskan, “Kuncinya adalah oleh penikmat buku-buku manajemen. seorang pemimpin harus menentukan apa bukan menghabiskan waktu, akan tetapi Ia dikenang indah oleh para konsumen yang paling penting. Dan itu artinya, menginvestasikannya. Bagaimana Anda Apple. Kesuksesan perusahaan itu terletak jangan terlalu banyak prioritas. meginvestasikannya tahun ini?” Nah, sedari strategi Steve Jobs. Ia fokus. Ia tahu buah pertanyaan lagi. Seperti permainan bagaimana meletakkan tanda tagar Mengapa hanya sedikit? Pertama, dengan domino, begitu ada jawaban berlanjut ke #FirstThingsFirst dalam mengelola Apple. mengalokasikan satu sampai tiga prioripertanyaan selanjutnya. Setelah mengalami masa-masa suram, tas akan mendapatkan hasil terbaik dari Apple bisa bangkit dengan memfokuskan sumber daya yang ada di tangan. Kedua, Awal tahun seringkali dijadikan sebagai kepada piranti bergerak. Jobs dengan orang-orang membutuhkan prioritas yang pijakan dalam langkah-langkah selanjuttegas pernah mengatakan bahwa Apple jelas untuk pelaksanaannya. nya, baik personal maupun dalam lingkup adalah “mobile devices company”. organisasi. Apabila awal tahun dimulai Dalam rumusan tentang eksekusi atau dengan pijakan pertanyaan yang tak jelas, Di sisi lain, Jobs juga menekankan bahwa pelaksanaan, ada empat disiplin eksekusi. maka persiapkan ucapan selamat datang perusahaan itu memanfaatkan strategi Langkah pertama yang utama adalah kepada ketidakjelasan pula. emosional dalam hal branding. Strategi menentukan Wildy Important Goals. Hal emosional inilah yang membuat banyak itulah yang akan kita genggam sepanjang Pertanyaan-pertanyaan awal itu membimorang setia kepada produk-produk Apple. pelaksanaannya. Sebagai pembuka jalan, bing pemikiran untuk menentukan langkah Jobs tidak ingin menjadikan Apple sesetidaknya Anda harus sudah menggengyang tepat. Dalam merencanakan tahun bagaimana Sony yang memiliki banyak lini. gam di tangan apa yang Anda inginkan yang penuh kesan, Covey menekankan Bukan pula Samsung yang menangani hulutahun ini. Di lain kesempatan, kita bisa tentang bagaimana menempatkan mehilir bisnis elektronik. membahas langkah selanjutnya, yakni letakkan yang paling penting terlebih lead measure, mengelola scoreboard, dan dahulu. Ia pun menggunakan tanda tagar Semestinya, Anda Pun telah menentukan membentuk irama akuntabilitas. (hashtag) #FirstThingsFirst pada posting rancangan-rancangan untuk tahun ini besatu hari setelah melontarkan pertanyaan serta mimpi-mimpi indahnya. Berdoa, Sebelum langkah lebih jauh, silakan mekedua. Covey ingin menekankan betapa tentu saja. Akan tetapi, sudahkan Anda luangkan waktu sejenak. Seduh teh, buka pentingnya menentukan apa yang menmenentukan narasi utama yang paling iPad Anda, dan mulailah menata imajinasi jadi prioritas dalam hidup kita. Entah itu berkesan tahun ini? Ingat, narasi utama. Anda sedari mula. *ADV perkara bisnis atau kisah cinta Anda. Itu artinya ada beberapa hal yang harus KOLOM EKSEKUSI Some of Dunamis’s articles and publications in newspapers and magazines Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Internal Communication ✴ Dunamis facilitates various internal / employee communication programs to allow employees to express their aspiration to the management vice versa. The available programs include: ✴ Kick Off Meeting An annual meeting attended by all employees to recognize the achievers and to communicate company’s business direction and strategy. ✴ Quarterly Stewardships Review (QSR) Every quarter, we reviewed our business unit and personal progress. On second and fourth QSR, we held a bonding program to increase team bonding and employee relationship. ✴ Dunamis Newsletter Dunamis gives its staff an opportunity to unleash their talent in writing by providing a coloumn in our monthly Dunamis Newsletter. The theme of the articles are various from their experiences in a class room or our practices. Dunamis Newsletters were published to all Dunamis ‘s clients and its website, www.dunamis.co.id. ✴ TES (The Empowerment Session) TES is bi-weekly forum for employees to share and learn each other on certain interest subjects relevant to business as well as for employee development. Outcomes: A kick off and QSR meetings were effective to communicate business direction, express employee aspirations also to review our business. These activities gave company and employee bunch of ideas to improve business. By having articles in the newsletter, Dunamis unleash it’s employees talent, we recognize their talent by providing the media to express their capability and knowledge. Future Target: The policies of kick off meeting, QSR and TES were remained the same. We will also continue publish our monthly newsletter. We also planned to open new business line in publishing to publish our employees articles into books. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Staff Activities Dunamis Member breakfasting gathering 2012 Dunamis’s kick off meeting, outing and quarterly stewardship review 2012 Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Dunamis Newsletter Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Community Capacity Building As part of its Community Capacity Building program, Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation manage Pre-School which provide pre-elementary education for children in Pasir Angin village, West Java, surroundings our learning center. We empowered and facilitate the women in the area to become the teachers. Outcomes: In 2012, Dunamis Foundation ran ten (10) Pre School at 6 locations (neighborhood community) with over 250 students and 10 teachers. We continually trained the teacher with The 7 Habits for Educators Future Target: In 2013, we plan to continue managing the Pre-Schools and open new locations. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ 7 Habits for Educators As part of its Community Capacity Building program, Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation started in 2010 held a program called 7 Habits for Educators. This is a 7 Habits of Highly Effective People training which is designed for educators – teachers and principals. The objective of this program are to enrich the teachers understanding and knowledge about 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, to help them apply the 7 Habits principles is their daily life as personal also teachers and to enable them to become a role model in school for the students and help them to also apply the 7 Habits principles. Outcomes: In 2012, Dunamis Foundation helped SMKI Utama to implement The Leader in Me program. We trained the teachers with The 7 Habits for Educators program. Future Target: In 2013 we plan to continue the 7 Habits for Educators program. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens SuperCamp Project Every year Dunamis held a holiday program for Elementary, Junior & High school students called The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens SuperCamp. The aim of this program is to unleash the teens leadership skill. We also used the inside-out approach to strengthen the teens character started from themselves. To sharpen their social responsibility, we gave them a project to renovate a pre school and elementary school around the training area. They were asked to prepare a project proposal, presented to our board of partners to get the fund and implement the project by themselves. Outcomes: Three (3) pre school were renovated, painted and having a new school tools such as blackboard, drawer, shoes rack, education poster etc. One elementary School (SDN07 Cipayung) was renovated, painted and having a new school equipment such as blackboard, tables and chairs. The participants also decided to build a new library room for the school. Future Targets: In 2013 we plan to continue the 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens SuperCamp project. The project will be held at Cikeretek, Sukabumi, West Java area. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens SuperCamp Project Project activities by The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens Supercamp participants Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ SDSN Bendungan Hilir 12 Jakarta The 1st State Elementary Leader in Me School in Indonesia As part of its commitment to community near by our operational office, Dunamis Foundation in joint cooperation with Garuda Food sponsored SDSN Bendungan Hilir 12 Jakarta as the first state elementary school which applied The Leader in Me approach and become a leadership character-based school in Indonesia. Inspired by the success of others national school in Indonesia and abroad, Dunamis Foundation started the pilot project to inspire Indonesia’s education and support the Ministry of Education project to establish leadership character-based school all around Indonesia. Outcomes: All teachers in SDSN Bendungan Hilir 12 Jakarta already joined the 7 Habits for Educators program. We formed a team as a value guardian to make sure the program was running smoothly. We also delivered The 7 Habits of Happy Kids books and the teaching tools to all students and teachers. Future Targets: In 2013 we will assist the implementation process of The Leader in Me School at SDSN Bendungan Hilir 12 Jakarta. On the other side, we also plan to increased the number of leadership character-based school by implementing The Leader in Me program. Implementation process of The Leader in Me School at SDSN Bendungan Hilir 12 Jakarta Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Leadership Development Program with Sekolah Sobat Bumi Joint Cooperation with Pertamina Foundation Dunamis Foundation supported a program held by Pertamina Foundation called Sekolah Sobat Bumi. Sekolah Sobat Bumi is an education program which aims to encourage schools in Indonesia to increase its quality standard. The program was held in 17 (seventeen) schools located in 8 (eight) provinces all over Indonesia. Dunamis Foundation supported this program by conducting the 7 Habits of Educators for principals and school supervisors at all Sekolah Sobat Bumi. The aim of the workshop is to develop leaders who will be responsible and proactively change their old behavior in order t o increase theirs schools quality. Outcomes: Dunamis Foundation has trained 423 principals and school supervisors from 17 champion of Sekolah Sobat Bumi. They are SDN 04 Metro Timur Lampung, SDN 05 Bukit Raya Pekanbaru, SDN 003 Balikpapan Selatan, SMPN 1 Balikpapan, SMPN 10 Samarinda, SMAN 5 Denpasar, SMPN 4 Mendoyo Jembrana, SMKN 1 Probolinggo, SMAN 2 Probolinggo, Sekolah Alam Ciganjur, SMKN 3 Sukabumi, SDN Ungaran 1 Yogyakarta, SMPN 7 Bandung, SMAN 10 Malang, SMPN 1 Kedamean Gresik, SDSN Bendungan Hilir Jakarta, and SDN Bantarjati 09 Bogor Future Targets: Dunamis Foundation commits to support Sekolah Sobat Bumi program and will assist schools in the implementation. ! Sekolah Sobat Bumi participants statistic data The 7 Habits for Educators program in Sekolah Sobat Bumi Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ I Wanna Get Home Safely a Road Safety Campaign Program Joint Cooperation with Adira Insurance Since 2011, Dunamis supported a road safety program, I Wanna Get Home Safely (IWGHS), initiated by Autocilin Adira Insirance. The campaign vision is to reduce traffic accidents in Indonesia, by increasing public awareness of behaving positively on the roads. Dunamis involvement in this program is by campaigning on how to change paradigm and increasing the positive behavior on the road. Outcomes: Dunamis participated in all IWGHS activities, including press conference and regular safety campaigns at many companies. Future Targets: Dunamis remains its participation in I Wanna Geth Home Safely road safety campaign program. synergy'('commitment' I Wanna Get Home Safely Activities Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ The Leader in Me Public Seminar with Muriel Summers Unleash the Leader within Every Child in Indonesia As one of Dunamis Foundation contribution to Indonesia’s education, Dunamis regularly invites international speaker. On April 2012, Dunamis Foundation invited Ms Muriel Summers principals of AB Combs Leadership School who also known as pioneer in adapting the 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens program at school. Under her leadership, AB Combs became a Leadership School and managed to won numerous awards such as The National Blue Ribbon School of Excellence and The Number One National Magnet School in America. Muriel shared to the Indonesian public about how business, challenges and successes in building a leadership-based school character. This seminar was also presents speakers from Indonesia’s The Leader in Me Schools which are PSKD Mandiri School, An-Nisaa’ Islamic School, Santa Laurensia School and Institut Teknologi Bandung who shares their experiences on becoming a leadership-based school in Indonesia. Outcomes: The Seminar was held on April 03, 2012. More than 300 principals, teachers and parents from 100 schools in Jakarta joined this seminar. Future Targets: Dunamis will continue to held a program for educators by inviting International Public Speaker. The Leader in Me Seminar with Muriel Seminar Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ The Leader in Me Public Seminar with Sean Covey Creating Schools where Everyone is a Leader To inspire educators in Indonesia, Dunamis Foundation in joint cooperation with PT Bank Negara Indonesia (Persero) Tbk held a one day seminar for educators with Sean Covey FranklinCovey's Education Practice Leader and is devoted to transforming education around the globe through bringing leadership principles and skills to students, educators, administrators, and parents alike. Sean Covey is also a New York Times bestselling author and has written several books, including The 6 Most Important Decisions You'll Ever Make,The 7 Habits of Happy Kids, and The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens, which has been translated into 20 languages and sold over 4 million copies worldwide. This public seminar was discuss on how to develop leadership-based school, how educators and parents could collaborate, how to develop a culture where everyone is a leader also how the 7 Habits can help teachers also students succeed in school, wisely handle peer pressure, build self-esteem, resist addiction and unleash their potential. Outcomes: The Seminar was held on December 11, 2012. More than 600 principals, teachers and parents from 300 schools in Jakarta joined this seminar. This seminar was also attended by Ministry of Education, Mr Muhammad Nuh. Future Targets: Dunamis will continue to held a program for educators by inviting International Public Speaker. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ The Leader in Me Public Seminar with Sean Covey Creating Schools where Everyone is a Leader The Leader in Me Seminar with Sean Covey The Leader in Me Seminar with Sean Covey media publications Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Dunamis employs on the basis of job requirements and does not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics or religion. All Dunamis employees have chosen their employment freely and have the freedom to leave the company upon due notice, as outlined in the company regulations. Dunamis strives to continue being an employer of choice, through the provision of favorable working conditions elaborated above in this report. Dunamis employs on the basis of job requirements and does not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics or religion. All Dunamis employees have chosen their employment freely and have the freedom to leave the company upon due notice, as outlined in the company regulations. Dunamis strives to continue being an employer of choice, through the provision of favorable working conditions elaborated above in this report Dunamis does not employ child labor, defined ILO Convention No.138 as being children under the age of 15 years. Company regulations set the minimum age for employment at Dunamis as 19 years.Dunamis has also been involved in organizing a workshop with UNICEF Indonesia on the Elimination of Child Labor. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Supporting the Abolition of Child Labor Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation also contributes to the abolition of child labor through its community-based programs, which assist in providing access to education for children who would otherwise be out-of-school and/or working. The programs cover: • Leadership Training for Community Leaders, including teachers and youth group leaders. • Capacity Building, including establishment and management of schools in Pasir Angin village in West Java. • Participatory Engagement, in the form of Future Search dialogues designed to assess the needs of the community. Outcomes: By improving the children and youth education also leadership, we helped them to increase their practical skill, self-confidence and interdependence ability. Future Targets: The policy for our community-based programs will remain the same. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Labor & Non-discrimination Policy A company with over 40% female staff, Dunamis does not discriminate on the basis of gender with regards to recruitment and employment, nor do we discriminate based on faith, race or political association. Outcomes: To improve the employees skill and ability, we continue to give them a regular training. Employees are allowed to take a Personal Development Program (PDP) to develop their working ability. Future Targets: Dunamis will continue the non-discrimination policy also keep increasing our member skill and ability. Female&Employees&=&51& Male&Employees&=&79&& Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ HUMAN RIGHTS ✤ Personal Development Program Every employee is eligible to get training in order to develop their skills and competency to support company objectives. To increase the employee capabilities and competencies, Dunamis held a Personal Development Program (PDP). This program allow every employee to take courses, seminars, training or workshops related to their personal development and job. This policies was started since 1995 when company starts to grow. Every employee has the right to improve their personal and interpersonal skill. They could take any program as long as it related to their day-to-day job. Outcomes: In 2012, 65 percent of employee took their PDP, it increasing 20 percent from 2011. Future Targets: In 2013 we plan to boost every employee to use their PDP so they will increase their capabilities and competencies. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ✤ Electricity & Water Usage In our everyday business activities, Dunamis encourages environmentally friendly practice. We targeted to reduce 10% in electricity and water usage. Outcomes: In 2012, the electricity & water usage were increased 4% comparing to the previous year. Future Targets: In 2013, we plan to maintain the electricity and water usage. Respect for environment sustainability is also showcased in the surroundings of our company’s training facility in Pasir Angin village, Central Java. During its construction, it was policy to cut down as few trees as possible, none was removed around the constructed buildings. In fact, vegetation around the property remains well-maintained. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ✤ Dunamis is actively involved in the promotion of transparency in government and businesses. This view is incorporated in our company regulations, which prohibits bribery and extortion in all its forms. We sign Integrity Pacts with our major clients, which call for the elimination of all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. This is increasingly becoming common practice, especially with our finance industry clients. Starting from last year, Dunamis seek to design a similar pact to be incorporated with all our Memorandum of Agreements with existing and future clients. Outcomes: We maintain to do our business with good corporate governance standards and no bribery was reported during last year. We also become a part of Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) selection panel in 2011 Future Targets: Become as a part of Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) selection panel. Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ SCORECARD The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2011 Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On track Behind schedule Target not achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary Early Childhood Education Dunamis provide an early childhood Education around Pasir Angin village to This year we opened 10 pre school class in 6 location. The students improve the children education number was 250, over the target for 200 students. On going Aptitude Test This program help them recognize their potential and talent before To help High School finding their potential & talent, starting this year Dunamis choosing their major and continue their study. This year we joint On going held an aptitude cooperation with Tarumanegara University Personal Development Program To improver their working competencies, employee are allowed to take any We keep encourage employee to take any course or higher education in course through this personal development program order to improve their skill also competencies. On going Employee Contribution Dunamis employee’s have to spend 1 day/month working for Dunamis Foundation This year we only achieved 30 percent from target to do community services On going Note: Trend from previous year! improvement! deterioration! no change! Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ SCORECARD The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2011 Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On track Behind schedule Target not achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary Speaker’s Fee All Dunamis member consistently donate their fees as a contribution for Dunamis member donate their fees after deliver speech for public audiences On going Dunamis Foundation Media Presence Dunamis personnel contribute articles regularly in Indonesian newspapers and 60 percent from target achieved. We continue to extend the relationship On going magazines with major Indonesian newspapers and magazines Dunamis Newsletter Dunamis unleash its staff talent in writing by publishing their articles in a We achieved the target by publishing the newsletter regularly every month On going monthly newsletter to its clients Pre-school Teachers Empowerment To increase our pre school teacher capability, Dunamis held an empowerment We scheduled a monthly & yearly program by inviting Dunamis member On going program also public speakers to teach the pre school teachers Note: Trend from previous year! improvement! deterioration! no change! Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ SCORECARD The scorecard below, outlines our performance against our Community, Environment and Labour targets for the financial year 2011 Overall performance against target: Target exceeded Target achieved (> 95%) On track Behind schedule Target not achieved Target Performance Target Date Activities Result Trend Commentary The 7 Habits Teens Supercamp Project We prepare a project in our teens camp to renovate pre school and elementary We renovated five (5) pre school and renovate one (1) elementary school school around Pasir Angin Village also build a library in Pasir Angin Village On going Frontier Assist Dunamis Foundation always ready to help others in case of national disaster in We always prepare ourselves to held a frontier assist program in case of On going form of frontier assist national disaster Electricity Efficiency 10 percent reduction in electricity usage We only increased the usage of electricity & water by 4% in 2012 Dec 31, 2012 Anti Corruption We support the anti corruption and no bribery was reported during the Dunamis policies in doing business based on good corporate governance year On going Note: Trend from previous year! improvement! deterioration! no change! Implementation of UNGC Principles ✦ PARTNERSHIP IN SUPPORT UN GOALS Over the years, Dunamis has both initiated and participated in partnerships with government agencies, NGOs and other civil society organizations, as well as student and youth organizations. The existence of Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation within a relatively modest-sized company such as Dunamis Organization Services is hoped to inspire other companies to increase their participation in empowering their wider surrounding community. On a regular basis, we organize Public Programs for representatives of numerous groups at little to no cost on a regular basis. This includes representatives from educational institutions such as teachers and student organization representatives, government agencies and NGOs, located all over Indonesia. The programs are designed to increase the effectiveness of the participants, which can then be transferred to the institution they belong to. Distribution of the COP This Communication of Progress will be made available to our stakeholders on our website http://www.dunamis.co.id, as well as being distributed to all company employees through our intranet system. For more information on this report, please contact asri@dunamis.co.id To obtain a copy, please contact our office at: Dunamis Organization Services Gedung GKBI Suite 503, Jl Jend Sudirman 28, Jakarta 10210, Indonesia. Ph: 62-21 5790 1420 Jl Bendungan Jatiluhur 56 Jakarta 10210. Ph: 62-21 572 0761, Fax: 62-21 572 0762 Website: www.dunamis.co.id Email: info@dunamis.co.id For more information on Dunamis Mitra Pertiwi Foundation, contact purnomo@dunamis.co.id
