www.ict-alliance.com United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Period: 29 June 2012 to 28 June 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Date: Saturday, June 29, 2013 To our stakeholders Ever since its inception ICT Alliance has supported the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact that deal with human rights, labour standards, environmental issues and anticorruption. Having strictly stuck to the code, ICT Alliance successfully became an active participant of United Nation’s Global Compact last year. However, the more important aspect is to further improve the company’s principles on these grounds. As a result, in the last one year ICT Alliance has ventured into a number of projects that have further established the company’s presence on such grounds. To start off with the company’s products have been aligned in a manner that supports the environment. ICT Alliance today brands itself as a ‘green company’ and is spreading its values throughout the IT industry of the country. The company also recently began an online portal called Amaderkotha.com.bd, which has a special concentration on human rights and women’s empowerment. With regards to labour standards and anti-corruption, the company maintains its flat management policy that creates a transparent system between the different levels of employees. It is also an avid participant of communities that spread awareness regarding labour issues. We would like to further confirm our continued support to these important values by upgrading our membership with UN Global Compact. We believe that we are a unique company and hope to create a positive difference for society through the policies. M. ManzururRahman, CEO UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012-2013 2 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Ever since its inception ICT Alliance has followed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and these rights form a core part of the company’s most basic principles. As a result of which the company maintains a flat management system and a transparent work environment with its employee. We have declared policies which guarantee the employees their rights. As we gain more experience in the IT sector, we hope to create more stringent policies that provide our employees with the benefits that they deserve. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. ICT Alliance has joined with the UNICEF and Save the Children in a bid to work with one of their projects entitled ‘Child Rights and business Principles. Through this project ICT Alliance has taken the lead in Bangladesh to spread awareness regarding children’s rights in the ICT and Corporate sectors. A sister concern of ICT Alliance, Amaderkotha.com.bd is a women-based portal which began 10 months ago. The portal, which is updated weekly, contains articles that support women empowerment, promote women working in the rural areas, promote human rights and also spread awareness regarding various throbbing issues of the country. The AmaderKotha team has worked on a number of sectors of the country. From publicising the successful women entrepreneurs of the country to narrating agonising tales of sufferers with no human rights, the portal has been a medium through which ICT Alliance has repeatedly raised it’s support for human rights. The company is also one of the most regular members of the ‘UNGC LAN’ in Bangladesh. It has been a part of and has organised a number of meetings which dealt with the scenario of human rights in the country and the position of the labour force within the IT companies of Bangladesh. The discussions in these meetings, in fact, also encourage members to talk about the companies where they were employed and how their business houses were indulging in practicing the human and labor rights. Basic principles such as Freedom of Association, Right to equality, right to nondiscrimination, right to safe working environment and abolition of child labour are discussed among stake holders and these in turn help spread awareness about human rights. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. ICT Alliance has consistently ensured that the company does not discriminate its employees based on religion, gender, race, colour, caste or any other grounds. The company also has a quota for applicants who are physically challenged. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012-2013 3 The company also has strict policies at work, which ensure equal opportunities to the employees. When it comes to implementing projects ICT Alliance judges its moves strictly on a performance-basis and not based on any other factor. While it’s important to improve the company’s production rates as time prolongs, ICT Alliance believes that every employee has a right to family or personal time off. As a result, the company has policies that ensure that every employee enjoys a certain time away from work during the year. It also has special holidays for festivals and special personal occasions. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities).Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. ICT Alliance strictly follows the ILO’s declaration on ‘Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.’ It provides its workers with the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. It has eliminated all forms of forced or compulsory labour. There is also no room for discrimination in respect of employment and occupation in the company. We are against child labour; the same system is followed even with the case of the support staff. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. The garments sector of the country is arguably the most important one in the country. With the exports from this industry largely running the economy of the country, one really needs to be aware of the workers who have made such a feat possible. In a bid to spread awareness regarding the lives of garments workers and the garments business on the whole, ICT Alliance recently started an online portal called the ‘Apparel Cloud’ which provides information on the various issues that the labourers of the garments industry faces. Members of ICT Alliance also regularly attend workshops which provide awareness regarding the rights of the labourers and their desires. Every quarter, the company strives on improving its relationship with its workers and also spread awareness regarding the proper care of labourers within the IT industry. Within the work force, all of ICT Alliance employees are provided contracts of employment which clearly state their terms and conditions including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements. The conditions of employment, basic terms, additional benefits, rules and disciplinary procedures are provided before-hand in order to avoid any sort of confusion in the future. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012-2013 4 The safety of our employees is of the utmost importance for ICT Alliance and the company’s safety measurements are of high standards. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The company is in the process of expanding the activities of ‘Apparel Cloud’ the online portal on garment workers of the country and by doing so is further spreading awareness in the ICT sector. We are planning to use social network in order to spread the articles throughout the garments industry. Online statistical tools will give us the target reach as measurement. With regards to the safety issues, ICT Alliance has been consistently having a number of counseling sessions and safety drills with its employees. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ‘Grow Green’ has been ICT Alliance’s go-to mantra ever since the company’s inception. With an aim to put lesser stress on the non-renewable resources, the company has built an environment-friendly work atmosphere. The company’s products have also been aligned to support the environment. In the coming years ICT Alliance aims to introduce a number of green concepts through MyApps. They include Online Shopping, Green tourism (Travel Portal) and Green Money. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. ICT Alliance has taken a number of steps in the last year keeping in mind the betterment of the environment. In fact the company has re-done its entire branding to supporting ‘green’ and has strategically aligned its products to help create a green society. Through the usage of ‘green’ applications the company has come up with a number of ideas, some of which have already been implemented, to help increase efficiency and support the environment at the same time. The ‘Green school project’ for instance is ICT Alliance’s venture with a school. The entire management system of the school is automated through the MyApps software, thus saving on a tonne of paperwork. It also improves the management’s communication and includes lesser paper work. ICT Alliance is currently involved with one school in the city. It aims to expand on these lines in the near future. The ‘Green force’, which began in October last year, takes its cue from the rising popularity of social networking websites in Bangladesh. Over the last few months, the company has managed form a force that includes approximately 6,750 members on a Facebook community page, most of who are in their 20s. ICT Alliance aims to use this force as a platform for green activism. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012-2013 5 The company’s ‘Green School Project’ is the basis for creating a ‘paper-less’ organisation. It also helps in spending lesser energy. On similar grounds the ‘Green Force’, through its numerous activities is spreading awareness regarding the environment to the youth across the country, which is bound to have a positive effect on the environment. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment).Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Keeping in mind the state of affairs of the country and going by our policy of zero tolerance for corruption ICT Alliance has created a ‘cloud-based system’ at work. The company also has have set policies which ensure that no unfair practices take place in the company. We also support the “UN Convention Against Corruption” and we don’t deal with customer that perform or request us to help them doing corrupt activities (e.g. deceiving Government to avoid tax etc.). Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. My Apps, software created by the development team of ICT Alliance has helped create a transparent atmosphere in the organisation and has also had a great influence on checking corruption. The software, in simple terms, helps upload details into ‘clouds’ which is readily accessible and in turn creates an atmosphere where the steak holders can almost have a ‘live-feed’ of every minute detail of its company. Over time it has helped in improving performance levels of the organisation. The software has recently made its debut in the most sought after sector of the country and that is the garments industry. The industry which bases its performance on a multiple levels would find the application of MyApps more than just useful. As a result of which, ICT Alliance has already entered into contracts with a number of garment industries, to setup the software in them and in turn help these factories gain transparency. Apart from the garments industry, the software has also made its mark in the banking sector of the country. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. The Cloud based system has led to a transparent atmosphere at work which further deters the possibility of corrupt activities taking place. ICT Alliance also has a team that ensures that our anti corrupt-policies are adhered to. We haven’t faced any cases or charges with regard to corruption, ever since the company’s inception. As a result of the policies, ICT Alliance has built a good reputation in the market over the last four years. This has also had a positive effect on our employees moral and projects’ outcome. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012-2013 6
