Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 About Lonza Lonza is one of the world's leading suppliers to the pharmaceutical, healthcare and life science industries. Products and services span its customers’ needs from research to final product manufacture. It is the global leader in the production and support of chemical and biological active pharmaceutical ingredients. Biopharmaceuticals are one of the key growth drivers of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Lonza has strong capabilities in large and small molecules, peptides, amino acids and niche bioproducts which play an important role in the development of novel medicines and healthcare products. Lonza is also the world leader in microbial control providing innovative, chemistry-based and related solutions to destroy or to selectively inhibit the growth of harmful microorganisms. Its activities encompass the areas of water treatment, personal care, health and hygiene, industrial preservation, materials protection, and wood treatment. In addition, Lonza is a leader in cell-based research, endotoxin detection and cell therapy manufacturing. Furthermore, the company is a leading provider of value chemical and biotech ingredients to the nutrition and agro markets. Lonza is headquartered in Basel, Switzerland and is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange and secondary listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”). Statement of continued support from Richard Ridinger “Our commitment to corporate social responsibility was underlined by our joining the UN Global Compact. Its principles will continue to be part of Lonza’s day-to-day life, involving all sites. We will also continue to make contributions to specific projects, for example our sponsorship of the Fertile Soils for Peri-Urban Agriculture in Hyderabad, India, and the Qingshan Lonza Primary School in China. Both are good examples of how measured contributions can make a significant difference.” Richard Ridinger, CEO 1 Principle Actions / Policies Reference Human Rights Principle 1: Business In our global policy “Code Of Conduct”, we have defined http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalshould support and that all employees are expected to know the law as it citizenship/standards/code-ofrespect the protection of applies to their sphere of responsibility; management is conduct.aspx internationally proclaimed expected to provide appropriate training and guidance, human rights; and … especially to respect human rights and employment rights. Principle 2: … make sure It is in manager’s responsibility to monitor the compliance; http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalthat they are not complicit all departments are regularly supervised by our Audit citizenship/standards/code-ofin human rights abuses. Services department. conduct.aspx 2 Labour Principle 3: Business The Code of Conduct provides the basis for creating and http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalshould uphold the freedom maintaining the relationship of mutual trust which is citizenship/standards/code-ofof association and the essential to business success. It expresses explicitly that conduct.aspx effective recognition of the we consider fairness in our dealings with employees to be right to collective of paramount importance. It is our commitment to the bargaining; … corporate social and ethical responsibility, the respect for human rights and employment rights. Local management and human resources work closely together with employee representatives, work councils and unions in all countries and regions according to the specific laws and agreements. All existing contracts with unions are renewed on a regular basis in order to meet employee labor interests. Principle 4: …the Our Code of Conduct is applied to all actions and http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalelimination of all forms of activities of Lonza in the pursuit of a high level of social citizenship/standards/code-offorced and compulsory responsibility and as such also crucial element against conduct.aspx labour; … forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: …effective In our Code of Conduct, all managers are committed to http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalabolition of child labour; act in compliance with the law. In addition, our supplier citizenship/standards/code-ofand … policy is banning explicitly all forms of child labor at our conduct.aspx suppliers. 3 Principle 6: … the Our Code of Conduct is explicitly banning any form of http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalelimination of discrimination; all managers are obliged to act citizenship/standards/code-ofdiscrimination in respect of accordingly. Lonza is not tolerating any discrimination, conduct.aspx employment and harassment or bullying on the basis of ethnicity, national occupation. origin, color, religion, creed, age, sex, disability or any similar characteristic. 4 Environment Principle 7: Business We take on our responsibility in the area of environmental Corporate Citizenship website: should support a protection, health and safety, and towards our http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalprecautionary approach to employees, human society and the natural environment. citizenship.aspx environmental challenges; Lonza Group sets goals and targets for safety, health and Standards: … environmental protection. The safety and health of our http://www.lonza.com/aboutemployees, the well-being of our stakeholders and the lonza/globalminimization of our impact on the natural environment are citizenship/standards.aspx a Group priority. The Group is committed to operations Sustainability: and practices, which prevent harm to people and damage http://www.lonza.com/aboutto environment or property. In 2012 we introduced Vision lonza/global‘Zero’: zero injuries, zero process incidents, zero citizenship/sustainability.aspx distribution incidents and zero environmental incidents. Management: Every person in every office, manufacturing site and http://www.lonza.com/aboutresearch center has an everyday responsibility to lonza/globalthemselves, their co-workers, their company and their citizenship/management.aspx community to do everything in their power to achieve EHS policy: http://www.lonza.com/aboutVision ‘Zero’. We listen and respond to our stakeholders. lonza/globalcitizenship/management/policies.aspx All our manufacturing processes are systematically EHS section of Annual Report: assessed for their risks. Lonza applies the same risk http://www.lonza.com/aboutassessment matrix worldwide, which incorporates lonza/investor-relations/financialecological, economic and social aspects. reports.aspx 5 Principle 8: …undertake Lonza facilities are member of the Responsible Care Sustainability homepage: initiatives to promote program in Switzerland and of SOCMA’s ChemStewards http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalgreater environment program in the US. At all facilities worldwide, Lonza citizenship/sustainability.aspx responsibility; and … promotes the cycle of continual improvement for environmental, health and safety issues. All our sites are CoPE initiative: internally audited comprehensively and systematically for http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalmanagement system and performance of implementation citizenship/management/climateof our environmental, health and safety principles and change.aspx guidelines and the compliance with standards and regulations. CoPE (energy savings), horseshoe crab conservation (endotoxin detection), MODA green alternatives (paperless, efficient QC micro processes) are further examples for such initiatives. In 2012, contributions were made by the upgrading of the HVAC infrastructure at Rockland, ME (USA) resulting in a 25 % reduction in local energy consumption compared with 2011. A 40 % reduction in electricity consumption was realized at the Bioscience plant in Verviers (Belgium) by replacing air compressors and modifying the technical design of the air compressor station. 6 Principle 9: …encourage Microreactor technology developed by Lonza enables us Microreactor technology: the development and to fulfill part of our Green Chemistry mission. As classical http://www.lonza.com/customdiffusion of manufacturing in the pharmaceutical industry currently manufacturing/chemicalenvironmentally friendly produces more than 25 kg of waste for every kilogram of manufacturing/advanced-chemicaltechnologies. product, dramatic changes were required in process synthesis-acs/continuous-flowsystems, technologies/microreactors-and-greenchemistry.aspx Ten years ago Lonza began developing a more sustainable manufacturing platform using advanced Solar Power: http://www.lonza.com/aboutcontinuous flow technologies. At the heart of the lonza/globaltechnology are microreactors, special processing citizenship/management/climateinstruments designed to create “Factories of the Future.” change.aspx The results of such a transformation are more sustainable, greener, and economical processes for producing a wide range of pharmaceuticals. Our solar power engagement in Germany and Singapore helps develop and promote a fossil-free energy future. 7 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business Lonza has implemented a Code of Conduct containing http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalshould work against amongst others rules on Corporate Social Responsibility, citizenship/standards/code-ofcorruption in all its forms, bribery, conflict of interest, antitrust, insider trading etc. conduct.aspx including extortion and bribery. Suppliers are obliged to comply with the Lonza Supplier Code of Conduct which deals amongst others with anticorruption, anti-bribery. Lonza offers a Whistleblower Hotline which is operated by an external company All new Lonza employees have to mandatorily complete an online training appropriate to their role within the Lonza such as anti-corruption and anti-trust Lonza plans to implement a periodical refresher training. Lonza has organized specific competition law trainings for employees likely to be exposed to antitrust issues such as sales managers 8
