THE CARLSBERG GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 CONTENTS APPENDICES 6 A word from our CEO 68 1. Data summary table 8 About this report 72 2. Independent assurance report 16 Economic value generated 73 3. Global Reporting Initiative table 78 4. CSR reporting process and scope 18 Environment 80 5. Environment and health & safety definitions 34 Responsible drinking 81 6. Tax assurance principles 40 Marketing communication 84 7. List of reporting sites 45 Health & safety 48 Business ethics 52 Labour & human rights 58 Community engagement 64 Responsible sourcing Editors Carlsberg Group CSR & Public Affairs Design and production Kontrapunkt Proofreading Borella projects THIS IS THE CARLSBERG GROUP No. 4 4th largest global brewer 9.8 DKKbn operating profit 5.9 DKKbn free cash flow 41,708 In 2012 we employed 41,708 people 8% Carlsberg brand volume growth in premium markets 10 SELECTED HIGHLIGHTS 1WATER EFFICIENCY We sustained our strong water performance of 3.3 hl/hl, maintaining our position as the world’s most efficient brewer according to the most recent available public data. 3 2 PARTNERSHIP WITH UNIDO RENEWABLE ENERGY IN RUSSIA We partnered with the United Nations Industrial 13 of our breweries now capture biogas Development Organization (UNIDO) to invest RUB from wastewater treatment operations. 1bn (approx. EUR 25m) in environmental projects in Russia over the next five years. 4 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING PROGRAMME We launched the sustainable packaging programme and further implemented the packaging life cycle analysis tool. 5 ENERGY EFFICIENCY We reduced our energy consumption to 29.1 kWh/hl. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 5 6 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING AT EURO 2012 6.6 million consumers visiting the Carlsberg fan parks were exposed to “drink responsibly” messaging during EURO 2012. 7 8 FEWER ACCIDENTS COMMITMENTS We reduced the lost-time accident rate in production by 16% and our days lost TO REDUCE HARMFUL USE rate in production by 14%. OF ALCOHOL We partnered with 12 other beer, wine and spirits producers to launch a collective commitment to 10 targeted actions in five areas over the next five years to reduce harmful use of alcohol. 9 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 10 We invested in more than 1,500 local community engagement initiatives, and more than 4,000 employees took part in community engagement activities. TRAINING IN BUSINESS ETHICS We held 196 business ethics training sessions. 6 A word from our CEO A WORD FROM OUR CEO AS WE BRING TO LIFE OUR DEDICATION TO DELIVER PROFITABLE GROWTH AND GREAT MOMENTS, GREAT BRANDS AND GREAT PEOPLE, WE DO SO WITH A KEEN AWARENESS OF OUR RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR CONSUMERS, CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES, THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE REST OF SOCIETY. We know that working strategically with strengthen and expand existing efforts Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen corporate social responsibility (CSR) to reduce harmful use of alcohol. President & CEO, Carlsberg Group makes sense to our stakeholders and our business, both now and in the long run. Integrating CSR throughout the value chain In 2012, we took a number of steps to Our progress towards our 2013 targets strengthen our efforts within CSR and continued in 2012, and I am proud that further integrate the area into our global we remain the most efficient global brewer business strategy. As a consequence, we in terms of water and energy consumption have updated our Governance Model, and CO2 emissions, based on a comparison putting CSR even higher on the strategic of the most recent publicly available data. agenda of the Executive Committee. Furthermore, we incorporated “reputation”­ I am equally pleased to report that our efas a strategic lever of the Group’s new forts to improve safety at our workplaces business strategy. I am proud of this are paying off, with positive trends in both testament to our dedication to integrating the number and severity of accidents. CSR throughout our business. Future focus areas Partnering to increase impact Going forward, we will intensify the focus We know that we can often achieve on responsible drinking and sustainable more in cooperation with others, so, in packaging, as well as reinforcing our posiaddition to our continued commitment tion as the world’s most efficient brewer to the UN Global Compact, we have in respect of water, energy and CO2. We entered into two new key partnerships believe that these areas hold the biggest with global impact. potential in terms of creating the most benefits for both Carlsberg and society. We have partnered with the United ­Nations Industrial Development As in previous years, I want to encour­Organization (UNIDO) in the investment age our stakeholders to give us input and of EUR 25m in environmental projects in ideas for how we can do better. This can Russia related to water, climate change help us to achieve our vision of not only and agriculture. And we have teamed growing, but growing responsibly. up with 12 other global producers­of beer, wine and spirits to commit to joint a ­ ctions over a five-year period to Jørgen Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 7 8 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT WITH THIS 2012 REPORT, FOR THE FOURTH TIME THE CARLSBERG GROUP ACCOUNTS FOR PROGRESS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR). From the full spectrum of general CSR for us as it is key to our philosophy that topics available, we choose to work with our products should be enjoyed in modand report on topics that are particularly­ eration by adults. In this case, our aim relevant to our industry, assessed in terms and methods are those of advocating of our main impacts and the importance­ responsible enjoyment in an efficient and of those topics to our internal and trustworthy manner while at the same external­stakeholders. This narrows the time engaging with our own industry to field to eight areas that we believe it is agree on responsible ­communication to important for us to work with. the market. Risk management and business Underpinning our approach is the idea development that companies that work strategically on Working strategically with CSR can have integrating CSR into their business will be many benefits for the business, such as enmore successful than their counterparts. hanced risk management, a stronger reputation, reduced costs and innovation from No business can pretend to have all the examining new products through a CSR lens. answers, but this report is an attempt to clarify where we stand and what we are Each of our eight work areas benefits our doing to ensure the continued success of business in one or more of these ways. our business. For example, the business ethics area (page 48) functions largely as a riskAssurance mitigating initiative due to the nature of Selected information in this CSR Report ­ the topics, which include anti-corruption, is assured by KPMG. The assured inforfraud and adherence to competition law. mation is indicated by the text “Within All our CSR Policies can be found at KPMG’s assurance scope” on the relevant www.carlsberggroup.com/csr. pages. KPMG’s conclusions can be found in its independent assurance report in On the other hand, sustainable packag­Appendix 2 on page 72. ing (page 30) and the environmental area in general (page 18) are more concerned Comments or questions? with developing the business by creating Send an e-mail to: CSR@Carlsberg.com business-driven results. This mitigates risk as well as benefiting the environment and developing the business by bringing about new opportunities in the marketplace. In terms of the responsible drinking area (page 34), this is a highly important topic Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 9 INTERGRATING CSR THROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN THE CARLSBERG GROUP BEGAN WORKING STRATEGICALLY WITH CSR IN 2008. GROWING FROM OUR FOUNDING FATHERS’ DEDICATED COMMITMENT TO THE ARTS AND SCIENCES, THE NEED HAD DEVELOPED FOR A SYSTEMATIC AND STRUCTURED APPROACH TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS. The aim was to identify an approach that mindset related to packaging by includOur value chain allowed us to drive and document progress ing environmental considerations in our in responsible business conduct while decision-making processes. integration continuing to pursue our ambitious growth strategies. The answer was an ambition to Our value chain integration approach has approach has the integrate CSR throughout the value chain. the benefit of making CSR not only a reputational buffer, but a connection between benefit of making Integration is not, however, accomplished CSR and business strategies, enabling CSR overnight. It is a journey that involves as business development creating value for CSR not only a finding new solutions and ways of working both our business and society. In this way, that take into account the rapidly changing we believe the Carlsberg Group can create rep­utational buffer, environment in which we do business. solutions that help us to achieve our vision of “growing responsibly”. but a connection We are continuing to integrate CSR into all aspects of our operations through the between CSR and implementation of CSR policies and codes of conduct, guidelines and related projects. business strategies. Examples include working with our mar­ keting managers to create responsible marketing campaigns and with legal counsels to prevent bribery and corruption. A further example is an initiative such as the sustainable packaging programme, where we are changing our proce­dures and CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE VALUE CHAIN R&D Procurement Brewing and Logistics Marketing and Consumers and bottling communication customers Learn more about the relevance of CSR in the value chain at: www.carlsberggroup.com/csr/ValueChain CASE STORY FOCUS ON BARLEY The Carlsberg Group’s business is comb) Helping to build farmer capacity pletely dependent on the availability of In Poland, Russia and China, Carlsberg quality barley. Malting barley is a niche works to develop a barley-sourcing base cereal accounting for less than 2% of world through so-called agro-projects. These grain production, and further water scarcity projects typically lead to improved yields and flooding may affect future availability and higher-quality crops – benefiting both and quality. For these reasons, significant farmers and Carlsberg. Through barley resources are invested in securing supply: supply contracts, the Carlsberg Group provides farmers with selected certified seeds a) New types of barley of modern varieties and consultations with The Carlsberg Research Centre has a our agronomists on optimal growing prostrong pipeline for barley, including special grammes, as well as further support based barley varieties developed in partnership on grain and soil analysis and seminars on with others. These provide improved taste, modern farming methods. the beer stays fresh for longer and there is enhanced stability, especially at high In return, farmers sell a share of the temperatures. This translates into less harvest to Carlsberg and put the company refrigeration during storage and transporfirst in line for purchase of surplus yield. tation of beer. In recent years, special attention has been paid to selecting and breeding competitive heatand drought-tolerant barley varieties, which generate high yields and quality with less water in the growth season. We expect this to result in more climate-tolerant plants. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 11 CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE CARLSBERG GROUP’S SUPERVISORY BOARD IS ULTIMATELY RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL ASPECTS OF THE BUSINESS, INCLUDING CSR. IN 2012, THE MANDATE TO SET STRATEGY MOVED TO CARLSBERG’S EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. Our first CSR governance structure was defined in 2008. At that time, the main priorities were to establish local ownerSupervisory ship of CSR policies and specialist areas, Board and to have a dedicated cross-functional The Supervisory decision-making forum for CSR matters. Board has overall responsibility for CSR. In order to achieve these priorities, we established a group of local CSR champions and a CSR steering committee with cross-functional representation. Local ownership and cross-functionality are still key, and both are well established in the organisation. What we have found is Executive Committee that the increasing strategic importance ExCom provides strategic guidance of CSR to the Carlsberg Group, with CSR and approval of policies and targets. serving as a strategic lever for future growth, makes CSR decisions an Executive Committee (ExCom) responsibility. As a consequence, in 2012 we made two changes to our governance structure: Group CSR Group Group CSR • A formal shift of responsibility for & Public Affairs Regions policy owners providing strategic guidance, policy and KPI approval to ExCom, with specific Group CSR develops and Group Regions approve The functional CSR policy drives forward the CSR and drive regional CSR owners drive strategy and responsibility assigned to the SVP strategy and provides performance to support policy implementation, and Communications & CSR. expertise to support global targets. set targets. • More focus on driving regional targets, CSR initiatives. cascading KPIs and including CSR in regional business processes. Local CSR Local CSR champions policy owners Local CSR champions are The local CSR policy responsible for the local owners drive policy implementation of the implementation and CSR strategy. performance improvements. 12 Materiality and stakeholder engagement MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ­ENGAGEMENT THE SUBJECT AREAS WE WORK ON ARE DETERMINED BY OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND OUR EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS’ OPINIONS. As an international brewing group, the We participate in a number of partnerstrategy to reduce harmful use of alcoCarlsberg Group has many stakeholders ships (the largest of which are described hol. Progress and commitments can be in many different parts of the world. below) that serve to help Carlsberg’s busiseen at http://event.global-actions.org. ness grow responsibly. Read more on page 36. The feedback received in our materiality analysis conducted in 2011 has provided In addition to these, we engage with cusIndustry partnership for responsible us with more knowledge about these tomers, employees and suppliers to cremarketing communication stakeholders’ views and opinions. This, in ate awareness of CSR issues among the Alongside other major producers of beer, turn, has helped us to identify the activ­ public and to reduce the Group’s impact wine and spirits, we participate in a partities that add the most value for us and on the environment and the communities nership to continue developing and enforcsociety and can be used to help guide our in which we operate. ing common rigorous standards for selfdecisions as a Group. regulation of marketing communications BIER of alcoholic beverages in all media and, in We regard as material all CSR-related In order to share our experience regardparticular, in social media channels. The topics that have the potential to impact ing our environmental strategy and to initiative will involve cooperation between the value and/or perception of our comlearn from and work with others, we producers, the EU, national authorities pany, whether positively or negatively. are members of the Beverage Industry and the World Federation of Advertisers. Environmental Roundtable (BIER). BIER This is the first time that common standThe results consists of 12 leading beverage companies ards supported by major beer, wine and Since 2011, when the materiality matrix­ and supporting partners working together spirits producers throughout the EU will was developed, many things have changed on a variety of environmental stewardship be established. Read more on page 42. in terms of our focus and prior­ities. These initiatives. BIER also informs public policy changes include an increased focus on susin the areas of water conservation and Danish Confederation of T ­ rade Unions tainable packaging (page 30) and responsiresource protection, energy efficiency and The Carlsberg Group has partnered with ble drinking (page 34). These two areas, climate change mitigation. the Danish Confederation of Trade Unions however, did not come out as the two most to improve sales promoters’ conditions in important areas for our external audiences. Partnering with UNIDO on environmental Cambodia. Read more on page 56. They were assigned higher importance by projects in Russia our internal stakeholders. This might be The Carlsberg Group and its subsidiary explained, in part, by a lack of informaBaltika Breweries, Russia’s largest beer tion on, for example, the environmental company, have entered into a partnerimpact of packaging and how industry-led ship with the United Nations Industrial initiatives on responsible drinking can be Development Organization (UNIDO) to in­efficient ways to combat misuse. vest RUB 1bn (approx. EUR 25m) over the next five years in environmental projects Going forward, we will continue to include in Russia related to water, climate change our stakeholders in our decision-making and agriculture. Read more on page 22. and develop partnerships to create solutions for our CSR-related challenges and CEO commitment to reduce harmful opportunities. use of alcohol The CEOs of 13 beer, wine and spirits Partnering with stakeholders producers, including Carlsberg, anThrough our partnerships, we find new nounced a collective commitment to 10 ways to improve our CSR performance: targeted actions in five areas over the by sharing best practices and by learning next five years in support of the World from others, as well as by joining forces Health Organization’s (WHO) global to create a greater impact. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 13 WHAT WE DID We identified our main stakeholder From an overall list of 40 topics, total, more than 5,000 stakeholders’ groups using the GRI G3 guidelines. compiled through analyses of interopinions from all our regions are repreThis gave us a prior­itised list of stakenal documents, surveys, policies and sented in the matrix. holders. Based on this list, we cona general media search, we reduced cluded that eight internal and external the list to 17 topics, which were then stakeholder groups were most relevant analysed in full. We used industry-level to our analysis: employees, governimage surveys, as well as a specific ment represent­atives, consumers, supstakeholder materiality survey where pliers & licensees, investors, customers, each topic was ranked by selected NGOs and media. stakeholders on a scale of 1 to 4. In MATERIALITY MATRIX The diagram below shows the results of our 2011 m ­ ateriality analysis. A Health & safety B Labour standards and human rights for employees High C Labour standards and human rights at suppliers D Food safety / quality of products E Environmental per­formance B A of suppliers F Health aspects G Responsible drinking C H H Diversity I Water J Bribery and corruption K Responsible marketing communication E L Packaging M Waste generation and Importance to external stakeholders waste management N Emissions and climate F change O Community impact and D contributions P Contributes to economic growth for society Q Biodiversity J G K P L I M O N Q On the horizontal axis you can see the importance assigned by internal stakeholders, while on the vertical axis you can see the importance assigned by external stakeholders. Please find an interactive version of the materiality matrix on our website: Low www.carlsberggroup.com/csr Low Importance to internal stakeholders High 14 Driving progress DRIVING PROGRESS WE DRIVE CSR INTEGRATION THROUGH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICIES, LOCAL SELF-ASSESSMENTS, TARGET SETTING AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING. Performance measurement • H  as the company established a donaWe will publish Since 2009, we have used a dedicated tions register? (Business Ethics Policy). CSR reporting system to help us collect • Is there a “Marketing Communication 2016 targets in data and measure performance. This tool Policy pre-approval” process before enables us at global, regional and local launching a sales and/or marketing connection with the level to easily extract data and visualise communication campaign? (Marketing our CSR progress. Furthermore, it enables Communication Policy). publi­cation of next us to ensure better data quality by standardising the definitions across markets Every year we review the self-assessyear’s CSR Report. and to measure the status of our policy ment questionnaires for relevance and implementation. ­revise them to help us best measure our progress on policy implementation Tracking policy implementation and identify where we should focus our Our CSR policies constitute an important ­efforts. Each global policy owner uses the foundation for our work with CSR. We results to identify which areas should be have seven policies, and every year we investigated further and where additional measure our progress within each policy efforts should be made. area by conducting a local self-assessment of topics relevant to the given area. Setting targets Each policy area has a set of three-year Examples of the questions we use to targets broken down into annual improvemeasure our progress on policy implement targets. Our first three-year-target mentation are: period ends in 2013, when we will publish • Are all production sites ISO 14001-­­ 2016 targets in connection with the publicertified? (Environmental Policy). cation of next year’s CSR Report. • Do you use the LCA calculator to assess the environmental impact of new packIn the following pages, we present our aging types? (Environmental Policy). progress on targets in 2012 as we work • Has the company established local to integrate CSR into the value chain. limits for gifts received? (Business ­Ethics Policy). Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 15 16 Economic value generated ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED THE CARLSBERG GROUP CONTRIBUTES TO THE ECONOMIES OF THE MORE THAN 40 COUNTRIES WHERE WE HAVE OPERATIONS, AS WELL AS TO AN ADDITIONAL 100+ MARKETS WHERE WE ARE PRESENT THROUGH LICENSING AND EXPORT AGREEMENTS. Furthermore, the Group employs more 2 for each category, ­starting with the than 41,000 employees directly within taxes borne including excise duties. production, logistics, sales & marketing Jørn P. Jensen and administration. For brewers and suppliers of beverages, Deputy CEO & CFO, Carlsberg Group tax does not just consist of corporate­ In 2012, the direct generated economic income tax. A large proportion of value in the countries where we oper­Carlsberg’s tax contribution to society ate totalled DKK 96.5bn. Our contribuarises from indirect taxes. tion consists of many different aspects, including excise duties, employee wages, Wider impact pensions and benefits, and goods purThe information given in this section is chased from suppliers. The contribution restricted to economic value, and does in the five main areas can be summanot contain information about the wider rised as in chart number 1. socio-economic impact of the Carlsberg Group. Further information can be found The Carlsberg Group’s taxes borne in in the Brewers of Europe study entitled 2012 were DKK 30.3bn*, or one third of The Contribution made by Beer to the the economic value generated. The vast European Economy1. This study points majority of our taxes borne is indirect tax out that Carlsberg and other brewers incurred through excise duties (approx. generate significant indirect employment 84%). Around 16% is incurred through through purchases in related industries direct taxes, such as energy tax, corporate such as agriculture, packaging and income tax and social security contribulogistics, as well as induced employment tions for employees. in the hospitality and retail sectors. Using a European average, it is estimated that Total tax contribution every direct brewery job generates 16-17 Besides the taxes borne, Carlsberg also additional indirect and induced jobs. collects taxes on behalf of governments, for example the payroll taxes from CarlsIn the future, Carlsberg will look at berg’s business activities. whether quantifying our wider impact, ­often referred to as socio-economic The total tax contribution made by ­impact, should be further explored. Carlsberg to society therefore consists of both taxes borne and taxes collected. In 2012, the total tax contribution amounted to DKK 40.2bn, as shown in chart number * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 1 Brewers of Europe: The Contribution made by Beer to the European Economy, September 2011. Page 33. Jobs created directly in beer production and ­delivery account for 6% of the total employment attributed to beer. 2 million jobs in the European Union can be attributed to the production and sale of beer. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 17 Jørn P. Jensen Deputy CEO & CFO, Carlsberg Group Wherever we operate, we contribute to society by creating jobs and government revenues. We are committed to fulfilling our tax obligations in all jurisdictions where we operate. 1. ECONOMIC Operating costs 50% (48.3bn) VALUE Employee wages 9% (9.0bn) GENERATED P  roviders of capital IN 2012 3% (2.7bn) Taxes borne incl. (DKK 96.5bn) excise duties 31% (30.3bn)*  conomic value retained E 7% (6.2bn) 2. TOTAL TAX 45 8.4bn 40.2bn 40 CONTRIBUTION 35 30,1bn 1.7bn 8.4bn IN 2012 30 Direct taxes 2.9bn 16% 2.3bn* 25 1.2bn ALL TAXES SHOWN 20 ARE PAID (DKK) 15 Indirect taxes 84% 25.4bn* 10 5 0 Ta et xe inc Pe c. T co ota sb om rso VA nt l t ex orn e t na T rib ax ut cis e e d inc ax l ion ut l. es 3 ies 2 Excise duties Other taxes Corporate income tax4 Employee taxes VAT * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 2 The difference of 0,2bn between Taxes borne in the two graphs can be explained by periodic differences in Taxes expensed and Taxes paid. 3 Excluding personal income taxes paid directly by the employees. 4 Corporate income taxes including withholding taxes. 18 Environment ENVIRONMENT BREWING REQUIRES A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT. MOST OF OUR RAW MATERIALS AND INGREDIENTS ARE SOURCED DIRECTLY FROM NATURE, AND THE CARLSBERG GROUP TAKES EVERY OPPORTUNITY TO LIMIT THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITIES. We search for these opportunities at every point in our value chain, including research and development relating to our Peter Ernsting raw materials, optimisation of production SVP Group Supply Chain processes in terms of energy and water We are dependent on consumption, and distribution and sales, where we focus on packaging, storage natural resources, and and transportation. will continue to work Approach Our Environmental Policy sets out the smarter and reduce our standards which apply to our operations. In accordance with these standards, all environmental impact majority-owned production sites are required to obtain environmental ISO in the years to come. 14001:2004 certification. New sites must obtain certification within three years of the acquisition. As of 2012, 60 out of 76 sites were certified. We measure the environmental perform­ ance of our production sites and set three-year environmental targets. In 2012, we developed a sustainable packaging­ strategy and, as part of this work, ­developed a baseline regarding weight and CO2 impact, to enable us to identify areas for improvement. In 2013, we will further develop three-year targets for sustainable packaging and for reducing consumption of energy and water, as well as CO2 emissions, at our production sites. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 19 ENVIRONMENTAL FOCUS AREAS ENERGY & EMISSIONS WATER PACKAGING We are constantly finding ways to We recognise that water is one of We are rethinking the way we apimprove the efficiency of our energy the world’s most important resources proach our packaging, reducing the use within our breweries and have set and key to the sustainability of our amount of packaging we use and ambitious targets to drive this across business and society in general. We promoting the reuse and recycling of our Group. We also look at our logisreduce our consumption by setting our packaging materials. tics operations and alternative energy targets and continuously work to betsources to reduce our emissions. ter understand the water-related risks where we operate. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 20 Environment ENERGY Relative energy consumption kWh/hl & EMISSIONS 35 Thermal energy  lectricity E 30 Target OUR 2012 PERFORMANCE 25 CONFIRMS THAT WE ARE 20 ON TRACK TO ACHIEVE 15 OUR 2013 TARGETS WHEN 10 IT COMES TO ENERGY 5 CONSUMPTION AT OUR 0 BREWERIES. 20 10 11 20 12 20 20 ta 13 rg et Production efficiency the cost and the environmental impact. In Our 2013 target The consolidated figures show that we 2012, we ran this project in Malawi1 and maintained our overall performance. The Nepal. As a result, our brewery in Nepal is 29 kWh/hl; we consumption of relative primary energy reduced its total energy consumption for at our production sites per hectolitre of the year by 18.5% and our breweries in are confident that product produced fell by 0.1 kWh/hl to 21.0 Malawi achieved a 5.0% reduction. kWh/hl. Our relative electricity consumpwe will be able to tion remained unchanged at 8.1 kWh/hl. In the Western European region, we This means that our total energy conachieved reductions through such meet this target. sumption decreased to 29.1 kWh/hl. As our measures as optimising energy produc2013 target is 29 kWh/hl, we are confident tion, reusing waste heat in other areas of that we will be able to meet this target. the brewery, improving the insulation of fermenter tanks and reducing steam presThe main contributors to our 2012 sure. These measures led to r­eductions performance were energy efficiency of 14% at our Shumensko Brewery in projects at our breweries in line with our Bulgaria, 10% at the Saku site in Estonia commitment to continuing our utilities and 9% in Mecklenburgische Brauerei programme in 2012 with an emphasis on Lübz in Germany. Asia and Eastern Europe. Sharing in order to optimise In Eastern Europe, the Energy Leader Our focus on sharing best practices project continued to bring about reducbetween breweries continued. During tions in total energy consumption at 12 2012, we concentrated most of our efforts of our 17 breweries. We are investigating on further implementing best practices the root causes of the lack of improvein China and initiating increased best ments in the five breweries where conpractice-sharing through local workshops sumption increased. in Germany, Belarus and Greece. One example of the Energy Leader With the establishment of the new Carlsproject’s activities is the way in which berg Supply Company, we can improve our Russian breweries are involving the the utilisation of our supply chain networkforce to generate ideas and share work by optimising the logistics network, best practices, using statistical models standardising and streamlining processes, to benchmark performance, improve and replicating best-in-class initiatives. forecasting abilities and monitor energy Through Group-wide programmes such consumption at breweries. as LeanTPM2 and Logistics Excellence, we intend to further reduce our energy, water Our Asian breweries are involved in a simand fuel consumption. ilar effort, called Production Excellence, to use fewer resources to produce the same amount of product, thereby reducing both Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 1 Malawi is the only country in Africa where Carlsberg owns breweries. In organisational terms, these are part of our Asian region. 2 Lean Total Production Maintenance. 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Continue lean utilities programme with the emphasis on Asia and Improvements in utilities achieved through local initiatives and investEastern Europe ments Production excellence implemented in Malawi, India and Nepal, and best practice workshops conducted in Germany, Belarus, China and Greece Purchase of renewable power documented with Guarantees of Origin certificates in Western Europe 2 Assess possibilities of using renewable energy (existing plants) Delayed due to reprioritisation of internal resources 3 Conduct further trials in the new pilot plant at our research facilities with Invested in two pilot biogas plants, which are now running at full cap­ the purpose of generating energy acity using brewery by-products from by-products 4 Focus on including environmental considerations in distribution-related Environmental considerations incorporated into guidelines for truck purchases purchases 5 Extend route planning tool to other European markets Postponed to ensure coordination with roll-out of other programmes 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 New utility and environmental strategy to be defined at brewery level Total energy consumption: 29 kWh/hl Improve utilities efficiency globally CO2 emissions: by entering into partnerships with 7.1 kg CO2/hl3 external companies Carry out pilot involving new utilities management software in 2-3 breweries 2 Initiate Group project to explore renewable energy opportunities 3 Continue pilot tests with renewable energy generation from by-products 4 Implement route planning tool in Western Europe as part of the rollout of the business standardisation project 5 Continue driver training programme in Western Europe and monitor Five-year plan to be established in Western Europe to ensure training implementation status for all drivers Roll out monitoring tool in three Monitoring tool to be rolled out in countries countries with direct distribution to stores 6 Develop and implement environmental guidelines for warehouses 3 Target revised in 2012 from 7.5 to 7.1 kg CO2/hl. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. CASE STORY PARTNERSHIP WITH UNIDO WILL IMPROVE ENVIRONMENT IN RUSSIA In 2012 we initiated a partnership with the By insourcing the knowledge of UNIDO Isaac Sheps United Nations Industrial Development and developing projects together we will SVP Eastern Europe Organization (UNIDO) to further reduce have an opportunity to contribute to the our environmental footprint and contribute growth of the local communities in which to the agro-ecosystems and water systems we operate and, in the process, improve This partnership is in Russia. community health and enhance local livelihoods. a historic example As part of this public-private partnership, which is the first of its kind in Russia, Over the next five years, Carlsberg will of a public-private ­Carlsberg and UNIDO intend to reduce commit around EUR 25m to environmennatural resource consumption, pollution tal projects as part of this partnership. partnership where we, and greenhouse gas emissions by developing joint projects in our breweries and the as market leaders, communities in which we operate. invest in supporting With its vast experience in technical projects, community-based initiatives and agand sustaining the riculture practices, UNIDO is an important partner for Carlsberg to actively extend its environment in which CSR initiatives to those areas where we have a responsibility but do not always we operate. have the opportunity to direct influence. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 24 Environment CO2 emissions We employ three strategies in ­relation to our emissions: r­educing consumpRelative CO2 emissions Thermal energy mix tion, changing energy mix and offsetkg CO2/hl ting emissions by purchasing renewable power certificates4. 10 Natural gas In 2012, our CO2 emissions per hectolitre 69.7% Coal of product produced were 7.3 kg/hl, which 8 12.3% is 16.8% less than in 2011 (8.8 kg/hl). District heating 6 7.9% The main contribution to the reduction Heavy fuel oil 4.7% originated from the purchase of renew4 Renewable energy able power certificates. These certificates 3.5% offset emissions caused by the use of 2 Light fuel oil CO2-intensive energy sources. The certifi1.2% Other cates correspond to 373,626 MWh, which 0 0.6% represents our electricity use in Western 10 6 11 6 12 20 Europe. 20 20 20 ta 13 rg et This year we have already achieved our 2013 target, and have therefore set a new target of 7.1 kg CO2/hl. Shifting a greater proportion of our energy sources away from coal and oil a common tool for the Group’s future the purchase of renewable power in favour of natural gas and renewable ­initiatives in this area. documented­by Guarantees of Origin sources will reduce our CO2 emissions. In certificates will enable us to meet our 2012, around 3.5% of our thermal energy We also introduced environmental CO2 emission targets in the future despite consumption came from renewable considerations into the purchasing of increasing volumes in emerging markets sources such as biogas captured from trucks, in line with or better than the with CO2-intensive energy sources. wastewater treatment and biomass. 13 of European emission standards. In Sweden, our breweries now capture biogas from we also ran tests with gas and hybrid wastewater treatment oper­ations, two ­engines with the aim of reducing our more than in 2011. impact further5. In 2012, we also invested in two pilot Future plans biogas plants at the Carlsberg Research In 2013, we will be defining the new Centre in Copenhagen, which are running Carlsberg utilities and environmental plant at full capacity on by-products from our strategy and reviewing our three-year tarproduction processes. The goal is to further gets for utilities. To further improve our efdevelop processes and understand output, ficiency in terms of utilities, we will pursue and the results will be used in our work to partnerships with external companies and optimise our energy mix in the future. pilot new utilities management software at two or three breweries. Distribution and warehouses Our logistics operations also play an We will also be rolling out a route planimportant role in our attempts to reduce ning tool and developing environmental our CO2 emissions. We are aiming to guidelines for warehouses in 2013. These achieve reduced fuel consumption across will be implemented in Western Europe. our distribution network, for example through driver training and monitoring of Replacing coal with other energy sources fuel-optimal driving behaviour. remains one of our key challenges to further reduce our CO2 emissions, and we In 2012, we carried out driver training in will continue to explore opportunities to six European markets. Furthermore, we introduce renewable energy. H­ owever, rolled out a driver behaviour monitoring combining our energy efficiency project tool in ­Denmark and the UK, and selected with offsetting CO2 emssions through Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 4 Documented by Guarantees of Origin certificates. 5 Read more at www.carlsberggroup.com/csr/ourstories. 6 2010 and 2011 CO 2 emissions restated due to changes in methodology. CASE STORY Gorkha Brewery, Nepal Dali Brewery, China Guangdong Brewery, China Lao Brewery, Laos ENERGY IMPROVEMENTS IN ASIA The Carlsberg Group is expanding in Guangdong Brewery, China, has inMichael Jakob Asia, both in terms of volume of sales creased the use of biomass and biogas VP Manufacturing and Technology, and in terms of the number of brewerfrom its wastewater treatment plant, and Group Supply Chain ies we own. Our breweries in this region in 2012, 95% of the site’s primary energy tend to have older equipment with higher supply came from renewable sources, up Reducing our resource consumption than our breweries from 70% in 2011. in Europe, and we are rolling out utilities environmental impact projects where possible. These are some Lao Brewery, Vientiane, Laos, is a new of the breweries that showed improved majority-owned brewery that uses biogas and introducing best performance in 2012: from the wastewater treatment plant, with the result that 4% of the primary practices to reduce Dali Brewery, China, reduced energy energy supply now comes from renewconsumption by 28.5% compared with able energy sources. energy consumption is 2011 through the use of new equipment. A new boiler reduced coal consumption, Gorkha Brewery, Nepal, reduced its total a priority wherever we as did the collection of biogas from the relative energy consumption by 18.5% brewery’s wastewater treatment plant, in 2012 by being part of our Production operate. which is burned in the new boiler. The Excellence Programme. As an example biogas collection means that 3% of therof its activities, one more boiler operating mal energy now originates from renewon rice husks was installed, and the use able energy sources. The brewery has of the old oil-fired boiler has been limited also worked to improve energy manageto emergency use only. 98% of the ment and heat recovery, and to optimise primary energy supply now comes from pasteurisation temperatures. renewable sources. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 26 Environment WATER Relative water consumption Water sources hl/hl WATER IS ESSENTIAL 4 Municipal water 51% TO OUR PRODUCT. NO 3.5 Own boreholes WATER MEANS NO BEER. 3 43% WE ARE CONSTANTLY 2.5 Surface water LOOKING FOR WAYS TO 2 6% REDUCE OUR WATER 1.5 CONSUMPTION AND TO 1 ENSURE A SUSTAINABLE 0 10 11 12 USE OF WATER. 20 20 2020 ta 3 1 rg et Approach to reductions of 12% at our Northampton In addition, we have set a target of The Carlsberg Group is striving to improve Brewery in the UK, 11% at the Kashi specifying a long-term strategic approach our general efficiency in using water to Brewery in China and 10% at the Baltika to water risk management and exploring make beverages and has defined a 2013 Khabarovsk Brewery in Russia. new technologies relating to water reuse target for our water consumption. Efforts by the end of the year. to improve our efficiency are ingrained in However, the water consumption at a the utilities projects at our breweries. number of other breweries has increased, Finally, in 2013 we aim to join a publicFurthermore, we are striving to ensure which means our consolidated efficiency private partnership to further explore that our wastewater discharges are clean rate is unchanged. opportunities within water management. and meet the required standards. Water management We also endeavour to work closely with Carlsberg is committed to addressing walocal communities to manage water risks, ter risks throughout the supply chain and especially in areas at risk of water scarin the communities where we operate. In city, in order to ensure adequate water 2011, we undertook a detailed assessment supplies in the long term. to better understand these risks. 2012 progress We had intended to initiate specific We sustained our water efficiency during community initiatives relating to water 2012 and, on average, use 3.3 hl of water risks at and around breweries that were to produce 1 hl of beer, which is the most identified as being at high risk in our efficient rate reported by a global brewer7. 2011 water risk assessment, but due to This result is created by setting sitereprioritisation of internal resources the specific targets for water consumption as objective was not met. part of our utilities programme, combined with focusing on management and buildAs part of the partnership agreement ing a water-saving culture at each of the between the United Nations Industrial production facilities. Development Organization (UNIDO), the Carlsberg Group and Baltika Breweries Given our performance in 2012, we are (see page 22), we will, among other things, well on track to meet our 2013 target of initiate projects relating to water consump3.2 hl/hl. tion and risks in Russia in the coming years. Factors contributing to the progress made in 2012 include equipment upgrades, Future plans Our 2013 target is 3.2 optimised cleaning procedures, increased In 2013, we plan to identify breweries­ use of recycled water for non-production particularly in need of water source hl/hl; we are confident activities, capturing rainwater and an inmanagement, based on an assessment creased focus on environmental manageaccording to the principles developed by that we will be able to ment. These types of measure have led the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER). meet this target. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. 7 Based on a comparison of the most recent publicly available data. 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Initiate local production and community water management activities Water efficiency sustained at high-risk sites Community water management activities delayed due to reprioritisation of resources Partnership established between UNIDO, the Carlsberg Group and Baltika Breweries relating to water, agriculture and climate change projects in Russia 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Continue water efficiency projects across the Group Water consumption: 3.2 hl/hl 2 New water risk assessment conducted according to Beverage Industry EnviLong-term strategic approach to water risk management to be in place ronmental Roundtable principles New technologies to reuse water Take part in public-private partnership inside and outside our breweries to relating to water management be explored 3 Further develop partnership in Russia with UNIDO Within KPMG’s assurance scope. CASE STORY USING LESS WATER AT GHORKA BREWERY IN NEPAL With a 35% reduction in water conGorkha Brewery’s water-saving initiatives sumption, the Carlsberg-owned Gorkha were part of the general focus on utilities Brewery in Nepal topped the list of high at the brewery in 2012. The brewery experformers in 2012. pects to reduce consumption further still in the future. This result was achieved through a range of measures designed to increase the use of recycled water in non-production areas at the brewery site and increase the cap­ acity for saving water from production for Banko Bankov use in non-production processes. These inProduction Director, clude the recycling of water from the coolGorkha Brewery ing plant’s cooling tower, the use of rinse water for precleaning and the reuse of the We look at all processes in order to reduce rinse water from the wastewater treatment plant for cleaning within the plant. our water consumption and are proud that Besides recycling of water, the company it shows in our 2012 performance, but we also focused on control and optimisation of the bottle washer and tunnel will work on reducing consumption even ­pasteuriser, which resulted in both water and energy savings. further in the coming year. Within KPMG’s assurance scope. CASE STORY ENGAGING CUSTOMERS Beata Rożek CSR Manager, AND CONSUMERS IN Tesco Poland We want to explore POLAND new CSR opportunities with our partners. 2012 was the third year in which Carlsberg The project has increased the collecPolska cooperated with major retailers tion of bottles and cans by educating Our cooperation with in Poland to set up a waste collection consumers, and has improved waste scheme, with consumers encouraged to segregation, recycling and the promoCarlsberg Polska is bring back their household packaging tion of returnable bottles. In total, the waste such as glass, PET and cans. project has resulted in 242 tonnes of a great example of waste packaging being collected. It has The 2012 campaign was rolled out in a also led to a strengthening of Carlsberg’s that. We believe that total of 16 Tesco hypermarkets and 30 r­elationship with both consumers and Biedronka discounter stores in 20 cities customers. For example, in 2010 and working together on across Poland during May and June 2012. 2011 Carlsberg Polska was awarded a The concept of the recycling scheme was ­diploma by Tesco, recognising Carlsberg’s­ CSR projects is the best simple: bring us your packaging waste, and support for Tesco’s CSR activities. we will give you plant seedlings in return. way to reach out to our The waste collection scheme with Tesco customers and engage was expanded to include more than just glass packaging, as was originally the case. them in creating the In 2012, it also included PET bottles and cans. During the event in the B ­ iedronka positive change we all stores, consumers were also asked to complete a consumer survey on waste-sorting work for. and environmental habits at home. 30 Environment Packaging mix PACKAGING  GB8 R Kegs 29.2% 7.4% PACKAGING PERFORMS MANY FUNCTIONS, Cans 24.8% RPET 8 2.2% SUCH AS MAINTAINING PET 8 Bulk THE QUALITY OF 26.3% 1.4% OUR PRODUCTS AND NRGB8 Other PROTECTING THEM 8.2% 0.5% DURING TRANSPORT. Our packaging mix consists of many difthe programme will further improve the ferent packaging types, such as returnable Group’s reputation with environmentally glass bottles, cans and PET bottles. Packconscious consumers. REDUCE aging also has a significant environmental impact. In fact, according to our own In 2012, we also established a baseline study9, 45% of the Group’s CO2 emissions for pri­mary packaging weight and CO2 can be attributed to packaging, taking emis­sions from packaging, as well as HI RET NK REUSE into account the full impact throughout estimated and shared potential reductions SUSTAINABLE the value chain. At the same time, it is an across the Carlsberg Group. PACKAGING area which we can influence in terms of the type and quantity of materials used Packaging innovation with suppliers and what happens to the bottles, cans The Carlsberg Group cannot rethink REC and other types of container after the packaging solutions alone. Whether the YCLE beverage has been consumed. We are purpose of innovation is sustainability or exploring a range of solutions to reduce brand optimisation, we need to cooperate this impact. and involve packaging suppliers. Reduce weight or Increase re-use of Encourage Re-think packagchange to lower environmental packaging materials, main focus on glass consumers to recycle packaging 2012 progress ing and waste, for example recycling To involve our strategic packaging suppliimpact packaging. bottles. Reduce weight or change andpackaging to increase the ofIn line with our 2012 commitment, we packaging ers more closely and at an earlier stage amount of recycled materials by with lower environmental impact. content in new have developed channelling the a new strategy for in our innovation processes, the first packaging. material into sustainable other products. packaging, which has been Carlsberg Global Packaging Innovation approved by the Executive Committee. Day was held in Copenhagen in DecemIncrease reuse of packaging materials, with the main focus on glass bottles. ber 2012. One of the outcomes of the day Based on our work with the strategy, we was a list of potential initiatives, many developed the sustainable packaging proof which have the potential to reduce our Encourage consumers to recycle gramme, which builds on four principles: environmental impact. Going forward, the packaging and increase the amount of recycled content in new packaging. reduce, reuse, recycle, rethink. suppliers will play a key role in developing solutions that benefit them, Carlsberg The sustainable packaging programme and society. Rethink packaging and waste, for is expected to produce a number of ­example recycling of packaging ­materials by channelling the ­material operational and commercial benefits. In New version of the life cycle into other products. addition to the environmental benefits, analysis tool the use of more sustainable packaging In 2012, we extended the use of our life is expected to generate cost savings and cycle analysis (LCA) tool10 for packagstrengthen the Group’s relationship with ing to all the Group’s companies and key customers, many of whom work conducted online training sessions for with sustainable packaging themselves. environmental and innovation employThe programme will also help us to meet ees. In this way, we delivered on our future legislative requirements relatcommitment to continue training on ing to packaging and waste, thereby and implementation of the LCA tool in also serving as risk mitigation. Finally, Eastern Europe and Asia. Furthermore, 8 RGB: Refillable glass bottle, PET: Polyethylene terephthalate (plastic), NRGB: Non-refillable glass bottle, RPET: Recycled polyethylene terephthalate. 9 Together with McKinsey & Co in 2009. 10 The LCA tool is certified according to ISO 14044. 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Continue training on and ­implementation of life Tool has been updated and online training sessions held for cycle analysis tool in ­environmental and innovation Eastern Europe and Asia employees 2 Develop a Group sustainable ­packaging strategy Sustainable packaging strategy ­developed and global baseline for primary packaging weight finalised 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Identify weight reduction targets for primary packaging Three-year targets to be developed 2 Conduct Cradle-to-Cradle® analysis to identify potential ­Cradle-to-Cradle® products 3 Create consumer engagement ­communication around recycling 4 Sustainable packaging ideas catalogue developed and distributed internally 32 Environment End-to-end CO2 emissions for the Carlsberg Group11 MtCO2 8 0.8 0.1 7.3 7 0.9 6 1.2 5 0.3 0.2 4 3.0 3 2 1 0.8 0 ric P Se Inb Br tb su an Sa To ult pa rima co pa nda o log und ew in o log und m cu er d les ta l ure ck ry ag ck ry istics bo g & istics sto & ad , g ag ttl m Ag ing ing ing Ou er m en Co ini e n str ral at ive Gas, oil, coal and district heating Fuel Electricity Other (net consumption, i.e. based on country-specific ( net consumption, i.e. based on country-specific power mix/utility; power plant’s emissions from power mix/utility; power plant’s emissions from generating the electricity are not included) generating the electricity are not included) the tool was enhanced to include the Jørn Tolstrup Rohde financial consequences of our environSVP Western Europe mental impact on society. The tool measures and benchmarks the The sustainable packaging programme environmental impact of various packaging materials and formats throughout can help us make stronger connections the life cycle of the product, thereby enabling our companies to take immedito our consumers and customers, while ate account of packaging when making decisions, in the same way as they do reducing our environmental impact. with other business parameters. Future plans A range of activities will be rolled out in 2013, including a weight reduction initiative, communication with consumers on recycling and the development of a sustainable packaging ideas catalogue to help all markets to reduce the environmental impact of packaging. As part of our ambition to rethink packaging, we will commence a Cradle-toCradle® (C2C®) project focused on generating actual positive impacts, which is a step forward from limiting negative impacts. The Carlsberg Group and C2C® scientific authority EPEA will work together to map how packaging materials can be used by other product manufacturers and vice versa. We expect to showcase the initial results by the end of 2013. 11 According to our study with McKinsey & Co in 2009. CASE STORY CARLSBERG ITALIA MOVES FIRST ON ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDIES Carlsberg Italia has studied the environmental aspects and impacts of different types of beer packaging, and in 2012 expanded the study to include aluminium cans. The studies – carried out in collaboration with Bocconi University in Milan, Italy – analysed the impacts throughout the entire life cycle of the products, from the acquisition of raw materials to their usage and disposal. There were two sets of outcomes from the study on the C ­ arlsberg brand. 1 There are clear environmental benefits to be derived from using a 20-litre PET keg – the DraughtMaster™ created by the Carlsberg Group – compared with steel kegs in Italy: reduced quantity of raw materials used, smaller dimensions and lower weight reducing transport needs, Fabio Iraldo and a change in functionality making the Associate Professor and CO2 cylinder obsolete. For each functional Director at Bocconi University unit produced, this amounts to approximately 30% lower water consumption, Our collaboration with Carlsberg Italia 30% lower global-warming potential, 20% less energy consumed and 20% less has been a valuable opportunity to waste produced – again compared with the traditional steel keg in Italy. explore and better understand green 2 The studies made it possible to obtain marketing. With the pilot project on the an Environmental Product Declaration – a way to communicate the environmental use of the results of the LCA – Life Cycle performance of a product – according to the ISO standard 14025. Carlsberg Italia Assessment – as an information base for was the first brewing company in the world to do this, and Carlsberg Italia was authoritative and transparent marketing, put in charge of defining and proposing the Product Category Rules (PCR) for Carlsberg has contributed decisively to beer. This means that any brewer who seeks an EPD for a product in the future increasing the technical knowledge and will be using category rules developed by Carlsberg. the culture of green marketing. 34 Responsible drinking RESPONSIBLE DRINKING THROUGHOUT HISTORY, BEER HAS BEEN ENJOYED IN MANY CULTURES, AND WHEN CONSUMED RESPONSIBLY, BY ADULTS, IT IS ASSOCIATED WITH CELEBRATION, FRIENDSHIP AND ENJOYMENT OF LIFE. THE VAST MAJORITY OF PEOPLE ENJOY BEER IN THIS SPIRIT AND IN MODERATION. Isaac Sheps Beer is brewed from natural ingredients: began in 2012. ICAP is a non-profit SVP Eastern Europe malted barley, yeast, hops and water. We organisation supported by major internaare conscious that beer is an alcoholic tional alcohol producers with a mission beverage and that its misuse can have seto promote understanding of the role of vere and harmful effects on people. These alcohol in society and help reduce harmful negative effects of misuse of alcohol drinking worldwide, as well as encourage need to be addressed. dialogue and pursue partnerships between the beverage alcohol industry and other We believe that we share a common stakeholders. responsibility to help reduce these risks. Our approach to responsible drinking is We understand these are complex probtwofold: we will present the relevant facts lems, requiring the involvement of mul­ and encourage the consumer to make a tiple parties. Our strategy is to contribute considered and informed choice. Equally towards resolving them. important, we are actively engaged in projects and initiatives to combat the 2012 progress harmful use of alcohol. Responsible drinking activities were carried out in 78% of our markets Strategy and approach in 2012 (29 out of 37). A key element of our strategy on responsible drinking is to develop local As a result of commercial sponsorship of We encourage activities that inform our customers how professional football for more than three to avoid misuse and how to drink in a decades, Carlsberg beer and football consumers to enjoy responsible way. have become closely linked. Carlsberg continued the tradition of sponsoring 2012 beer in moderation Additionally, together with partners, we European Football Championships, involvare engaged in a number of initiatives ing 60 markets around the world. and we play an across our markets, designed to combat the misuse of alcohol, and further comIn line with our 2012 target, the concept active role in fighting munication and partnerships. of responsible drinking was part of this sponsorship, which resulted in: underage drinking An example of this is our sponsorship • The 6.6 million consumers visiting the of the International Centre for Alcohol Carlsberg fan parks being exposed and misuse. ­Pol­icies (ICAP; www.icap.org), which to “drink responsibly” messaging 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 We will increase the reach and impact of our responsible drinking activities Responsible drinking messages were integrated in the EURO 2012 targeted at consumers, in particular at campaign and we continued our local major consumer events such as UEFA efforts at music festivals EURO 2012™ and music festivals 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Further develop internal guidelines for communicating our responsible New three-year targets to be developed drinking commitments 36 Responsible drinking on p ­ lastic cups and on displays in advertising and address alcohol misuse. As the fourth largest brewing company ­Carlsberg flagship bars. The Beer Pledge underlines the brewers’ in the world, Carlsberg is a natural par• The viewers of the 31 matches in ongoing support for the EU Alcohol and ticipant in this initiative, which requires the tournament being exposed to Health Strategy, and builds on decades of Carlsberg to take joint action to reduce ­ the “drink responsibly” messages on action against alcohol misuse. With the the harmful use of alcohol at global perimeter boards. The final attracted Pledge, brewers will, among other things, level. The commitments cover the areas unprecedented­television audiences. further improve consumer information, of under­age drinking, marketing codes • 375,000 people pledging to have a including information about when it is of practice, consumer communication, responsible attitude to drinking and advisable not to drink, and extend our respons­ible product innovation, drinking wearing “Drink Responsibly” wristbands advertising self-regulation to cover digital and driving, and enlisting the support of in the fan parks in Poland and Ukraine. and social media. retailers. The responsible drinking activities during As a responsible global brewer and a Future plans EURO 2012 are an indication of our journey proud co-owner of the European Beer The integration of responsible drinking from an exclusively local approach towards Pledge, Carlsberg will actively contribute messages in the EURO 2012 campaign integration of a global platform on this to implementing the Pledge across the provided us with many valuable learnings, subject. In 2013 we will further develop our European markets where we operate. which we will use in 2013 to evolve our guidelines for integration of “drink responThe Brewers of Europe will facilitate this internal guidelines. sibly” messaging in our communication. implementation and ensure annual evaluations of the Pledge, starting in 2013. Another major focus area for 2013 will Furthermore, we continued our local “don’t be to ensure that the elements of the drink and drive” activities in connection At global level, the CEOs of 13 beer, wine European Beer Pledge and the global with music festivals, for example in Croatia. and spirits producers announced a collect­ commitments to combat the harmful ive commitment to 10 targeted actions in use of alcohol are reflected in our busiEuropean Beer Pledge and global five areas over the next five years, in supness practices. As signatories, we are commitments to reduce harmful port of the World Health ­Organization’s also obliged to audit and report on our drinking (WHO) Global Strategy to Reduce progress by the end of 2013. In February 2012, Carlsberg, along with Harmful Use of Alcohol. The commitEurope’s 3,630 breweries, presented ments, which were launched at an event the European Beer Pledge – a package in Washington, D.C. in October 2012, will of responsibility initiatives to improve be audited by qualified third-party organ­ consumer information, ensure responsible isations and reported publicly each year. RESPONSIBLE DRINKING EXPLAINED As part of our proactive approach to tackling Drinking and driving the misuse of alcohol, we have put together If you drink – don’t drive. We want to help a set of principles regarding what defines avoid driving under the influence of alcohol responsible drinking and the practices of a and in some cases actively support public responsible brewer. transport to and from events that we sponsor. Drink in moderation Drinking and pregnancy Do not drink more than the daily amounts We recommend that pregnant women recommended by public health officials. should avoid consuming alcohol. Overconsumption of alcohol can have serious consequences for you and your family. Responsible marketing We have drawn up rules for how we will Underage drinking reach consumers responsibly: for example, Only adults should drink alcohol. Legislawe will only target adults and only suggest tion on selling alcohol to minors should be drinking in moderation. enforced. Our Marketing Communication Policy can be found at: www.carlsberggroup.com/CSR 38 CASE STORY CARLSBERG CROATIA ON THE RESPONSIBLE DRINKING BUS Festival and concert audiences often However, responsible drinking is about enjoy more than just music. Many also more than just free buses and, in Croatia, choose to have a beer or two. Or more. Carlsberg also continued its “Let’s show For this reason, Carlsberg Croatia devoted them the right way” campaign aimed at some of its 2012 responsible drinking educating parents and guardians about activities to solving the issue of driving how to prevent underage drinking. This to and from music events under the campaign uses expert advice, celebrity influence of alcohol. endorsements and distributes educational materials to parents at schools. Free public transport was provided for a Red Hot Chili Peppers concert in Zagreb, as well as during the 10-day Špancirfest in Varaždin. A special bus decorated with the responsible drinking message provided transportation for festival goers. CASE STORY MALAYSIA: VOLUNTEER RESPONSIBLE DRINKING AMBASSADORS Carlsberg Malaysia is forging ahead to promote responsible drinking. The central elements of this brewer’s activities are the “Drink Responsibly” kiosks, which are set up at events organised or sponsored by the company in order to promote messages about safe and smart drinking, with employees volunteering to act as “Drink Responsibly” ambassadors. In 2012, kiosks were set up at around 10 different events. During the events, free mineral water and an alcohol level testing service were provided for the crowds, with consumers competing in various games to win a personal breathalyzer. The Drink Responsibly ambassadors engaged with customers and consumers, distributing pocket-sized flyers containing drinking tips, phone numbers for nationwide taxi services, a calendar and Carlsberg Malaysia’s position on responsible drinking. They also encouraged audiences to sign up to receive up-to-date information about Carlsberg Malaysia’s activities. 40 Marketing communication MARKETING COMMUNICATION WE WANT TO BE A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN AND COMMUNICATE RESPONSIBLY WITH CONSUMERS. To achieve this ambition, we work 2012 performance externally­through our responsible Policy implementation is carried out drinking­activities and internally by through training in the policy using the ensuring compliance with our Marketing e-learning tool, and through local apCommunication Policy. proval of all consumer-facing campaigns. Khalil Younes SVP Group Sales, Approach Training in the Marketing Communication­ Marketing and Innovation Our Marketing Communication Policy Policy is mandatory once every two sets out our standards for all points of years for all employees involved in contact with consumers in all media ­developing marketing communication, formats, including sponsorship and social and the training programme is updated in media. It stipulates, among other things, line with this requirement. that our marketing activities must be strictly targeted at adults and should In 2012, we began the roll-out of our never associate consumption of alcohol e-learning training tool in Eastern Europe, with potentially hazardous activities or and continued to provide training at Our Marketing inappropriate situations. headquarters, in Europe and in Asia. As a result, 251 people were trained through Communication We require our companies to include the e-learning tool in 2012, bringing us to the Marketing Communication Policy a total of 486 trained over the last two Policy sets the in our agency contracts and briefings, years. Our target for 2013 is still to have and strongly encourage our suppliers 100% of employees involved in develstandard and of marketing communication to adopt oping consumerand customer-facing and implement this policy when creatmarketing materials trained in the policy. direction for all ing campaigns and communication for us. The aim is to reduce the risk of We monitor our marketing activities­to our marketing non-­compliance, with both the suppliers measure compliance with the Marketing and our marketing employees taking the Communication Policy. Non-compliances employees. We policy into consideration. occur when our commercial communication associates the drinking of beer want to ensure The Marketing Communication Policy with extreme sports or heightened addresses four key areas: mental fitness, among other things. W ­ e that our consumer • Social responsibility and moderate were disappointed to record five filed consumption non-­compliances with our M ­ arketing communication • Health & safety ­Communication Policy. These non-­ • Children and young people compliance incidents were filed in is responsible and • The effects of alcohol Denmark, Estonia, Sweden, Hungary and Ukraine. Our target for 2013 is still to have targeted at adults. zero breaches of our policy. We have 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Follow-up on roll-out and local implementation of e-learning Roll-out in Asia, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, as well as follow-up with markets on breaches of the Marketing Communication Policy 2 Monitor CSR messaging in social media channels Carried out through community managers and marketing employees 3 Launch guidelines for server training Guidelines for briefing serving staff drawn up and implemented by the EURO 2012 team 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Develop guidelines to prevent minors from inadvertently seeing alcohol Present first progress report on implementation and compliance beverage marketing communications with agreed common standards with on social media industry partners 2 Upgrade e-learning programme Zero non-compliance incidents with Marketing Communication Policy 100% of employees developing marketing communication to be trained 100% awareness of Marketing ­Communication Policy among employees involved in consumerand customer-facing material development 100% of companies to include Marketing­Communication Policy in agency agreements 100% of companies to have procedures­in place to ensure ­compliance 42 Marketing communication Employees trained through Reported non-compliance the marketing communication incidents e-learning tool 300 10 250 8 200 6 150 4 100 2 50 0 0 11 12 10 11 12 20 20 20 20 20 set ambitious­process targets for 2013 in media channels. The aim is to cooperate A priority for next order to further this goal, as shown in the with experts, the EU, national authorities table on commitments and targets. and the World Federation of Advertisers year will be to ensure to ensure effective implementation of the CSR messaging in social media channels Pact. This is the first time that com­mon that we continuously was monitored continuously in 2012 in orstandards supported by major beer, wine der to understand stakeholders’ positions and spirits producers throughout the EU enforce our Market­ing and behaviours. This included community will be created. managers and marketing employees Communication Policy. reviewing and reporting on activities acThese standards support the EU Alcohol cording to the principles of the Marketing and Health Forum (EAHF), the flagship Communication Policy. These principles programme of “the European Strategy are communicated in a code of conduct in to support Member States in reducing our social media guidelines, which govern alcohol-related harm”. They will be subject all of our social media activities. to independent monitor­ing and public reporting in line with the EAHF’s standards. Extending our reach In line with our 2012 commitment, we Future plans continued our work to train and create A priority for next year will be to ­ensure awareness about responsible drinking that we continuously enforce our among our customers through server ­Marketing Communication Policy and training to discourage underage drinking deliver on our commitments relating to and binge drinking, with the aim of reducresponsible marketing communication ing the harmful consumption of alcoholic through self-regulation. beverages. Serving staff at the EURO 2012 branded bars were also briefed We will intensify our cooperation with our about how to encourage respon­sible partners in the Responsible Marketing drinking, and we continued our server Pact in order to extend the application of training programme in Russia. the self-regulation standards. To achieve this, we will engage with local brewers’ Stakeholders and partnerships associations and authorities. In 2012, we entered into a partnership to strengthen our Market­ing Communication Policy. We were involved in establishing the Responsible Marketing Pact, under which Carlsberg and seven other producers of beer, wine and spirits will develop and enforce common, EU-wide standards for rigorous self-regulation of marketing com­munication concerning alcohol bever­ ages across all media, particularly social 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Continue to implement strategy in production and logistics In all regions, focus on the progressive involvement of more managers and employees in the H&S agenda 2 Start Health & Safety Academy H&S Academy programme launch postponed due to organisational changes 3 Implement actions based on regional priority setting Priority requirements implemented across production sites 4 Investigate possibilities to have relevant sites OHSAS 18001-certified Plan to implement OHSAS 18001 in another five countries initiated 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Continue to implement the overall strategy in production and logistics Production area LTAR1 : 10.9 (-35% vs. 2010)2 across all regions DLR3 : 142 (-45% vs. 2010)2 2 Reinforce a proactive approach to health & safety Safety risk assessments to be ­conducted in at least 90% of ­workplaces (production, logistics, sales & marketing) 3 Develop cross-audits in all regions All H&S coordinators to perform one yearly cross-audit 4 Ensure sites comply with Group Policy requirements Three Group mandatory requirements to be implemented every year at at least 90% of sites 5 Manage a coordinated approach to implement OHSAS 18001 at Western At least 50% of production sites to be certified OHSAS 18001 across Western and Eastern European sites Europe 1 Lost-Time Accident Rate. 2Figures compared with 2010 data for production sites. 3 Days Lost Rate. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 45 HEALTH & SAFETY THE CARLSBERG GROUP IS COMMITTED TO IMPROVING PRACTICES AND APPLYING HIGH STANDARDS FOR HEALTH & SAFETY. OUR HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY FORMS THE BASIS OF OUR APPROACH TO SAFETY. The aim of the policy is to ensure that to comply with local regulations. On the all employees and contractors at every other hand, we recognise that safe oper­ Carlsberg site are subject to the same ations depend not only on policies, techstandards, irrespective of where they nically sound plants and procedures, but work. By implementing these health & also on the mindset and behaviour of our Roy Bagattini safety standards, we aim to control popeople. Therefore, we work to build skills SVP Asia tential risks to the safety of our employand awareness among all employees, as ees and contractors. we cannot always count on the culture surrounding safety and local legislation to While breweries are considered relatively incentivise reporting and safety measures. safe workplaces, there are risks such as broken glass, grain dust self-igniting to We also work on sharing best practices. create small fires and the use of chem­ For example, health & safety managers icals. In the area of logistics, the two main travel to perform audits at other brewerrisks are collisions between people on the ies, and in the event of a significant incifloor and fork-lift trucks, and back injuries dent, an immediate investigation is carried from manual handling of goods. Approach, organisation and behaviour Lost-time accidents by department Our ambition will always be to have zero accidents. We have set ambitious targets for accident frequency and accident The diligent severity at our production sites, to be reached by the end of 2013. In the coming implementation of year we will include logistics in our target setting, as part of reinforcing our focus our Health & Safety and efforts in this area. Policy is critical The majority of the Group’s lost-time accidents occur at our production sites to ensuring our and in the logistics area. These two parts of our operations account for 87% of all people have a safe accidents. Consequently, this is where we Production Logistics S  ales & marketing focus on improving safety performance. and healthy work 47% 40% and administration 13% We have a common set of internal environment. standards and mandatory requirements 46 Health & safety Lost-time accident rate Days lost rate Lost-time accident Days lost rate in production in production rate in logistics in logistics Per 1,000 employees Per 1,000 employees Per 1,000 employees Per 1,000 employees 20 300 30 600 250 25 500 15 200 20 400 10 150 15 300 100 10 200 5 50 5 100 0 0 0 0 10 11 12 * 10 11 12 * 10 11 12 10 11 12 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 out and the circumstances of the incident These improvements are a result of the China. We conducted widespread training, are shared across our health & safety investments made in improvement plans, organised a safety day and made safety network to help our sites identify any basic requirements etc. since 2009. In a priority KPI for management at the improvements required in their procedures. 2012 specifically, we succeeded in involvplants. As a consequence, the level of ing more managers and employees in awareness and involvement of manageBased on a risk assessment, a set of the health & safety agenda, performing ment and employees was improved. prior­ities is defined every year for the prointernal audits (cross-audits) in Western duction area. These Group requirements and Eastern Europe, and implementing Health & Safety Academy are communicated to the markets, and priority requirements at production sites We developed the Carlsberg Group Health each site is required to develop and imacross the Group. In 2012 the focus of the & Safety Academy Programme at the end plement plans to fulfil the requirements. priority requirements were: inclusion of of 2011. It is a Group-wide programme This approach was primarily developed in risk assessment in maintenance, workto train operational and functional Western Europe and has been ex­tended ing at heights, health & safety guidelines managers­in health & safety excellence. across Eastern Europe and Asia. for capital expenditure projects, engaging Due to organisational changes, we had to the internal health & safety network, and postpone the start-up of the programme 2012 progress the further development of a proactive until 2013. For the third consecutive year we are able attitude to health & safety. to report strong progress in improving safeFuture plans ty in our production and logistics areas. We In the logistics area, the improvements are 2013 will be a year of consolidation in are especially pleased to see that we are slightly lower than within the production which we seek to ensure that all the restill improving significantly, despite the fact area: the frequency rate and the severity quirements of the Health & Safety Policy that the lowest-hanging fruits have already rate dropped by 12% versus 2011. In absoare truly embedded in daily life within been harvested. To us, this is a good indicalute numbers, the LTAR is 19 and the DLR production and logistics at all our sites tion of the solidity of our approach and, (severity rate) is 316. across all regions. To support this, we will not least, the dedication of our people. focus on developing and completing sysNone of our employees suffered a fatal tems and tools for safety management The 2012 safety performance keeps us accident in 2012, which is a clear improve(based on OHSAS 18001 certification) and on track with our three-year plan for ment on the previous three years, when tools to support standardisation. We will reaching our 2013 target of a Lost-Time we unfortunately experienced two fatal also, for the first time, present an award Accident Rate (LTAR) below 11 in the accidents per year. We know we must for annual health & safety performance production area. maintain a very high level of awareness to one of our production sites worldwide. to continuously control the risks that can Our 2012 LTAR for production (number of lead to fatal accidents. Finally, as part of the revision of the CSR lost-time accidents per 1,000 FTEs) was strategy, we will also review the health 11.4%*, a reduction of 16%. Our Days Lost We followed up on the two accidents that & safety area. We recognise that there is Rate (DLR), which measures accident seled to fatalities in China in 2011 by initiatstill some distance for us to cover before verity in production (number of days lost ing changes in management, including we reach our ultimate objective of having per 1,000 FTEs), was 153*, an improvethe employment of a dedicated health & zero-accident workplaces. We will study ment of 14%, both compared with 2011. safety manager for each site in addition best-in-class examples and set ambitious to the health & safety coordinator for targets going forward. * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. “Just take 10” is what CASE STORY Carlsberg UK asks all employees to do: stop and “just take 10” to think about the risks involved with their tasks – whether it be 10 seconds, 10 minutes or 10 hours. CARLSBERG UK WINS SEVEN NATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AWARDS Every year, the British Royal Society for the In order to reach this goal, in 2012 CarlsThe business has benefited in terms of Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) presents berg UK formed a team of Safety, Health wider-spread knowledge of safety ultiawards to companies making a real effort and Environment (SHE) facilitators. The mately resulting in accident reduction: to prevent accidents at work in the UK. For team consists of employees from all • The total amount of accidents fell the last three years, some of these awards areas of the UK business covering both by nearly 20% to 329 in 2012 from have headed in Carlsberg’s direction. logistics and brewery operations, each 408 in 2011. responsible for their work site. • The severity of accidents fell by 13% 2012 was no exception. A full seven through the reduction of lost-time awards were presented to Carlsberg UK The members are volunteers and have days to 848 days in 2012 from 972 for outstanding health & safety achievecompleted an extensive national training days in 2011. ments, recognising in particular the comprogramme. They meet every eight weeks pany’s dedication to accident prevention. to share experiences and best practices. The awards went to two breweries and This is the first collaboration involving five distribution centres. all the UK Safety teams. Carlsberg UK’s goal is to achieve zero Since the introduction of their role, the lost-time accidents by 2020 and to SHE facilitator team have gone from be recognised as the safest beer and strength to strength, contributing to a beverage company to do business with. positive change in safety behaviours across our UK business and have been a key catalyst in reducing accidents and involving employees in safety through near-miss reporting. 48 Business ethics BUSINESS ETHICS OUR GROUP BUSINESS ETHICS POLICY LAYS DOWN COMMON, GROUP-WIDE STANDARDS TO DEAL WITH THE ETHICAL CONCERNS FACED BY GLOBAL BUSINESSES. Our Business Ethics Policy, and the 2012 progress supporting handbook, guidelines and Our main focus was the continued e-learning programmes, are designed implementation of our Business Ethics to help employees resolve day-to-day Policy, with the emphasis on initiatives to Ulrik Andersen ethical dilemmas, such as situations support our employees in understanding VP Group Legal & Risk involving potential corruption issues, business ethics dilemmas and empowerManagement breaches of confidentiality, the misuse of ing them to make the right choices. By company assets for personal gain, and the end of 2012, 83% of all Group comdonations and gifts. panies across all markets had put in place mechanisms to avoid business ethics Policy implementation and incidents. This is an achievement which knowledge-sharing we find very encouraging. To implement our Business Ethics Policy, we have used our established network of During 2011 and 2012, over 10,000 in-house local legal advisors and other employees were trained. We are proud nominated individuals who, besides being of this and are committed to continuing responsible for introducing the policy in our training efforts and initiatives across the Group companies, coordinate efforts the Group. Our policy stipulates that and share issues and experiences across employees must be trained biennially, the Group. which allows us to prioritise training for those employees we consider to be key in This network is key to the further deimplementing our Business Ethics Policy. velopment of our anti-corruption and We have focused other business ethics measures and to Our business ethics e-learning system increasing the level of awareness in Group has been implemented in English across on training our companies. We conducted five global Group companies wherever possible, and train-the-trainer webinars on the policy, rolled out in Finnish and German. It has people, in order to which facilitated sharing of knowledge also been translated into two of our key and experiences and provided tools languages, namely Russian and Chinese, increase knowledge for training organisations locally. They for roll-out in 2013. This e-learning system proved to be a very successful training consists of a comprehensive introduction of potential business format and had consistently high attendto the requirements of the Business Ethics ance levels across the Group. Policy, followed by a compulsory exam. ethics issues and The decision was also made to assign a In total, employees in 24 markets took avoid incidents of legal resource to our Asian regional office part in the 184 training sessions that in order to facilitate and prioritise training were completed across Group companies non-compliance. and implementation in this region. in 2012. A number of initiatives were 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Develop e-learning programme in other languages E-learning programme translated into four new languages 2 Continue awareness and training with the focus on high-risk countries Five global train-the-trainer webinars held 184 training sessions conducted in 24 markets 3 Prepare to introduce audit and self-audit for selected countries Postponed until 2013 due to rescheduled priorities 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Roll out e-learning in more Group languages 100% of key employees to be trained in business ethics 2 Continue awareness and training – focus on high-risk areas Business Ethics Policy to be ­communicated to all employees 3 Prepare and design process for audit and self-audit Introduction of audit and self-audit in selected areas 4 Incorporate business ethics compliance into Carlsberg’s performance Relevant key employees and top management to be measured measurement system ­regarding business ethics compliance 50 Business ethics BUSINESS ETHICS 2010 2011 2012 Number of training sessions held on business ethics 118 184 184 Total number of employees trained in the Business Ethics Policy 6,234 6,653 3,795 Percentage of companies with mechanisms in place to avoid business ethics incidents 781 842 833 1 28 out of 36 companies. 2 32 out of 38 companies. 333 out of 40 companies. developed to reinforce the policy and evant partners and projects are properly business ethics compliance activities and reach as many employees as possible, screened and investigated. As a result of better target high-risk countries and/or such as a Business Ethics awareness the Third Party Screening Procedures, we transactions. poster which was translated into six will be able to exclude high-risk parties languages and local tools, including and arrangements or adapt the arrangeIn line with our commitments to the training podcasts, a business ethics quiz ment appropriately. United Nations Global Compact, the and dedicated business ethics features in Carlsberg Group does not endorse the staff magazines. The Third Party Screening Procedures practice of facilitation payments. While were launched in late 2012, and we are we recognise that, in some parts of the We have made compliance with the pleased to report that, by the end of 2012, world, facilitation payments are made Business Ethics Policy an integral part of more than one third of Group companies as part of business transactions, we are our employment contracts, stating that had implemented the procedures into striving to eliminate them. In 2012, we failure to live up to the Business Ethics their dealings with third parties. updated and repeated our guidance to Policy is grounds for termination (to the employees concerning facilitation payextent possible under local law). By the Whistleblower system ments and the specific requirement to end of 2012, this clause had been incorThe Carlsberg Group whistleblower make sure a payment is properly recorded porated into all employment contracts system enables employees to report acif it cannot be avoided. We will continue at headquarters, and its implementativities that may involve criminal conduct to work towards zero tolerance in future. tion into local employment contracts is or violations of our Group policies and continuing at a good pace. guidelines. It consists of a website and a Future plans hotline phone number, both of which are In 2013, we will see the Business Ethics Moreover, compliance with the Business managed by an independent third party Policy integrated into our performance Ethics Policy will be incorporated into to ensure the highest levels of security management systems. Introduction of the Group’s management performance and confidentiality. Reports filed through e-learning in Vietnamese is planned for system and procedures. Specific wording the whistleblower system are handled by the second quarter of the year, while was prepared in 2012, and implementadesignated employees within Carlsberg other languages will be considered and tion is now awaiting finalisation of other Group Internal Audit. potentially added later in the year. updates to the system. 26 reports were made in 2012, and a total We will continue to focus our business Third Party Screening Procedures of 96 reports have been made since the ethics activities on the basis of our global introduced system was launched. All reported matters risk assessment, recognising that some Another crucial achievement in strengthare reviewed and, unless Group Internal of the jurisdictions in which we operate ening our commitment to ethical behavAudit identifies a clearly erroneous report, entail a higher risk of corruption. Bearing iour and risk mitigation is the introduction the matter is further investigated and apthis in mind, we will prioritise various of our Third Party Screening Procedures. propriate action taken, including employee initiatives in high-risk jurisdictions to These procedures specify due diligence dismissal when necessary. None of the reensure that we are prepared for potential and other requirements that must be ported incidents has had any material imterritory-specific concerns, and mitigate fulfilled when entering into arrangements pact on the financial results of the Group the risks associated with them. Finally, with third parties, based on a risk matrix or of the Group company in question. we are working to develop further tools relating to the particular third-party arfor conducting local audits and self-audits rangement and the countries in question. Working towards eliminating of performance relating to selected areas facilitation payments of the Business Ethics Policy. Screening our business partners is vital in Carlsberg recognises that some of its oporder to minimise the Group’s exposure to erations are in areas considered to be high a third party’s corrupt or other illegal berisk with regard to corruption. Our global haviour. The procedures enable the Group corruption risk assessment, together with to build protection from these risks into the Third Party Screening Procedures, the way we work, by ensuring that relenables us to sharpen our focus on Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 51 52 Labour & human rights LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS AT CARLSBERG, WE BELIEVE THAT EACH OF OUR 41,708 EMPLOYEES IS FUNDAMENTAL TO OUR SUCCESS. THIS IS REFLECTED IN THE UPDATED BUSINESS STRATEGY, WHERE PEOPLE IS ONE OF THE FIVE STRATEGIC LEVERS. Ensuring the labour and human rights man Rights Policy, with priority given to of our employees is a prerequisite for follow-up in all countries that were still empowerment and engagement. We behind in terms of full policy implementaClaudia support the United Nations Universal tion. However, the overall results show Schlossberger Declaration of Human Rights and the that the policy implementation had proSVP Group Human Resources International Labour Organization’s gressed as planned, resulting in increased ­Declaration on ­Fundamental Principles awareness and integration of procedures and Rights at Work. and processes in the local companies. Since 2009 Carlsberg has had a Labour Initiatives to integrate the policy into loand Human Rights Policy setting out the cal processes were launched. The policy standards that all employees in the Carlswas translated and communicated to berg Group must enjoy, irrespective of the all employees in all our majority-owned country in which they work. The purpose breweries except one, which was recently is to ensure that all employees are treated acquired. In 75% of the companies, Labour fairly and respectfully, and are able to and Human Rights Policy training for mandevelop their potential in a safe workplace. agers with direct reports was conducted, Our main reason for doing this is to respect up from 61% in 2011, and 98% have intethese basic human rights. In addition, we grated the policy in their local onboarding find that this adds to our attractiveness as programmes, up from 89% in 2011. an employer and business partner. In a number of companies, initiatives to We recognise that we will have to work ensure full compliance were launched but continuously on making these equal not fully completed in 2012; this will be standards a reality in all of the countries a priority in 2013. Finally, there is data in which we operate. We have found that suggesting that the companies furthest it takes time to achieve full implementabehind on implementation are those that tion of our Labour and Human Rights have only recently become majorityPolicy. It requires extensive training and owned by Carlsberg. Group HR conducted integration into other processes, parthree training sessions in 2012 to support ticularly as Carlsberg acquires majority further implementation: one with all HR ownership of even more breweries. directors in our Asia region gathered in Hong Kong, and two web-based ses2012 performance sions for new HR directors and local HR For labour and human rights, 2012 managers respectively. brought a primary focus on ensuring compli­ance with the Labour and Hu2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Perform internal audits in selected countries to document compliance Audits conducted in five countries 2 Conduct policy training sessions for HR in countries with less than 100% Three training sessions conducted completion on implementation 3 Employee engagement introduced as a KPI for all top executives Built into ExCom’s output KPIs 4 Specific targets for diversity will be set 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Introduce employee engagement as a KPI for local CEOs and country Employee engagement to be introduced as a KPI for all managers management team members 2 Conduct LHR audits in five selected countries 3 Build e-learning module for LHR Specific module to be developed for LHR for use in induction training and management development 4 Expand toolbox for LHR for local HR All people managers to be automatically trained in LHR when hired/­ appointed as new people managers 54 Labour & human rights Claudia Schlossberger SVP Group Human Resources The employees at Carlsberg are incredibly engaged, which creates a great foundation for being successful. The aim of the Labour and Human Rights Policy is to continue this trend by promoting high standards wherever we operate. We met our Group commitment to the setting of clear requirements for the named a “Friendly ­Workplace” by Health conduct internal audits in Switzerland, recruitment agencies we use to ensure Promotion, S ­ witzerland, and the Aldaris Germany, China, Denmark and Group presentation of qualified female candiBrewery in Latvia achieved the title of functions. Based on the Labour and dates. These will be implemented in 2013 “Top ­Employer”. ­Human Rights Policy, we investigated key throughout the Carlsberg Group. HR processes. All actions required to close Future plans these gaps were implemented according Engagement In 2013 we will introduce employee to recommendations by the end of 2012. Empowered and engaged people are one engagement as a KPI for our local CEOs of the key priorities of the people lever in and country management team memA labour dispute at our Svyturys-Utenos the Carlsberg Group strategy. ExCom is bers. We will continue our labour and Alus Brewery in Lithuania was settled in dedicated to employee engagement and human rights audit efforts in five selected 2012. The dispute arose over salary inhas, since 2012, included the Carlsberg countries to ensure further understanding creases. The Supreme Court of Lithuania Group’s engagement score as part of its and tracking of local company complidecided that Svyturys-Utenos Alus was in strategic scorecard. We had originally ance. We will expand our toolbox with compliance with the provisions of the colintended for all members of executive more tools and best practice materials lective agreement and that a strike in the ­management to be included in this process, and build an e-learning module on the production department was illegal. but new priorities led us to focus on ExCom. Labour and Human Rights Policy to ensure we can reach the majority of our Promoting diversity All employees are regularly asked what employees faster. One of the 2012 commitments that were it is like to work for the company in the postponed due to our focus on policy Group’s MyVoice survey. In September Implementing the Labour and Human compliance was the setting of specific 2012, close to 30,000 employees were Rights Policy with joint venture partners diversity targets. The board of our ownasked to voice their perceptions of the remains challenging, and is something that ers, the Carlsberg Foundation, has set a company and 83% of the survey populawe will continue to try to promote in 2013. target for 40% female Supervisory Board tion did so. Employees continue to be highmembers to be elected by the Annual ly engaged, including when compared with General Meeting by 2015. This figure curthe global fast-moving consumer goods rently stands at 14%. In 2012, the Group industry norm. The connection between appointed two new female Supervisory own and Group goals is steadily growing, Board members and one new female as is pride in working for the Group. ExCom member (SVP Human Resources). Results are discussed in teams and business The composition of the workforce in units, and improvement actions are identigeneral (73% male/27% female) and fied and monitored on a quarterly basis. at management level (77% male/23% female) remains stable. As to the total Appreciated as an employer turnover rate, we saw a slight decrease In several markets, we were nomin­ to 14% from 16.5%, while gender turnover ated for or awarded national prizes, showed a similar female turnover and a for example in Denmark and Hong slight decrease in male turnover comKong. We were chosen as an ­“Attract­ive pared with 2011. employer” in the ­Universum survey, named “best IT employer in Denmark”, Group HR carried out supporting activ­ and awarded a prize for good employities to increase the number of women ment relationships in Russia for our work in leader­ship positions. A new global at the Samara Brewery. Our brewery recruitment policy was drafted, including in Feldschlösschen, Switzerland, was Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 55 41,708 TOTAL WORKFORCE 2012 42,670 2011 41,402 2010 MYVOICE ENGAGEMENT SCORE RESPONSE RATE 83 83 RESULTS 2012 2012 83 2011 82 2011 81 2009 85 2009 TURNOVER BY TURNOVER BY GENDER 2012 20 16 12 8 4 0 20 20 20 10 11 12 Male Female 73% 27% CASE STORY A NEW DEAL FOR SALES PROMOTERS Marie-Louise Knuppert Confederal Secretary, the ­Confederation IN CAMBODIA of Danish Trade Unions We see this agreement An improved work environment for sales • The establishment of clear supervision with the Carlsberg promoters in Cambodia was on the structures and grievance procedures. Carlsberg Group’s agenda in 2012, and • Annual monitoring of compliance and Group as a unique we entered into a one-of-a-kind partnerimpact by an independent party. ship with the Danish Confederation of opportunity to Trade Unions (LO). We know work still needs to be done on improving conditions for sales promoters, achieve great results Since 2006, the Carlsberg Group and and that the negative stigma associated its joint venture partner Cambrew have with beer promoters is one of the major for Cambodian beer been tackling the issues relating to sales challenges. Although improvements promoters in Cambodia by working with have been made relating to health & promoters, at the industry and NGO partners, such as safety conditions at work, some issues Care International Cambodia. Carlsberg remain, and these will continue to be same time as showing and Cambrew are founding members addressed going forward. of Beer Selling Industry of Cambodia how dialogue and (BSIC) which, since it was founded, has Through our cooperation with LO we will introduced a number of industry-wide work to negotiate terms for a good workcooperation between initiatives to address the issues relating to ing life through improved social dialogue sales promoters. These measures include: with industry and union representatives, the private sector and • An improved wage structure, including working together with other stakeholders, a minimum wage that is not as reliant including government, to resolve labour trade unions are key on commission. market and stigma issues. • Training programmes for sales promotto a well-functioning ers to enable them to learn techniques for dealing with customers. labour market. 58 Community engagement COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT WE WANT TO BE AN ACTIVE AND TRUSTED PARTNER IN THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE. IN 2012, FOR EXAMPLE, WE INVESTED IN MORE THAN 1,500 LOCAL INITIATIVES TO ACHIEVE THIS. The companies under the Carlsberg activities with employees and customers.­ Group’s ownership have been engaged In 2012, we engaged in 16 different with society for many years, based on locause-related partnerships. cal priorities and needs. However, in 2012, Anne-Marie Skov when the reputation of our company One 2012 target was to engage consumSVP Group Communications and brand became one of five strategic ers in CSR activities during EURO 2012. & CSR levers to advance the company’s business We reached this target by communicating strategy, it also became clear that, in to improve people’s awareness of refuture, we must make our engagements sponsible drinking and environmental proincreasingly strategic in nature. tection. For example, 375,000 bracelets were handed out to people pledging to 2012 progress drink respon­sibly. In addition, 20 tonnes All the majority-owned companies in the of plastic cups were recycled in Polish Carlsberg Group invested in 1,500+ local fan parks. (Read more under Responsible community engagement initiatives in 2012. drinking on page 34.) Wherever we operate, These investments target a range of subjects, with education and culture, and the In 2012, we postponed the publication it is critical for us to environment being the largest beneficiaries. of an internal community engagement guidebook. Instead, we gathered the be a good corporate The total monetary value of these investrequired best practice stories from the ments in 2012 was DKK 38m, which Group companies, and will finalise the citizen. In partnership includes in-kind donations (for example book in 2013 based on feedback and free products to support charity events), suggestions from CSR champions. with our stakeholders direct financial contributions and causerelated marketing activities. This is less Furthermore, in 2012, 4,146 employees we identify, develop than in 2011, which can be attributed to across the Carlsberg Group’s companies the general economic trend. volunteered in 706 different community and implement investment activities, contributing a total Some Carlsberg Group companies enter of 32,104 hours. projects of mutual into cause-related marketing partnerships with civil organisations enabling Future plans interest which have both parties to communicate their shared The target set for 2013 is to actively values while supporting a good cause. involve our consumers and employees in a positive impact on One example is from Carlsberg UK, our community activities. We predict that where the Tetley beer brand has raised the sustainable packaging programme the environment and GBP 115,000 for the Help for Heros (cf. page 30) and the partnership projects charity­by donating 1 pence per pint sold with global organisations will be the society. and carrying out various fund-raising primary vehicles for this involvement. 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Develop a community engagement guidebook to share best practices Community engagement best practice stories shared and distributed internally 2 Involve consumers in community initiatives as part of the EURO 2012 Engaged consumers in recycling and responsible drinking activities tournament 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Develop a community engagement guidebook and impact evaluation All our companies to have a system in place to strategically prioritise potential community activities and evaluate outcomes Actively involve Carlsberg Group employees in our global community efforts 2 Advance community activities together with global NGOs Two global partnerships to be ­developed to advance community activities at local level 60 Community engagement These are examples of a more strategic Total number of Community engagement approach to community engagement, community investment in which we identify areas that are activities closely linked to our business and focus our efforts there, with our companies’ Total cash and 2,000 60 employees actively engaged and playing in-kind donations DKKm an essential role in volunteering and non50 commercial sponsorship activities. 1,500 N  umber of cause40 related marketing This means that going forward, whether partnerships global or local, we follow the same prin1,000 30 ciples – as presented in our Community 20 Engagement Policy – while at the same 500 1 D  ata restated for time acknowledging that communities 10 total cash and in-kind differ in terms of needs and challenges. donations due to errors in 0 0 previously reported data. In doing so, we believe that community 10 20 11 20 12 20 10 1 11 1 12 20 engagement can build a reputation and 20 20 a connection with society that will help Carlsberg grow responsibly. Distribution of community investment activities Environment Support of 23% vulnerable groups 11% Sport 15% Health and care 8% Responsible drinking Natural disaster 11% relief 3% Education and culture Other 25% 4% Hours spent on community Number of volunteering Total number of employees investment activities activities who participated in volunteering activities 35,000 800 5,000 30,000 700 4,000 600 25,000 500 3,000 20,000 400 15,000 2,000 300 10,000 200 1,000 5,000 100 0 0 0 10 11 12 11 12 11 12 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 CASE STORY CARLSBERG SVERIGE COOPERATES WITH THE RED CROSS ON WATER PROJECTS For every litre of Ramlösa mineral water Patrick Fox sold in Sweden, Carlsberg Sverige’s Water Advisor and Delegate, Ramlösa Water Fund donates one litre of Swedish Red Cross clean water to Red Cross water projects in Africa. More than 700 million The initiative was launched in June 2011. people today have no The goal was to reach 100 million litres of clean water for Africa by the end of 2012, access to clean water. which the project succeeded in achieving in December 2012. Thanks to Carlsberg Two Red Cross projects directly supported Sverige’s contribution by the Ramlösa Water Fund are “Water for Namibia” and “Water for Ethiopia”. through the Ramlösa Over a four-year and five-year period respectively, they aim to improve access Water Fund, we can to clean water, improve sanitation, and inform and educate people about how work on long-term to prevent the spread of disease through the safe storage of water and improved solutions to help ensure personal hygiene. access to clean water. 62 Community engagement CASE STORY BALTIKA RUNS TWO OF THE BEST CSR PROJECTS IN RUSSIA ACCORDING TO JURY The Russian national programme “Best Seven Rivers CSR projects of Russia” publishes an Launched in June 2012, this pan-Russian annual list of projects selected by an indeenvironmental campaign implemented pendent, international jury of experts; proby Baltika Breweries, together with the jects that the programme – supported by Organising Committee of the Sochi 2014 the Russian ministry of natural resources Winter Olympics in Russia, aims to develand environment and international NGOs op a recycling culture in Russia to reduce – sees as role models for CSR in Russia. greenhouse gas emissions. The campaign began by cleaning and recycling the Baltika claimed two places on the list in ­rubbish collected from the banks of major 2012. The two projects recognised were: Russian rivers. BeerPatrol Since 2008, 180 patrols have been carried out together with non-profit organisations, public authorities and the police to check around 2,000 points of sale to make sure they are not selling alcohol to minors. The patrols place stickers with the message “Are you 18? Prove it!” at points of sale and raise awareness among sales assistants of the rules on selling alcohol to minors. 64 Responsible sourcing RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN PROVIDES ALL OF THE INGREDIENTS AND PACKAGING FOR OUR PRODUCTS. MANAGING QUALITY AND CSR STANDARDS WITHIN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN IS OF PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE TO THE INTEGRITY OF OUR PRODUCTS. As a multinational company, we purchase moving consumer goods companies and goods in the global marketplace from their suppliers, to enable and promote countries with varying regulatory strucresponsible sourcing practices and proBengt Erlandsson tures and standards of business practice. mote industry cooperation1. We are also a SVP Group Procurement We want to improve our understanding of member of Sedex2, the Suppliers­Ethical CSR issues within our supply chain, while Data Exchange, a collaborative platform maintaining business performance and a for sharing ethical supply chain data, good relationship with our suppliers. which enables us to share information with our suppliers regarding their CSR Promoting responsibility within our supperformance. ply chain is not an easy task. To manage this, we implement the standards set out You can read more about the Code in our Code of Conduct through initiaof Conduct in the CSR section on our tives such as our Responsible Sourcing ­website, www.carlsbergroup.com/CSR. Programme and integrated auditing, carried out by our quality department or Responsible Sourcing Programme external auditing bodies. The aim of the Carlsberg Group ­Responsible Sourcing Programme is to Supplier and Licensee Code develop and implement a set of processes of Conduct to help us improve the knowledge of CSR We want to The Code of Conduct includes the issues in our supply chain, and to monitor standards we expect our suppliers and compliance with our Code of Conduct and proactively cooperate licensees to adhere to when doing busirelevant i­ndustry standards. ness with the Carlsberg Group. These with our suppliers standards are aligned with the Carlsberg 2012 performance Group’s CSR policies on labour & human For 2012, we committed to monitoring the and partners, to rights, health & safety, the environment Carlsberg Group Supplier and Licensee and business ethics. Code of Conduct’s inclusion in global and create solutions regional contracts signed by suppliers. We have embedded the Code of Conduct To this end, we conducted a survey of all that can reduce our in our global contracts, making the standactive Group Procurement global contracts ards an integrated element of our busiand enhanced tracking of compliance in environmental impact ness relationship with our suppliers. To the contract management system. Finally, support the implementation of the Code we made sure that the Code of Conduct and mitigate potential of Conduct, we have joined AIM-Progress, is included in all Group Procurement conan industry-wide forum for global fasttract templates and legal reviews. CSR-related risks. 1 Learn more about AIM-Progress at: www.aim-progress.com 2 Learn more about Sedex at: www.sedexglobal.com 2012 progress 2012 commitments 2012 achievements 1 Monitor if the Carlsberg Group Supplier and Licensee Code of Code of Conduct included in all Group Procurement contract templates and Conduct is included in global legal reviews and regional contracts signed by suppliers Code of Conduct survey of all active Group Procurement global contracts Enhanced tracking of Code of Conduct compliance in contract management system 2013 plans and targets 2013 plans 2013 targets 1 Finalise pilot programme including 15 Group suppliers for Responsible Evaluate findings from Responsible Sourcing Programme pilot and decide Sourcing Programme on next steps Update the Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct 66 Responsible sourcing Pilot programme launched tions in our quality audits of Carlsberg our suppliers. We recognise that there is Late in the year, we launched a pilot on suppliers. These audits focus on assessing still a great deal of work ahead of us. the Responsible Sourcing Programme whether suppliers have policies, manageinvolving a selected number of suppliers.­ ment systems, certifications and targets During the course of this year we will This pilot will allow us to evaluate for environment and safety, and whether evaluate our approach in this area. The whether our programme design adequatethe company has a code of conduct in basis for this will be the findings that ly measures compliance with our Code of place. In 2012, we performed a total of 121 come out of the pilot of our Responsible­ Conduct and to trial third-party audits. audits: 94 in Western Europe, 21 in Eastern Sourcing Programme. Using these findEurope and seven in the US. ings will help us to better define how We chose to work with 15 suppliers with we can most optimally engage with our whom we have a strong relationship, to The current audit questions will be revised suppliers. ensure that we have open dialogue and in 2013, to better reflect the standards set feedback. After finalising this pilot in the out in the Code of Conduct and increase We will continue our participation in the first quarter of 2013, we will evaluate the relevance to our specific suppliers. AIM-Progress group in order to promote pilot (including scope and approach) and collective action across fast-moving decide on next steps. Future plans consumer goods companies to promote Our efforts in this area are focused on responsible sourcing practices and sustainIntegrated quality audits assessing the social and ethical perform­ able production systems. Besides the pilot programme, we are also ance of our suppliers and finding ways to including a number of CSR-related quesimprove this performance together with 68 Appendix 1 DATA SUMMARY TABLE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2010 2011 2012 General production figures Number of reporting sites 74 75 76 Beer production (million hl) 99.4 99.1 100.7 Soft drink production (million hl) 10.1 11.7 12.2 Beer and soft drink production (million hl)* 109.5 110.8 112.9 Malting (ktonnes) 464.8 410.1 467 Environmental performance data (beer, soft drink and malt production) Total thermal energy (GWh)* 3,012 2,735 2,808 Total electricity (GWh)* 1,016 949 966 Total CO2 emissions (ktonnes)* 1,1851 1,0791 949 Total S02 emissions (tonnes) 3,222 1,376 1,440 Total NOX emissions (tonnes) 3,098 1,568 1,483 Total water consumption (million m³)* 40.1 38 38.7 Total waste water discharged (million m³) 26.4 24.9 25.2 Total organic load (COD) before treatment (ktonnes) 81.2 79.8 73.6 Solid waste Incinerated (ktonnes) 4.4 6.6 7.1 To sanitary landfill (ktonnes) 41 43.5 45.1 Special waste (ktonnes) 0.43 0.79 0.32 Recycled (ktonnes) 151.5 135.2 147.5 Disposed of for land application (ktonnes) 284 209 244.5 Other (ktonnes) 0.8 0.8 8.3 Total solid waste (ktonnes) 483 396 452.8 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast (ktonnes) 1,299 1,341 1,317 Relative figures for beer and soft drink production Thermal energy (kWh/hl)* 23.5 21.1 21.0 Electricity (kWh/hl)* 8.8 8.1 8.1 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)* 32.3 29.2 29.1 CO2 emissions (kg CO2 /hl)* 9.71 8.81 7.3 Water (hl/hl)* 3.5 3.3 3.3 Relative figures for malt production Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 749.2 760.1 712.1 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 101.6 103 97.2 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/tonne) 850.8 863.1 809.3 CO2 emissions (ton CO2 /tonne) 0.27 0.24 0.22 Water (m³/tonne) 2.8 2.5 2.1 Other figures Complaints 55 47 42 Number of sites that are ISO 14001-certified 47 60 60 Water source split Municipal water (%) 54 49 51 Own boreholes (%) 40 45 43 Surface water (%) 5 6 6 Other (%) 1 0 0 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 69 2010 2011 2012 Wastewater destination Public sewer with WWT (%) 72 71 68 Public sewer without WWT (%) 3 5 3 On-site treatment, followed by discharge to river/lake (%) 24 24 28 Other (%) 0 0 1 Thermal energy mix Natural gas (%) 73.2 71.1 69.7 Coal (%) 11.8 12.7 12.3 District heating (%) 8.3 8.4 7.9 Heavy fuel oil (%) 3.2 2.6 4.7 Renewable (%) 1.6 3.1 3.5 Light fuel oil (%) 1.5 1.5 1.2 Other (%) 0.4 0.6 0.6 Packaging mix Cans (%) 23.1 23.8 24.8 RGB (%) 29.4 28.9 29.2 NRGB (%) 8.0 8.6 8.2 R-PET (%) 1.6 1.6 2.2 PET (%) 27.9 27.4 26.3 Kegs (%) 8.0 7.4 7.4 Bulk (%) 1.4 1.8 1.4 Other (%) 0.6 0.5 0.5 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 2010 2011 2012 Total cash and in-kind donations (DKKm) 362 522 38 Number of cause-related marketing partnerships N/A3 16 16 Percentage of companies investing in community engagement initatives 784 865 856 Number of community engagement activities 788 1,504 1,731 Distribution of activities Environment (%) 22 22 23 Sports (%) 10 13 15 Responsible drinking (%) 10 10 11 Education and culture (%) 24 22 25 Support of vulnerable groups (%) 21 10 11 Health and care (%) 5 7 8 Natural disaster relief (%) 4 4 3 Other (%) 14 12 4 Number of employees involved in community engagement activities N/A3 3,527 4,146 Number of hours spent 22,590 29,465 32,104 70 Appendix HEALTH & SAFETY 2010 2011 2012 Figures for production Number of lost-time accidents 233 195 171* Lost-time accident rate 16.7 13.6 11.4* Number of lost days 3,608 2,559 2,306* Days lost rate 258 178 153* Figures for logistics Number of lost-time accidents 230 180 148 Lost-time accident rate 27.2 21.6 19 Number of lost days 4,810 2,991 2,457 Days lost rate 568 359 316 Figures for the Group Number of lost-time accidents 540 457 367 Lost-time accident rate 14.9 12.3 9.9 Number of lost days 9,761 6,831 5,489 Days lost rate 270 184 147 Fatalities 2 2 0 Lost-time accidents by department Percentage in production 43 43 47 Percentage in logistics 43 39 40 Percentage in sales & marketing and administration 14 18 13 MARKETING COMMUNICATION 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of companies with a procedure in place to track consumer complaints 947 947 978 Number of reported incidents of non-compliance with the Marketing Communication Policy 10 7 5 Number of sales, marketing and innovation employees trained through the marketing N/A 235 251 ­communication e-learning tool RESPONSIBLE DRINKING 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of companies implementing responsible drinking initiatives N/A 809 7810 BUSINESS ETHICS 2010 2011 2012 Number of training sessions held on the Business Ethics Policy 118 184 184 Total number of employees trained in the Business Ethics Policy 6,234 6,653 3,795 Percentage of companies with mechanisms in place to avoid business ethics incidents 7811 8412 8313 Number of markets that held business ethics training sessions 22 24 24 Percentage of companies having implemented the Third Party Screening Procedures N/A N/A 3514 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS 2010 2011 2012 Total workforce 41,402 42,670 41,708 Percentage of employees by employment contract Number of permanent employees 93 93 93 Number of temporary employees 7 7 7 Percentage of employees by employment type Full-time 94 94 93 Part-time 6 6 7 Percentage of employees by employment category Total presidents + top managers 2 2 2 Total managers 10 11 11 Total specialists 36 39 39 Total workers 52 48 48 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 71 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of employees by gender Male 74 74 73 Female 26 26 27 Percentage of management level by gender Male 76 76 77 Female 24 24 23 Percentage of employees by age Younger than 18 0.05 0.03 0.03 19-29 24 23 23 30-39 35 35 35 40-49 26 26 26 Older than 50 15 16 16 Employee turnover Percentage of employee turnover average for the Group 12 16.5 14 Percentage of employee turnover by age Younger than 18 0 0 0 19-29 41 43 41 30-39 30 32 32 40-49 15 14 15 Older than 50 15 11 12 Percentage of employee turnover by gender Male 76 75 71 Female 24 25 29 Hours of training Average for the Group 18 17 13 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 69 68 71 Policy implementation status Percentage of labour and human rights procedures and processes implemented as average of the Group 87 89 93 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 2010 2011 2012 Number of integrated quality audits 54 76 121 NOTES * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG Assurance Report) 1 2010 and 2011 CO2 emissions restated due to changes in methodology. 2 Restated due to errors in reported data. 3 Data gathered/consolidated for the first time in 2011. 4 28 out of 36 companies 5 32 out of 37 companies 6 34 out of 40 companies 7 34 out of 36 companies 8 37 out of 38 companies 9 28 out of 35 companies 10 29 out of 37 companies 11 28 out of 36 companies 12 32 out of 38 companies 13 33 out of 40 companies 14 14 out of 40 companies 72 Appendix 2 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the readers of the 2012 CSR Report • Reviewing the suitability of the reporting criteria. We were engaged by the Executive Board of Carlsberg A/S • Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems (“Carlsberg”) to provide assurance on selected information in and processes for the collection, processing and control of the the Carlsberg Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report selected information. 2012 (“the Report”). The Executive Board is responsible for the • Interviews with the relevant staff at corporate level responpreparation of the Report, including the identification of material sible for collecting, consolidating and carrying out internal issues. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on control procedures on the selected information. the engagement outlined below. • Visits to three production sites in Poland, Ukraine and China to review the environmental and safety data and the design Scope and implementation of validation procedures at local level. Our engagement was designed to obtain limited assurance on • An analytical review of the data for the selected environmenwhether the following information is presented, in all material tal and safety indicators submitted by all production sites for respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: consolidation at corporate level. • In the “Environment” section, the introduction, “Energy and • Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on emissions”, CO2 emissions and “Water” (pp. 18-28). sampling, to determine whether the selected information is • In the “Health & Safety” section, the following 2012 indicasupported by sufficient evidence. tors: lost-time accident rate (LTAR) and days lost rate (DLR) • An analytical review of the selected tax information for the in production. individual consolidated entities. • In the “Economic value generated” section, the following • Reconciliation of selected tax information with the audited information for 2012: taxes borne incl. excise duties, corporate consolidated financial statements of Carlsberg A/S. tax paid and excise duty paid. Conclusion We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of CarlsBased on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing berg’s objectives, targets and expectations. came to our attention to indicate that the selected information is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are reporting criteria. aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Observations Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we would Reporting criteria and assurance standard like to draw readers’ attention to the following: For the information covered by our engagement scope Carlsberg • Carlsberg reports mainly on the environmental impacts applies criteria as detailed in appendices 4 to 6. It is important to related to production. We recommend Carlsberg to extend the view the assured information in the context of these criteria. We reporting of absolute energy and CO2 (Carlsberg’s footprint) to believe that these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of cover all of the operations under Carlsberg’s control, including our assurance engagement. logistics and marketing. • This year Carlsberg postponed further work on water-related We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Internacommunity initiatives. In view of the importance of water tional Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Asavailability to the business we recommend Carlsberg to give surance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical high priority to the development of their long-term strategy Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and approach to water management in 2013. Assurance Standards Board. This Standard requires, amongst others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competences needed to provide assurance on sustainability information, and that they comply with requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accounts of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure their independence. Amsterdam, 25 February 2013 Copenhagen, 25 February 2013 Work undertaken KPMG Sustainability KPMG Our procedures included the following: part of KPMG Advisory N.V. Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant environmental and safety issues for Carlsberg during the Wim Bartels Henrik Kronborg Iversen reporting period. Partner State Authorised Public Accountant Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 73 3 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TABLE The Carlsberg Group utilises the Global Reporting To increase the transparency and compreheninclude the entire list of indicators, can be found at Initiative (GRI) G3 framework to produce an oversion of the table, we indicate whether our level www.globalreporting.org. view of our CSR progress. The framework provides of disclosure covers the GRI requirements fully or organisations with principles and indicators so partially. In addition, every profile or performance The GRI G3 Guidelines encourage disaggregation that they can measure and report their economic, indicator we apply is linked to a specific section of of information where feasible, but acknowledge environmental and social performance. either our Annual Report (AR), our company webthat the level of disaggregation may vary by insite (www.carlsberggroup.com) or the CSR section dicator. We will continue to develop the ­maturity The following GRI table details how our CSR on our company website (www.carlsberggroup. of our reporting systems and procedures so that ­progress data from 2012 is aligned with the GRI com/csr/reports). we can improve the level of disaggregation in G3 guidelines. Learn more about the GRI at the future. We also aim to regularly revise the www.globalreporting.org. Given that our products are made from natural indicators that we include in our progress data so resources, the sustainability of the environment is as to ensure that they are aligned with our CSR This is our fourth year of reporting in accordance vital to our business. Most of the indicators in the agenda, and so that any indicators that add value with the GRI and it will continue to be a part of our GRI table are therefore environment-related. In for our stakeholders or us are included. CSR commitment. Following our self-assessment, total, we report on 27 indicators (13 of which are we declare our reporting to be consistent with the related to the environment), which is significantly If you have any comments or questions about our criteria for Application Level C+. KPMG provided above the required 10 profile indicators for level GRI reporting, please contact: csr@carlsberg.com assurance on selected environmental indicators C. In order to simplify the table, we have only based on the I­nternational Standard for Assurance included the indicators for which we provide either Engagements (ISAE) 3000. full or partial data. The GRI G3 Guidelines, which GRI PROFILE AND CSR REPORT 2012 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION AND/OR LEVEL OF UNGC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2012 (AR) ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO statement CSR: 6 AR: 7-10 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization CSR: 86 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Carlsberg Group brand selector (http://www.carlsberggroup.com/brands) 2.3 Operational structure of the o­rganization AR: 43-44: Executive Board 50-51: Executive Committee 135-137: Supervisory Board 2.4 Location of organization’s ­headquarters. CSR: 86 2.5 Number of countries where the organizaAR: 4-5 tion operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR: 39 2.7 Markets served AR: 12-19 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2.8.1 Number of employees CSR: 55 2.8.2 Net sales AR: 8, 54-55 2.8.3 Total capitalization broken down in AR: 8, 63 terms of debt and equity 2.8.4 Quantity of products or services proAR: 8 vided 74 Appendix GRI PROFILE AND CSR REPORT 2012 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION AND/OR LEVEL OF UNGC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2012 (AR) ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE 2.8.5 Total assets AR: 8, 62 2.9 Significant changes during the reportAR: 67-70 ing period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR: Find more case stories from 2012 at our 63: Baltika runs two of the best CSR web site: www.carlsberggroup.com/ projects in Russia according to jury CSR/ourstories • Feldschlösschen awarded the Friendly Work Space label • Carlsberg Polska receives ecoresponsible business award • Saku Brewery receives the Responsible Company quality label • Bosman and Kasztelan Breweries recognised for safety improvements by Regional Labour Authorities • Carlsberg UK receives 7 awards for outstanding health & safety results 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Report profile 3.1 Reporting period The report covers the calendar year of 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2012 published on 26 of February 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle The reporting cycle is annual 3.4 Contact point for questions r­ egarding CSR: 8 csr@carlsberg.com the report or its contents. Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content CSR: 78 3.6 Boundary of the report CSR: 78 3.7 State any specific limitations on the CSR: 78 scope or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, CSR: 78 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reCSR: 24, 60, 68 24: CO2 (2010 and 2011 CO2 emisstatements of information provided in sions restated due to changes in earlier reports, and the reasons for such methodology)­ re-statement 60: Community engagement (data restated for total cash and in-kind ­donations due to errors in previously reported data) 3.11 Significant changes from ­previous reCSR: 78-79 porting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the The information contained in this GRI Standard Disclosures in the report. [...] table Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 75 GRI PROFILE AND CSR REPORT 2012 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION AND/OR LEVEL OF UNGC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2012 (AR) ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to CSR: 72 seeking external assurance for the report AR: 133 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the AR: ­organization 43-44: Executive Board 50-51: Executive Committee 135-137: Supervisory Board 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highNo, the Chairman of the Supervisory est governance body is also an execuBoard is not the executive officer tive officer 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary AR: The Supervisory Board is made up of 14 board structure, state the number of 39-45: Corporate Governance members, none of whom are involved in members of the highest governance 135-137: Supervisory Board operative management body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and AR: 39-41 employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by CSR: 12-13 the organization 4.15 Basis for identification and s­ election of CSR: 12-13 Community Engagement Policy stakeholders with whom to engage Find it online: http://www.carlsberggroup.com/csr/ ReportingonProgress/Documents/­ Community%20Engagement%20policy.pdf PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and CSR: distributed 16-17: Economic value generated 60: Distribution of community investment activities AR: 54-55: Financial review 98-100: Retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations 76: Corporation tax EC2 Financial implications and other risks and CSR: 7 opportunities for the organisation’s activi20-25: Energy & emissions ties due to climate change 29-33: Packaging Environment EN3 Direct energy consumption by p ­ rimary CSR: 20-25, 68 8 energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary CSR: 20-25, 68 8 source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and CSR: 20 8, 9 efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or CSR: 20-25 8, 9 renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these intiatives 76 Appendix GRI PROFILE AND CSR REPORT 2012 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION AND/OR LEVEL OF UNGC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2012 (AR) ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy conCSR: 20-25 8, 9 sumption and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawl by source CSR: 26 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions CSR: 24, 68 8 by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and CSR: 20-25 7, 8, 9 reductions achieved EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emisCSR: 68 8 sions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and CSR: 69 8 destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and CSR: 68 8 disposal method EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental CSR: Case stories: Find more case stories from 2012 online 7, 8, 9 impacts of products and services, and 10: Focus on barley. at www.carlsberggroup.com/CSR/ extent of impact mitigation 22: Partnership with UNIDO will ourstories: improve environment in Russia. 25: Energy Improvements in Asia. • K ronenbourg covers 20% of its 28: Using less water at Gorkha annual energy consumption with Brewery in Nepal. ­‘home-made’ biogas 29: Engaging customers and • Carlsberg Polska activates EURO consumers in Poland. f­ootball fans in anti-littering campaign 33: Carlsberg Italia moves first on • Heat from brewing process supports environmental impact studies. district heating network 63: Baltika runs two of the best CSR • Rail transport makes sense for projects in Russia according to jury. ­business and environment CSR: Sections: 18-19: Environment 20-21: Energy & Emissions 24: CO2 emissions 26-27: Water 30-32: Packaging EN27 Percentage of products sold and their CSR:30 8, 9 packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, CSR: 70 employment contract, and region. (Core) LA2 Total number and rate of employee CSR: 71 6 turnover by age group, gender, and region. (Core) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collecCSR: 71 1, 3 tive bargaining agreements. (Core) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost CSR: 70 1 days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region LA10 Average hours of training per year per CSR: 71 employee by employee category Society S01 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any Community Engagement Policy programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on Find it online: www.carlsberggroup.com/ communities, including entering, operatCSR/REPORTINGONPROGRESS/COMMUing, and exiting NITYENGAGEMENT/Pages/default.aspx Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 77 GRI PROFILE AND CSR REPORT 2012 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION AND/OR LEVEL OF UNGC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2012 (AR) ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of CSR: 48-50 10 corruption S05 Public policy positions and participaCarlsberg is active in the political debate 1-10 tion in public policy development and related to the regulatory environment lobbying for beer and soft drinks etc. We engage directly and indirectly in dialogues with authorities and other stakeholders at national, regional and international level. At national level, we are active through our membership of brewers associations, trade associations etc. We also engage regionally through The Brewers of Europe, being the voice of the European brewing sector and a platform for dialogue with the EU Institutions. At global level we provide input to policy dialogues, e.g. through the World Wide Brewing Alliance, in the World Health Organisation, the World Trade Organisation etc. Carlsberg contributes to funding research on beer and other alcoholic beverages, for example through The European Foundation for Alcohol Research (ERAB) and the International Centre for Alcohol Policies (ICAP). Furthermore Carlsberg Group is also an active member of the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) which a partnership of leading global beverage companies working together to advance the standing of the beverage industry in the realm of environmental stewardship. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Marketing Communication Policy standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including Find it online: http://www.carlsberggroup. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship com/csr/ReportingonProgress/Documents/Carlsberg_Policy_MC_group.pdf PR7 Total number of incidents of nonCSR: 40 compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes N/A % of employees trained on responsible CSR: 40 marketing. Training could e.g. be e-learning, workshop or induction training. Human Rights HR3 Total hours of employeee training on 98% of our companies have reported that 1-6 policies and procedures concerning asall HR employees have been ­introduced pects of human rights that are relevant to the Labour and Human Rights Policy to operations, including the percentage and are familiar with the situations covered of employees trained by the policy. Furthermore, 75% of our companies have trained all their people managers with direct reports in the Labour and Human Rights Policy, an increase of 14% from last year. The figures for on total % of employees trained not available HR4 Total number of incidents of discriminaNo incidents of discrimination reported 1, 2, 6 tion and actions taken in 2012 78 Appendix 4 CSR REPORTING PROCESS AND SCOPE 1 Reporting approach and criteria • The following sites are not included even though they are [Determining the content of the reporting] majority-owned: Qitai Malting (China), Yinchuan Bottling Plant (China). Completeness • The following site will be excluded from 2013 due to closure: Scope of the CSR reporting Changji Brewery (China, Xinjiang Group). • The following site changed its name: Lao Softdrink Company Our CSR reporting is aligned with GRI G3. In this document we changed its name to Lao Brewery due to a merger. cover the relevant and significant social, ethical and environmental issues for the financial year 1 January to 31 December 2012. Ensuring data quality Our GRI table includes references to our Annual Report, which In gathering information about our CSR performance, we have covers our financial and economic performance. Together, this applied the widely used principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, information supplies our stakeholders with an overview of our reliability, timeliness and comparability. social, environmental and economic performance. Please find additional information on each of the topics below: In order to determine the areas to be included in the CSR reporting, we use various sources and inputs. In 2011, we conducted a Balance materiality analysis among our internal and external stakeholdWe are committed to communicating honestly and openly about ers in order to assess whether our current level of activities and our performance, both when it has improved and when it has reporting was sufficient to meet our stakeholders’ expectations. not. Our aim is to provide our stakeholders with sufficient inforWe also receive recommendations on our CSR activities and mation about our company so that they are able to make their reporting from our assurance provider, KPMG, and continuously own judgements concerning the Carlsberg Group’s position and analyse competitors and industry initiatives. role in the societies where we do business. Furthermore, we use the internationally recognised Global Clarity Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard in order to ensure comparabilWe strive to make our CSR reporting accessible and easy to read. ity with other companies. Find out more from our GRI table in We have worked with usability and web experts to ensure that Appendix 3. the performance data and reporting content are understandable and well communicated on our corporate website. Boundary setting Entities included in the performance (data) include majorityAccuracy and reliability owned subsidiaries, defined as companies that the Carlsberg Since 2009, we have used a dedicated CSR reporting system Group directly or indirectly owns, in which it controls more than to help us collect data from local sites and consolidate this at 50% of the voting rights or otherwise controls. Group level. Every year since 2009, we have improved the definitions of our performance indicators in order to help our entities Joint ventures and companies over which Carlsberg does not report accurate and reliable data. However, we also recognise have the opportunity to exercise management control are not that there is still a challenge ahead in order to obtain a complete included in the reported data. However, we work constantly with and fully aligned overview of all our CSR data, especially when it our partners to ensure a continuous focus on CSR issues. comes to local procedures for data gathering. Our reporting sysIf a majority-owned entity is acquired during the financial year, tem has been developed by Enablon, an international provider the entity will be included in the reporting for the following year. of CSR software solutions. The system gives us a high degree of control over the data-gathering process, helps local companies to The boundary setting is different for the information related to compare data year on year, and also allows instant consistency “Economic value generated” and “Total tax contribution”. The checks during the data-gathering phase. principles used for this data can be found in Appendix 6. We have appointed KPMG to provide independent assurance Comments on boundary setting: regarding selected environmental and safety indicators. In the • The following site has been closed/sold since 2011: Vena various sections, we indicate which data has been assured. For Brewery, St Petersburg (Russia, 01.01.12), Leeds (UK, closed further details, see page 72. 17.06.11), Cardinal (Switzerland, closed 23.06.11) • The following sites have been added since 2011: Hue B ­ rewery, Timeliness Hue (Vietnam), Hue Brewery, Phu Bai (Vietnam), Lao Internally, we report our CSR data with varying degrees of fre­Brewery, Vientiane (Laos), and Lao Brewery, Pakse (Laos). quency, determined by the nature of the data. Health & safety 1 The scope and boundary described in this section mainly relate to CSR data gathered primarily through our CSR reporting and management system. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 79 data is reported on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. All other CSR data is collected annually. Where necessary, we revise the reporting frequency in order to strike the right balance and obtain the right data at the right frequency. Our annual data gathering and external reporting are aligned with the financial data gathering using the calendar year. Comparability Our reporting criteria and indicators are based on the GRI G3 guidelines (2006) where applicable. In the GRI table (Appendix 3), we have listed whether our reporting is fully or partially in line with the GRI indicator definitions. We include three-year comparisons, as recommended by GRI, for all data for which a comparable three-year history is available. Definitions Some differences in the interpretation of some indicators at site level were identified during the reporting process. However, we do not believe these differences are material for the validity of the reported data. Within the environmental data, any reference to “production site” or “site” refers to sites where we produce beer, soft drinks or malt, as well as combinations of these, and the consumption at these sites. The term “production site” does not include off-site consumption such as logistics and off-site administration. Definitions for environmental indicators and health & safety are available in Appendix 5. Targets We communicate two different kinds of plans and targets: 1) One-year short-term plans 2) Three-year targets and objectives These have been developed by each of the functional owners of the CSR focus areas. These targets may be adjusted according to significant changes in the business, such as major acquisitions and divestments when these are made before the target date. To the extent possible, we include such changes by applying scenario planning to our target-setting process. 80 Appendix 5 DEFINITIONS ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH & SAFETY ENVIRONMENTAL DEFINITIONS INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT Total thermal energy consumption Total thermal energy consumption for beer, and soft drink and GWh malt production Total electricity consumption Total electricity consumption for beer, and soft drink and malt GWh production Total water consumption Total water consumption for beer, and soft drink and malt m3 production Total production of beer and soft drinks Total fermented and non-fermented products produced hl Total CO2 emissions Total fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect 1 ktonnes CO2 ­emissions) emitted due to energy used for beer, soft drink and malt production Specific thermal energy consumption Thermal energy needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and kWh/hl soft drinks Specific electricity consumption Electricity needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft kWh/hl drinks Specific water consumption Water needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft hl/hl drinks Specific CO2 emissions Fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) kg CO2/hl emitted from energy used to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks 1 CO 2 emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance with 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and IEA statistics: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2012 Edition). CO 2 from other activities, such as logistics and CO 2 -equivalents from HCFCs, is not included in the total or specific CO 2 figures. HEALTH & SAFETY DEFINITIONS INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT Lost-time accidents (LTA) in production Occupational accidents that result in employees being unable to Number perform the full range of their normal duties for at least one day, (LTA) excluding the day of the accident Lost-time accident rate in production Number of LTAs x 1000 / number of FTEs Rate (LTAR) Days lost (DL) in production Days absent from work (excluding the day of the accident) Number due to lost-time accidents (DL) Days lost rate in production Number of DLs x 1000 / number of FTEs Rate (DLR) Full-time equivalents in production Number of employees on payroll, where part-time workers Number are converted into FTEs by an equivalent proportion and one (FTE) person maximum counts as 1 FTE Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 81 6 TAX ASSURANCE PRINCIPLES BASIS OF PREPARATION The data is reported by the entity in local currency in multiples of 1,000. General comments This Basis of Preparation presents the scope and methodology Scope of reporting and definition of key terms of the collection and reporting of the data on tax payments used “Tax” in this Report means any amount of money required to in the Carlsberg Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report be paid to, or collected and subsequently remitted to, a govern(“the Report”). ment. Taxes have been reported by differentiating between taxes borne and taxes collected. The following sections provide the The Report aims to provide readers with an overview of the total scope of the data presented in the Report. tax contribution that the Carlsberg Group (excluding associates) has generated during the year. The total tax contribution is deTerms defined in Carlsberg’s Annual Report 2012 are not fined as taxes borne and taxes collected by the Carlsberg Group. ­described below. The Basis of Preparation supports the data for taxes borne, taxes Taxes borne and taxes collected are the taxes due in respect of collected and total tax contribution included in the Report. an accounting period as defined in the IFRS, as adopted by the EU. Borne taxes paid and collected taxes paid, including excise It is the responsibility of the Management of Carlsberg to ensure duty paid, are included when cash is released from or received by that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare reporting in Carlsberg. line with this Basis of Preparation. Key term definitions All data, unless otherwise stated, is prepared for the year from 1 Economic value generated January 2012 to 31 December 2012. Economic value generated comprises gross revenue, other income, financial income and income included in special items. InData is collected for all companies that Carlsberg A/S controls. come recognised in other comprehensive income is not included. Control is obtained when Carlsberg A/S directly or indirectly owns or controls more than 50% of the voting rights in the Total tax contribution subsidiary or has control in some other way. Subsidiaries that Total tax contribution is the sum of borne and collected taxes Carlsberg controls have reported 100% of their taxes borne and paid to governments for the period from 1 January to 31 Decemcollected, and the full amount is included in the Carlsberg tax ber. Amounts are included as paid when cash is released from or contribution. received by Carlsberg. Companies over which the Group exercises a significant influOperating cost ence, but does not control, are considered to be associates. Includes cost of sales, sales and distribution expenses, adminSignificant influence is generally obtained by direct or indirect istrative expenses, other operating expenses, expenses included ownership or control of more than 20% but less than 50% of in special items and share of profit after tax in associates, but the voting rights. Data for associates is not part of the Carlsberg excluding employee wages. tax contribution. Employee wages Entities that, by agreement, are managed jointly with one or Include wages to employees excluding social security costs. more other parties (joint ventures) are consolidated proportionally, and data is recognised in proportion to the ownership interest. Providers of capital Include financial expenses recognised in the income statement, but Entities acquired or formed during the year are recognised in the not financial expenses recognised in other comprehensive income. Report from the date of acquisition or formation. Entities that are disposed of or wound up are recognised in the consolidated Economic value retained income statement until the date of disposal or winding-up. Consolidated profit after tax. The data includes a degree of estimation, as tax per entity is Current tax not reported in detail if a type of tax is below DKK 100,000 per The corporate income tax due in respect of taxable profit for year. Instead, taxes below DKK 50,000 are not reported, and an accounting period, as defined in the International Financial taxes above DKK 50,000 but below DKK 100,000 are reported Reporting Standard IAS 12. as DKK 50,000. 82 Appendix Deferred tax Environmental fees The corporate income tax due in respect of temporary ­differences Environmental fees comprise additional environmental taxes that between accounting values and tax base, as defined in the may apply depending on company operations. Such taxes may ­International Financial Reporting Standard IAS 12. include other taxes and duties on the supply of goods and services that are potentially harmful to the environment and have Employee taxes not been included in the energy taxes. Include personal income taxes and social contribution for ­employees (borne and collected). VAT (non-deductible) This comprises the non-deductible part of the value added tax, Government i.e. taxes that arise in relation to brewing or sale, which cannot The term government means any government body or nation, be recovered from a government. The payment is borne by the state, region or district. company and not the consumers. Direct tax Real estate taxes A tax paid directly to a government by the person on whom it Real estate taxes comprise any property-related taxes, including is imposed. Such taxes also include non-refundable VAT, nonproperty, land and estate tax (other than stamp duty, which is recoverable withholding taxes, real estate tax etc. shown below). Typically, these taxes tend to become payable, and are paid, to governments throughout the year. Indirect tax A tax required to be paid to a government by one person at the Withholding taxes on dividends, royalties, interest and expense of another. ­professional fees Withholding taxes comprise the final tax burden on payment of dividends, interest etc. after possible tax relief. SCOPE OF REPORTING Transportation taxes 1. Borne taxes and excise duties Transportation taxes comprise flight tax, petrol tax, registration­duThese are the taxes that Carlsberg is obliged to pay to a governties and other taxes levied on the mobility of goods and employees. ment on its own behalf, or taxes that Carlsberg is obliged to pay to a third party and that cannot be recovered from a government. Social contribution for employees Social contribution for employees comprises the social security Corporate income tax contributions levied on and borne by the employing company. Corporate income tax comprises any tax on the business calcuSuch contributions may include the employer’s national insurlated on the basis of its profits, income or capital gains. Typically, ance contributions, employment insurance tax, employees’ these taxes would be reflected in corporate income tax returns provident fund, old-age, survivors and disability insurance tax. made to governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, either in the year the profits were made or up to one year Stamp duties later, depending on the local tax rules as to timing of payments. Stamp duties comprise taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital. Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty Excise duties (beer and soft drinks etc.) returns made to governments and tend to become payable, and Excise duties are indirect taxes on the consumption or the use of are paid, to governments shortly after capital or assets have certain products (e.g. alcoholic beverages or tobacco). In contrast been transferred. to value added tax (VAT), they are expressed as a monetary amount per quantity of the product. Other taxes This category comprises all paid taxes which have not been Energy taxes (net, non-refundable) included in the above categories. Energy taxes comprise environmental taxes levied on the consumption of energy borne by companies’ own supply of energy. 2. Taxes collected Such taxes may include taxes on the consumption of electricity, These are taxes not finally borne by Carlsberg, but Carlsberg oil, gas or coal. bears an administrative burden for the collection of taxes. These taxes are, however, indirectly generated from Carlsberg’s business activities and therefore part of Carlsberg’s total tax contribution. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 83 Personal income taxes This comprises employee taxes withheld from employee wages and paid to governments, i.e. tax collected and remitted to governments on behalf of employees. Social contribution withheld by the company This comprises social contributions payable by employees to social security, private funded and unfunded schemes. Generally, the employment of staff requires the employing company to administer employees’ social security contributions by deducting these from wages and salaries. Withholding tax on dividend distributions made by Carlsberg A/S This comprises taxes that are required to be withheld in advance on payments made to shareholders. VAT Value added tax, or VAT, is a broadly based consumption tax assessed on the value added to goods and services. It applies more or less to all goods and services that are bought and sold for use or consumption in certain geographic areas. This comprises the net VAT payable to a government, i.e. VAT on sales minus VAT on purchases. 84 Appendix 7 LIST OF REPORTING SITES1 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES Asia China Xinjiang Group Akesu Brewery Changji Brewery Hami Brewery Houchen Brewery Kashi Brewry Urumqi No. 2 Brewery Wusu Brewery Korle Brewery Yining Brewery Carlsberg Brewery G­ uangdong Carlsberg Brewery, ­Guangdong (Huizhou) Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan Dali Beer Co. Ltd Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong Not a production site Carlsberg Hong Kong Not a production site Singapore Carlsberg Singapore Not a production site Malaysia Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur Vietnam SEAB (South East Asia Brewery) SEAB Hanoi Hue Vietnam Hue Brewery, Hue Hue Brewery, Phu Bai Laos Lao Brewery Lao Softdrink Company Vientiane (Pepsi) Lao Brewery Vientiane Lao Brewery Pakse Malawi Carlsberg Malawi Carlsberg Malawi Brewery Ltd. (CMBL) SOBO Blantyre SOBO Lilongwe MDL SOBO Mzuzu Nepal Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery Eastern Europe Russia Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St. Petersburg Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don Baltika Khabarovsk Baltika Novosibirsk Baltika Samara Baltika Tula Brewery Tula Pikra Brewery Krasnoyarsk Vena Chelyabinsk Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl Yarpivo Voronezh Belarus Alivaria Alivaria Uzbekistan Carlsberg Uzbekistan Tashkent Kazakhstan Derbes Derbes Brewery, Almaty Azerbaijan Baku Baku Brewery Ukraine Slavutich Lvivska Brewery, Lviv Slavutich Zaporozhye Slavutich Kiev 1 The reporting sites described in this paragraph relate to CSR data gathered primarily through our CSR reporting and management system. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2012 85 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES Northern Europe Denmark Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen brewery Saltum Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries Not a production site Danish Malting Group DMG Denmark Estonia Saku Ölletehase as Saku Finland Sinebrychoff Kerava Germany Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei Hamburg AG Mecklenburgische Brauerei, Lübz Latvia Aldaris Aldaris Riga Lithuania Svyturys-Utenos Alys Utena Klaipeda Norway Ringnes E.C. Dahls Trondheim Farris Gjelleråsen Imsdal Poland Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery Brzesko Kasztelan Brewery Szczecin Brewery Danish Malting Group – Poland Danish Malting Group Polska Sp. z.o.o. Slodownia Strzegom Sp. z.o.o. Sweden Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg Ramlösa Sverige Western Europe Bulgaria Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko Shumensko Croatia Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica France Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai Greece Mythos Breweries S.A. Thessaloniki Italy Carlsberg Italia Varese Serbia Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija, Celarevo Switzerland Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns S Rheinfeld Sion Carlsberg Group Procurement AG Not a production site UK Carlsberg UK Northampton Carlsberg A/S 100 Ny Carlsberg Vej 1799 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone +45 3327 3300 Fax +45 3327 4701 carlsberg@carlsberg.com www.carlsberggroup.com CVR No. 61056416
