UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Sustainable perspectives How we take responsibility for people, the economy, and the environment Corporate Sustainability Report 12 About us SEB’s markets Operating income Subsidiaries, branches and representative offices Geographical distribution, per cent SEB representation worldwide 2012 2011 Sweden 57 (59) Norway 8 (8) Denmark 8 (8) Finland 4 (4) Moscow Germany 1) 7 (9) London Warsaw Luxembourg Kiev Estonia 3 (3) Geneva Latvia 3 (3) Lithuania 4 (4) Beijing New York Other 6 (2) SEB’s activities principally embrace customers based in the Nordic and Baltic Shanghai countries and Germany. The Bank has 292 branch offices in Sweden and the Baltic New Delhi Hong Kong countries. SEB’s growth plan resulted in higher operating income in all Nordic countries in 2012. 1) Excluding centralised treasury operations São Paulo Singapore 2012 in brief SEB’s corporate objectives and strategic priorities 2012 2011 Corporate objectives: Strategic priorities: Operating income, SEK m 38,823 37,686 Profit before credit losses, SEK m 15,171 14,173 • The leading Nordic bank for • Long-term customer Operating profit, SEK m 14,235 14,953 corporates and institutions relationships Net profit from continuing ­operations, SEK m 12,142 12,011 Return on equity, continuing operations, per cent 11.5 12.3 • Top universal bank in • Growth in areas of strength Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 5.53 5.46 Sweden and the Baltic Proposed dividend, SEK 2.75 1.75 countries • Resilience and flexibility Core Tier I capital ratio1), per cent 15.1 13.7 Tier I capital ratio1), per cent 17.5 15.9 1) without Basel II transitional floor Contents CEO statement 1 Tackling financial crime 13 Responsible ownership 14–15 Our role and approach Sustainable finance and investments 16–17 Years of action 2 Reducing our environmental footprint 19 Our impact on society, value added statement 3 Valuing our people 20–23 We engage in stakeholder dialogues 4 Investing in communities 24–25 Issues identified as material 5 Access to financial services 26 Sustainability strategy and performance 6–7 A senior economist’s perspective on banks’ role in society 8 Corporate Governance 27–28 SEB supports entrepreneurs 9 About this report 28 Our priorities GRI content index, awards, indexes Responsible selling and marketing 10–12 and contacts Back cover CEO STATEMENT Responsible banking for future generations Based on our role as a financial partner for individuWe are actively promoting transparency and are still the only als, businesses and institutions SEB has significant Swedish bank being fully transparent on a daily basis on our fundimpact on the communities in which we operate. We ing costs for Swedish mortgage pricing. The starting point of our lending is always the customer’s repayment capacity. Thus, SEB take a broad approach to corporate sustainability was the first Swedish bank to introduce amortisation requirements with efforts targeting governance, business ethics, on mortgage loans with loans to value ratios above 70 percent as environmental and social responsibility. Thus, we are we see this also as an opportunity for customers building buffers confident that we can influence the development of savings over time. towards a more sustainable economy. We put our Engaged employees customers’ long-term success first and know that Having engaged and skilled employees is an absolute prerequisite our employees’ skills and commitment are prerequifor our and our customers’ success, and I am proud that our people sites for success. really live our values – professionalism, commitment, mutual respect and continuity – every day. It is about having a long-term The past years have indeed been challenging for the global bankperspective and acting accordingly. And we set high standards. ing system and for real economic global growth. In many parts of Business ethics and the prevention of corruption, money launderthe world growing social imbalances are challenging, while issues ing and fraud are always in focus, and we have internal dialogues like ethics, corruption, labour and human rights increasingly have about our culture and our values. It is highlighted for example in come into focus. Environmental issues remain high on the agenda. our Code of Business Conduct, which was updated in 2012, where These are issues that affect all of us and where we as a bank of we also have refined and clarified our whistle-blowing process. We course strive to take our responsibility. Banks are at the centre of are pleased that our work is recognised. Recently we received the the credit intermediation process through our vital role as lenders, highest rating in Transparency International’s survey of transparmarket makers and providers of payment services and thus supency and anti-corruption work among Swedish companies. porting sustainable economic growth. Resilience and a long-term A clear contribution to the development of society is our perspective to serve its customers are key. SEB has that. commitment to future generations – children, young people and In 2012 SEB executed 747 millions payments and increased entrepreneurs. We support entrepreneurship at all stages, from household and corporate lending by SEK 60bn. Overall average lendeducation in schools up to the most established entrepreneurs in ing and deposit volumes increased by 7 and 10 per cent respectively. the Entrepreneur of the Year. Our collaboration with Mentor helps SEB has together with the World Bank been a pioneer in issuance develop young people in their everyday lives and are a way to give of Green Bonds and we have issued more than SEK 16bn of Green back to the communities where we operate. The cooperation is Bonds financing some 40 environmental projects in 17 countries. also rewarding for our employees through new insights. Continued integration of sustainability We want to strengthen awareness In 2012, SEB has continued to integrate sustainability in our Going forward, we will continue to strengthen awareness of susactivities taking a broad business approach targeting governance, tainability within SEB, with a continued integrated business focus. business ethics, environmental and social issues. International We intend to enhance our work for human rights based on the UN commitments are the foundation for our sustainability work. We framework “Protect, Respect, Remedy”. In SEB we avoid shortcuts have signed and of course support global initiatives including the – our mindset is on the long-term perspective. UN Global Compact, the UN Principles for Responsible InvestWe strive to be transparent and accessible to ensure that our ment and the OECD guidelines. Since 2008 we have reduced stakeholders know why, what and how we work to take our share our CO2 emission by 36 per cent and we are included in several of the responsibility for sustainable economic development. sustainability indices such as FTSE4Good. We are also included in RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2013. Stockholm, March 2013 We are in dialogue with our customers about important but difficult issues concerning the environment, business ethics, social responsibility and corporate governance. This makes our job more complex, and it is not always we reach a final conclusion, but I am convinced that the decisions thus become better and more Annika Falkengren elaborated over time. President and Chief Executive Officer SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 1 Years of actions 2007 • F irst Nordic Bank to adopt. the UN Equator Principles • S ignatory to the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative. • First CS Report published. 1995 Appointed the first Environmental Manager at 2008 2000 • Adoption of the UN Principles for SEB. Engaged employees The OECD guidelines for Responsible Investments. through training and videos. Multinational Enterprises • Signatory of the Carbon Disclosure Project. 1996 • First issue of Green Bonds – Signed the International 2006 developed in co-operation Chamber of Commerce SEB published Code between the World Bank and SEB. Business Charter for of Business Conduct. Sustainable Development. 2004 2009 • Joined the Swedish Financial 1997 SEB signed the UN coalition against child pornography. 1856 • E nvironmental criteria Global Compact. • F irst group-wide CS strategy and Founded in the service formally introduced framework decided upon by the GEC. of enterprise into credit policy. •C  S Report in line with Global •C  o-operation with Reporting Initiative guidelines. Mentor started. 1990 2000 2010 2010 Initiatives guiding our work • Support Junior Achievement Young Enterprise (Ung Företagsamhet). SEB has adopted a number of global initiatives and international • Support Mentor in Estonia and Latvia. codes of conduct which guide our business decisions and the over• External web site Sustainable all sustainability work. This also gives us an opportunity to learn, Perspective launched. share knowledge and impact rules and regulations on a higher level. During the years we have also launched own guidelines and 2011 initiatives that are important pillars in our daily work. • Sector policies and position statements approved by the GEC. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, revised. 2012 • Updated Code of Business Conduct. • Renewed agreement with Mentor. • SEB – The Perfect Entrepreneur OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Our impact on society, risks and opportunities As a bank we have a central role to play in sustainthat we always put their interests first, and that the service, able development and we have significant impact products and advice we provide are reliable, transparent and on the communities where we operate. It is about secure. A sound corporate culture which is embraced by everyone is therefore a key competitive advantage. Motivated and experihow we act as lender to productive investments, enced employees are critical to developing financial services and how we act as an institutional investor and how we products as well as attracting and retaining clients. By providing act as stewards of savings. an engaging, sound and healthy work environment we want to encourage high quality performance as well as high employee We believe that companies that actively manage the environmensatisfaction and loyalty. tal, social and governance impact of their business are more able Our corporate culture stems from our core values and is to reduce risks and costs, to attract capital and seize opportunities. expressed in our Code of Business Conduct and our policies, and is By sharing our specialist knowledge, we can also empower monitored through robust internal control systems. For us adherpeople to make more informed financial decisions and contribute ence to international best practices in corporate governance, risk to better functioning societies. For management and compliance the society at large, as well as the standards remains a necessity. people within it, access to finance and banking services are crucial to Trust is everything By listening to our stakeholders and integrating environmental engender economic activity. and social factors into our longOur direct impact as regards term strategies as well as into our customers primarily relates to how we treat them and how we our daily business decisions, we believe that we can make better ensure that the service, products and advice we provide are reliable, decisions and thereby create the platform for long-term success. transparent and secure. Our direct environmental impact is limited This relates to identifying and mitigating risks as well as seizing and relates primarily to energy for heating and cooling of offices, opportunities. One such aspect involves developing innovative and electricity use, paper consumption and business related travel. prudent financial services and products. SEB has a strong position in the Nordic and Baltic markets. We have a leading position among large corporates and institutions in Value added statement the Nordic markets. SEB is the largest bank in Lithuania, and the The value added statement indicates the added value generated second largest bank in Estonia and Latvia. This puts emphasis on by a company as its contribution to the gross domestic product of the importance of standing by our customers and providing secure its home country and how it is appropriated. Financial resilience and undisrupted levels of service. and profitability is a prerequisite for SEB being able to contribute to the economy and society at large. This allows us to continue Sustainability trends – risks and opportunities servicing our customers, pay salaries to employees, payments to The macro economic outlook is highly uncertain with financial suppliers, taxes to governments and dividends to shareholders. Our turbulence and continuing sovereign debt crisis. This uncertainty direct value distribution in 2012 amounted to SEK 33.1bn which was in southern Europe present numerous challenges augmented 3 per cent higher than in 2011. by demographic shifts and urbanisation. Issues involving ethics, corruption, working conditions and human rights are in focus. SEB’s value distribution Resource and freshwater scarcity, eco-system services and climate SEKm change remains high on the agenda. 35,000 33,122 Banks are under constant scrutiny. There is a need to restore 32,101 29,758 trust and credibility both for the system as a whole and for individ30,000 27,815 26,629 ual institutions. Regulation, political and stakeholder pressure will 25,000 therefore continue to have an impact on the business environment for banks. Banking or investing in poorly managed businesses can 20,000 prove quite costly. In addition, to be seen as a bank or investor of irresponsible projects and businesses remains a reputation risk 15,000 and this is likely to become an even bigger issue going forward. 10,000 Financial crime is another international problem for which the possible consequences can be substantial. As a major provider of 5,000 loans, payments and other financial services we need to protect 0 our customers and the assets we manage. Considerable resources 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 are invested to prevent financial crime and its damaging effects on Dividends to shareholders (6.0) Payments to suppliers (9.3) our business, customers and on local and global economies. Taxes and fees to governments (6.0) Compensation and For us as a bank trust is everything. Customers should know (including social charges) pensions to employees (11.8) SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 3 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH We engage in stakeholder dialogues Our stakeholders The opinion of our stakeholders play an important role in ment and regulator developing our approach to corporate sustainability and when vern s Go deciding which issues to prioritise. The starting point has been the s Cu impact on our stakeholders of current issues as well as long-term yee more stom plo 00 tha n4 e ors etit trends identified through our strategy and business planning ,0 17 Em process. rs illion mp Med ia m Co Although we continue to have a particular focus on customer insights, we engage in dialogue with a range of stakeholders n s Co m including local communities, NGO’s as well as employees, business r partners, financial analysts and owners. We have channels and lde S h a r e h o 00 om m u n methods for gathering and monitoring essential feedback across e 20 i t i e s our business. 300,0 oc u ps at c o u n tr i e s The backbone consists of the various ongoing surveys which Civ Su d s e b u p p lie r s a n rs g ro are complemented by surveys on specific topics and deeper il s i sin e ss par et n oc engagement dialogues. In addition, we participate in industry ietyo rg 12,000 v an ad forums as well as international and national sustainability forums is a er tio n um to discuss emerging challenges and trends. s C ons Stakeholder Primary engagement channels Main issues raised during 2012 Customers Tracking and analysis of customer insight surveys, fo• Customer service cus groups, feedback and complaints received via our • Long-term relations customer advisors and relationship managers, tele• Overall brand reputation phone banks, online, and local branch teams. Internal • Sustainability performance customer insight web portal hosting surveys such as • Providing support in good and bad times Prospera, Needscope, SEB Brand Tracking, Reputation • Quality advice Index, SKI (Swe), Finansbarometern (Swe). • Accessibility Employees Bi-annual employee survey (the most recent in 2011), • Development/career opportunities engagement survey related to community investments, • Competence development open internal chats with executive management, “You • Leadership are SEB” dialogues, SEB Way transformations and • Strengthening external reputation weekly continuous development white-board meetings, • Health/work life balance leadership development programmes, Workers Councils • Working with sustainability meetings; annual health and safety reviews. • Remuneration Shareholders, investors Surveys such as Bloomberg, RobecoSAM, Vigeo, • Financial resilience and analysts Sustainalytics, Oekom and Imug. Briefings, engage• Sustainable growth and return ment dialogues, questions received prior to and during • Sustainability performance AGM’s. • Human capital • Transparency Government and regulators Economic and policy trend analysis, industry forums • Regulation and meetings. • Consumer debt levels Suppliers and business partners Questionnaires and individual meetings. • Strategic partnerships • Accountability Communities, civil society Research – general public, local community engage• Job-creation organisations, consumer ments, round-table discussions, regular meetings with • Ethical behaviour anti-corruption advocate groups etc NGO’s, mentoring, volunteering, CS forums, research • Human rights papers, media coverage • Transparency • Sustainability performance • Local community support 4 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Issues identified as material Deciding which issues that are the most material is •H  uman rights and working conditions – how can we in our busian evolving process which incorporates internationness actively take into account human rights and avoid involveal best practice, stakeholder opinions, important ment in activities that in any way violate human rights? In this report Sustainable strategy page 6, Responsible ownership pages events during the year with an analysis of current 14–15, Sustainable finance and investments pages 16–17 and or potential business impact. We continue to have a Valuing our people pages 20–23. particular focus on our customers and what issues they think are the most important. The reason is •C  limate change and environmental challenges – in dialogue that we are convinced that long-term high customer with our clients, understanding and managing environmental and social risks and seizing opportunities, in financings and investloyalty and satisfaction drives profitability. ments. How we whilst growing our business, remain focused on Key issued identified are: reducing our direct environmental impact as regards emissions contributing to climate change as well as improving resource • Customer relations and service – being the relationship bank, efficiency. See in this report Responsible ownership pages 14–15, delivering products and services in a way that builds trust among Sustainable finance and investments pages 16–18 and Reducing customers. See Annual Report pages 4–5, 10–11, and this report our environmental footprint page 19. Responsible selling and marketing pages 10–11 and Access to financial services page 26. • S upporting entrepreneurship – Starting and developing businesses strongly contributes to creating future growth and the • Financial strength and resilience – keeping a resilient and vast majority of new jobs created in recent years have been crestrong balance sheet, ensuring regulatory compliance and mainated in small businesses, both in Sweden and in our neighbouring taining tight control over operating expenses. See Annual Report countries. See in this report Entrepreneurship page 9. 2012 pages 1 and 9. •P  eople competence and employee engagement – how we • Transparency – focus on corporate governance and increased ensure employees are given opportunities to develop; how we transparency in reporting and openness as regards interest rates equip them with the skills required to address future challenges and fees. See Responsible selling and marketing pages 10–12, and feeling engaged in the development of SEB. See in this report Governance page 27 and About this report page 28. Valuing our people pages 20–23. • Business ethics and anti-corruption – how do we work to ensure •D  iversity and work-life balance – how we build on early that integrity and high ethical standards permeate everything we progress to ensure that we continue to be a sound and inclusive do? In this report see Responsible selling and marketing pages 10– workplace where the best people want to work. See in this report 12, Responsible ownership pages 14–15, Sustainable finance and Valuing our people pages 20–23. investments pages 16–17 and Valuing our people pages 20–23. • E ngaging in local communities – supporting future generations • Financial crime prevention – concerns about IT security, fraud and working to reduce social imbalances in the communities. prevention approach, employee screening, etc. and what we are In this report see Investing in communities pages 24–25. doing about it. See this report Tackling financial crime page 13. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 5 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Sustainability strategy Our vision is to be the trusted partner for customers Our ambition over the next three to five years with aspirations. We therefore continuously work to Key prerequisites for us are long-term perspective, being a robust ensure that our business is conducted responsibly, is financial partner and transparency. We strive for strong relationships with our customers and other stakeholders, increased transparent and adheres to high ethical standards. confidence and trust and therefore depend on our people being By doing this successfully, we create long-term engaged and feeling valued. stakeholder value. In 2009, we set the goal that susWe will continue embedding governance, environmental and tainability should be an integrated part of the way social aspects, such as labour standards and human rights, into business is done by 2012. Progress has been made our way of doing business, into decision processes as well as awareness and knowledge. Our support of future generations; in many areas, but this is a never ending journey. entrepreneurship and innovation, youth and education and knowledge, is focused on partnerships and engagement in the communiPurpose ties where we are present. SEB aims for high customer loyalty, high employee commitment and high brand perception. We believe that we can strengthen our long-term relationships with customers and other stakeholders by acting responsibly and by making sustainability a natural part of how we do business. The purpose of SEB’s sustainability work is n Kn tio ow thus to contribute to the Bank’s continued success by helping our ibu Governance le Knowle tion stakeholders achieve their objectives. Thereby we contribute to dge a Responsible selling & marketing ntribu nd e Tackling financial crime ic co the communities in which we do business. con nom eco om ics Responsible ownership Eth ic c nd on ea Eth dg ics tr Approach To be the trusted partner SEB’s corporate sustainability work involves all parts of the Group for customers with and extends to all markets in which we are active. We have a aspirations business approach in integrating sustainability throughout our business, working with customers and other stakeholders. This Environment Social work is long-term and is constantly evolving to reflect changes Reducing our footprint Valuing our people Sustainable finance & Access to financial services in the business environment. Our efforts are focused on eight investment Investing in communities business priorities in three areas of responsibility – governance, Ethics environmental and social. These priorities reflect the issues that Kn o wle d i on ge and economic contribut our stakeholders see as the most significant. Eight business priorities – our ambitions three to five years SEB’s sustainability strategy is focused on eight Responsible ownership all credit and investment decisions consider business priorities within three areas of responsiEnsure that we perform our ownership environmental, social and governance aspects. bility: Governance, social and environmental. role responsibly, promoting good By focusing our efforts on these priorities we can business ethics and governance. To be perceived Valuing our people contribute to better banking governance and as one of the leading asset managers within Top number of employees engaged protection of the environment, while enhancing responsible investments. Increased focus on and proud to recommend SEB as an our social contribution. sustainability aspects in relations with suppliers inclusive and sound workplace with scope for and other business partners. individual development. Increased diversity at Responsible selling and marketing all levels. Top customer loyalty. Facilitating Reducing our footprint customers’ own control and underManaging our direct environmental Access to financial services standing of their financial situation. Ensure impact. Reduced CO2 emissions by €$ Improve accessibility of our banking quality advice based on long term needs. 45%, from 2008. Reduce energy consumption services, using technology and by 2.5% annually (on average) and significantly innovation. Sharing our expertise to customers Tackling financial crime reducing paper consumption. and the broader community. Strengthen processes for a flexible approach to meet changing threats, Sustainable finance and investments Investing in communities focusing on security and safety for employees, Increasing dialogues on important As a corporate citizen we engage for customers and assets. sustainability issues with customers, future generations. Sustaining and using internal policies and international guidelines developing long term partnerships with people as key tools. Further develop policies and guidelines and organisations, together building a society with an increased focus on human rights. In we all want to be in. 6 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Objectives 2012 Status Performance 2012 Objectives 2013 Governance responsibility • Continued customer centred • Customer insights increasingly being used to ensure • Further improved customer business development based focus on adding value to our clients. recommendations. on customer insights. •C  ode of Business Conduct updated. • Further enhanced SME advisory • Launch updated Code of •P  ension/savings education in the Baltics, part of through financial planning tools. Business Conduct. regular need based advisory. • Further strengthen transparency. •U  pdated education of corporate advisors (SME). • New advisory tools for private customers. •K  eeping families in their homes – successful resolution for 3,500 families in the Baltics. • Implement updated fraud prevention • Updated fraud prevention model implemented. • Strengthen the process to model with increased focus on proactive •U  pdated and clarified whistle-blowing process. monitor behaviour within the measures. Aim to build “fraud proof” • F ocus on AML has resulted in increased number Internet bank. banking processes. of reports to Finance Police. • Monitor impact of clarified whistle-blowing process. • Continue to improve PRI • ESG into Global team investment process. • Improve transparency and comimplementation. • Policy for property investment to include ESG. munication on external web. • Integrate ESG aspects into • 247 ESG related owner engagement dialogues. • Cont ESG integr into investment investment process of three • Process for responsible supply chain improved, process in 4 of the invest. teams. of the major investment teams. 50 largest suppliers risk assessed. • Develop and refine ESG • Improve engagement process. investment products. Environmental responsibility • Continue CO2 reduction towards • Reduced CO2 emissions –36% 2012 vs 2008, –18% in 2012. • Continue CO2 reduction towards target of –45 per cent. • Video and teleconference conference usage + 30% and 7%. target of –45% by 2015. • Reduce electricity consumption with 2.5 per • Travel emissions –18%. • Reduce electricity usage with cent per annum on average, in order to reach • Paperless branch in Estonia. 2.5% per year on average. a 20 per cent reduction by 2020. • Continuous efforts to reduce paper consumption. • Implementation to continue. All • Increased awareness about CS issues in most parts • Ongoing assessment of clients in relevant clients in Merchant Banking of the Group. terms of sector policies and posito be assessed by end 2012. • Nine out of ten MidCorp and MB clients assessed tion statements, increase focus on • Sustainable financing solutions based against sector policies and position statements. engaging in client dialogues. on customer insights. • CS dialogues in Baltic division. • Review of existing policies. • Savings and investment solutions to • Green Bonds for retail customers. • Increased CS knowledge by reflect customer insight and preferences. • One additional SRI fund: Corporate Bond Fund. analyst and client executives and • Eco-leasing product in Baltic generates great interest. applicable decision makers. • 210 eco-renovation projects financed in Baltics. Social responsibility • Further employee engagement. • Activities focused on diversity launched. • Increased share of engaged • Increased focus on diversity, e.g • SEB Wellness initiative launched with Health council. employees. in leadership training. • Maintained positions as employer of choice in most • Activities to increase diversity • Strengthen strategic focus on health markets. and improve gender balance. and a sound workplace. • Mapping of adherence to labour standards and human • Strengthen strategic focus on • Retain and develop SEB’s talent pool. rights within SEB underway. health and a sound workplace. • Continue to share expertise and • Chief economist often quoted. • Facilitate accessibility for SME €$ knowledge in all our markets. • Senior economist active in public debate. as well as private customers via • Initiatives to further facilitate • Household economists continue to educate consumers mobile banking. accessibility of, and availability in Baltic countries and in Sweden. • Improve customer ability to move to SEB’s services. • Customer service channels broadened (Facebook, twitter, seamlessly between channels. mobile app etc). • Strategy for community investments • Group sponsorship strategy decided. We engage for • Further develop partnership with and sponsorship to be concluded. future generations: Children and youth, Entrepreneurship Mentor. and Education and Knowledge sharing (financial literacy). • Further develop partnerships to • Agreement with Mentor prolonged until 2015. support entrepreneurship. • Staff volunteering projects in several locations. • Increased engagement among all employees. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 7 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH A senior economist’s perspective on banks’ role in society The financial sector is everywhere in tals and nursing homes have money to manage. Taxes flow into modern society. Payments and credits are the public sector – some of those taxes are from banks which pay lubricants that make the wheels spin. But tax on their profits – and public expenses are paid. Municipalities finance and capital is also an engine, by capital and counties renew loans and pay down debts. Investments in put to work, for example through investment. infrastructure must be financed, often with loans. The state has a Banks have a key role in this, for the private foreign exchange reserve to be invested as well as a national debt individuals, businesses and the public sector. that requires amortisation and interest payments. Government bonds are traded in the financial markets, and the central bank’s The bank and the family monetary policy becomes operative through the market interest We humans grow up, start families and obtain housing, we conrates. Yes, even the environmental policy operates via financial sume and save, retire and grow old. At every stage we use bank markets, such as emissions rights trading. services. We borrow for our housing, we have a checking account, we save for our elderly years and for our childrens’ future, we use Great responsibility debit and credit cards – and maybe sometimes we invest in riskier The fact that banks are everywhere – in all sectors, in all phases of investments. When we go on holiday we often exchange currenour lives, in business development and in all parts of the public seccies. Each week, yes every day, we thus interact as citizens with the tor – entails great responsibility. Banks are businesses that will yield bank, participating in financial flows in society. profits to its owners. But they are also pillars of society, institutions that have a special responsibility for a well-functioning society. The bank and the company If banks and their customers take on too much risk, this can Also companies are born, they grow, employ, expand, invest – and result in financial crises. Therefore, banks are regulated on both die. Just like a family, the company uses the bank’s services at international and national level. Since banking is based on trust, every stage of the lifecycle. When a company is founded capital transparency and accountability is additionally important. is required, investment credits are needed and for expansion perA bank like SEB must therefore think and act long-term. SEB haps an IPO is necessary. If the company expands internationally, wants to take responsibility both for today’s economy and the it must manage different currencies and to meet various financial impact of the business in the long term. For economic growth and regulations. Every day payments are made and received. And the balance, as well as for a greener economy, for jobs and prosperfinancial markets continuously evaluate the company’s market ity in the local environment. We want to be a long-term financial capitalisation and credit rating. partner for both businesses and individuals. This report is about how SEB acts in matters like these. The bank and the public sector The legal system and defence, schools and kindergartens, hospiKlas Eklund, Senior Economist, SEB SEB’s customers 2,800 Corporates and Institutions 400,000 SME customers 4,000,000 Private customers SEB is the leading corporate and investment SEB offers small and medium-sized corporate SEB provides some four million individuals with bank in the Nordic countries, serving large customers several customised products that advice and services to meet all their financial corporations, financial institutions, banks and were initially developed in co-operation with needs. These include product and services for commercial real estate clients with corporate SEB’s large corporate clients. In addition, daily finances, savings, loans, pension solutions, banking, trading and capital markets and global numerous services are specifically designed cards, wealth management and life insurance. transaction services. Comprehensive pension and for small companies and entrepreneurs. asset management solutions are also offered. 8 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH SEB supports entrepreneurs SEB has been working in the service of enterprise for more The Entrepreneur staircase LEADING than 155 years. We have a long tradition of supporting entrepreENTREPRENEURS neurs and small businesses. The large, multinational Swedish groups who today are successful all over the world have once all been small. SEB has supported many of them from the start, both GROWTH in good times and bad. We stand by their side as a trusted partner. Starting and developing businesses strongly contributes to creating future growth and the vast majority of new jobs created START-UP in recent years have been created in small businesses, both in COMPANIES Sweden and in our neighbouring countries. We support these businesses – on their terms – help them reviewing their business COLLEGE AND needs in different phases of their life cycle and thereby create UNIVERSITY opportunities for growth. SECONDARY Well established partner organisations SCHOOL In some areas however, other partners are more suited to help the entrepreneur. Thus, SEB collaborates with established entrepreneurial organisations, both in Sweden and in the Baltic countries, a comprehensive way of supporting the company wherever it is in the development curve. We call this concept The Entrepreneur staircase and it highlights the support available to the enterprise at all stages. The staircase consists of five steps (please see to the right). In Sweden, SEB collaborates since 2010 with the organisation Entrepreneur award to help malaria patients Ung företagsamhet (Young Enterprising) that trains teachers to support their students to be more creative, entrepreneurial and enterprising. High school students are here given the opportunity to start, run and liquidate a business. Through this partnership over 7,000 students in Stockholm, Göteborg and Malmö had the opportunity to take part of our offering during 2011/2012. Support for further growth General advice about launch and growth of start-up companies is very important and, therefore, we also strongly support and collaborate with entrepreneurial organisations, such as Nyföretagarcentrum (Enterprise Agency), IFS (International Entrepreneur Association in Sweden), Venture Cup and Connect. The Swedish IT entrepreneur Hjalmar Winbladh was the first winAs the main sponsor of Ernst & Young’s price Entrepreneur ner of the newly established prize “SEB A Perfect Entrepreneur” of the Year, SEB rewards people who have built up successful which was distributed in October 2012. He will with SEB’s support businesses through innovation, growth, intelligence, perseverdevelop a patent that has not previously been on the market, a ance and hard work. Peter Bronsman, Kopparbergs Brewery AB, mobile “app”, which will provide poor and the sick access to qualireceived the award in 2013. At the end of 2012 the award “SEB A fied medical advice by using relatively inexpensive technology. Perfect Entrepreneur” was distributed for the first time (please see The award is a result of cooperation between SEB, Karolinska adjacent text). Institutet and A Perfect Guide. The aim is to promote social entrepreneurship, by appointing a talented entrepreneur to become a Baltic activities partner in one of the many innovative projects Karolinska Institutet In Estonia SEB has been actively involved in the development of has initiated. the entrepreneurial environment, for example by supporting The The idea is to combine successful research with strong Ajujaht (Brain Hunt) the entrepreneurship competition – a good entrepreneurship, and thus be able to implement one of the many example of how support by trusted partners is needed already at unused patents. the ideas stage, contributing to the founding of enterprises and “I am very happy for this award. What I appreciate the most is supporting start-ups with sound advice and experience. the link between entrepreneurship and innovation, that I through In Latvia SEB sponsors a similar competition and TV show, my entrepreneurship will have the opportunity to help others”, Firmas Noslēpums (“Company’s secret”). SEB also supports the said Hjalmar Winbladh, when receiving the award from SEB’s CEO Business Plan Tournament in Lithuania. Annika Falkengren. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 9 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Responsible selling and marketing In the Baltic countries SEB has supported 3,500 households by adjusting payment scheme for interest and amortisation. What's the issue? Relationships and trust are the foundation of everything we do. Training of advisors Our customers entrust us not only their money but also their aspiSEB continuously deepens and broadens current understanding rations and their plans for the future. We want to be their partner among employees. Providing financial advice to corporate cusin good as well as bad times and we have a long-term perspective tomers requires special knowledge of the conditions that affect in everything we do. It is our job to listen, to use our knowledge in a entrepreneurs. Therefore, we have in 2012 introduced a training simple way, giving clear advice to our customers on how to realise block for all of our personal and financial advisors to ensure that the dreams and secure the future. they have the right skills and that we deliver the best advice to entrepreneurs, both for the company and the entrepreneur’s private economy. All of SEB’s customer advisors, about 3,500, are In a society with a high rate of change, where uncertainty and now licensed or certified in our retail business and within Private complexity increases, there is a growing need to feel secure and Banking. During 2013, we will move towards external certification confident, not least for the economy. This applies to individuals as well as businesses. At SEB, we believe that trust and relationship with our customWe are transparent on ers is key to our success. By constantly striving for clarity and transparency, by offering high quality of advice and supplies, we pricing of mortgage take responsibility for always doing our best for our customers. That is why we call ourselves the Relationship Bank. loans, on a daily basis. Customer insights of all advisors. Client executives are continuously trained to ensure We have an ambition to strengthen the employees’ insights of cusup-to-date competence. tomers, and to increase understanding of how behaviour affects customer relationship. We have done this through dialogue meetAmortisation requirements ings of the organisation – You are SEB – and through a customer SEB believes in taking a prudent and cautious approach to houseinsight portal on the intranet where the results of various surveys hold economy and we want to ensure that customers at all times are presented. The goal is for all employees, even those who do not have a safety margin of the value of their property in relation to have daily contact with customers, to understand their role and the loans. In December 2012, SEB decided, as the first bank in impact on how customers perceive us, so that they can contribute Sweden, to introduce amortisation requirements on loan to value to an even better experience. ratios above 70 per cent. At loan to value ratios below 70 per cent, amortisation is a recommendation. Accountability SEB is still the only Swedish bank that is fully transparent, on As a bank, we have a responsibility to protect the client’s longa daily basis, on our funding costs for pricing of mortgages. This term financial security. We wish to have close contact with our can be followed on our web site www.seb.se and on the customer’s customers in order to understand new and changing needs, as Internet bank, a service that is appreciated by the customers. well as signals of possible problems. In this way we contribute with responsible advice and can find well-adapted solutions. Making banking easy to understand and to use In recent years, there are several examples of when we have SEB wants to make it easier for customers to gain control and a offered our support to clients who have experienced major change, comprehensible view of over their finances, and we are fully aware e.g. when Saab in Sweden went bankrupt or when AstraZeneca of the request for simplicity and transparency that exists within in February 2012 alerted 1,200 employees in Södertälje of notice. the financial services. For small and medium sized enterprises, Key performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Employees trained in Code of Conduct, per cent* 75 93 93 87 n/a Licensed or certified advisors, private & SME business Sweden, per cent 100 100 100 98 90 Total customer complaints, Retail banking Sweden 6,125 6,348 7,264 n/a n/a *From 2012 only e-trainings monitored, earlier included workshops and class room trainings. For more information, see CS Fact Book 10 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE SME’s, we offer a special – mobile – advisory role. During 2012 we increased the number of advisors. In Sweden we now have around 130 mobile advisors make visits to the customer instead of the customer coming to the bank. These customers also have access to a personal advisor at the Telephone customer service. By the Enkla (“Simplicity”) concept, we make banking easy to understand and to use. It now comprises lending, deposits, custody, pensions and SME banking. We listen to our customers’ request for new digital services such as e-mailings instead of traditional posting, financial guides, and transparent pricing. New innovative savings product launched in Estonia For historic reasons, the tradition of personal savings is not strongly established among people in the Baltic countries. SEB is making efforts to raise the awareness on this issue. In a recent survey, made in SEB Estonia, we found that even people who have the financial capacity to set aside money often do not do that. As the tax system was developed in 2012, it now allows employers – in addition to paying wages – to contribute into the employee’s third pension pillar as well, while not treating these payments as a fringe benefit. As a consequence, SEB introduced the Employer Pension scheme, paying an additional 2 per cent of the employee’s gross wages to the 3rd pension pillar of the employee if the employee also contributes 2 per cent from their wages. It is voluntary for the employee and the accumulated assets will belong to the employee after the expiry of the employment contract. Environmental challenges vs. SEB in Estonia launched strengthened relationships a new savings product, As the relationship bank, in our part of the world SEB cares the Digital Coin Jar. about dialogue and interaction between people. We know that by listening, reflecting and taking action, we will achieve the best results. Meeting our customers in person are extremely valuable, In 2012, SEB in Estonia also launched a new savings product as well as for our employees to meet across boundaries, both called Digikassa (Digital Coin Jar). When customers pay with a across units and countries. debit card, SEB’s systems round the amount to the nearest euro At the same time, we have a strong ambition to reduce our and deposit the difference in a special savings account. In the end direct environmental impact. Our goal is to reduce the carbon of 2012 almost 13,000 contracts had saved 141,800 euros. The emissions between 2008 and 2015 by 45 percent. We currently Digikassa service is free of charge and is available to all customers reports emissions from all activities that we have control over, such with a debit card. as energy and electricity consumption in our own properties, paper consumption and business travel. Responding to customer complaints The most effective way to reach our targets is to reduce busiCustomers can submit comments via multiple channels – in ness travels, especially by airplanes. At the end of 2012/2013, SEB person at the office, over the phone, and Web channels in various had reduced emissions by 36 percent, which shows that we are on forms. It applies both to compliment, suggestions or complaints. the right track. Our ambition is to address a complaint directly and as close to the But is it at the expense of our relationships, internal as well as source of the resulting complaint as possible. external? Customers’ needs are always top priority. However, when If the employee who receives the case cannot resolve the issue, we decide about whether a trip should be made or not we always we contact the customer within 48 hours with information regardconsider the options carefully. The perspectives of time, cost and ing decisions to act or if the matter should be further investigated. our own footprint guide us when prioritising. Internally we strive to There is a special customer relations team that handles appeals in increase the use of video, web and phone conferencing. But here, cases where the customer still does not feel satisfied. Complaints too, we always weigh this against how we believe physical meetare registered in SEB’s operating risk information system. ings in the end could benefit the customer. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 11 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography SEB is since 2009 engaged in the Swedish Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography, an organisation whose purpose is to prevent and obstruct payments for documented sexual abuse of children through the Swedish financial system. This work has been effective and it is now rare that card payments is used when buying images of abused children. In the Financial Coalition Swedish banks and financial institutions, interact with e.g ECPAT (End Child Prostitution and Trafficking), the Swedish Police and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to prevent the possibility of making payments for child pornography. But the goal of preventing trade with documented sexual abuse is not reached. Trading takes new paths, and efforts are intensified to understand the new and possible payment routes and how they can be prevented, for example, to analyse new payment services via the Internet and mobile telephones. International cooperation is also under development. In December 2012 a meeting was held with 47 countries to lay the groundwork for a global alliance. In addition, the aim is to further highlight the issue for increased awareness in the community. SEB is since 2012 represented in the Coalition steering group through our Head of Group Corporate Sustainability. Code of Business Conduct Trust is a crucial asset for SEB. Without the trust from our customers, employees and other stakeholders we would not be able to operate. This is the foundation for SEB’s Code of Business Conduct that was updated in 2012. The code describes and lays out SEB’s values and standards of business conduct and provides guidance on how to live by the values. The code is a condensation of groupwide policies and guidelines, such as the Ethics policy and the Gift and Entertainment instruction. The code helps employees do the right thing by: • describing the responsibilities that come with employment in SEB • guiding us in business relationships • guiding us in solving potentially difficult situations and managing conflicts of interest • providing tools for reporting irregularities (whistle-blowing) • describing to external parties how we behave Potential incidents related to corruption and other illegal activities are naturally subject to immediate action. General adherence to the Code is discussed on a regular basis and in connection with the yearly performance development dialogues. For more information visit: www.sebgroup.com/about-SEB/Corporate-Governance 12 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Tackling financial crime Increased internal cooperation Several units within SEB cooperate to combat fraud – among them What's the issue? Security, Compliance, Internal Audit, Information Security, Human Financial crime is a major international problem. To prevent this Resources and Risk Management. This includes helping businesstype of crime is a high priority at SEB, especially as it is constantly and support functions to build and maintain “fraud-proof” banking changing, and the possible consequences for societies and the processes. We will focus further on increasing coordination between world economy can be substantial. SEB is a major provider of various functions that interact in their fraud prevention efforts. loans, payments and other financial services and it is our responsibility to protect our customers and the assets that we manage. We have clarified our process SEB devotes considerable resources to prevent financial crime and its damaging effects on our business, our customers and on local for whistle-blowing. and global economies. We collaborate with partners at an international level, monitor transactions, check our customers according Training of employees to Know-Your-Customer process (KYC) and against existing sancTo succeed in tackling financial crime, employees must be made tions lists and train our employees. We focus on three key areas: more aware of developing trends in fraud and how to deal with • Fraud prevention them. Employees need to be mindful of suspected fraud, regard• Actions to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism less of whether it concerns external attempts to commit financial • Compliance with government sanctions against criminal suspects crime, or if there are internal persons acting in an improper manner. To raise awareness of financial crime and money laundering, Fraud prevention has been a priority for SEB in recent years. SEB has developed e-training programmes targeted at all employWe have strengthened our strategy through a number of activities: ees. In addition, work shops and classrooms trainings are held with • Clarified process for “whistle-blowing” to detect existing targeted groups. anomalies at an early stage and for reporting irregularities. Employees or other persons can now easily find information on Combating fraud how to report possible unethical or unlawful behaviours. The reporting person’s identity will be kept secret during the subsevs personal integrity quent follow-up, enquiries and discussions relating to the matter, As a bank, we have high standards for the safety of our operations. provided that we are not obligated by law to disclose it. We comply with applicable national and international rules and we have since long well established partnerships with multiple stake• Improved process for scenario analysis through real examples holders. Employees receive training on handling information about from the surroundings SEB can learn from fraud cases that have our customers, based on the KYC process. In some circumstances occurred in other banks. SEB develops methods for finding information on where payments are directed and how they will be abnormal behaviours through continuous system monitoring. used will be required. • Enhanced process to control third-party employees who have This might be perceived as offensive and as an invasion of their access to SEB’s premises or business-critical systems. privacy. But where should the line be drawn between our responsibility as a financial institution and the safety of the customers’ During 2012 we strengthened various processes related to fraud. transactions? What can it lead to if we were to reduce information A new function established within the security department to requirements we place on our customers? manage and develop these processes, and to report fraud risks to A likely scenario is that the number of money laundering cases management and the board. In the second half of the year, the new would increase and that we facilitate trading of illegal services. SEB and updated processes were introduced. will do what it can to prevent a development in that direction. Key performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 2009 Employees completed anti-money laundry e-training, per cent 90 93 98 89 Employees completed fraud prevention e-training 51 49 49 43 Markets and sites with “Know-Your-Customer” (KYC) process and instructions/total 21/21 21/21 21/21 19/21 For more information, see CS Fact Book SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 13 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE Responsible ownership Overall we monitor a universe of more than 2,500 companies to identify the key issues for engagement. On the corporate goverWhat's the issue? nance side, we were engaged through 64 AGM’s focusing on topics Businesses that actively manage the environmental, social and such as incentive programmes and board diversity with a particular governance impact of their business are more able to reduce risks focus on female board representation. and costs, and to attract capital and seize opportunities. As a large As regards environmental and social aspects, we continued our institutional investor, SEB seeks to engage with holdings to pursue work from previous year regarding climate change, which focuses long-term value creation. Acting responsibly forms an important on increasing the quality of climate reporting by our portfolio part of the mandate given by our customers. companies. We further actively supported the CDP Water Program by encouraging companies to respond to the annual Investor InforFor SEB, the key words framing our responsible ownership activimation Request, and participated in the PRI working group on anti ties are integration, engagement, collaboration and communicacorruption encouraging selected companies to disclose information. These areas are also what we committed our organisation tion on anti corruption management systems, in total 21 dialogues to when we signed the six principles of the UN Principles for focused on anti-corruption measures. Responsible Investment (PRI) in 2008. The PRI encompasses all our work as a responsible investor. ESG integration Previous years we have showed the implementation score that we We have continued our work to integrate ESG (Environmental, received from the UN PRI. In 2012 PRI overhauled the reporting Social and Governance) aspects into the investment teams, and scoring framework, and therefore will not provide its signatoprimarily working with international equities, real estate and ries with a score. We have continued our efforts to implement the private equity. On behalf of our international investment teams, principles; across portfolios, across asset classes, and together the specialised ESG analysts review companies and industries with clients, service providers and other investors, as described in on what we deem to be the most important ESG indicators. We then analyse the individual companies using external research providers combined with our in-house research. The result of Our CS strategy is implemented into about two thirds of Responsible business in conflict applicable total assets under zones and high risk areas For many companies, the main growth opportunities are located management. in emerging markets where challenges regarding political instability, civil unrest and corruption are not uncommon. When companies the following sections. By the end of 2012 we had integrated our establishing business here manage the challenges properly, they can sustainability strategy into approximately two thirds of applicable generate great profits, and benefit the local communities by providtotal assets under management, either through our active ownering job opportunities and stability. When companies manage them ship work, or through our ESG integration efforts. We have a policy the wrong way, it can result in unforeseen costs, that they exacerbate excluding from our investment universe companies involved in the local challenging conditions, and that they eventually might manufacturing and/or marketing of anti-personnel landmines and have to pull out from these markets. Thus, this is a highly relevant cluster munitions. dilemma for many companies in our portfolio. SEB participates in a UN Global Compact/PRI Expert Group Engaging with holdings related to this. The Expert Group, consisting of investors and multiThe past year saw some landmark events on the international national companies, is piloting the implementation on a framework scene as well as here in Sweden relating to active ownership. In the document ‘Guidance on Responsible Business in Conflict-Affected UK, the Kay Review was released, encouraging increased engageand High-Risk Areas’, aiming to further how companies can do ments with company boards, as well as emphasising the benefit business in complex areas in a responsible way. of long-termism for investments. The EU continued its discussions The lessons learned from the working group will be shared around corporate as well as investor reporting, and in Sweden the publicly so that any company or investor can capitalise on the pilot Eurosif European SRI study (the European Sustainable Investment work. For us, it serves as a good basis for dialogues with our portfolio Forum, www.eurosif.org) showed that engagement is still one companies regarding the challenges. In the long run, we hope that of the foundations for Swedish investors’ work with responsible the work in this field will help companies minimise risks, and capiinvestments. During 2012, we held 247 ESG dialogues with porttalise on opportunities, and also to increasingly add to stability and folio companies. 54 of those we did on our own, while 193 were in positive development in conflict zones and high risk areas. This will collaboration with our external advisors and PRI. ultimately benefit our investment portfolios, and thus our clients. We continued our work with engaging with companies on For more information about the Guidance, please visit relevant issues, with the aim to improve our portfolio companies. www.unglobalcompact.org. 14 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE this analysis is used by the portfolio managers, being one of the factors on which the investment decision is based. Assessing the relevance of ESG contribution to fixed income and sovereign bonds is one of the challenges we face. In order to address this, we have joined the PRI fixed income work stream, which focuses on promoting and facilitating responsible investments. The working group is currently exploring the fixed incomespecific processes related to ESG integration. Collaboration and communication SEB participates in a number of responsible investment related initiatives, for example in the Nordic SIFs (Sustainable Investment Forum), which works towards furthering the topic of responsible investments in each country, PRI Clearinghouse initiatives and PRI/ Global Compact Expert Groups, and collaboration with the Swedish Sustainable Value Creation, an initiative among some of the largest Swedish institutional investors, aiming at increasing board level engagement regarding ESG issues. We also work to spread knowledge on topics we believe will Venture capital – a necessity for cleantech improve our portfolio companies. One such example is Integrated Reporting, which we expect to increase significantly in importance Availability of financing plays a vital role in the movement towards for companies in the years to come. SEB became therefore member a more sustainable society. The transformation to clean and reof the UN PRI working group on the topic. We further invited an source efficient technologies put very large demands on traditional expert from the International Integrated Reporting Council (www. and new innovative ways of financing in order to achieve the sheer theiirc.org), and arranged a roundtable in the fall of 2012 with select magnitude of investment needed. portfolio companies in order to share knowledge and experience. These particular issues were on the agenda at WWF’s annual When we evaluate and select external fund managers we Climate Solver conference in November 2012, where SEB was repconsider whether the respective organisation is a signatory to resented by its Venture Capital and Corporate Sustainability units. the UN PRI or not. In total, 57 percent of all our external fund manThe theme for the event was “Financial Vehicles – Driving Private agers have signed the UN PRI. The numbers for new external fund Investments in Climate Innovations”. managers for 2012 are 80 percent. Commercialisation of transformative climate innovations is necessary to limit carbon emissions. Attractive proven technolSustainability aspects for Private Equity investments ogy receives financing through ordinary banking products or new From a sustainability perspective, Private Equity investments is an innovative products such as the Green Bond, which SEB pioneered area that has grown in focus over the past years. in 2008 together with the World Bank. However, new technology is The asset class private equity has proved to be very well suited in a different position. This requires combined public-private initiafor integration of ESG aspects. This is due to the nature of the tives on several levels. investments with a defined holding period of three to seven years, During the conference the panel discussed issues such as the during which clear targets are set for how to plan improvement of importance of foresighted governments to establish robust publicthe company and added value. private frameworks, for research funding but mainly for early SEB has been managing private equity asset since 1997 and commercialisation of technologies. The public role in early stage today’s portfolio consists of more than SEK20bn. The sustainability financing and in co-financing is especially important in the support approach we have applied up to date is to assess the underlying of industries with long and uncertain technology development companies’ activities to ensure that these are aligned with our cycles, such as e.g. cleantech sector. corporate values and to avoid sensitive industries. Tax advantages for private individuals are one proposed way This has resulted in ESG aspects having affected our investbut not enough. To allow for the magnitude of funding often ment decisions both positively and negatively. In one case a mining required in e.g. cleantech, such co-financing must also attract company with large potential environmental liabilities, its ESG Scandinavian institutional money to be invested with competent profile led to us refraining from investing. A strong ESG profile can local venture funds. Nordic institutional funds in privte equity are lead to an enhanced conviction that we should invest, as was the almost solely allocated to buy-out funds rather than to venture case with a company operating water treatment facilities. funds. Globally, industrial corporates are recently increasing their We are currently revisiting the ESG aspect of our investment participation in cleantech venture capital, which is positive for the process with the aim to refine how ESG issues are considered for future. our investments. Hans Engblom, SEB Venture Capital SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 15 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Sustainable finance and investments have held future-oriented dialogues, based on the sector policies and position statements, with more than 70 companies. These What's the issue? dialogues have been well received by our clients. To address the many social and environmental challenges the world faces, new thinking, innovations and financial assistance Risk management are needed. Banks can play an important role by creating financial Managing risk is a core activity in a bank and therefore fundamensolutions and assisting customers in their sustainability efforts. tal to long-term profitability and stability. Risk is closely related to By including environmental and social factors in our business business activities and business development and, therefore, to decisions and discussions with customers, we are long-term better customer needs. Of the various risks that SEB assumes in providing equipped to mitigate risks and seize opportunities. its customers with financial solutions and products, credit risk is the most significant. SEB applies a robust framework for its risk management, having long since independent risk control, credit In our role as a large corporate bank and asset manager we have analysis and credit approval functions. Board supervision, an considerable indirect impact. We are convinced that we can influexplicit decision-making structure, a high level of risk awareness ence the development towards a more sustainable economy and among staff, common definitions and principles, controlled riskwant to collaborate with our clients in order to drive sustainable taking within established limits and a high degree of transparency growth, protect the environment and contribute positively to society. in external disclosure are the cornerstones of SEB’s risk and capital It is about how we act as lenders to productive investments and how management. we act as stewards of savings. The fundamental risk management work is conducted in the front-line and is supported by an established decision making Responsible lending hierarchy and group-wide rules and policies. It is the front-line’s Sustainability issues are part of SEB’s on-going dialogue in all responsibility to make an initial assessment of risk, including envimarkets with large corporate customers, and with many small ronmental and social risks, in a customer relationship as well as in ones. The Bank has three position statements (climate change, individual, proposed transactions. This assessment is then tested child labour and access to freshwater) and six sector policies (arms both by the business management and by the risk organisation as and defence, forestry, fossil fuels, mining and metals, renewable part of the way SEB works with a comprehensive view of the client. energy and shipping), that were adopted in 2011. They serve as the The aggregate risk-taking is measured regularly by SEB’s foundation for the dialogues, but regardless of sector, key sustainindependent risk control unit. The quality of risk management is ability issues are discussed with companies. The policies highlight controlled by both internal and external auditors. SEB has approval relevant international conventions, guidelines and standards that from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to use advanced we ask the companies we do business with to adhere to. methods of risk measurement for the majority of the credit portThis dialogue complements the procedures for knowing and folio, for market risk and for operational risk. understanding the customers and for making relevant business For more details on SEB’s risk management, please see the and credit decisions. For more complex sustainability evaluations, 2012 Annual report, pages 38–53, and www.sebgroup.com internal and external expertise is involved. As of June 2011, sector policies and position statements are inCredit policies and credit process cluded in the regular business review as well as in the annual credit The overriding principle of SEB’s credit granting is that all lending review for large and medium-sized corporates. By year-end 2012, shall be based on credit analysis and be proportionate to the we have assessed almost nine out of ten of our structure finance customer’s ability to repay. Customers shall be known by the Bank customers and large and medium-sized corporate customers and the purpose of the credit should be fully understood. Sustainapplicable to our sector policies and position statements. We also ability aspects have gradually been incorporated into the credit Key performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Green Bonds – money raised since inception, USDm 2,500 2,000 1,600 1,000 300 Equator Principle transanctions, total number 3 12 10 0 7 Number of Socially Responsible Investment/ethical funds 16 15 16 14 14 Total assets under managements in SRI/ethical funds, SEKm 21,135 14,848 16,008 11,105 6,413 SRI/ethical funds share of total assets under management, per cent 1.72% 1.26 1.21 0.87 0.56 For more information, see CS Fact Book 16 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Decision making procedure concerns and responsible investment preferences among SEB’s customers. Traditionally, responsible investments have focused on equities and equity products, whereas fixed income and alternative Client Executive investments have received less interest. However, we are seeing increasing client demand for products also in other asset classes, corresponding with our product development. For example, one st/ aly ist An pecial corporate bond fund with specific sustainability criteria was Group launched during the year. Thus SEB now offers 16 (15) funds with S Committ a socially responsible investment profile with aggregate Assets ee under Management of almost SEK 21bn (15bn). These are managed using a combination of negative screening, positive screening, ESG integration and thematic approach. The norm-based C es screening is the foundation for most funds, and is combined with Co re d it t te s si n i e other approaches depending on the preferences of the clients. mm Bu mm i t te e Co Green Bonds SEB has during the year continued to work with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and other multilateral financial inpolicy and reflect SEB’s approach to sustainability with increased stitutions on issuing Green Bonds. We are also working closely with emphasis on opportunities as well as risks related to environmennumber of other issuers including corporates and municipalities. tal, social and governance issues. This includes our three position Since SEB pioneered the issuance of Green Bonds together statements and six industry sector policies (see previous page). with the World Bank in 2008, we have raised USD 2.5 (2) billion for Green Bonds on behalf of the World Bank as well as other issuers. Equator Principles These bonds fund investments in countries throughout the world, In 2007, SEB adopted the Equator Principles (EP), a voluntary set of guidelines used by financial institutions to assess the social and We have raised environmental impact of large projects and to help their customers to manage them. The principles are based on the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) performance standards. Signatory financial institutions are required to apply the Principles to project finance deals amounting to more than USD 10 million. USD 2.5bn for In project financing, in contrast to corporate finance, the lender looks primarily to the revenues generated by a single project both Green Bonds as the source of repayment and as collateral for the loan. The Principles, which typically apply to complex installations such as power since 2008. plants, refineries and waste treatment plants, have contributed to developing and operating such large projects in accordance with good international practice. During 2012, SEB was involved in three and are designed to mitigate climate change or help people and financings reported under the Principles. communities adapt to it. At the end of 2012, 110 (88) investors During the year the process of taking the third version of Equahave invested in the Green Bonds issued through SEB and the tor Principles (EP III) forward, has been ongoing. SEB has been total Green Bond market has since the start developed to about taking part in the public consultation process that took place durUSD 7.5 billion. We remain the largest underwriter on the market ing the autumn 2012 and also at the annual meeting in December and we are interacting with a number of governments to develop 2012. Should this version eventually be realised, the number of mechanisms to engage private capital in climate investments. We transactions under the EP’s will significantly increase, due to the are also active in the reference group created to support one of the nature of SEB’s business. board members of the UN Climate Fund. Responsible investments Strengthened process for responsibility in supply chain Our corporate sustainability strategy as regards investments is in SEB has strengthened the process for ensuring responsibility accordance with our commitment to UN PRI (please read more on throughout the supply chain, including development of a self page 14). The strategy has been implemented for approximately assessment tool for suppliers. A risk assessment of the supply two-thirds of applicable assets under management, in the asset chain has been conducted and has been applied for the fifty most classes equities, corporate bonds, real estate and private equity. important suppliers, representing approximately 40 per cent of We offer investment products designed to meet a variety of SEB’s total spend on suppliers. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 17 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Example of SEB support for projects aiming for environmental protection and social development 3 1 8 2 10 5 7 4 9 6 1 Estonia In the spring 2012 SEB financed new boilers and improvements of the pulp digester line at the 4 Lithuania SEB has on behalf of Hidrostatyba UAB provided new Advance payment and Perform7 Germany SEB is arranging financing for a 16.8 MW onshore wind park in Hessen in Germany. The paper mill Horizon Tselluloosi ja Paberi AS. The ance guarantees to Vilniaus University. wind park consists of seven wind turbines, each improvements lead to decreased energy cost by Guarantees will secure project completion of of 2.4 MW, and is estimated to produce 44 GWh 25% and water consumption by 0.7 million m3 the National centre for physical sciences and per annum. (–17%). These recent updates in the plant give a technology. The project, when completed, will cost-cutting of at least 2.5 million euros per year. For this project, the most important environmental implication of the investment was a 35% or further improve higher education in physical sciences and technology in Lithuania. 8 United Kingdom In a consortium of 10 commercial banks, SEB takes part in the financing of a 270MW off10 500 tonnes reduction of CO2 emissions. 5 Germany SEB is arranging financing for a 32.5 MW shore wind park 8 km off the Lincolnshire in UK. Seventy-five 3.6-MW turbines are to be installed, 2 Latvia SEB has co-funded the 2nd and 3rd stage of construction of Ventspils regional waste reonshore wind park in Mecklenburg West-Pomerania in Germany. This will consist of 13 turbines, each with an output of 2.5MW and designed for enough to supply some 200,000 households with electricity. covery project in Pentuļi polygon. It was finalised in December 2012. The aim is to reduce the amount of waste for incineration and to reduce maximum yield in moderate and low-wind conditions. The wind park is estimated to produce 64 GWh of clean energy per year, sufficient to supply 9 Lithuania SEB as Syndicate agent has together with other 5 banks been financing Akmenes cementas green house gas emissions. The 2nd and 3rd 16,000 homes. Compared with a lignite-fuelled AB to change technology from “wet” to “dry” stage include a mechanical waste pre-treatment power station, the wind farm will be able to recement production. The purpose is to decrease station and actions to improve biogas collection duce annual carbon dioxide emissions by around CO2 emission by 40%, improve working condiand utilisation. 64,000 tons. tions and increase efficiency by 20%. The investment will also reduce operation cost by 20%. 3 Finland Vantaa Energy will build a waste-to-energy plant which will produce both electricity and 6 Turkey SEB has with Green Bonds facilitated energy projects in Turkey for International Bank 10 Latvia During 2012 SEB reached another record heat. The waste-to-energy plant will also contribfor Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), a in apartment building renovation in Latvia. The ute to the mitigation of climate change as it will part of World Bank. The overall project’s objecfunding has increased by 155% compared to reduce the use of coal by 30%, overall emissions tive is to help increase energy production from 2011 and 172 apartment buildings have been will also decrease by some 20% from the present indigenous renewable sources and to enhance renovated, increasing energy efficiency and level and it will reduce the amount of mixed energy efficiency, thereby reducing greenhouse apartment standard. All in all SEB has funded the waste ending up in the landfill. SEB is one of the gas emissions. The project will finance renewable renovation of 300 apartment houses in Latvia in main financing institutions of this project. resources, such as geothermal, for heating and amount of 30 million LVL since 2009. cooling purposes. 18 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Reducing our environmental footprint We have, however, decided to no longer compensate for our own carbon footprint. The international market for carbon emisWhat's the issue? sion allowances has seen falling prices and a development unlike Many scientists believe that global warming is one of the most the way we envisaged, and thus not achieving the intended effect. serious threats to both humanity and our planet. More and more research emerges, arguing that the speed of climate change is Energy use in offices and branches increasing and substantial preventive actions is needed. Although Energy use in our offices and branches has decreased the direct environmental impact of our operations is limited, we by 17 per cent since 2008. We have successfully implehave the obligation and opportunity to do what we can to limit mented a wide range of small energy efficiency measures both our footprint. in the office space that we own or rent and in the data centres that we manage. Combined with the switch to renewable energy sources made, carbon emissions from energy consumption have In 2009, SEB decided to reduce the annual CO2 emissions by 45 been reduced by almost 60 per cent against the 2008 baseline. per cent by 2015. The decision reflected our ambition to address a broader range of environmental issues. Energy use, paper Paper consumption consumption and business travel, and the related greenhouse gas We are constantly working to reduce our paper emissions, represent the most material direct impact of our operaconsumption. We are aware of that we are not a tions on the environment. This ambitious reduction remains the forerunner compared to peers related to our paper consumption overall target for our carbon chasing within SEB. but we are putting increasingly more resources into reducing it. As an example, we piloted our first paper less office in Estonia in May Carbon management 2012. It was well received by our customers. We also made our Our approach to reduce our carbon footprint starts with accountcontracts note electronically available on our Internet bank for ing for our CO2 emissions related to the operations over which private individuals, saving 20,000 letters monthly. During 2010– we have control, such as energy and electricity use in our own 2012 we have redirected 2.1 million physical mailings to the more buildings, paper consumption and business travel (Scope 2 and environmentally-friendly “B-post”, corresponding to 8 tonnes 3 emissions). We include the emissions from eleven countries, decrease in CO2 emissions. In total SEBs paper consumption was accounting for more than 94 per cent of our income and 96 per reduced by 276 tonnes in 2012, corresponding to almost a 21 per cent of our employees. cent reduction compared to 2011. We monitor our direct environmental footprint on a quarterly basis and report on the information requested by investors, cusWater and waste tomers and employees in our CS report and also in specific reports, Water consumption and waste generation have e.g. the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 2012 compare to 2011 increased by 9 and 25 A specific Carbon Chasing Committee steers and monitors the per cent respectively. This is mainly due to better monitoring. work to reduce SEB’s emissions and we draw on guidance from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for our carbon reporting. Green IT and data centres During 2011 the implementation of “managed print Carbon emissions: –18 per cent service” was launched at our main sites in Sweden. Compared to 2011, we have reduced our emissions by further 18 At the end of 2012 the monthly reduction of pages printed reached per cent and compared to our baseline set 2008 by 36 per cent. 40%, corresponding to two million less pages monthly. In 2012, This result has mainly been achieved by increased energy efthe implementation of the New Office Workplace (NOW) transforficiency initiatives, decreased paper use and decreased travelling. mation project was launched. NOW will replace current workplace Our long term target remains to reduce our carbon dioxide emiswith a client technology based on Windows 7 and includes funcsions by 45 per cent by 2015, from the baseline 2008. To achieve this tionality for intelligent power management of the equipment. we will continue to optimise our offices and processes to reduce our Even though just started, the NOW transformation has saved energy consumption. We also aim to gradually increase the share of 90 MWh for 2012. renewable electricity from the 87 per cent used in 2012. Key performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total CO2 emissions, tonnes 28,497 34,590 38,598 41,628 44,412 CO2 emissions, tonnes/employee 1.7 2.1 2.3 2.5 2.3 Energy consumption MWh/employee 6.8 7.3 8.9 7.9 7.2 For more information, see CS Fact Book SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 19 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Valuing our people SEB an attractive employer Attracting top talent is a key success factor for SEB. The Bank has What's the issue? long been considered one of the most attractive employers in SweAn engaging, sound and healthy work environment encourages den, as well as in the Baltic countries. In 2012, SEB was once again high quality performance as well as high employee satisfaction and ranked as the most popular employer, among banks, in Sweden loyalty. This is in the interest of both customers and shareholders. among young professionals with a business degree. To retain our position as the relationship bank in our part of the In the Baltic countries, SEB has long been a very popular world SEB must attract, develop and retain the best people so that employer, especially in Lithuania where SEB 2012 was named the we can provide the best service and experience to our customers. most desirable employer in the country for the sixth time overall by Verslo Zinios, CV.lt (2005, 2007, 2009–2012). SEB was also awarded as the most attractive employer CV Market. In Latvia, To SEB, long-term relationships are crucial. Together with our four SEB was appointed according to TNS Latvia as one of the top five core values – commitment, mutual respect, professionalism and employers in 2012. continuity – they permeate our business and our culture. They form the basis for how we behave towards each other and how we Continuous development want our customers, partners and other stakeholders to perceive us. At SEB, we work in an environment of continuous change and However, a corporate culture needs to be maintained and development, and we want to be a workplace with committed and developed. In 2012, we continued our dialogue on this. The “You motivated employees. We believe that people constantly want to are SEB” initiative enables all of SEB to discuss our identity, how develop, feel valued and included. Thus we provide large scope for we work, act and behave on a regular basis – thus what shapes the individual development. Employees are, to a large extent, expected image of our company in the eyes of the customers. to take responsibility for their own development by taking advantage of the opportunities provided and the structured process that Commitment and collaboration is in place. Employees express opinions and demonstrate involvement in Every year each employee, in meetings with his or her closest many different forums. manager, sets individual targets and makes a plan for personal deThrough the use of our internal collaboration tool, “Connect”, velopment and skills enhancement. The plan is documented in an our employees can exchange ideas and find new ways of working IT system, followed up on a regular basis and is evaluated through together. Compared to traditional tools, the social software enpersonal feedback and coaching. The development plan has a ables closer co-operation between colleagues across geographical long-term perspective, and puts great emphasis on ensuring that and hierarchical boundaries. Colleagues can also easily give each the employee’s goals are aligned with the Bank’s objectives and other recognition. Visitors range from 2,500 and 4,000 per day and selected focus areas. This also helps us to ensure that developmore than 12,200 employees have joined colleague networks. ment activities support SEB’s strategy. For the fourth consecutive year, employees have been able to chat with SEB’s top management on the intranet, and these chats Coordination of development programmes continue to be much appreciated. In 2012, CEO Annika Falkengren In 2012, SEB’s employee and leadership development programmes held 12 chat sessions and over 350 questions were answered by have been restructured and coordinated across the Group, and members of the Executive Committee. clarified on the intranet. The aim was to clarify different career SEB’s core values Commitment Mutual respect We are all dedicated to that We are open and always strive to everything we do creates stronger earn the trust of others as well as customer relations. from each other. Professionalism Continuity We make it easy for people to do We learn, challenge and take business with us by sharing our action based on our long expeknowledge and being accountrience able for our actions. 20 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL There was a top engagement among the 100 top talents in Latvia that gathered for one day of personal development in 2012. paths for managers and professionals, increase flexibility, and to the organisation and to increase the proportion of employees act globally – while offering local support. with foreign backgrounds. We believe that true diversity, mixed The new structure also provides the individual employee with backgrounds and experiences, leads to overall better performance. good insight and overview of the educational opportunities ofLike many global companies, SEB has fewer women in senior opfered. Naturally, all training needs to be relevant to the SEB’s activierational positions and in senior leadership roles. We are working ties and ultimately benefit the customer. At the same time, we truly actively with this, both in terms of structure and process, as well believe that learning on the job is of high importance. That is when as targeted initiatives such as mentoring programmes. In 2012 we most of the real development takes place. launched a mentoring programme for female executives where Mobility between divisions and business units is encouraged. senior management and senior executives act as mentors for one All job vacancies are regularly published on SEB’s intranet and year. The purpose is to visualise female talents, network and share employees are invited to make new contacts through the internal experiences across divisions and countries. In 2012, 13 female career days that are organised several times a year in Sweden, managers participated in this program. Germany and the Baltic countries. SEB is also one of the ten leading Swedish companies involved in the “Battle of the Numbers.” The initiative includes a total of 100 Maintain and develop SEB’s talent pool SEB has a structured work to develop and retain talent, both in the short and long term. Development is calibrated at all management levels, and in 2012 we launched both central and local initiatives We believe that true diversity, around talent. For example, several new leadership development programmes were launched, as well as a team development platmixed backgrounds and form. In spring 2012 SEB arranged a Change Forum – a workshop experiences, lead to overall with 90 key people who had the opportunity to share success factors as well as several diversity initiatives. better performances. In Latvia 100 top talents gathered for one day for personal development as well as for inspiration. Prominent external speakers shared experiences and knowledge, and the employees were women and aims to transform words into action when it comes to given the opportunity to expand their network and to share experigetting more women into management positions at both operaences in areas like team work, working environment and personal tional and decision-making levels, developing new processes and development. procedures that will enable more women to advance in business. In 2012 SEB also introduced diversity as a highlighted and Diversity in focus integral part of the basic leadership programme for new managers SEB’s goal is to offer our people equal opportunities to develop in SEB. The aim is to increase all managers’ understanding of the individually, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation value of increased diversity. or religion. We strive for a gender balance at every level within SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 21 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Health and safety for the support, i.e. whether it is work or non work related. Well-being is a prerequisite for being able to do a good job. An engagSEB offers employees a variety of services and solutions, ing and healthy work environment encourages good performance adapted to local conditions, such as, parental leave subsidy, health and promotes employee ambassadorship. The annual work-envibenefits and corporate health care. We encourage and facilitate for ronment-review is an important part of the statutory and systematic employees to balance work and leisure. An example is the initiative work-environment-management that helps create and maintain a “Children in a bank” in Estonia – where children of employees healthy working environment in which everyone can perform well. are invited to get acquainted with their parents’ work through the All of our employees in the Nordic countries and in Russia are establishment of a playroom. represented in formal health and safety committees. Globally, over SEB Estonia launched a corporate pension scheme for its 66 per cent of our employees have representation in such commitemployees during 2012. SEB is one the first companies in Estonia tees. In countries where no formal committees are in place, health to offer that benefit. Please read more on page 11. and safety is on the agenda in staff meetings. Within SEB’s Life division a pilot health programme was In 2012, SEB launched a new strategy, SEB Wellness Prolaunched in 2012. The primary goal is to establish a long-term gramme, to strengthen preventive health efforts. The main mindset of the importance of health and wellbeing. The focus is on perspective is to focus on pro-active activities promoting well lifestyle, physical activity and stress along with leadership issues. being and preventing illness, rather than retroactive actions once An activity plan has been set up based on health surveys among an employee has fallen ill. the employees. Going forward, in-depth dialogue meetings will be conducted based on the health surveys to capture ideas for improvements, a lifestyle-oriented health check will be introduced SEB’s new health strategy and will expand the offering of health support activities. is anchored in the latest Responsible conversion SEB is constantly working to improve efficiency. If redundancies research. occur, we strive to always, in cooperation with the unions, manage them responsibly and to support employees who may need to find new challenges. The concept is anchored in the latest research and based on Whenever possible, SEB always try to offer jobs in other parts the recommendations of SEB’s Health science council introduced of the company to match the needs of the individuals who are in 2012. Four professors and physicians share their view on the open to new opportunities. If employees do not find a new job latest development in the area and provide support and advice on within SEB, the ambition always is to coach and support the indihealth related issues. They also give inspirational lectures to emvidual to find as a good solution as possible. ployees and senior management about both physical and mental health. SEB Wellness Programme is initially introduced in Sweden Labour rights and is planned to be rolled out throughout the Group shortly. SEB follows local collective agreements and national legislations Employees are expected to take responsibility for their own as regards labour rights in the countries where we are present. To health, but SEB offers help and support. The support includes safeguard that we have the same policies implemented at all our physical examinations on regular basis and customised benefits, sites of operation, to the extent possible, we did a self assessment such as wellness and health promoting activities. SEB in Sweden of the present conditions during the latter part of 2012. The results offers the Employee Assistance Programme, an opportunity for from this assessment are currently being evaluated and will be employees to get support from a registered psychotherapist used for further development of our internal labour standards through a phone service. The purpose is to help employees in need and policies. However, the assessment shows no risk for forced or of temporary support at an early stage, disregarding the reasons compulsory labour or child labour at our sites. Key performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total number of employees, incl part-time employees 17,474 18,862 20,599 20,835 22,443 Employee turnover, per cent 9.3 9.3 10.9 11.0 13.8 Average length of employment, years 11.6 11.1 11.1 11.1 10.9 Gender by management type, all managers (male/female) 58/42 57/43 56/44 58/42 56/44 Gender Senior managers (male/female) 76/24 77/23 74/26 73/27 75/25 For more information, see CS Fact Book 22 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Employee engagement in times of change We believe that engaged and motivated employees are At SEB, we manage these challenges in different ways, many essential for our success. SEB, like many other companies, acts in involving direct support to managers and key persons who drive a constantly changing environment, and we continually challenge change processes. In 2012, we have implemented several activities ourselves in terms of how we work – we question and we revise in order to address this issue. Around 500 persons across SEB have when appropriate or necessary. participated in different kinds of change management activities. One potential consequence of this way of working is the risk Our initiative to strengthen corporate culture, You are SEB also for redundancies. When this occurs, we work hard to manage this provides useful support to groups/teams undergoing change. responsibly and to find the best support for employees who may Other tools include new venues for people to meet across the need to find new challenges. organisation. One example is the internal career days, arranged in At the same time, all the employees that remain might also several countries, where employees can learn more about SEB and need support and inspiration to move on. The feeling of relief in our products and services, be inspired, learn from other employkeeping your job can be mixed with feelings of guilt towards those ees’ various career choices. Hopefully, these new insights can open who leave. In addition, people may worry about the future, often up for new thoughts about the employees’ own development. involving altered and/or extended tasks. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 23 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL Investing in communities What's the issue? We engage Companies and the communities where they operate are interdependent, so what is good for society, is good for business. We for future recognise that a thriving society is vital for our future success as a bank. In addition to the role that our business plays in the generations. communities where we operate, we support local community organisations, sharing both time and money and working together Since 1997 SEB supports the non-governmental organisation with carefully chosen partners and people. Mentor, and since 2001, our employees are engaged in being a role model for young people. Involvement can take many forms, from participation in a seminars, e.g. on parenting, to being a We are convinced that the development of society goes hand mentor and support for a youth during one year. In 2012 nearly in hand with our own long-term progress. Without people with 100 employees in Sweden chose to engage as a job mentor, to visit knowledge, dreams and aspirations our society loses momentum. a school and inspire students on their own profession. Many emIn December 2012 SEB decided on a new group-wide sponsor ployees testify that the engagement is rewarding both in daily work strategy. Our sponsorships are about creating partnerships with and personal development. Learn more about this on page 25. people and organisations, building a society we all want to be in. As a corporate citizen we engage for future generations. We Broad employee commitment support innovations, children and young people. We do this with In the Baltic countries, there is a broad commitment among a long-term perspective for both businesses and people. SEB employees to support young people and children in need of help. partners with the best in class organisations and remain involved Cooperation with Mentor is ongoing in all countries, for example in in the decisions about how our finances are spent. We seek to use Lithuania where since 2004 more than 100 employees have served our resources and infrastructure so that we make the most of our investments. Our entire social investment amounted 2012 to SEK 53 million, or about 0.37 percent of our operating profit before tax. Operations financed partly by central funds and partly with the help SSE Riga Business Sustainability Centre of SEB’s local office. In May 2012 the Centre for Sustainable Business at SSE Supporting innovations and youth (Stockholm School of EconomSEB has a long tradition of supporting entrepreneurs, and believes ics) Riga was opened. The centre that Sweden benefits from an increased number of entrepreneurs is an independent institute that develop businesses and create future growth and jobs. within SSE Riga and its aim is The vast majority of new jobs created in recent years have been to foster a discussion in the created in small businesses. To contribute to this support and business community as well as SEB collaborates with several organisations to help the country’s in society on sustainability. SEB, entrepreneurs. Read more on page 9. Nordea and Swedbank donated one of the largest sum in the university’s history – 1.8 million euros (SEK 15 million). Economic contribution by theme, 2012 The centre was inaugurated on May 17, 2012 with an expert 3% 5% panel discussion and presentations. The event was attended by representatives from more than 80 businesses, confirming the 18% 31% high interest in implementation of the principles of sustainability in the Latvian business environment. “At SEB, corporate sustainability means developing and creating your business in such a way that not only tomorrow, but also after ten and a hundred years we as an organisation would be well managed and operate upon the basic principles of transparency in 13% order that the environment would be as green and beautiful as it is For more information today, and in the end local society would live in a secure environ29% see CS Fact Book ment. We believe that today we are building the future and with the Opening of Business Sustainability Centre we will strengthen the sustainable business environment in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia,” said David Teare, Head of Baltic Division of SEB. 24 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL as mentors for young people. SEB also supports Lithuania’s largest Sports and culture charitable campaign for orphans, who in 2012 collected nearly SEK Since 2006 SEB is the main sponsor of the Swedish Tennis Associa60 million. In Lithuania many activities aim at increasing financial tion. Through the joint project SEB Next Generation we enable literacy among young people, as well as to presenting possible 1,000 girls and boys aged 10–15 years in the Nordic countries career paths among students. to develop their talent and to create an identity and community In Latvia SEB supports the international charity SOS Children’s within the sport. SEB Next Generation seeks to give young people Villages which offers long-term care of orphans in over 100 counthe opportunity to develop their tennis skills, and be able to detries. In 2012, over 500 SEB employees engaged in various activivelop in a positive environment with professional guidance. In the ties, such as strengthening children’s knowledge about money and Baltic countries, SEB supports a variety of sporting events such as finances. SEB supports two children’s villages in cities Valmiera and tennis tournaments and running races. Īslīce, and two facilities for young people in Jelgava and Iecava. SEB is the sponsor of the Stockholm Concert Hall and StockSEB Charity Fund (Heategevusfond) in Estonia has been estabholm Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. As part of this cooperation, lished to provide children deprived of parental care a chance to the orchestra performs concerts especially for SEB’s customers, feel equal in relation to their peers who grow up in regular families. both in Stockholm and at the SEB office. SEB is also collaborating The Fund also provides an opportunity for the bank’s employees to with the Riga Chamber Orchestra Sinfonietta (since 2006) and the get involved as volunteers. About 70 volunteers are involved in the Estonian National Opera (since 2009). work and the fund has 7,000 regular donors. Through donations new furniture has been purchased and activities have been organised for children. In 2012 SEB Charity fund offered 60 Estonian young people who have lost their parents a full day course on managing their personal finances. SEB offers about 1.3 million in direct financial contributions to the fund each year. Erik Nyman, Operational Risk Analyst, SEB “Young people are like a blank slate. Their whole adult life is ahead of them – and what if I could make a difference and be a good role model?” That’s how Erik Nyman, risk analyst at SEB Group Risk Centre, reflected last year when he decided to become a mentor. Erik realised that he, in his daily life, rarely came into contact with young people, only other adults, colleagues, friends, etc. He contacted the organisation Mentor that SEB has close cooperation with, and was paired with Felix, 16 years old. Erik and Felix meet and socialise a couple of hours every other week. Both like to work-out, they are interested in music, though not of the same kind of music. “But we are curious and learn from each other. We work out, we might go to a concert, to the cinema or the theatre.” The mentor is an adult who does not make demands, that is not a parent or teacher, but someone with life experience who can listen in a different way. “Felix and I live in the same society, but we experience it so very differently. I think of how much easier life was when I was young. There were no cell phones or Internet, there were fewer choices, while freedom was still greater, not so boxed as I perceive it today. And the labour market is so much harder, higher barriers to enter and greater uncertainty. To be able to support a teenager, through my workplace, to share his experiences, thoughts and advice on the future, feels very important and valuable”, says Erik Nyman. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 25 OUR PRIORITIES SOCIAL €$ Access to financial services and Twitter in Sweden, Estonia and Latvia and via Facebook in Lithuania. This much appreciated service allows us to both answer What's the issue? general questions on personal finance and economics as well as Access to finance is crucial to economic activity. A responsible specific concerns regarding daily banking. New technology is conbank makes it s services available to all people, regardless of tinuously used to improve our banking services. In the recent year, socio-economic standing, ethnic origin, disability or other factors. mobile phone banking has been in focus; the mobile bank app for Our goal is to serve our customers whenever and wherever they small businesses was added in Sweden, and the “M-signature” was desire. By sharing our specialist knowledge, we empower people to launched for smart phones in Lithuania. make more informed financial decisions and contribute to better In November 2012, SEB launched the payment service Swish in functioning societies. collaboration with six other bank groups in Sweden. Swish enables individuals to send money to other users in real time by connecting mobile phone numbers to bank accounts. Initially, this service, Financial capability which is quick, simple and secure, is available for personto person We believe that the general public’s ability to understand financial transactions. By mid January 2013, 150,000 private individuals had matters is important for the individual as well as for society at signed up for the new service in SEB. large. At SEB, we therefore continuously strive to find new and betIn the Latvian municipality Jelgava, SEB has ter ways to share our expertise in various ways. Our Chief Econointroduced an e-card for school pupils. The mist and other experts regularly appear in media and frequently card is used as an ID and for payment in public engage with customers in a variety of forms. transportations. Parents deposit the money to Our household economists in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and their child’s e-card and when the card is swiped Sweden, are engaged in a broad range of initiatives to increase the in front of the POS terminal in the municipality knowledge of personal finance and economic affairs among the bus, the payment is processed. At year end 2012 general public. Key research reports cover insights and developaround 6,000 e-cards were issued. ment of the national housing and savings markets. In 2012, special focus has been on the propensity to save and potential implicaFinancial services for all tions for future pensions etc. As an example, recent research Over the years, SEB has developed various tools to facilitate shows that in Sweden women on average only save about two banking for customers with special needs. A good example is the thirds of the amount men save, partly a reflection of more women security tool “digipass”, adjusted for customers that are visually working part time and that the average salary levels are lower. This impaired or otherwise have trouble with small buttons, to do their is likely to result in women having smaller pensions and potenbanking via the internet, the Telephone bank and the self service tially smaller buffers when they retire. Insights such as these are Bank by Phone. discussed and communicated with the aim to raise awareness and Both internationally and locally, there is an increasing focus on debate and are included in our advice to customers. the provision of banking service for children and students. This In Sweden and in the Baltic countries, SEB is also an active is the case also for SEB. In some markets, such as Estonia, basic participant in a range of public/private initiatives aimed at increasbanking services are available to children of any age, as long as the ing knowledge of personal finance and economic affairs, often in parents or guardian is in agreement, at a low cost. From the age of collaboration with local authorities, such as the central bank or seven, the child may manage the account independently, also with the finance inspection. Examples include seminars in Lithuania on the use of a debit card. In Sweden, we offer independent accounts personal finance management with about 750 participants in total, with debit card from the age of 13, free of charge. as well as lectures on entrepreneurship for teachers in Lithuanian schools and lectures directed to schoolchildren and young mothers. In Estonia, SEB works together with other banks in preparing Key performance indicators for financial literacy classes in all schools, sending a hundred of voluntary bankers as speakers all across the country. SEB meeting places and knowledge sharing 2012 Branch offices, number 292 Reaching out to customers Internet bank, number of visits, million 156 SEB puts great emphasis on making our services accessible to our Mobile bank, number of visits, million 34 customers whenever and wherever they need. To complement Telephone bank, number of calls, million 3.8 our branch offices and customer visits, SEB’s telephone banks are Downloads of telephone and Ipad Apps, open 24 hours a day, every day of the year. This service is available private and SME 219,000 for both private customers and business customers. In Sweden, Expert reports, private and SME 102 personal customer service is available in more than 20 languages. Our expanded social media presence provides additional contacts Research reports on macro economic development 51 with customers. We currently offer customer service via Facebook For more information, see CS Fact Book 26 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Corporate Governance at SEB SEB attaches great importance to the creation of clearly deof vital importance. SEB’s Corporate Governance Report has been fined roles for officers and decision-making bodies in such areas prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the as the credit approval process, corporate finance, asset manageCode of Corporate Governance. No deviations from the Code are ment and the insurance operations. The external framework that reported for 2012. SEB adheres to in its governance, includes, among other things, the: For more details on corporate governance at SEB, please see – Companies Act the Corporate Governance report 2012 in the Annual Report, pages – Annual Accounts Act 54–68 or www.sebgroup.com/about-SEB/corporate-governance. – NASDAQ OMX Stockholm regulations – Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Global initiatives and governance of corporate – Banking and Financing Business Act sustainability SEB’s corporate sustainability work is based on Swedish laws and The internal framework includes among other things the regulations as well as internationally recognised guidelines and Articles of Association, adopted by the General Meeting of initiatives, primarily the ten principles for business activities from Shareholders. Policies and instructions that have been drawn up the UN Global Compact. These principles cover the areas of human to clearly define the division of responsibility within the Group are rights, labour standards and conditions, environment and antiimportant tools for the Board and the President in their governing corruption. In addition, SEB’s sustainability efforts are based on the and controlling roles. Of special importance in this context are the OECD guidelines for multinational companies, the UNEP Finance Rules of Procedure for the Board, Instructions for the President initiative and the UN Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI). and the Group’s activities, Group’s Credit Instruction and Risk SEB has also adopted the Equator Principles, a voluntary set of Policy, Instruction for Handling of Conflicts of Interest, Ethics guidelines for managing potential risks related to environmental Policy, Instruction for Procedures Against Money Laundering and and social impact in project finance. Financing of Terrorism and Remuneration Policy. A structure is in place to implement the corporate sustainability SEB’s Code of Business Conduct describes and lays out SEB’s strategy throughout SEB (see chart on page 28). The overall view is values and standards of business conduct and provides guidance that governance, social and environmental aspects should be fully on how to live by these values. Policies and guidelines for sustainembedded in our way of doing business and making decisions. ability, such as the Corporate Sustainability policy and various Therefore, CS is incorporated into existing business processes group-wide position statements and industry sector policies wherever possible. Each manager and employee is ultimately addressing environmental, social and governance issues are also responsible to make the right decision and to be accountable. Corporate governance structure Nomination Committee Shareholders/Annual General Meeting External Auditor Board of Directors Risk & Capital Remuneration & HR Audit & Compliance Committee Committee Committee Head of Group Page 64 Internal Audit President and Chief Executive Officer Group Risk Group Executive Asset & Liability Committee Committee Committee Chief Risk Head of Group Officer Compliance Appointed by Group Credit Reporting to Officer Informing SEB’s activities are managed, controlled and followed up in accordance with policies and instructions established by the Board and the President (CEO). SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 27 ABOUT THIS REPORT Governance structure for the corporate sustainability work Board of Directors Adopts the Corporate Sustainability (CS) Policy. As applicable, matters are dealt with by the Board or by any of its established committees: The Risk and Capital Committee; the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Human Resources Committee. Group Executive Committee (GEC) Decides upon the Group targets and SEB's approach to Corporate Sustainability. Approves the CS Policy. Head of Group Communication holds the CS responsibility in the GEC. Corporate Sustainability (CS) Committee Governance, environmental and social issues are overseen by the CS Committee, a sub-committee of the GEC. Chaired by the Head of Group Communication. Responsible for advising the GEC and the executive committee. Has representation from all divisions and key functions. Group Corporate Sustainability Coordinates and drives the overall sustainability agenda within SEB. Responsible for the implementation of the CS Policy as well as for reporting on its annual progress. Headed by the Group Head of Corporate Sustainability and supported by the Group Environmental Manager. Local CS Committees; Business and Manages the business priority work on a daily basis within a specified division, country or staff country coordinators; Programme Managers function (Procurement, Real Estate, HR, IT, Marketing, Security etc). Managers and employees Each head of a division, business area, group function is responsible for ensuring that activities carried out and instructions adopted are in accordance with the CS Policy. Employees are expected to act in accordance with the CS Policy. About this report This report describes SEB’s approach and presents targets, some cases information for early 2013 is included to present an guidelines, measures and key achievements related to the Groups up-to-date picture. The previous report was published in March contribution to sustainable development. 2012. There has been no significant change from previous report SEB’s sustainability strategy is focused on eight business prioriin scope and boundary. The information in this report is obtained ties in three areas of responsibility – governance, environmental from various internal systems and reports. To complement this and social. These priorities reflect the issues that SEB’s stakeholdwritten report, a CS Fact Book is published online at ers see as the most significant. The process to define what to www.sebgroup.com/sustainability. include in the report is based on feedback on previous reports Risk management and corporate governance constitute key from internal and external stakeholders, best practice within Coraspects of SEB’s sustainability work. These areas are described porate Sustainability (CS) reporting both in the financial industry in detail in the Annual Report 2012, and briefly in this report, and and in general, important events during the past year, feedback are thereby audited by PwC. We use the Global Reporting Initiative, from SEB’s CS Committee and stakeholder dialogues with owners, GRI, G3 guidelines and the Financial Services Supplement, as our employees, customers, non-governmental organisations, authorimain reporting framework. The report has not been externally asties and communities. sured as we are still working on improving our reporting processes. The reporting organisation’s name is Skandinaviska Enskilda A first step in that direction is, however, the GRI application check Banken AB (Publ) (“SEB”), headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. of our reporting which has been made by PwC, according to which The report comprises the entire organisation of the SEB Group, we report at level B. Our GRI index is found on the inside back cover. except as specifically stated. As regards governance and ecoAs part of SEB’s commitment to the UN Global Compact, we nomic issues, the CS Report covers SEB Group. Regarding social report on our activities and performance through a combination and environmental aspects, please see CS Fact Book for possible of this report and an annual Communication on Progress (COP). limitations of scope. Our COP table of reference can be found online at: SEB has published a CS report annually since 2007. The report www.sebgroup.com/sustainability. covers the preceding fiscal year, January to December 2012. In 28 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Index SEB 2012 A GRI application check of our reporting has been made by PwC, 2012 (AR), the CS Fact book (CSF) and www.sebgroup.com/ according to which we report at level B. Page references relate to sustainability (www). the Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 (CS), the Annual Report = Full, = Partly 1 Strategy and analysis 4.10 Processes for evaluating Board performance, AR 56, CS 27, 28, 1.1 CEO statement CS 1 particularly with respect to economic, environmental www. and social performance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities: CS 3-4, 6 Commitments to external initiatives 2 Organisational profile 4.11 Explanation of if and how the precautionary CS 1, 16; AR 38-53 2.1 Name of the organisation CS 28 approach or principle is applied 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services CS inside front cover, 4.12 Association to externally developed charters, CS 1-2, www. ar inside front cover principles, or other initiatives 4.13 Memberships in associations CS 2, www. 2.3 Operational structure AR 64-66 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters CS inside back cover Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups CS 4 2.5 Countries of operation CS inside front cover 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders CS 4-5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 16-17 with whom to engage 2.7 Markets served CS inside front cover, 4.16 Approach to stakeholder engagement CS 4 AR 10-11 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder CS 4-5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation CS inside front cover, engagement, and response by the organisation AR 10-11, 19-23 2.9 Significant operational or other changes during the AR 18 Economic performance indicators reporting period Disclosure on management approach 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CS inside back cover, Economic performance AR 18-23, 64-65; AR 11 CS 3; CSF 3 3 Report parameters Market presence CS inside front cover; AR 10-11 Report profile 3.1 Reporting period CS 28 Indirect economic impact CS 3, 8-12, 14-18, 24-26 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CS 28 Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CS 3, 24-25; CSF 3 3.3 Reporting cycle CS 28 EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation due to CS 3-5, 14-19 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report CS inside back cover climate change Report scope and boundaries EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan AR 94-96 3.5 Process for defining report content CS 28, 3-5 obligations. 3.6 Boundary of the report CS 28 EC4 Financial assistance received from government None received, CSF 3 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of CS 28 Indirect economic impact the report. EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided No such investments 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, CS 28; No jointprimarily for public benefit leased facilities, etc ventures EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the CS 3, 8-9 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of CSF 3, 5, 8, 9 extent of impacts. calculations Environmental performance indicators 3.10 Comparability with previous reports CS 28; CSF 3, 5, 8, 9 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods CS 28 Disclosure on management approach CS 6-7, 14-17, 19 in the scope, boundary, etc Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption No such consumption GRI content index according to definition 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard CS inside front cover Disclosures in the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption CS 19; CSF 4-5 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to CS 28 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency CS 19 seeking external assurance for the report improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable CS 16-18 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement energy based products and services Governance Water 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation CS 27 EN8 Total water withdrawal CSF 4-5 4.2 Role of the Chairman of the Board in the organisation AR 56-57 Emissions, effluents and waste 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members AR 57 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions CS 19; CSF 4-5 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to AR 55; cs 13, 20 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions CS 19; CSF 4-5 provide recommendations etc to the Board EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions CS 19; www 4.5 Remuneration to Board members, senior managers AR 57, 67-69, 91-99 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal CSF 4-5 and executives, and link to the organisation’s performance Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of CS 3, 6-7, 14-19 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest in the Board AR 54 products and services 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and experAR 56 tise of the Board members Compliance EN28 Fines and monetary sanctions for noncompliance zero; CSF 5 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles www; CS 6, 12, 20 with environmental laws relevant to ESG performance Transport 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing economic, environCS 27; AR 55, 58-59 EN29 Environmental impacts from transportation CS 19; CSF 4-5 mental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities Social performance indicators, Labour practices and decent work Society Disclosure on management approach Disclosure on management approach Goals, performance and policy CS 1, 6-7, 20-23; AR 3-5 Goals and performance CS 1, 3, 5, 6-7 Organisational responsibility AR 54, 59 Policy CS 1, 6, 12, 27; AR 55 Training and awareness CS 20-23 Organisational responsibility AR 64; CS 27 Monitoring and follow-up CS 7, 20-23 Training and awareness CS 10-13, 14-17, 20-21 Having a sound, safe and secure workplace is part We know that the way we act affects the world of a manager’s leadership and responsibilities. The in which we operate. It is our responsibility to human resources and security functions provide do business in an ethical and sustainable way. support with policies and processes as well as advice Our core values and our Code of Business Conduct on proactive measures. A group level HR unit is reguide our actions. sponsible for SEB’s HR policies and processes. These Corruption are implemented by, and when necessary adapted to SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to All business units annuthe local regulatory framework. They are followed-up corruption ally analysed; AR 66 by the local HR units, and the respective business SO3 Employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption CS 10, 12-13 units, in all countries where SEB is operating. As policies and procedures regards security related aspects, Group Security is responsible for policies and practices, which are SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CS 13; AR 48 adapted to local requirements. Public policy/Anti-competitive behaviour/Compliance Employment SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians None LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region CS 22; AR 99; CSF 6 and related institutions LA2 Employee turnover CS 22; CSF 6 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour AR 21 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees CS 20-22; Product responsibility Labour/management relations Disclosure on management approach CS 3, 6, 10-11; 16-17 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective CS 22; CSF 7 PR5 Practices to customer satisfaction AR 5-8, 10-11, CS bargaining agreements 4,10-13, Inside back cover LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational CS 22; CSF 7 changes Marketing communications/customer privacy/compliance Occupational health and safety PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and CS 10-12 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health cs 22, csf 8 voluntary codes for marketing communications and safety committees PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy CS 10-11; AR 48 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, CS 22; CSF 7 and losses of customer data absenteeism Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure LA8 Programmes to assist workforce members regarding CS 22 serious diseases Disclosure on management approach FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social AR 14-15, 55; CS 12, LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal CSF 8 components applied to business lines 14-17, 27 agreements with trade unions FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental CS 14-17 Training and education and social risks in business lines LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning CS 20-23 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation CS 16-17, 27; AR 38, 42, LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforCS 20; CSF 7 and compliance with environmental and social requi64-65 mance and career development reviews rements included in agreements or transactions. Diversity and equal opportunities FS4 Processes for improving staff competency to CS 7, 14-17 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce AR 13, 60-63, 99; implement the environmental and social policies CS 21-22; CSF 7 and procedures as applied to business lines Human rights FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business CS 7, 9, 10-11, 14-17, partners regarding environmental and social 24-26 Disclosure on management approach risks and opportunities Human Rights issues can be both direct and indirect CS 1, 3, 5, 6, 12-17, for SEB. In the direct case, these issues are governed 20-23; AR 12-15, 55 Product portfolio/audit by the UN Global Compact, SEB’s CS Policy, Diversity FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines AR 5-8, 10-11, 19-23, Policy and our Code of Business Conduct. They are by specific region, size and by sector 85-86 primarily the responsibility of each manager in their FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed CS 16-17 leadership role. Support is provided by HR which is to deliver a specific social benefit responsible for the applicable policies and practices. The Compliance function (2nd line of defence) and FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed CS 15-17 Internal Audit (3rd line of defence) have a role to to deliver a specific environmental benefit secure compliance. Active ownership The indirect cases are primarily the responsibility FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the CS 14-15 for the business divisions in their investment and institution’s portfolio with which the reporting financing decisions, and the credit organisation. organisation has interacted on environmental and Investment and procurement practices social issues HR1 Consideration of human rights with regard to CS 14-17 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative CS 14-15; CSF 5 investments environmental screening HR2 Screening on human rights among significant AR 15; CS 17 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental ar social iswww.seb.se suppliers sues for shares over which the reporting organisation HR3 Training on human rights aspects relevant to CS 12, 14-17, 21 holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting operations Society performance Non-discrimination/child labour/forced and compulsory labour FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically CS 26; www HR5 Operations where freedom of association and CS 22; AR 48, 66 disadvantaged areas collective bargaining may be at significant risk FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for CS 26; www HR6 Operations where there is a risk for incidents of None, CS 22; AR 48, 66 disadvantaged people child labour Product responsibility HR7 Operations where there is risk for incidents of None, CS 22; AR 48, 66 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial CS 6-7, 10-11 forced or compulsory labour products and services FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of CS 10-11, 24; www beneficiary Awards and recognitions 2012 Awarded by Customers Bank of the year, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden The Banker Best client relationship bank in Sweden Prospera Best Nordic bank for large corporates Prospera SME Bank of the Year, Sweden Finansbarometern Best Private Bank in the Nordic region The Banker and Professional Wealth Mgmt Financial advisor of the year, Nordic region Financial times and Mergermarket Employees Best employer among banks, Sweden Universum Most attractive employer, Lithuania Verslo Žinios & CV L:T Among Top 5 most desired employers, Latvia TNS Latvia Sustainability Top ranked for transparency and anti-corruption work Transparency International, Sweden Included in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2013 RobecoSAM Gold Category Latvia Sustainability Index Institute for Sustainability and Corp. responsib. Please recycle me! Sustainability indices Index provider We like our communications to have an impact on you – but not on the enOMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index Nasdaq OMX/GES vironment. We therefore compensate OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index Nasdaq OMX/GES all emissions related to printed matter. FTSE4Good FTSE This report is associated with a carbon footprint of 65.4 g CO2-equivalents ECPI Indices ECPI per m2 printed product, corresponSTOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices STOXX ding to 0.2 kg CO2-equivalents per Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Forum Ethibel report. The selected printing company is climate compensated and has ISO 14001 environmental certification. If International commitments Adopted/signed you no longer have use for this report, please recycle it. CDP Water Disclosure 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2008 Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) 2008 UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 2007 UN Equator Principles 2007 UN Global Compact 2004 OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 2000 The FSC logo identifies products ICC Business Charter on Sustainable Development 1995 which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Contact us Stewardship Council. Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Group Corporate Sustainability © Copyright Skandinaviska Enskilda Contact: Tel: +46 8 763 50 00 Mail: cs@seb.se Banken AB, 2013. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be Internet: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any Head office form or by any means, electronic, Postal Address: SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden mechanical, photocopying, Visiting address: Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Corporate registration number: 502032-9081 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. 1 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 SEGR0063 2013.03 Production: SEB and REWIR Printing: Elanders Cover photo: Joachim Lundgren About SEB SEB is a leading Nordic financial services group. As a relationship bank strongly committed to deliver customer value, SEB in Sweden and the Baltic countries offers financial advice and a wide range of financial services. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany the Bank’s operations have a strong focus on a full-service offering to corporate and institutional clients. SEB’s activities are carried out with a long-term perspective to fulfill the Bank’s role to assist businesses and markets to thrive. The international nature of SEB’s business is reflected in its presence in some 20 countries worldwide. SEB serves more than 4 million customers and has around 16,500 employees. Our responsibility We know that the way we act affects the world in which we operate. It is our responsibility to make sure that we do business in an ethical and sustainable way, attending to our customers’ needs and protecting people and the environment. By being a well-managed and profitable company, we can use our resources, time, money and knowledge of our people to contribute to society. This report presents our company from a sustainable perspective. It covers our non-financial performance 2012 – how we govern and manage our business responsibly to create value for our stakeholders. Our actions span the spectrum from small details to complex questions on the global business agenda. Visit us: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability Contact us: cs@sebgroup.com
