Leadership and Growth ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 TABLE OF CONTENTS About this Report 2 LEADERSHIP About ACCSR 2 Professionalisation of CSR 9 Welcome from the Managing Director 3 SERVICES Our Key Issues and Stakeholders 4 Delivering Shared Value – Client Impacts 13 Our Challenges and Successes 5 Building CSR Capacity Through Learning Programs 14 Achieving Our Performance Goals 7 Environmental Impacts 14 FY2013 Commitments 8 BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACCSR Values 8 International Contributions to Building CSR Capacity 15 Our Role 9 Developing and Retaining Employees 16 GRI and UN Global Compact Index 18 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT ACCSR This is our third Sustainability Report and covers our sustainability Australian Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility (ACCSR) is performance in the period from 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2012. It the registered trading name of Synergy Communications Pty Ltd follows our 2009 Sustainability Report. We were unable to meet our (ABN 71 007 029 610). This is a privately held company and Dr. previous commitment of biennial reporting this year but propose to Leeora D. Black is the sole director. adopt an annual reporting period for future reports. During the reporting period we undertook a business review in line We used the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the with the goals published in our previous sustainability report. As a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Framework to guide this result of this, from 1 July 2010 we restructured the business into two report’s development. This report has been checked by the GRI. It operating companies, ACCSR Learning and ACCSR Consulting, both is a “B” level report, which means we have reported on at least 20 wholly owned by Synergy Communications. The two operating busiperformance indicators. ACCSR supports the goals of the GRI, and nesses better reflect the core services provided. This restructure had has been an organisational stakeholder since 2004. We teach the no significant impact on the data contained in this report. Certified GRI Reporting Program in our public professional learning Our mission is to become Australia’s leading management consulprograms. ACCSR has been a signatory to the UNGC since 2007 and tancy dedicated wholly to creating competitive advantage for clients joined the UNGC Australian Global Compact Network when it was through corporate social responsibility. established during the reporting period. Our core services are the provision of advice, research and trainThe full GRI and UNGC index can be found on page 18. ing in corporate social responsibility. These services can be separated into five core product offerings: research, learning, stakeholder engagement, reporting and strategy. Our consulting services were delivered to clients in Victoria, New South Wales, Tasmania, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia. Our public training program during the reporting period was run in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth. More information on our services, our stakeholders, our people and our impacts are contained in this report and on our website www.accsr.com.au and can be located using the navigation links on this page. WE WELCOME YOUR FEEDBACK ON THIS REPORT. Please email leeorablack@accsr.com.au or call +61 3 9049 9500. [ 2 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 WELCOME FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Welcome to the 2009-2012 Sustainability Report of the Australian Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility. This report describes our goals, activities, challenges, and impacts. ACCSR was established in 2003 and in 2004 I coined our tag line “Leadership in CSR Research, Learning and Strategy”. That was certainly our aim then and after nine years, I think we have begun to achieve this goal. From a one-person home office to a vibrant and thriving specialist management consulting and training firm in South Yarra, Melbourne, ACCSR has well and truly passed the startup stage. We are proud of our achievements during the reporting period. We continued our contribution to the professionalisation of CSR by producing our State of CSR in Australia Annual Review and holding ACCSR’s Founder and Managing Director, Dr. Leeora Black our annual conference, attended by approximately 150 people each year. We expanded our team to eleven staff and recently moved into a bigger office to accommodate future growth. Our new office proACCSR’s employees are a talented and hard-working team with vides fantastic onsite training facilities to host our public learning diverse backgrounds and experiences. Each has made it a personal programs, including the GRI-certified programs which we became mission to help clients and workshop participants succeed in their accredited to run in 2009. own goals. They bring great passion for sustainable and responsible During the reporting period we completed our initial five-year business practice to work every day. We are very fortunate to have business plan and undertook a business review to establish the next attracted and retained our current employees. I am grateful to our stage of ACCSR’s development. As a result of this review we: employees for their dedication and wisdom, and very confident in ACCSR’s future as a leader in responsible business management as a • Restructured into two operating companies, ACCSR Learning result of our team’s abilities and dedication. and ACCSR Consulting • Established new policies and a performance management Our work as consultants, researchers and trainers brings us into system for employees contact with hundreds of people every year working in this field. Our work is immensely satisfying, and we would like to thank all our cli• Established an employee profit-share scheme ents and workshop participants for sharing their journeys with us as • Reviewed marketing communications, and implemented a we work towards our over-arching goal of building competitive advansocial media strategy tage and stakeholder wealth through corporate social responsibility. • Expanded our thought leadership program in response to client feedback, and • Developed new consulting services and training programs. The marketplace continues to be challenging with many of our current and prospective clients facing external pressure from changing Dr. Leeora D. Black legislation, unstable financial markets and a changing competitive MANAGING DIRECTOR landscape. This has led to greater use of CSR to manage this complexity. ACCSR Consulting doubled sales in the reporting period. Growth in ACCSR Learning, after peaking in 2010 with the introduction of the GRI-Certified Training Program, has plateaued. We attribute this to a ‘wait-and-see’ climate due to the development of G4, uncertainty surrounding the future requirements for integrated reporting and possible saturation of the market. We also need to refresh our marketing strategy to create cut-through in what is now a cluttered learning environment. ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 3 ] OUR KEY ISSUES AND STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholders are clients, workshop participants, employees, told us has inspired and encouraged us and forms the basis for this and partners with whom we have trading relationships, such as interreport. We are deeply indebted to those clients for their wisdom national faculty and the Global Reporting Initiative. Other stakeholdand candour. We reviewed the outcomes of this process internally ers include key suppliers, future employees, and prospective clients this year and did not identify any significant events that would have and workshop participants. changed the expectations of stakeholders. This report focuses on addressing the material issues and interests Material issues from an employee perspective were identified of our two key stakeholders, employees and clients. Engagement through the planning meeting held for this report and at regular stratwith other stakeholders takes place either through their established egy days. Our employees thought the biggest questions this report relationship management protocols (if an organisation) or informally, should help us answer were: through personal relationships (if an individual). • What do we stand for? To prepare this report we collated and reviewed our key perfor• What are the challenges we face? mance data, and consulted our stakeholders about our impacts, our • Where were we most successful? and value and their expectations of us. The two stakeholder groups we • What is our contribution to society, including our impacts? engaged for this report were our clients and our employees. In 2011 we contracted an independent consultant to conduct a The final prioritised issues are listed below and details on the manmateriality and impact review with clients. Our aim was to better agement of these issues are covered throughout the report. understand not only what our key stakeholders would like to know about ACCSR’s sustainability performance but also how the work that we do affects our clients and their stakeholders. We invited 17 current and former clients to participate. Ten did, and what they MATERIAL ISSUES CLIENT-IDENTIFIED EMPLOYEE-IDENTIFIED REPORT LOCATION LEADERSHIP Provide leadership in CSR   p. 9 Support the professionalisation of the   p. 14 CSR management function Support the CSR industry   p. 11 SERVICES Use best management tools and   p. 13 approaches Improve client performance through CSR   p. 14 Build client capabilities   p. 14 BUSINESS Support employee professional  p. 16 DEVELOPMENT development and career pathways Diversify product offering  p. 12 FIGURE 1: Material issues [ 4 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 OUR CHALLENGES AND SUCCESSES The past three years have seen a growing uptake of corporate susAt ACCSR, we see the current operating environment as an opportainability practices in Australian businesses. This has led to more tunity for us to rearticulate the overall value of CSR as a vital oppororganisations embracing CSR initiatives and employing sustainability tunity for business. During times of change, an organisation’s ability staff. We have been pleased to witness and in many cases, facilitate, to adapt and transform are key capabilities in continuing to innovate heightened discussion about the social and environmental impacts of and grow. Sustainability can be a driver of change, as well as a combusiness in the community. pass enabling companies to navigate their way through uncertainty. However, the current climate in Australia and globally poses many Listening to stakeholders, improving dialogue and engagement, challenges. The volatility of global financial markets has caused harnessing efficient and lean ways of doing business and underwavering public trust in governments and other social institutions. standing the life cycle of products and services across the value chain In this context, the role of business becomes more complex, and the are all important sustainability activities that anchor a company’s need for CSR grows. It is through CSR mechanisms such as stakestrategy and integrate CSR into how it is organised and run. holder engagement, transparent reporting and other collaborative This is how we approach our own challenges. We have experienced processes of value creation that businesses maintain their resilience challenges during the past reporting period and deal with these and ability to adapt to current and future challenges. practically, through processes of continuous improvement. FUTURE CHALLENGES ACHIEVEMENTS We see the following challenges as likely to continue to Our achievements and successes include: impact our organisation in the future: • Becoming a GRI-accredited trainer (see Spotlight on • Organisational growth and managing the ebb and flow the GRI, p. 6) of consulting work • Further growth of our team • Employee engagement and retention • Implementing a partnership with La Trobe University • Changing competitive landscape. Graduate School of Management for the Graduate We also need to prepare ourselves for challenges that our Certificate of Corporate Responsibility which has now clients will face in order to support them. Our stakeholders been incorporated into the new MBA Program have identified these challenges as: • Extending our public training program, established in • Changes to government policy and/or regulation Sydney and Melbourne, to Perth and Brisbane • Changing competitive landscape • Establishing new consulting services in social licence • Increasing expectations from society to operate and social impact assessment as an exten• Growing international social movements. sion of our stakeholder engagement services Our clients and our employees are interested in how we • Extending our reporting and strategy services to new create value. Like all businesses we are on a perennial quest clients in the mining, renewable energy, consumer, to create value and how we achieve this is best demonstrated automotive, financial services, transport and telby our successes. ecommunications industries and obtaining feedback rating our standard of service as consistently high • Contributing to the CSR agenda on the global stage through presentations at international conferences and peer reviewed publications • Contributing to the Australian CSR industry through our annual State of CSR in Australia series and thought leadership • Holding our annual CSR Conference, and • Achieving most of our previously-set goals. ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 5 ] SPOTLIGHT ON THE GRI THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE ACCSR gained accreditation as a Certified Training Partner of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in 2009. ACCSR is now part of a distinguished handful of organisations that have completed a rigorous certification process with the GRI. In order to gain accreditation, ACCSR had to demonstrate “Enlightening, fast paced, fun and substantial knowledge in the fields of CSR and sustainability thorough. Met all my needs and provided and has been described by the GRI as ‘a leader in providing training for organisations in Australia and New Zealand on the great networking opportunities.” application of the GRI Reporting Framework.’ Justin van der Zalm, Our two-day training program, “How to Prepare a BestCompliance and Sustainability Advisor, Practice Sustainability Report”, has been developed to help report makers and users more effectively use the GRI FrameLoy Yang Power work and GRI reports. It teaches participants how to plan their sustainability reporting process, determine their organisation’s material issues, incorporate the UN Global Compact Principles into a report and how to evaluate the quality of reports. We also introduced the GRI-certified module on stakeholder engagement as our “Stakeholder Essentials” short course. Towards the end of the reporting period we recruited a new senior staff member to lead our sustainability reporting services, Rebecca Gunn. Rebecca is a member of the GRI’s Stakeholder Council and the Advisory Panel for the GRI Focal Point in Australia. The GRI is a global, network-based organisation that has developed the most widely used sustainability reporting framework in the world. As of June 2012, more than 4,500 organisations from 60 countries have used the framework to produce their sustainability reports. For further information about GRI visit their website: www.globalreporting.org Participants at ACCSR’s Certified GRI Training Program in September 2010 [ 6 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 ACHIEVING OUR PERFORMANCE GOALS GOALS FY2009-FY2012 ACHIEVED COMMENT Supporting the Become a GRI-certified training Yes Achieved in 2009. We trained 177 out of 493 people Professionalism of CSR partner to deliver a new training attending programs with the four Australia and New program on sustainability reporting. Zealand certified training partners to 30 June 2012. Launch an upgraded version of our Yes We ran public programs in Melbourne, Sydney and web simulation-based workshop, Brisbane, and as in-house workshops. ExperienceCSR. Publish an annual review of the Yes State of CSR in Australia Annual Reviews released State of CSR in Australia. each year, as well as complementary research papers, such as ‘Stakeholders as Readers of Sustainability Reports’. Quality and Range of Ongoing improvement in client and Yes Results are depicted in Building CSR Capacity in Services workshop participant satisfaction. Learning Programs on page 14. Client satisfaction surveys were abandoned in favour of close-out meetings to gain a more detailed response. Consulting projects contribute to Yes Client case studies and testimonials are published on client’s CSR skills and knowledge. our website. Employees Establish professional development Yes Policies, training budgets and job specifications have policy and careers pathways. been established. Establish performance management Yes Yearly KPIs established with each employee and framework. quarterly reviews conducted. Improve employee retention. Yes Voluntary departures have declined. Strategy Review business structure and plan Yes Completed business review, developed new business to address business growth. plan and restructured into two operating companies, ACCSR Learning and ACCSR Consulting. Reducing our Encourage clients to offset plane Partially All travel booked by ACCSR includes the purchase of Environmental Impact travel they purchase for us. carbon offsets. Replace office equipment with Yes ACCSR moved into a new office in May 2012. Low environmentally better solutions as VOC paint was used during the office fit out. Existing replacements become due. office equipment and furniture was reutilised during the relocation. Introduce environmental policy. Yes Environmental policy is in place and available publicly. FIGURE 2: Progress against previously identified goals ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 7 ] FY2013 COMMITMENTS GOALS FOR FY2013 Supporting the Professionalism of CSR Work with GRI to ensure that content of GRI-certified courses meets the needs of participants. Publish the State of CSR in Australia Annual Review and complementary research reports. Quality and Range of Services Strengthen our international and local partnerships to deliver the highest quality CSR service. Further develop new service lines that leverage our core capabilities in stakeholder engagement and strategy, including social impact assessment, social return on investment, carbon strategy and community investment. Expand our training program to cover greater geographical and subject areas. Employees Establish a code of conduct. Further develop our employees and provide career advancement opportunities. Formalise our internship program. Values Engage employees in refining and embedding ACCSR values. Reducing our Environmental Impact Identify new opportunities to reduce our environmental impact. Reporting Produce our sustainability report on an annual basis. FIGURE 3: New commitments for FY2013 ACCSR VALUES Like many organisations, ACCSR has a published set of values on PARTICIPATION our website. These were developed by our founder in 2004 when This is about the way we work and like to work with others. We ACCSR was just one person working from a home office. These valare enthusiastic, pro-active, and fully present. We aim to collaborate ues have acted as an internal guiding compass for choices of the effectively and co-create solutions to clients’ problems. To do this Managing Director about the services we offer, the way we work with well we need to develop team and individual competencies such as clients, and the outcomes we strive for. However, the values have change management, facilitation and communication skills. We must rarely been discussed by the wider employee group. An important also show leadership within our industry and area of influence. goal for the next reporting period is to examine our organisational values and bring them to life for all our employees. As a starting PUBLIC KNOWLEDGE point, the thinking behind ACCSR’s values was described at our last We aim to share what we learn, contribute to new knowledge, strategy day in these terms: shape better practices and build capability for responsible business practices. That has led us to establish an annual conference, publish SUSTAINABILITY an annual review of the State of CSR in Australia and other public We want to leverage our impact to create transformational value research reports, and provide thought leadership through our csrfor our stakeholders. This leads us to work for industries and organiconnected.com.au blog and other publications. sations with ripple effects, such as big businesses with extended supply chains, broad stakeholder impacts, and market-shaping posiPROFESSIONALISM tions, and industry and professional associations. This means behaving with integrity, acting with care towards colleagues, clients and self, and doing quality work. It also means we support development of the CSR profession. [ 8 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 LEADERSHIP OUR ROLE PROFESSIONALISATION OF CSR The contribution that ACCSR makes to society has both direct and At ACCSR we actively contribute to putting CSR on the manageindirect impacts. Our direct impacts are mainly on our employees, ment agenda through our thought leadership. As thought leaders, while our indirect impacts predominately relate to our clients, their we seek to share our research, practices and insights as widely as stakeholders and our employees’ families. In this section we report possible to drive the professionalisation of CSR. on our impacts on employees, workshop participants and clients. As a specialist CSR consultancy, we work every day to hone our ACCSR strives to provide meaningful and satisfying work in a skills and remain at the forefront of emerging sustainability practice way that benefits employees’ career development and contributes while building our networks with local and international peers. Our to ACCSR’s success. We also aim to minimise any negative effects skills and core competencies are brought to bear on the high quality of our business on the natural environment, by minimising the enviwork that we do with clients, but we are also passionate about disronmental impacts of our office and offsetting emissions from travel seminating our knowledge and being part of a meaningful dialogue wherever possible. about responsible business practice. While we strive to be a socially and environmentally responsible ACCSR’s approach to work is underpinned by rigorous methodolocompany, our biggest impacts are indirect, through the work we do gies and informed, evidence-based CSR practice. It is our job to be with our clients. Our approach to engaging with clients and levercognisant of new and emerging trends in corporate sustainability, but aging our positive impacts on our client’s stakeholders is through we also see it as our job to be a regular commentator and opinion empowering the organisations we work with to unlock the potential shaper in corporate responsibility issues. of sustainability to drive greater business performance. We also participated in numerous industry events such as hostSimilarly, our learning programs are the catalyst for building ing the first GRI G4 practitioner networks, presenting a stakeholder greater capabilities within individuals and businesses so that our engagement master class at the GRI conference, hosting CSRconskills and insights can drive the professionalisation of CSR. nect.ed events and facilitating discussions on our blog csrconnected. Our contribution to the professionalisation of corporate responsicom.au. bility takes many forms. We do this by presenting at workshops and Our staff continued to advance responsible business practice conferences and producing academic papers. The list is available on through their own professional development activities. Two of our our website at www.accsr.com.au Senior Consultants, Dr. Sara Bice and Rick Lambell taught in business programs at Australian universities. Another of our Senior Consultants, Rebecca Gunn, participated as a member of the GRI Stakeholder Council which provides opportuniTHE ACCSR PRIZE ties for engagement during the update of the GRI guidelines. From 2009 to 2011 ACCSR partnered with the La Trobe University Our Managing Director, Dr. Leeora Black sat on the Board of nonGraduate School of Management to develop and deliver Australia’s profit organisation Karma Currency (2011), was on the judging panel first university qualification in corporate responsibility, the Graduate for the Corrections Victoria Community Work Partnership Awards Certificate in Corporate Responsibility. As part of our engagement (2010, 2011) and joined the NAB Advisory Council on Corporate with La Trobe University, we were delighted to sponsor the ACCSR Responsibility at the end of the reporting period. Award for the best student in the course each year from 2010 to Dr. Sara Bice became co-chair of the board of International Asso2012, valued at $1,000. The Award recipients were Paul Evans ciation of Impact Assessment in July 2012, just outside the period of (2010), Annette Sharpe (2011) and Jacinta Cubis (2012). reporting. Pictured at the 2012 Award Ceremony(l-r): Emeritus Professor John McKenzie AM, Deputy Chancellor, La Trobe University, ACCSR Award recipient Jacinta Cubis, and ACCSR Managing Director, Dr. Leeora Black. ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 9 ] SPOTLIGHT 2012 ANNUAL CONFERENCE Each year since 2007 (except 2011), we have brought together key players within the Australian CSR industry at our annual conference. This premier networking event has been a vibrant professional development opportunity for the sustainability community. In February 2012 ACCSR held our fifth annual conference, The Innovation Imperative: Taking CSR Pictured at ACCSR’s 2010 Annual Conference (l-r): Paul Hohnen, from Risk Management to Value Creation. Results of ACCSR Senior International Associate; Heather Campbell, CEO, our 2011 State of CSR survey indicated that CSR in Landcare Australia; Elana Ruben, Chair, Victorian WorkCover Australia has matured from a risk management and Authority; Dr. Leeora Black, ACCSR Managing Director; Louise compliance approach to being a tool for business innoSylvan, Commissioner, Productivity Commission; The Hon Jason vation. This key finding then became the theme for our Clare MP, Parliamentary Secretary for Employment conference. The conference was attended by nearly 200 CSR professionals from across Australia and we are grateful to our hosts and gold sponsor National Australia Bank for their support. Keynote presentations were provided by Professor Dirk Matten, Hewlett-Packard Chair in Corporate Social Responsibility, Professor Malcolm McIntosh, Director Asia Pacific Centre for Sustainable Enterprise, and Dr. Ken Henry, Non-Executive Director National Australia Bank. Leading organisations including Fujitsu, Landcom, GE’s ecoimagination and Streat contributed to the richness of the event and shared their experiences. Intimate and in-depth discussions of issues such as CSR as an innovation tool, supply chain, corporate transparency, as well as in developing new products were facilitated during break-out sessions. Pictured at ACCSR’s 2012 Annual Conference: Dr. Ken Henry, Our conference goal was to share CSR experiences Director of National Australia Bank and lessons learned from leading organisations, and provide a valuable networking opportunity for CSR professionals. This goal was well-realised with feedback from attendees indicating that the most valuable component of the conference were the sharing of practical experiences and case studies, facilitated breakout sessions and quality of speakers, as well as the opportunity for networking and discussion. A view of ACCSR’s 2012 Annual Conference [ 10 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 SPOTLIGHT OPINION DR. LEEORA BLACK At ACCSR we see our client work as a strategic response to the changing landscape of stakeholder expectations and THE STATE OF CSR IN AUSTRALIA ANNUAL voluntary standards for CSR. REVIEW For years now I’ve been interested in the relationship One of ACCSR’s major contributions to thought leaderbetween action and structure. Put simply, this is the big ship is the production of the State of CSR in Australia Annual question of how free we are as individuals to determine our Review, which is now launched each year at our annual conown actions. Are our actions determined by the structures we ference in February. Begun in 2007, the annual review is create, such as political, legal, regulatory and social strucbased on survey responses from people working in CSR and tures, or do our actions influence and these structures? Whatafter five years remains the largest on-going study of CSR in ever happens in organisations, societies and nations is the Australia. This series shines a light on the prevailing attitudes result of the interaction between these forces. and behaviours relating to CSR in Australia. The reports are Within organisations, this manifests as the tension between free to download from our website. strategy, culture and structure. Put into CSR terms, this is the Each year we explore trends, activities and issues in CSR tension between big social ideals and movements like equaland include questions around a special theme or focus area. ity, justice, rights, sustainability and responsibility and the The themes we have looked at during the reporting period emerging global governance structure for CSR, that includes include the effects of the Global Financial Crisis on CSR, the principles based instruments (for example, the UN Global business case for CSR, the state of the CSR profession itself, Compact) and practical tools and guidelines, such as the GRI. industry differences in approaches to CSR, and innovation The interactions between these forces are where we must in CSR. look to understand the past and envision the future. The We frequently publish supplementary reports throughout interactions happen primarily through relationships – relathe year. In the reporting period we published a major report tionships between organisations and their stakeholders that on stakeholders as readers of sustainability reports, which can range from informal to formal. was a special contribution to the Australian GRI Conference So I am interested in relationships, social movements and held in Melbourne in March 2012. Other reports were pubgovernance and that space is where ACCSR plants its flag. lished on CSR and governance, overcoming obstacles to sucThis is the area where we attempt to develop and implement cess in CSR, and the role of universities in CSR. unique consulting tools and learning programs, and from During the reporting period we undertook all State of CSR which springs our belief in and approach to building capabiliin Australia research as a public interest commitment and ties of the organisations and people who use our services and contribution. We receive no in-kind or monetary support for attend our workshops. this project, with all costs covered by ACCSR. During the most recent year, the time devoted to developing these reports equated to four per cent of all consultants’ hours at work. CSR GOVERNANCE GLOBALLY STRUCTURE Voluntary frameworks, initiatives, codes of conduct and standards ORGANISATIONAL STRATEGY, CULTURE AND STRUCTURE Stakeholder expectations of organisational behaviour and actions SOCIAL MOVEMENTS Equality, human rights, sustainablity, responsibility ACTION FIGURE 9: A unique perspective on CSR ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 11 ] SPOTLIGHT SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE Early in the reporting period we identified the need to diverprovide powerful data for evidence-based community relations sify our services. Developing social licence to operate services strategies and a consistent and comparable metric. A paper on was a natural extension of our strength in stakeholder research this work, written together with Alcoa, appears in the Resources and engagement, and our experience in the mining industry, section of our website, (www.accsr.com.au/html/papers.html). where the term was a common metaphor for harmonious relaAt the same time, our colleague Robert Boutilier was worktions with local communities. ing on defining and measuring the social licence to operate in We had been measuring trust and social capital in stakehis work on stakeholder-company relations. He incorporated the holder relationships in all stakeholder research projects since Alcoa justice measures into social licence projects in South AmerACCSR was established, working with our Senior International ica and ACCSR incorporated social licence measures into several Associate, Dr Robert Boutilier on Stakeholder 360® research projects, including the NSW Minerals Council’s Upper Hunter and strategy. We amassed great insights into how to measure Mining Dialogue (www.accsr.com.au/html/casestudies1.html). and apply these concepts in research and strategy projects in By the end of the reporting period, social licence to operthe construction, transport, energy and mining industries. ate services were established as a core element of ACCSR’s Building on this, in 2007-2008 we developed new measstakeholder and community relations research and strategy ures for stakeholder relations effectiveness in a stakeholder work, and our collaboration with international colleagues on perception study for Alcoa of Australia. Alcoa wanted standthe concept had increased. Our clients have given excellent ardised measures and key performance indicators for stakefeedback on the usefulness of our approach. We are participatholder relations effectiveness across all its sites. Measures of ing in scholarly networks to progress and share our work and “just treatment of stakeholders” were derived from a review of are beginning to develop papers for peer review in relevant the organisational literature on justice as it touches on stakeconferences and journals. holder theory. In the next reporting period we expect to grow and extend We figured that corporations can control the way they behave our social licence to operate services for clients and make further towards stakeholders through their policies and processes, so contributions to the body of knowledge and practice in this area. measuring stakeholder perceptions of just treatment would OPINION – DR. SARA BICE One of ACCSR’s key responsibilities to our clients is to ensure to how best a social licence should be maintained, and even as to we remain at the leading edge of thinking and practice concernwhether a social licence offers community members the best posing corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. sible project outcomes. Since our inception, we have been concerned with how stakeholdACCSR also contributed to the emerging scholarship in this field ers experience and understand our clients’ impacts, and how our by co-convening a researcher’s seminar on the social licence to operclients engage with their stakeholders. We have pioneered new ate with the University of Queensland’s Centre for Social Responsimethods in stakeholder research and we are now playing a major bility in Mining and the CSIRO’s Minerals Down Under project. This role in developing, testing and implementing social licence to took place in July 2011 and we hope to convene another meeting operate measurement and management tools. during Robert Boutilier’s next visit to Australia. Working with our Senior International Associate, Dr. Robert ACCSR will continue to contribute to these conversations as the Boutilier, ACCSR has undertaken this work at more than 40 sites field develops. In the meantime, however, the consequences of losing since 2009 which measure and monitor a company’s social licence one’s social licence remain very material. using research-validated methods. These studies help firms to understand their current level of social licence and create evidence-based strategies to either improve their licence or maintain their social licence. ACCSR sees this work as absolutely vital to firms’ obligations to communities and to development of comprehensive risk management and project planning approaches. Debate continues as [ 12 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 SERVICES DELIVERING SHARED VALUE – CLIENT IMPACTS Our primary contribution to sustainable development is through the impact that we have on clients. Our focus is on navigating complex organisational problems through the provision of innovative CSR solutions. Empowering our clients to understand and deal with CSR enables us to scale up our impact on sustainable business practice. During the reporting period we have consolidated our working relationships with companies from the energy, mining, financial services, transport and logistics, property, renewables, automotive, retail and government sectors. Working with industry associations such as the Clean Energy Council and the New South Wales Minerals Council has enabled us to col“ACCSR ran a workshop for some of laborate at an industry-wide level to drive advances in sustainable our managers on a fresh approach to community development, leveraging change through multiple peer organisations. stakeholder analysis. The workshop The growth of sustainability reporting and increased acknowledgmethodology and the highly collaborative ment about the importance of stakeholder engagement has reinway of executing it was really good as forced our services in these areas. it gave us better ways of building good We also extended our services in social impact assessment, community investment strategy and measuring organisations’ social relationships with our stakeholders. I licence to operate through our Stakeholder 360® methodology liked the fact that ACCSR offered highly based on a growing need from our clients. Research and rigorous transferable techniques.” methodologies continue to underpin all of our services. During the reporting period we produced over two dozen sustainaDave O’Brien, bility reports and materiality analyses for our clients and began workGroup Manager ing with clients on integrated reporting. We were able to leverage our client work to publish a report on how stakeholders respond to susEnvironment and Community, tainability reports as part of our State of CSR in Australia series, enaXstrata Coal NSW bling us to bring the lessons of our experiences to a wider audience. We add value to our clients as CSR experts. Our insights into the broader business-society agenda give our clients competitive advantage and ideas for innovation. As stakeholder engagement practitioners, we understand that we are only as good as our relationships, so we strive to be trusted advisors to our clients and respected and informed thought leaders to our peers. To gain insight into the work we undertake with our clients, including sustainability reporting, stakeholder engagement, research and strategy services and in-house workshops, please read our case studies at www.accsr.com.au/html/casestudies.html ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 13 ] BUILDING CSR CAPACITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS THROUGH LEARNING PROGRAMS During the reporting period, we continued to offer high-quality ACCSR is committed to conducting our business in an environand comprehensive workshops about CSR and business managementally responsible manner and we support the precautionary ment. We are committed to providing public learning opportunities approach to dealing with climate change issues by working to minithat contribute to the professionalisation of the CSR workforce and mise our environmental impacts. We made our commitments to the build knowledge and awareness about sustainability. environment transparent by publishing our environmental policy on Our public access programs are available to all. We understand our website in September 2010 and updating it in 2012. that to achieve our goals of professionalising CSR and addressing Our efforts to reduce our environmental impacts are focused on the challenges faced by business in society there needs to be a large running a green office and offsetting emissions from travel wherever resource pool of talented individuals and this is why we are happy to possible. Our primary source of energy consumption is electricity. share our knowledge with our peers in the consulting industry. In FY10 this totalled 5.55 MWh (or 19.98 gigajoules), FY11 5.21 We have several proficient trainers and facilitators within our team. MWh (18.76 gigajoules) and FY12 6.85 MWh (24.65 gigajoules). Three of our senior consultants are registered GRI trainers and all of our Despite the increase in energy consumption, we reduced our carbon senior consultants delivered workshops during the reporting period. footprint by 21.5% per full time equivalent staff during the reportWe continue to provide consistently good to excellent learning outing period. This was mainly due to better space utilisation in our comes, as rated by workshop participants in evaluations taken at the office, the usage of Green Energy and carbon offsets. We expect it to end of each workshop (see Figure 5). We also track participants’ willincrease in the next reporting period as we have moved into a larger ingness to recommend our workshops as this is an overall indicator office to create capacity for future growth. of satisfaction with our programs. Over 90% of participants are consistently likely or very likely to recommend our programs. We examCO2-e Emissions (t) CO2-e Emissions (t) FTE (after offset) (after offset) ined our data in detail to understand why there was a slight decline in the “very likely” ratings in FY2012. Lower ratings are associated 12.00 11.08 2.00 with some of our older programs which will be reviewed in FY2013. 1.80 10.00 1.85 Of our individual programs, certified GRI training received the high1.60 est “very likely to recommend” ratings (61.4%). 7.74 8.00 1.40 7.11 1.20 FY2012 43 53 311 6.00 1.00 0.95 0.80 FY2011 45 51 301 4.00 0.81 0.60 0.40 43 52 311 2.00 FY2010 0.20 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0.00 0.00 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Very Satisfied Satisfied Neutral CO2-e Emissions (t) (after offset) Unsatisfied Very Unsatisfied CO2-e Emissions (t) / FTE (after offset) FIGURE 5: Responses to the statement, “Personal learning needs were met.” FIGURE 8: Carbon footprint FY2012 53 41 43 FY2011 61 31 161 FY2010 57 351 02 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Very likely Likely Somewhat likely Unlikely Very unlikely FIGURE 6: Responses to the question, “How likely are you to recommend ACCSR workshops in future?” [ 14 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO BUILDING CSR CAPACITY Our local workshop program is complemented by the depth of our international partnerships. Our international faculty include global thought leaders in CSR who we bring to Australia to deliver cuttingedge workshops on strategy, innovation, international trends, social licence to operate and other relevant issues. These workshops allow Australian CSR practitioners to learn from current international thinking about CSR. These valuable learning opportunities enable our local industry to benefit from the knowledge and experience of CSR leaders in the global arena. During the reporting period, we hosted the following international experts: International Faculty Dr. Sanjay Sharma (now Dean of the University of Vermont’s School of Business) facilitating a sustainability strategy workshop SPEAKER WORKSHOP TESTIMONIAL DR. ROBERT BOUTILIER Stakeholder Politics “I came looking for a way to map stakeholders but A researcher, author (Stakeholder Politics, and A Stakeholder Issues I think I got something far more valuable a way Stakeholder Approach to Issues Management), and Management to develop stakeholder relationships so they make a consultant, Robert Boutilier is an associate of the strategic difference to achieving our business goals.” Centre for Sustainable Community Development at Social Licence to Jasmine Green, Principal External Relations Officer, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver. Operate Translink Transit Authority JONATHON HANKS (Incite Sustainability) Sustainability Strategy “Very inspirational and informative and opened Jonathon recently chaired the multi-stakeholder International my eyes to the broader business issues and negotiation for the global standard on social Frameworks communicating ‘value’.” responsibility (ISO 26000). He is a member of the Caroline van Oosterom, Environmental Leadership International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Co-ordinator, Corporate Sustainability, Metropolitan Fire and Emergency Services Board PAUL HOHNEN (Sustainability Strategies) ACCSR Annual “The mix of theory and examples enabled a clear Paul Hohnen was closely involved in the Conference practical definition of materiality and how I can apply development and launch of the Global Reporting International it much simpler than I previously thought.” Initiative and has worked on leading corporate Frameworks Marni Oaten, General Manager Corporate responsibility initiatives such as the UN Global Responsibility, Worley Parsons Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinationals Materiality Master Class and ISO 26000. ANN SVENDSEN (CoreRelation Consulting Inc) Stakeholder “Very well structured program that systematically Ann’s book The Stakeholder Strategy: Profiting Engagement works through the key phases of stakeholder from Collaborative Business Relationships has been engagement with practical exercises.” acknowledged as the first major publication to lay Lucy Roberts, General Manager, out a practical approach to building stakeholder Sustainable Development, Xstrata Coal relationships. DR. SANJAY SHARMA Sustainability Strategy “An extremely insightful and relevant workshop with Sanjay is currently the Dean of the University of tools to take away and utilise.” Vermont School of Business and is a leading scholar Kim O’Connor, Group Environmental and in the field of sustainability. Sustainability Coordinator, Centennial Coal Pty Ltd FIGURE 7: ACCSR International Faculty ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 15 ] DEVELOPING AND RETAINING EMPLOYEES As a small and highly specialised company, attracting and retaining the right people remains a very high priority for us. At the beginning EMPLOYEE PERSPECTIVE of the reporting period we had five permanent employees. By the end of the reporting period we had eleven permanent employees, four male and seven female, all Melbourne based. We provide flexible Senior Consultant, Dr. Sara Bice working conditions that enable part-time work, work-at-home days, Sara has worked with ACCSR since May 2008, when she and additional leave without pay. assisted on projects as a part-time, contract researcher. Becoming a permanent employee a short time later, Sara has During the reporting period we redesigned job descriptions, develsince worked across all areas of ACCSR’s business and is a oped performance metrics, and established an employee training GRI certified trainer. She is also Co-Chair of the International and development policy. Previously, all employees were required to Association for Impact Assessment’s (IAIA) Corporate undertake ACCSR public programs, and external professional develStewardship and Risk Management section and recently opment was approved on a case by case basis. completed her PhD at the University of Melbourne. Now, employees must undertake a minimum of five days per “ACCSR supported my PhD research pursuits and professional annum (or pro rata equivalent) in professional development. They are goals by providing me with flexible work opportunities. It was still required to undertake our own public programs, but also accrue a real bonus for me that my job was so well aligned with my an additional budget to undertake external professional development PhD research”. in line with their seniority and years of service. The first employee to benefit from this policy attended an international conference on social impact assessment in May 2011. Other employees have since Projects Coordinator, Joyce Fok undertaken training in facilitation skills and research methods. Joyce joined ACCSR in April 2012 as Projects Coordinator Engagement with employees occurs through our weekly staff after completing a practical internship with ACCSR as part meeting, individual discussions, formal quarterly performance of her university degree, the Bachelor of Arts in International reviews, and annual strategy days. These provide employees with Studies. the opportunity to discuss individual performance, team projects “Ending my university days with an internship at ACCSR and business matters on a regular basis. Major decisions about the allowed me to see how my studies might be applied in real life. business are made in consultation with employees. All employees As a graduate and as a young person, having the support at received a minimum of one, and since FY2011, four formal perforthe beginning of your career is so important. ACCSR provides mance reviews during each year of the reporting period. that for me, and has given me the opportunity to meet Within the three-year reporting period, two people resigned to leaders in the CSR field. I’m very blessed to have ten mentors take up other opportunities. There were four involuntary departures. right at the office. I’ve completed the ExperienceCSR and How to Prepare a Best Practice Sustainability Report courses ACCSR also hosts occasional social events for employees – usuwith ACCSR, which were great for practical application and ally on a theme. For example, staff attended a screening of the film discussing sustainability challenges from other participants’ Gaslands followed by a talk with the film’s director, and a play on the perspectives. I can’t wait to learn more.” theme of homelessness during the 2011 Melbourne Arts Festival. The safety of our employees is important to us. We reported no injuries, occupational diseases or fatalities during the reporting period. 60 50 50 44 42 40 30 20 10 0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FIGURE 4: Average employee training hours [ 16 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 17 ] GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX UNGC Principles GRI Description Report Reference Indicator Standard Disclosures 1.1 Statement from the Managing Director Fully Welcome from the Managing Director page 3. 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Fully Our Role page 9. 2.1 Name of the organisation Fully About this Report page 2. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Fully About ACCSR page 2, Delivering Shared Value Client Impacts page 13. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Fully About ACCSR page 2. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Fully Welcome from the Managing Director page 3. 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Fully ACCSR currently only operates in Australia. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully About ACCSR page 2. 2.7 Markets served Fully About ACCSR page 2. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Partially About ACCSR page 2, Our Role page 9. ACCSR does not release sales/revenue figures as we are a privately owned firm and this information is commercially sensitive. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Fully About ACCSR page 2. structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully No company awards were received during the period. 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Fully Fiscal Year 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully About this Report page 2. 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully Triennial 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully Welcome from the Managing Director page 3. 3.5 Process for defining report content Fully Our Key Issues and Stakeholders page 4. 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully This report covers the entire organisation. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully No limitations on boundary. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities Fully ACCSR does not have any arrangements that affect comparability from period to period. 3.9 Data measurement techniques Fully The GRI indicator protocols have been applied. 3.1 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Fully No restatements of data required. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope Fully About this Report page 2. 3.12 Table of standard disclosures Fully Content index page 18. 3.13 Policy and current practice for receiving assurance Fully This report has not been independently assured due to the difficulty of finding a local AA1000-accredited assurance provider that does not compete with us in any core services. For our next report we will formalise the use of an external peer review panel. 4.1 Governance structure Fully ACCSR is governed by Dr. Leeora Black, Managing Director. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Fully There is no separation of the chair and managing director role. 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive members Fully None. 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations Fully Weekly team meetings provide opportunities for employees to give recommendations to the managing director. 4.5 Linkage between compensation and company performance Fully Profit share scheme in place in which all employees are eligible to participate. 4.6 Conflict of interest procedure Fully No unitary board structure in place. 4.7 Process for selection of highest governance body members Fully No unitary board structure in place. 4.8 Values, mission, principles, code of conduct statements Fully ACCSR Values page 8, Code of conduct commitment page 8. 4.9 Governance procedures monitoring performance, risk and adFully No unitary board structure in place. herdance to international standards 4.10 Evaluation process for highest governance body performance Fully No unitary board structure in place. [ 18 ] ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 UNGC Principles GRI Description Report Reference Indicator Standard Disclosures Principle 7 4.11 Company response to precautionary approach/principle Fully We support the precautionary approach by taking action to reduce our environmental impacts and working with clients in their adoption of a precautionary approach. 4.12 Adherence to externally developed charters, principles and Fully About this Report page 2. initiatives 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international Fully United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); Global Compact Network Australia advocacy organisations (GCNA); Global Reporting Initiative certified Training Partner, GRI Stakeholder Council membership, International Association of Impact Assessment (IAIA). 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Fully Our Key Issues and Stakeholders page 4. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Fully Our Key Issues and Stakeholders page 4. to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. Fully Our Key Issues and Stakeholders page 4. 4.17 Key issues raised through stakeholder engagement and Fully Our Key Issues and Stakeholders page 4. company response Disclosures on Management Approach Principle 6,7 DMA Economic Aspects Economic performance Fully Economic performance of the business is managed by the Managing Director. Updates on financial performance are provided to employees at regular strategy days. Market presence Fully ACCSR regularly assesses our position in the market and we regularly review our service offerings to ensure a sustainable presence is maintained. Indirect economic impacts Partially Our Role page 9. Principle 7,8,9 DMA Environment Aspects Materials Fully Our environmental policy encourages the minimisation of waste through recycling and careful and efficient use of all materials and energy. Energy Fully Environmental Impacts page 14. Water Partially Water consumption is not available for data collection but we encourage responsible water usage in the office. Emissions, effluents and waste Partially Environmental Impacts page 14. Transport Fully We promote alternative means of transport to staff such as walking, cycling and public transport. Bike racks and showers are provided as noted in our Environmental Policy. We encourage all participants attending our learning programs to use public transport. We report data on flights for employees Environmental Impacts page 14. Overall Fully Environmental Impacts page 14. Principle 1,3,6 DMA Labour Aspects Employment Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Labour/management relations Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Occupational health and safety Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Training and education Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Specific details will be incorporated into our Code of Conduct being developed as part of our goals for 2013. Equal remuneration for women and men Fully Remuneration is based on merit and performance. Salary bands are in place for each position and employees are not remunerated based on gender. Principle 1,2,3,4,5,6 DMA Human Rights Principle 6 Aspects Non-discrimination Partially We reported no incidents of discrimination during the period. We need to formalise the process for reporting incidents. Specific details will be incorporated into our Code of Conduct being developed as part of our goals for 2013. Principle 3 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully We support the ILO conventions and individuals rights to associate. Collective bargaining is not relevant to our business sector. Indigenous rights Fully We respect indigenous rights and customs at work and during the work we undertake with our clients. Principle 10 DMA Society Aspects Local communities Fully ACCSR contributes to the local community through voluntary committee positions and providing pro-bono thought leadership. More details in State of CSR page 15. Corruption Not We do not currently report this information. Corruption will be managed as part of employee code of conduct procedure being developed in 2012. Public policy Fully ACCSR actively contributes to influencing policy through public submissions processes when appropriate. Anti-competitive behaviour Partially Specific details on how anti-competitive behaviour is managed will form part of our code of conduct which is being developed as one of our goals for 2013. Compliance Fully The services provided by ACCSR are not governed by any particular compliance codes but one of our key values is professionalism. ACCSR Values page 8. ACCSR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-2012 [ 19 ] UNGC Principles GRI Description Report Reference Indicator Principle 1,8 DMA Product Responsibility Aspects Marketing communications Fully ACCSR upholds an ethical approach consistent with the highest standards for our marketing communications. Customer privacy Fully ACCSR maintains a privacy policy and ensures that all client details are securely maintained. Compliance Fully The services provided by ACCSR are not governed by any particular compliance codes but one of our key values is professionalism. ACCSR Values page 8. Indicators Economic Principle 7 EC2* Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Fully The opportunities for ACCSR related to climate change are the delivery of organization’s activities due to climate change. increased services for our clients who are affected by regulations and the implementation of efficiency measures relating to our own materials and energy use. EC3* Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Fully ACCSR does not have any defined benefit plan obligations. EC4* Significant financial assistance received from government Fully ACCSR did not receive any financial assistance from the government. EC6* Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Fully ACCSR engages a small number of local suppliers as a small business. We utilise suppliers the services of international thought leaders as a means of exposing our clients to a high level of CSR knowledge. We do not have a specific procurement policy. EC7* Procedures for local hiring Fully ACCSR does not have a specified procedure for local hiring but selects the most suitable candidate for the position. All senior management were hired locally. EC8* Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Partially Spotlight: State of CSR Annual Review page 11. services provided primarily for public benefit Environmental Principle 8 EN3* Direct energy consumption Fully Environmental Impacts page 14. Principle 8 EN16* Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Fully Environmental Impacts page 14. Principle 8 EN28* Monetary value of fines for non compliance with environmental Fully There were no monetary or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulation environmental laws and regulations. Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1* Total workforce Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Principle 6 LA2* Employee turnover Partially Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. We currently do not collect this data by age group or gender but will report this in 2013. Principle 1,3 LA4* Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. agreements Principle 1 LA7* Absentee and injury rates Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. We had no recorded incidents of absenteeism. LA10* Training per employee Partially Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. We currently do not have this information broken down by gender and category for each year of the reporting period. It is reported for FY2012 only. LA12 Employee performance reviews Fully Developing and Retaining Employees page 16. Human Rights Principle 1,2, 6 HR4* Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Fully No incidents of discrimination. Society Principle 10 SO5* Public policy positions and participation in public policy develFully ACCSR participates in public policy debate through public submission processes opment and lobbying in matters relating to CSR or reporting where appropriate. No submissions were made during the reporting period but submissions have been made in previous reporting periods. Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties Fully No financial or in-kind contributions to political parties were made by ACCSR. SO8* Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Fully No fines in the reporting period. laws and regulations Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Fully Building CSR Capacity Through Learning Programs page 14. surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR6* Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Fully We maintain a privacy policy for our marketing communications. related to marketing communications PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concernFully There were no incidents of non-compliance during the reporting period. ing marketing communications Principle 1 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Fully There were no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer privacy and losses of customer data customer data during the reporting period. AUSTRALIAN CENTRE FOR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Suite G1, 10 Yarra Street, South Yarra, VIC 3141, AUSTRALIA T: +61 3 9049 9500 F: +61 3 9049 9555 www.accsr.com.au info@accsr.com.au Printed using vegetable-based inks on Impact, made with a carbon neutral manufacturing process*, FSC COC certified and consisting of 100% post-consumer waste recycled fibre. *Mill uses 86% renewable energy. Remaining CO2 emissions are compensated for by promoting controlled emission reduction projects, audited and certified by Climate Partner.
