Principle Mellon Application (in brief) Mellon Application (extensively) 2012 Annual CSR Report Page Mellon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and holds the protection of human rights of its employees as a high priority in the context of it's CSR and HR written company policies, which are summed up in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct, and diffused in the company's everyday practices and interactions. 1. NewComer's Guide The company also makes sure all its' suppliers and manufacturers represented support and respect the Businesses should support and respect the protection of 2. CSR Charter protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the completion of an evaluation questionnaire 1 internationally proclaimed human rights 3. Code of Conduct administered by the Procurement department (applicable to all principles) 1. NewComer's Guide Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 2. CSR Charter Mellon makes a point to ensure the company is not complicit with human rights abuse, through written 1,2 2 in human rights abuses. 3. Code of Conduct company policies such as the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct. Mellon respects the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and upholds the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 1.Mellon syndicate freedom of association. This respect is also exemplified by the presence of an employees' syndicate and the effective recognition of the right to collective 2. Collective Agreements within the company. Mellon also recognizes the right to collective bargaining by adopting the collective 3 bargaining 3. Local Labour Law agreements and local labour law in the countries of its presence. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour by denouncing such 4 forced and compulsory labour 2. CSR Charter practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the effective abolition of child of all forms of forced and compulsory labour by denouncing 5 labour 2. CSR Charter such practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 1. Selection Policy Mellon upholds the elimination of discrimination regarding employment and occupation with written 2. CSR Charter company policies (e.g. Selection Policy) at all levels by applying an equal opportunities policy in its day3. Newcomer's Guide to-day practices, at all phases of personnel management (recruitment and selection, payments and 4. ISO Procedures (ISO 9001) promotions). Businesses should uphold the elimination of 5. Equal Opportunities EU In addition, the company follows ISO procedures that ensure an objective recruitment process and has 6 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation program also participated in an EU program for the improvement of work-life balance of its employees. 1. 1 RoHS Direcive Mellon as a VAR (value added reseller) it not in the manufacturing industry industry, however the company 2. WEEE Directive makes sure all suppliers adhere to environmentally friendly guidelines. More specifically, Mellon ensures 3. CSR Charter its suppliers are in full compliance with RoHS and WEEE directives. Moreover, the majority of our 4. Green CSR initiatives partners have received the international certification for the environmental management system ISO Businesses should support a precautionary approach to (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree 140001. Finally, our suppliers have explicit to their activity certifications from the corresponding local 7 environmental challenges planting,etc.) and international carriers. 2, 4-5 1. WEEE Directive Mellon believes businesses should support initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility as 2. CSR Charter demonstrated in the relevant policies the company adopts and adheres to, its CSR Charter and the Businesses should support initiatives to promote greater 3. Company energy WEEE directive. Moreover, the company monitors its environmental footprint and undertakes initiatives 8 environmental responsibility consumption monitoring policy to counterbalance it. Green CSR initiatives Mellon has undertaken a number of green initiatives, such as recycling, park cleaning, tree planting etc. Businesses should encourage the development and (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree In addition, an effort is made to create environmental awareness among personnel through training and 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies planting,etc.) participation in such initiatives. Mellon believes in working against corruption in all its forms, as stated in the Code of Conduct and demonstrated in its ISO policies, such as vendor management and evaluation process, official and 1. Code of Conduct registered contract approval process and by the company's annual customer satisfaction survey. Finally, Businesses should work against corruption in all its 2. ISO Procedures a chart of authority has been recently compiled to simplify the authorization process, while ensuring 10 forms, including extortion and bribery 3. Chart of Authority transparent processes. Glossary: RoHS: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) EU Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment (containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybromiated bipheny).The aim is to increase the amount of e-waste that is appropriately treated and reduce the number that go to the final disposal. WEEE Directive: The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such equipment. ISO 14001 is a standard for environmental management systems to be implemented in any business, regardless of size, location or income. The aim of the standard is to reduce the environmental footprint of a business and to decrease the pollution and waste a business produces. The ISO 14001 environmental management standards esixt to help organizations minimize how their operations negatively affect the environment. ISO 9001 specifies requirements for a quality management system where an organization needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and aims to enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and the assurance of conformity to customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. requirements Mellon Group of Companies Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report 2012 A Corporate Citizen Together we can do more Mellon is a dynamic multinational group present in Central and Southeastern Europe that provides technological solutions and outsourcing services that aim to facilitate the transactions and interactions of organizations with strong consumer business, including financial institutions, public utilities, telecommunication providers and retail chains. As with all our corporate ventures, we aim our social responsibility program to be meaningful and consistent with our corporate culture. To ensure this, we try our activities in this area to be: • relevant • achievable • consequential • measurable • interactive For us at Mellon, the best way to align our corporate orientation with societal expectations is to capitalize on our competencies as an organization and as individuals, in a way that offers value to our wider natural, structured and human environment. With the power of our people more than 2.500 spread in a socio-economically diverse region of 11 countries, we have the resources, the momentum and most importantly the will to contribute to the improvement of the social and environmental conditions. For the 6th consecutive year Mellon Group of Companies organized in December 2012 ‘Mellon Photo Competition', with the participation of employees from 14 companies in 11 countries of the Group. In fact, this year, the number of participations exceeded our expectations reaching over 80. All competing photos will illustrate the 2012 CSR annual report. We would like to thank everyone for their participation. The main areas on which Mellon Group of Companies social responsibility policy and practices focus are: Children and Local Communities, Personnel, Environment, Culture and Sports. In 2012, similarly to last few years, responding to the socioeconomic strains that ensued the global financial crisis, we have focused our initiatives on people -our employees, the local communities and the children– as well as the physical environment. ...for Local Communities & Children... We are supportive of local communities and children; our contribution to their well-being is manifold: • We utilize local resources in order to promote financial prosperity. In particular, we employ local staff at a ratio of 90/10 and cooperate with local suppliers, contractors and professionals • We transfer our know-how supporting the development of local economic and technical infrastructure 1 • We encourage participation at a corporate and individual level, aiming to reinforce social cohesion and support the cultural particularities that emerge • We encourage local cultural activities and support that contribute to the affluence of local communities • We forbid and renounce any illegal forms of employment and malpractices (child labour, environmental pollution, etc.) ... Our Initiatives... • Continuing Support to the Aegean Team For the 5th year, Mellon Group of Companies supported the Aegean Team (Omada Aigaiou) a team of doctors that works for the assistance and relief of the inhabitants of the remote islands of Greece. The “Aegean Team carried out the 18th Annual Sailing of the Aegean Sea on the 11th May. Utilizing the ambulance vessel Minas E , which is outfitted with state of the art medical equipment for preventive medicine, the Team conducted full medical exams of various specialities on adults and children. This year were made more than 2500 medical briefs. From our side, we remain cordially close to the organization, supporting the Team both financially and practically, with the voluntary participation of the Managing Director of the Group in the annual Sailing. • Social Contribution & NGO Support As we are committed doing every year, we supported NGOs through voluntary work activities, consulting and advice provision, as well as with the donation of office supplies. More specifically, during the festive periods we hosted in our headquarters in Athens an Easter Bazaar for the EDRA (an NGO that provides specialized services in mental health, learning disabilities and impoverished populations) and a Christmas Bazaar for “The Smile of the Child”. Our colleagues responded to the invitation and made purchases to support the NGOs, appreciating also the ease and convenience of shopping in their workspace. In addition, we collected basic goods for the Social Grocery of the NGO EDRA, as well as clothes, food, medicines and toys for the Smile of the Child. There are also notable initiatives in our offices abroad. Mellon Romania and Mellon Ukraine supported the orphanage Ciresarii in Bucarest and the orphanage of Kiev respectively, donating clothes, toys and comestibles. Mellon Serbia also collected clothes for the Centre for Protection of Infants, Children and Youth. ...for Our People... We believe in our people and appreciate their fundamental contribution in spearheading Mellon's successful growth. The personal and professional development of our employees is the cornerstone of our HR practices, always observing the local labor regulations in each country. • We promote mutual respect, honesty and trust among the Group's employees 2 • We adopt equal opportunities policies at all levels, placing special emphasis on an objective evaluation process and without any discrimination toward members of populations challenged in any way • We design individual career paths and implement them through promotions and internal transfers • We organize seminars and support the participation of employees in training programs • We maintain a high quality work environment, creating pleasant working conditions ... Our Initiatives... • Volunteerism: Beneficial for All Having come to realize already from the previous year that for many organizations offering volunteer work can be as important as providing financial aid, we continued our volunteer work initiatives participating in activities such as: Workshops for the training of young unemployed people in job search, by the Group’s Recruiting Manager, Eleni Ntoulaveri The School and Christmas Bazaar of the Smile of the Child at Sintagma Square in Athens The creation of small boxes for christening candies 'bobonieres' (traditional sugar almond sweets) to support the respective sales of the Smile of the Child, the sorting out of food and clothes donated to the NGO and the preparation of packages with food supplies for impoverished families in their support. Apart from the factual help provided, Mellon's volunteerism helps create a sense of participation and contribution by the members of the team, as well as in the cultivation of a team spirit. • Blood Bank For over a decade now, the Greek companies of Mellon have been maintaining a blood bank for the employees and their first degree relatives. Indicatively, during 2012, more than 78 bottles of blood were collected and more than 29 were used. • Investing on people Mellon Poland actively supports employee’s personal development so the company invested in training programs for the improvement of the skills of the employees, provided English lessons to the most promising ones and supported financially the weakest employees when facing difficulties in their private life. Moreover, this year Mellon provided to all employees private medical care and Multisport membership cards and joined the Szansa, a program running by the city council of Lodz for the employment of people with disabilities. • Company Events The companies of the Group organize company events, such as Christmas or New Year's parties for employees and their children or the Martisor celebration in Romania and Bulgaria, which symbolizes the beginning of spring. 3 Competitions, such as the annual Photo Competition were also organized, giving employees the opportunity to claim interesting presents and awards. We also try to keep our employees up to date on various happenings, such as exhibitions and seminars, as well as creative, family-oriented and fun activities for children. Finally, we seek to obtain special discounts and corporate offers for our employees, especially now that every expense counts. ...for the Environment... Aiming to inspire a factual environmental conscience, we design and realize activities with a long-term impact. Our environmental behaviour is in line with existing societal aspirations and we incorporate in our operation and business strategy, policies regarding environmental responsibility, by: • Adopting processes that preserve natural resources • Managing products and waste in ways that limit energy dissipation • Saving on energy resources • Implementing internal and external communication systems that contribute to the sustainability of natural resources and reduce the usage of consumable materials • Monitoring our energy footprint and striving to reduce it • Actively participating in recycling, and actively participating in environmental activities • Supporting environmental non-governmental organizations (NGOs) ... Our Initiatives... • Recycling Everyday We have incorporated the recycling of plastic, paper, ink and batteries in our daily business routine, encouraging further development of such practices and supporting their adoption outside the office as an everyday habit. • Parks’ Cleaning & Tree Planting Campaigns Mellon Solutions supported the national campaign “Plant your Future” with the participation of the employees of the call centre. Our colleagues planted 1000 trees and signed a declaration of commitment towards the protection of the environment and the society. Mellon Bulgaria participated on 12th May in the “National Cleaning Day” in the country and our 25 volunteers contributed significantly. Mellon Romania participated for the second year in the relative “National Cleaning Day” in Romania with 12 volunteers and noteworthy efficiency. • “Global Water Day” On the occasion of the “Global Water Day” on 22th of May, the NGO EDRA organized the “Water Day” in the park Tritsi. Our employees brought their children who participated in role plays for the circle of the water and they executed experiments with the water. The target of the organization was the raise of awareness for the adults and the children about the importance of the water of humanity and nature. 4 • WEEE Directive We are registered to and observe. Where applicable, the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) European Union Directives regarding the management of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. ...for Sports... Guided by the eternal values of sports, such as participation, peace, equality, cooperation and sportsmanship, we promote sports initiatives and encourage the participation of personnel in sports’ activities. • A healthy mind in a healthy body In 2012 in particular we supported local initiatives, such as the children and adolescents' sports games Spetsolympiakoi , as well as Spetses mini Marathon, where many of our employees took part. In addition, we highlighted the sports interests and activities of colleagues, to induce interest and promote sportsmanship. To that direction, Mellon Serbia organized a football tournament for 2 consecutive days in sports facilities near the company’s premises and participated 19 men and 12 women colleagues. ...for Culture... Mellon Serbia donated computers and electronic equipment to the University of Belgrade, in the Philology department for the lab of the New-Greek Studies. Mellon Bulgaria honored one of its national heroes, the poet Hristo Botev who fought for the independence of Bulgaria and realized a cultural trip to the spot of his death. Supporting Henry Ward Beecher's motto that real culture is the culture that helps us work towards the social improvement of all , we respect cultural differences, adhere to local moral conventions, habits and cultural features and promote involvement with cultural events, enacting our beliefs with every opportunity. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Mellon Group of Companies has, since 2007, been a member of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. Moreover since June 2011, in an effort to progress our responsible business development, we signed the United Nations Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative for the commitment of companies to align their operations and strategies with the following ten universally accepted principles: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6
