CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Contents Contents Contents 01 Seven Promises 6 Corporate Information / Our Products 02 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law 24 Financial and Non-Financial Information 03 Compliance / Risk Management 24 President’s Message 04 Corporate Governance 25 Corporate Philosophy / EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises 05 The Competitive Advantages of EIZO 06 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture 26 Seven Promises 1 Laying the Foundations for a Motivating Workplace 26 Creating New Value 07 Promoting Work-Life Balance / Human Resource Development Efforts 27 EIZO Solutions 07 Securing Safety and Health 28 Protecting Intellectual Property that Enhances Value 09 EIZO’s Quality Assurance System 11 Appendix Environmental Timeline 29 Seven Promises 2 GRI Index 30 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations 12 Comparison Table for the United Nations Global Compact 31 Environmental Policy / Environmental Management System 12 Basic Product Development Sequence / Green Procurement 13 Third-Party Review Compliance with Environmental Labeling Standards and Legal Requirements 14 Third-Party Review 32 Collection and Recycling of Used Products / Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations 15 Environmental Risk Management / Prevention of Global Warming, and Energy Conservation 16 Environmental Targets/Performance Report 17 Seven Promises 3 Editorial Policy for the CSR Report Operating as an International Corporation 18 EIZO Group Global Network 18 ● Editorial Policy: We have compiled an explanation ● CSR Promotion System: CSR activities come under Development and Production Network – Coherent Development and Production System on topics we consider important and a report on the responsibility of the General Affairs Division, / Sales Network – One Country/Territory, One Distributor System, and Our Direct Sales System 19 the impact and effects of our business activities on are supervised by the Managing officer responsible society and the environment, using the GRI for CSR and implemented by all Group companies. Guidelines as reference. They are also subject to a management review by Seven Promises 4 the CSR Committee, comprising the heads of each ● Scope of the report: EIZO Group Open and Fair Trade 20 Exceptions to the scope of coverage are explained department, and reported to the Board of Directors. in the notes to the relevant sections. Seven Promises 5 ● Period covered: April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 (FY 2012) ● Contact information: EIZO Corporation General Affairs Issue date: September 2013 Department Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders 21 ● Tel: +81-76-274-2406 Relationship with Each Type of Stakeholder 21 ● Issue date of previous report: October 2012 Relationships with Customers 22 ● Issue date of next report: September 2014 Relationships with Shareholders / Relationships with the Local Community 23 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 01 Corporate Information / Our Products Corporate Information Our Products Corporate Company Name EIZO Corporation ■ LCD Monitors for Computers, Peripheral Equipment and Related Solutions Business Activities Development, design, manufacture and sales of imaging systems including For General Markets Information/  computer monitors, amusement applications and peripheral products Standard LCD monitors featuring a variety of user-friendly functions, conEstablished March 6, 1968 Our Products President Yoshitaka Jitsumori sideration for the environment and high reliability that are at the core of our business and products. These computer monitors are widely used in offices, schools, public facilities and homes. Address of 153 Shimokashiwano, Hakusan, Ishikawa 924-8566, Japan Standard monitors Headquarters For Medical Markets Group Sales ¥58,270 million (FY 2012) A varied lineup of solutions for a broad spectrum of medical operations, Group Employees 1,637 excluding temporary workers (consolidated, as of March 1, 2013) including monitors for displaying CT and X-ray images as well as monitors for operating rooms and electronic medical records. Subsidiaries 15 (including 5 domestic subsidiaries and 10 overseas subsidiaries, as of September 31, 2013) Development, ● EIZO MS Corporation Japan: Manufacturing of computer monitors and amusement monitors Medical image display monitors Production, Sales ● EIZO GmbH For Graphic Markets Germany: Development, manufacturing, and sales of medical monitors Color management LCD monitors that support the high-quality color ● EIZO Technologies GmbH reproduction and high-definition calibration required by professionals, such Germany: Development, manufacturing, and sales of industrial monitors, air traffic control monias designers, photographers and computer graphics artists, in their creative tors and controller boards for monitors work. Color management LCD monitors ● Tech Source, Inc. USA: Development, manufacturing, and sales of graphics boards for air traffic control ● EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. For Industrial Markets China: Development, manufacturing, and sales of computer monitors, etc. Optimum solutions for industrial needs, such as units incorporated into FA ● Irem Software Engineering Inc. equipment and monitors for security control in factories, kiosk terminals and Japan: Development, manufacturing, and sales of amusement software ships. Sales ● EIZO Inc. USA: Sales of computer monitors, etc. LCD monitors for industrial use ● EIZO Nordic AB For Air Traffic Control Sweden: Sales of computer monitors, etc. Comprehensive solutions that include main monitors for tracking aircraft ● EIZO Europe GmbH flight status, auxiliary monitors for displaying air traffic control information, Germany (and branch offices in Belgium, Czech Republic, Italy and the Netherlands): Sales of training monitors and specialized high-definition graphics boards for displaycomputer monitors, etc. ing air traffic control data. High-definition Main monitors ● EIZO AG graphics boards for air traffic control Switzerland: Sales of computer monitors, etc. ● EIZO Limited For Home Entertainment United Kingdom: Sales of computer monitors, etc. LCD monitors for entertainment systems using proprietary resolution tech● EIZO Austria GmbH nology, such as the world’s first shade visibility improvement function, which Austria: Sales of computer monitors, etc. enable users to enjoy the maximum impact of digital content on their PCs, Others ● EIZO Support Network Corporation game machines and AV equipment. Entertainment monitors Japan: Providing field service, security and maintenance for computer monitors, etc. ● EIZO Engineering Corporation ■ Amusement Monitors Japan: Development and designing of computer monitors, and temporary staff services ● EIZO Agency Corporation We design and manufacture LCD monitors installed in pachinko equipJapan: Insurance service ment. These models combine the Group’s hardware technology, gained through the design and manufacture of computer monitors, with amusement software development technology to offer realistic expression, stories with © SANYOBUSSAN CO., LTD. a strong gaming feel, and lovable characters toward our goal of delivering LCD monitors for pachinko equipment products that become customer favorites year after year. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 02 Financial and Non-Financial Information Financial Information Non-Financial Information Financial and Non-Financial ■ Net Sales ■ Operating Income/Operating Margin ■ Shareholder Composition ■ Group Employees Information Operating Income Operating Margin Japan Overseas (billions of yen) (billions of yen) (%) Securities companies Treasury stock 100 12 15 1.1% 2,000 6.1% 10 11.6 1,637 80 74.5 77.5 1,600 1,492 1,553 1,460 1,462 65.2 8 10 General corporations 59.5 58.2 60 7.9 16.3% Individual investors 1,200 7.4 and others 6 33.0% 5.8 1,222 1,227 1,217 1,236 1,255 40 Financial 800 4 4.3 9.0 5.1 4.4 5 institutions 3.5 20 19.1% 2 Foreign institutional 400 2.0 investors, etc. 24.4% 238 235 275 317 382 0 0 0 0 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2012 * Regular employees ■ Sales and Percentage Breakdown ■ Composition of ■ Five-year Change in Dividends ■ Emissions of Greenhouse Gases (Japan & China) by Product Category (FY 2012) Net Sales by Region (FY 2012) Year-end Dividend Interim Dividend Payout Ratio Emissions of CO2 Energy use Others (t-CO2) (GJ) With regard to greenhouse North America (Yen) (%) 5.2% 3.2% 7,000 120,000 gas emissions, we measure 1.8 billion yen 90 229.7 250 107,616 3.0 billion yen 80 6,000 99,876 99,638 CO ₂ emissions by converting Others 70 70 200 89,381 89,875 100,000 16.3% figures for electricity, kerosene 9.5 billion yen 5,000 60 30 80,000 and LPG use into CO₂. Europe 50 50 50 50 150 Consolidated 24.5% Consolidated 50 4,000 In fiscal 2012, CO₂ emissions Net Sales 14.2 billion yen Net Sales Japan 40 25 25 25 25 60,000 58.2 billion yen 58.2 billion yen 67.0% 40 100 3,000 doubled from the previous year 39.0 billion yen 30 67.5 66.7 40,000 due to a significant increase in Amusement Monitors for 20 25 25 25 25 50 2,000 Monitors Computer Use 10 the CO ₂ conversion factor for 31.0% 52.7% 22.6 31.5 1,000 5,979 4,938 3,326 2,220 5,019 20,000 electricity, resulting from an 18.0 billion yen 30.6 billion yen 0 0 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 increase in the ratio of thermal 0 0 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 power in Japan. * Calculations of CO ₂ emissions associated with electricity use are based on the conversion factor of Hokuriku Electric Power Company and the conversion factor used in China. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 03 President’s Message President’s Changing the Paradigm to Realize Continuous Growth Message EIZO monitors at every stage of society’s evolution Further Enhancing Our Comprehensive Worldwide Capabilities From the everyday settings of office, to the specialized markets of medical Our adoption of a direct sales system in Europe last year significantly boosted the and graphics markets, air traffic control and industrial applications which require number of overseas Group companies and branch offices. Consistently delivering special functions and ever-higher performance, – EIZO’s social responsibility is to EIZO quality to customers around the world requires special effort to enable consistently provide products that address specific needs and offer solutions to employees with different customs, cultures and values to understand and respect current challenges. To this end, the aim of our CSR activities is to pursue business with each other and move together as one to achieve further growth. integrity by upholding our corporate philosophy of creating products with new value. Every year, we convene the EIZO United meeting for Group companies and These days, heightened security concerns are reshaping industrial markets, as evidenced distributors operating in various locations around the world. The 2012 meeting by the many surveillance cameras in cities. This has generated demand for advanced was held in September in Hakusan, Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan, the location of technologies, prompting an evolution in cameras as well as higher-performance monitors our headquarters. Concurrently, our R&D division presented exhibitions of the that can clearly reproduce the images captured by cameras. EIZO supports the increasing latest technology, for all Group companies and overseas distributors. The meeting sophistication of security technologies by providing monitors that improve the clarity of has enabled the entire Group to share information about EIZO’s cutting-edge dark, unclear images. technological capabilities. Wherever society is undergoing change and progress, EIZO’s advanced technologies and monitors are present. Practicing CSR with a Global Perspective The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact declare a commitment Changing the Paradigm with a View of Ten Years into the Future to respect human rights, eliminate unfair labor practices, care for the environment The EIZO Group initiates paradigm shifts as an enterprise that delivers high value and prevent corruption. While EIZO’s Seven Promises are fully compatible with on a global scale to address evolving social needs with an eye on the next ten years. these principles, we decided to participate in the United Nations Global Compact This is exemplified by our transition from selling products through local distributors in September 2012 in light of the Group’s accelerated pace of globalization. Our to direct sales by Group companies in Europe in 2012 in order to maintain close, involvement would also enable us to renew our awareness of and commitment to ongoing communication with customers and provide improved support. the EIZO corporate stance at all our locations worldwide. In April 2013, we also changed our corporate name from EIZO Nanao Corporation to EIZO Corporation, in part to demonstrate our willingness to embrace bold This CSR Report represents a means for reporting on our efforts and as a tool changes throughout the company, including a new corporate identity. for addressing public expectations for information disclosure. We look forward to Moreover, we intend to deliver solutions along with our hardware. Customers will comments and feedback from our stakeholders who read this report. want to continue choosing EIZO products because our monitors offer solutions in terms of ease of use, comfort and security, as they are more than just hardware. September 2013 Yoshitaka Jitsumori EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 04 President, EIZO Corporation Corporate Philosophy / Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Corporate Corporate Philosophy EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Philosophy/ We promote our business with integrity and bravery by establishing Principles of The EIZO Group pushes “Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises –” as follows. Conduct the limits of technology 1. We will supply high-quality products and services loved by customers – Seven Promises through creating and offering new value by unique technologies to create products of new value, and ideas. inspires its customers through visual display systems 2. We will promote our manufacturing and business activities in consideration of reducing their environmental burdens. and entertainment software, 3. We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and and strives for sound prosperity while coexisting mindset. 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. in harmony with the environment and society. 5. We will seek to build and maintain strong bonds of trust with our stakeholders (business partners, employees, shareholders, and the local community). 6. We will strictly respect and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the law as a good corporate citizen. 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate culture. EIZO’s Approach to CSR Our business activity in itself constitutes our most important social responsibility. We are aware that our social responsibility lies in engaging in business with integrity, which includes contributing to society with products, solutions and services, returning all the benefits produced through our business to society, and complying with laws and regulations while respecting human rights. In addition, with the view that participating in and supporting regional activities constitute part of our social responsibility, we enthusiastically engage in such activities. In this context and as the basic policy underlying our CSR, we uphold the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct, which serve as both a guideline for the EIZO Group and our promise to stakeholders. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact EIZO became a participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in September As a corporate participant, EIZO will engage in an ongoing effort to realize the UNGC’s ten 2012. Through this voluntary initiative, member corporations cooperate in the developCSR principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, ment of a global framework for sustainable growth by demonstrating responsible, under the personal leadership of the company’s president. creative leadership in their actions as good corporate citizens. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 05 The Competitive Advantages of EIZO Since its founding, the EIZO Group has consistently focused its technology and passion on ◆ Excellence in Development and Quality ■ Core Competence Software, Hardware, and Peripheral Technologies creating visual display products. We continue to concentrate our energy and efforts on ● Development The Competitive developing products that are a step ahead of the times by using advanced devices and In the course of creating visual display products, we Environmental Compatibility Technology Image Quality Video Signal Advantages of pursuing cutting-edge technologies. Our goal is to deliver reliable, high-quality products have gained the full spectrum of technologies required Evaluation Technology Transmission Technology for developing monitors. This in turn has enabled us to Application Software EIZO Digital Development Analog Mechanism/ that both satisfy and inspire our customers. quickly deliver new, cutting-edge products and highSystem Development Image Processing Algorithm Display Device Mechanics Evaluation Development Technology Technology The outcomes of these accumulated efforts are EIZO’s competitive advantages: our quality products with enhanced functionality. ASIC 3D FPGA Technology Embedded Firmware business model, excellence in development and quality, and our global network. Development Development ● Quality Power Circuit Technology ● Consistent quality control through 100% Touch Panel Technology ◆ Business Model self-development and self-production We have built on our core competence* of software, hardware and peripheral technologies We have always been committed to 100% self-development and self-production. through our work on general-purpose LCD monitors with superior picture quality in order to One of our competitive advantages lies in our ability to integrate quality control, from development and manufacturing to after-sales service, and we remain committed to expand into the area of monitors for vertical markets by developing new products with the working in concert group-wide to further enhance quality. additional performance and functions required in various fields. Leveraging the technology, procurement and production synergies among our business units has enabled us to create ● Development of environmentally sound products advanced products with proprietary features to further develop and expand our business. We have a proven track record of incorporating the principle of environmental preservation into product development, and since the early years of our company, we This unique business model has been the major driver of our growth. have been highly regarded in Europe, where environment-related standards are particularly stringent. As public concern for the environment grows, we will work harder ■ Business Development Based on Synergies among Business Units to develop environmentally sound products by, for example, actively participate in the Air traffic control monitors Color management LCD monitors formulation of environmental standards. Amusement application Entertainment monitors (pachinko) monitors LCD monitors with Medical image Industrial monitors superior picture quality display monitor ● Rigorous attention to quality control The key to the success of our products is the stringent inspections we conduct on the image quality of our monitors at different stages, from development to production. Some inspection criteria are confirmed by human eye in addition to machine to ensure that the image quality of every product is reviewed at the C ore Competence highest level of accuracy from the perspective of the user. Softw a re are, and periph , hardw logies e r a l t e c hn o Technology Procurement Production ◆ Global Network Sharing technologies between business units and developing advanced Guaranteed device procurement Production line for flexibly We leverage our extensive capabilities by generating synergies in development, capability responding to orders products with proprietary features production and sales among our 15 Group companies worldwide. * Our core competence: Technological expertise that allows for a significant competitive advantage For details on our global network, please refer to page 18. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 06 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Our products are used in offices and homes around the world, and each field requires different specifications and functions. Beyond listening and responding to customer requests in each field, we relentlessly pursue proprietary technologies and ideas to create We will supply and offer new sets of values that extend our promise to consistently deliver products that customers appreciate. high-quality products and EIZO Solutions services loved by customers We support customers in various industries by improving their imaging environments ◆ For Ensuring Safety in the Sky and meeting their specific needs with value. For the ATC market, we provide a total solution that includes the main monitors for through tracking aircraft flight status, sub-monitors for displaying relevant creating and ◆ For Greater Diagnostic Accuracy information, training monitors, graphics boards capable of offering new Monitors are playing an increasingly important role in the medical profession, where displaying images at special resolutions, and flight status value by unique advances in digitization have allowed for the display of a broad array of data, from recording systems. technologies medical records to images including X-ray results, on monitors. EIZO assists a number of and ideas. medical institutions with achieving highly accurate medical treatments and enhances ◆ Finely Tuned Response to Specialized Needs operational efficiency through monitor solutions that ensure high-precision displays Monitors built into factory equipment and specialized systems must be fine-tuned to and the outstanding reliability required for diagnosis, along with quality control meet specific requirements. EIZO provides monitors with the functionality and applications that consistently maintain the correct display of information. performance required by specialized markets and can quickly and flexibly respond to We also train medical professionals to use the monitors more customization needs through its track record of outstanding effectively and efficiently through seminars that cover topics quality and reliability, small-lot production utilizing our flexible such as monitor mechanisms, the importance of monitor images production system, and the capacity to provide stable, longin diagnosis, and maintenance tips. term supply based on our procurement capabilities. ◆ For Comfortable, Creative Environments ◆ Easy on People, Easy on the Environment Design, photography and video editing demand extremely accurate color reproduction, Ever mindful of monitor users, EIZO seeks to incorporate functions and mechanisms that and a monitor’s display functionality can decisively impact operational efficiency. EIZO cause less strain on the eyes and body into its products. Creating monitors that are easy on provides monitors that are highly regarded by creative the environment has continued to be a priority in our approach to manufacturing. On the professionals for their excellent color reproduction. We also offer following pages, we explain our evolving approach to creating products that are easy on the monitors that are compatible with high-resolution hardware eyes, body and environment. calibration* for constantly maintaining accurate coloring to broadly support the work of professionals. * Hardware calibration: Calibration method for setting the monitor display environment to enable users to directly adjust the color display by adjusting internal parameters EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 07 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value ◆ Easy on the Environment ■ Always Saving Energy ■ Automatically Switching Off Easy on the Eyes, Body and Environment, with No User Effort EcoView is a design concept for EIZO products that embodies our relentless pursuit to ensure user comfort and our consideration for the global environment. This concept is fully reflected in the FlexScan EV series of monitors that are easy on eyes, body and environment. Here are just a few of this series’ advantages. EcoView Optimizer 2 / Auto EcoView EcoView Sense Performs real-time analysis of content on the screen and An onboard presence sensor prompts the monitor to switch controls brightness while maintaining an impression of the to power save mode when you are absent and then powers image. Together with the Auto EcoView automatic brightnessup when you return, thereby preventing electricity waste while ◆ Easy on the Eyes adjustment function, EcoView Optimizer 2 maintains optimal the monitor is not in use. backlight power consumption at all times. ■ Preventing Eye Strain ■ Reducing Flicker A complete list of EcoView features is available at: http://www.eizo.com/global/products/flexscan/ecoview_microsite/about_ecoview/index.html Awards Good Design Award 2012 Auto EcoView EyeCare DuraVision FDH3601 – Automatic Brightness Adjustment Function – Brightness Adjustment Mode Detects changes in ambient brightness that occur Reduces screen flicker when LED backlight EIZO received the 2012 Good Design Award for its 36.4-inch color LCD monitor throughout the day and automatically adjusts the brightness is set low. This can lessen unconscious DuraVision FDH3601, a large-screen high-resolution LCD monitor featuring 4K × 2K (4096 screen to the ideal brightness. This can prevent eye strain by reducing flicker that is unperceivable eye fatigue by reducing glare-induced stress to the human eye. × 2160) resolution. and eye muscle tension caused by viewing dim displays. Accolades from the judges included: “Product design is evaluated on ‘beauty of utility,’ or how it enriches the user’s life in ◆ Easy on the Body regard to functionality and appearance. While few words are needed to describe the ■ Maintaining the Most Comfortable Posture ■ Slim, Space-saving Design performance of the 36.4-inch EIZO DuraVision – an ultra-high resolution, high-definition monitor for professional use – the product is highly commendable from the perspective of appearance and for the way its outstanding performance is communicated through the attractive shape of its exterior. This is the result of an uncompromising stance on manufacturing from every aspect, including the FlexStand 2 / TriStand 2 Narrow Bezels practical shapes of the legs and mobile parts, the spaceOffers a wide range of mobility, including height Monitors with an unobtrusive design that are saving elimination of decorative elements, rigorous adjustment, tilt and swivel. Non-step adjustment convenient for use in various locations and for to the monitor can be made to provide users with a range of purposes. The thinner bezel allows attention to detail, and a highly accurate finish. This is a monitor positions that are optimal for working for user comfort by not interfering with eye comfortably and without causing fatigue. movement between screens in a multi-monitor tool that professionals can rely on every day; it configuration. exemplifies the ‘beauty of utility’ and quickly captures the hearts of users.” EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 08 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Protecting Intellectual Property that Enhances Value We actively seek to obtain patents and design rights for the technologies and designs it ◆ Centralized Management of Intellectual Property for the Entire Group creates through product development. We have centralized the management of all intellectual property (including patents, Our recent focus has been on attaining patents and design rights in countries and regions design rights, and trademarks) owned by the Group and encourages the creation of where we expect product sales to grow such as China, India and Russia, in addition to Japan, intellectual property group-wide. We have also established a system to facilitate the use Europe and the United States, our current main markets. Overall, our goal is to construct a of intellectual property and the sharing of related information among Group companies. global network of intellectual property. We also believe that trademarks, including the names of our company and products, are ◆ Creating Intellectual Property and Obtaining Rights key to protecting and enhancing EIZO brand value. We therefore strive to obtain and We have introduced a survey and application procedure for patents and designs to maintain trademark rights in all the countries where we sell products. our product development process with the aim of preventing missed opportunities for identifying new core and peripheral technologies created during the process. ■ Number of Patents Obtained by the EIZO Group It is our goal that each patent or design application technology is effectively utilized 250 232 as a powerful patent or design right which is useful in our business. To achieve the goal, ■ Other countries 8 200 ■ Europe 183 56 we strategically select target countries for the applications and develop a network of ■ United States 7 150 ■ Japan 131 139 45 21 patents and design rights centered on application technologies. 125 6 116 9 6 17 88 89 9 37 100 1 84 71 4 34 37 37 14 In addition, we regularly assess the value of patents and design rights in order to 2 14 14 147 39 32 2 25 12 114 50 8 8 24 9 11 71 68 82 appropriately manage our intellectual property. 49 61 40 42 36 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal Year) ◆ Encouraging the Creation of Intellectual Property ■ Countries with Trademark Protection We have established and manages an incentive program for employee inventions to encourage employees to produce patents and designs. We also have an internal awards program for inventors and creators of patents and designs that have contributed to our business. ◆ Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Beyond creating intellectual property, we also exercise the utmost care to ensure our products and applied technologies do not infringe upon any third-party intellectual property rights. In the event a third party is found to have infringed upon intellectual property rights of EIZO, we demand that appropriate action be taken to protect these rights. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 09 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Japanese Patents and Design Rights Used in Medical Monitors Every EIZO product includes numerous patent-protected technologies. Moreover, the design of each product is protected under design rights. For example, the following patented technologies and designs are found in the RadiForce RX440 medical monitor. ◆ Patents Superior picture quality Technology for accurately displaying an inputted image by minimizing deviations in picture quality caused by variations in LCD panel performance Optimal display for each image and ambient operating conditions ● Constraining uneven brightness and color (Pat. Nos. 490899 & 4542988) Technology for automatically identifying and optimally displaying inputted images ● Achieving optimal gradation in response to brightness (Pat. No. 3974630) ● Automatic identification and optimal display of monochrome/color images (Pat. No. 4977255) ● Correcting gradation in response to variations in ambient conditions (Pat. No. 5080681) ● Optimal display of selected application (Pat. No. 3897786) ● Controlling backlight to achieve accurate screen brightness (Pat. No. 3193315) ● Automatic identification and optimal display of anti-aliased fonts (fonts ● Preventing diagonal stripes (Pat. No. 3094014) without edges) (Pat. No. 4937417) Automatic landscape/portrait positioning of display image Maintaining superior picture quality Technology for automatic positioning of the displayed image in landscape Technology for maintaining high display quality at the time of shipment by or portrait mode that does not require specialized software (Pat. No. 3818951) regularly measuring and correcting displayed images ● Achieving highly accurate gamma characteristics during white display (Pat. No. 3751621) Simplified image processing ● Acquiring image conditions in non-measurement areas (Pat. Nos. 4393433 & 5279096) ● Automatic calibration (Pat. No. 4809453) Technology for downsizing circuitry and achieving high-speed processing ● Reciprocal sensor movement mechanism (Pat. Nos. 4846051 & 4951711) by simplifying the process for zooming in or out of an image (Pat. No. 3323166) Prediction of backlight longevity Power Saving Technology for predicting backlight longevity based on accumulated time of Technology for accurately detecting the user’s presence or absence in front use the maximum brightness at a point of prediction (Pat. No. 4372733) of the monitor and switching to power saving mode when a certain period ● Detecting backlight (Pat. No. 3171808) of time is lapsed after the absence is confirmed (Pat. Nos. 4782209 & 4975071) ◆ Designs Design for the OSD menu Design for the display section Design for the stand section (Design Registration No. 1381789) (Design Registration No. 1397855) (Design Registration No. 1417333) EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 10 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value EIZO’s Quality Assurance System Under our Quality Management Policy, we seek to ensure reliable long-term use of EIZO brand products by establishing an integrated quality control system that encompasses Quality Management Policy development and manufacturing to after-sales service and making continuous improvement The EIZO Group is committed to continually fulfilling customers’ expectations by proposing and offering high quality products, throughout the system. services, and solutions. We therefore: 1 Aim to develop high quality products by pursuing the world’s highest level of ◆ Quality Standard technology. The quality of our products constitutes the foundation of the EIZO brand. We comply with 2 Carry out our responsibility for environmental preservation by actively reducing the quality standards and regulations of each country where we sell our products as well as the effects on the environment in every business activity from product development to manufacturing to sales and service. with the certified standards for each product. We have also established our own reliability 3 Set the quality target which are carried out and reviewed by all the employees in standards that reflect diverse events including cases from both in and outside the company. every business activity. These standards are applied to all EIZO brand products (LCD monitors). 4 Establish a quality management system, review it periodically, and continually In addition, we have sought to unify and standardize selection criteria for components improve it to sustain its validity and suitability. used in our products to maintain and standardize product quality by applying these criteria 5 Respond to the trust of both medical professionals and patients by providing medical equipment with assured quality, effectiveness and safety. to all Group companies. 6 Comply with legal and social requirements. ◆ Gathering and Reflecting Customer Feedback We provide after-sales service through Group companies in nearly every country where we sell our products, which has enabled us to develop an accurate understanding of customer requests and expectations. We compile and shares customer feedback with Group companies in an effort to consistently offer high-quality, attractive products and services. ◆ Quality Management System All Group companies involved in development and production have obtained certification under the international quality management standard ISO 9001, and ISO 13485 for medical equipment. We have incorporated these standards into the Group’s quality management system in an ongoing, voluntary effort to maintain and improve the system. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 11 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations We are conscious of the importance of environmental preservation as a common issue for all humankind, and are committed to do our utmost to protect the environment in all aspects of our corporate operations, We will with particular emphasis on efforts that result in environmentally sound product specifications. promote our manufacturing Environmental Management System and business Environmental Policy activities in We, EIZO Corporation, are aware that our products have an impact on the environment. In After establishing an environmental management system under our Environmental our product development work we therefore consider friendliness to the environment to be Policy, we obtained ISO 14001 certification* in July 1998. Since then we have implemented consideration of part and parcel of product quality. We endeavor to supply our customers worldwide with measures for waste reduction and reduced resource and energy consumption. We have also reducing their products developed to common specifications that meet or exceed the environmental requirements of individual countries as well as our own environmental standards. We are taken a step farther in light of a number of factors, including society’s movement toward environmental conscious of the importance of environmental preservation as a common issue for all humankind and pledge to do our utmost to protect the environment in all aspects of our environmentally sound products and growing public interest in eco products, by operating burdens. corporate operations. our environmental management system, which emphasizes environmental targets centered on environmentally sound products. 1 We endeavor to constantly remain up to date on and to strictly adhere to environmen* EIZO MS Corporation, EIZO GmbH, EIZO Technologies GmbH, and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. have also obtained certification. tal laws and standards applicable to our corporate operations and products, as well as other environmental preservation requirements of society at large. We determine environmental objectives and targets based on a clear understanding of such requirements as well as the environmental impact of our corporate operations and ◆ Activities under the Environmental Management System products. These objectives and targets are reviewed on a regular basis to achieve ongoing improvement of our environmental management system and performance. As in fiscal 2011, we incorporated many tasks for meeting our environmental targets for fiscal 2012 that would achieve results in product specifications. We also sought to accomplish 2 At the research and development stage, we pay careful attention to the design of our products to minimize the consumption of resources and energy, ensure ease of these tasks and targets by sharing them with in-house Raising Customer Satisfaction recycling, and reduce the volume of toxic substances. Our aim is a continuous raising of our environmental standards. organizations, including the design and development departments. We successfully reduced power Action 3 In our corporate operations we give due consideration to conserving energy and Environmental resources. We work to reduce the volume of waste products generated by our operations consumption during suspension and use, exercised Check Management Plan System and to dispose properly of all waste generated. We are engaged in positive efforts to promote the collection and recycling of used products discarded by consumers. stricter control over chemical substances used in parts, Do We constantly monitor the latest information related to the environment through our and manufactured products that meet advanced 4 information network, which includes our overseas facilities and affiliated companies. environmental standards. Stakeholder We endeavor to share information appropriately by disclosing and disseminating details of our own environmental initiatives, and we work with others in common efforts aimed at reserving the environment. ◆ Environmental Management System Audits 5 We educate all company members and strive to deepen their awareness of environOur ISO 14001 certification was maintained and updated in fiscal 2012 after a third-party mental matters, while creating members of a team that will be committed to the effective use of natural resources and energy, and to the protection of our global institution conducted an external audit. environment. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 12 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Basic Product Development Sequence Green Procurement In product development, we endeavor to meet the legal requirement and standards as ◆ Our Philosophy on Green Procurement well as to enhance the environmentally sound quality of our products including compliance Our Environmental Policy for preserving the global environment applies to all our with the legal requirement and standards, domestic and overseas legal requirements and business operations, and respect for the environment is incorporated into product standards, industry trends and social conditions. In addition, we conduct product development to create a recycling-based society. environmental assessments in accordance with our own Environmental Compliance Our Green Procurement Standards were established to guide material procurement Standards to measure the environmental soundness of products. and to meet the expectations of customers and society as a whole by maintaining and The standards are linked to our system for developing, implementing and meeting strengthening our environmental preservation activities. The standards were also companywide environmental targets for each fiscal year, and are revised every year toward intended to fulfill our social responsibility by enabling us to quickly respond to the improving the environmental soundness of our products. We also evaluate and control evolving environmental rules and regulations in each country. chemical substances throughout our supply chain in line with our Green Procurement Our suppliers’ efforts to reduce environmental impact and preserve the environment Standards so that they comply with chemical substance regulations. are just as important to us as their quality, prices, delivery schedule, services and technological excellence. In selecting products, parts and materials, including ■ Basic Product Development Sequence packaging, we place higher priority on those that are environmentally sound as well as Environmental Objective, Target, Standard meeting our quality, function and cost requirements. Legal Legal Development Flow These efforts are helping to reduce the environmental impact of our business operations Requirements Industry Trends Requirements and Standards Product Planning while at the same time expanding markets for environmentally friendly products. Annual Environmental Objective, Target Product Design Planning Response for Next Environmental Compliance Standards Product Environmental Assessment (Pre-production assessment) Product ◆ Management of Chemical Content Information Response for Next Year Product Improvement and Response Amid growing concern for the environment across the globe, we voluntarily monitor Commercialization chemical substances toward obtaining certifications for environmental standards in Japan and overseas, and support our green procurement efforts. These efforts include surveying ■ Product Assessment Example (partial list) the environmental activities of our suppliers and the chemical substances contained in the Category Assessment Content parts we procure from them. We have established a database for collecting and managing the • Can be disassembled to unit level (by specialized company) results of these surveys to determine ■ Flow of Chemical Content Survey • Can be disassembled using common tools (by specialized company) 1. Disassembly and • Material labels are attached to plastic parts weighing 25 grams or more which suppliers and materials best Request Recycling • Plastic parts weighing 25 grams or more are made of a recyclable material • Recycling labels and material labels are attached to plastic for packaging align with our values, and we also Environmental efforts survey Environmental • Cardboard made of recycled paper is used for container boxes Information use the information in evaluating Database 2. Instruction Manual • Provides information on collection of used products Supplier Chemical substance survey list 3. Energy Conservation • Complies with international ENERGY STAR Program the environmental compliance of (JAMP AIS File) 4. Toxic Substance • Does not use ozone-depleting substances, regulated under the Montreal Protocol, in internal processes our own products. Material Information Sheet Regulation • Flame retardants based on chlorine or bromine are not used in plastic parts weighing 25 grams or more Survey response EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 13 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Compliance with Environmental Labeling Standards and Legal Requirements In our effort to proactively develop environmentally sound products, we observe the been in compliance since it went into effect. We will continue to actively seek legal requirements of Japan and other countries and comply with major environmental compliance with these standards for the models we develop in the future. labeling standards in each market for our flagship products. Furthermore, as we ensure that our own products are in full compliance, we also play our role in guiding the entire industry ◆ EPEAT by actively engaging in the development of standards, such as the internationally recognized EPEAT, developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and managed by the TCO Display 6.0 and ENERGY STAR 6.0. Green Electronics Council since 2006, is a tool for evaluating the environmental impact of We will continue to closely monitor trends in environmental labeling to reduce the computers and peripheral equipment. Products are comprehensively evaluated against 23 environmental impact of product development. mandatory and 28 optional requirements to award them gold, silver or bronze ratings. Many EIZO monitors sold in the United States have ◆ TCO received the highest EPEAT Gold ranking. Efforts to make our products more environmentally friendly have proceeded largely in response to the evolution of environmental standards in Europe, starting with ensuring ◆ European Directives (RoHS/WEEE/REACH) compliance with the TCO’95 standard introduced in Sweden. This standard has evolved into EIZO products comply with the RoHS Directive (banning lead, mercury, cadmium, TCO Displays 6.0 following subsequent upgrades. EIZO has consistently participated in the hexavalent chromium, PBB and PBDE), the WEEE Directive (for the collection and formulation of TCO standards, scrutinizing the content of the standards to ensure progress in recycling of discarded electrical and electronic their effective application and immediately obtaining certification as each new version equipment in Europe), and the REACH regulation comes into effect. In the years ahead we will continue to recognize the (for the handling of chemical substances in Europe). importance of meeting this standard in the development of new products and maintain our policy of obtaining certification. ◆ China Energy Label China Energy Label was launched in 2004 as a legally mandated ◆ ENERGY STAR labeling system for displaying the energy efficiency of products to The ENERGY STAR Program was launched by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in promote technologies that save and more efficiently use energy. 1993 to help reduce the power consumption of computers and related devices. The Compliance is essential to selling products in China, and EIZO has International ENERGY STAR Program was adopted in Japan in 1995 on the basis of an ensured the compliance of products bound for China since the system agreement with the U.S. government. We have participated in this program from the very was first applied to monitors in 2009. beginning, and since becoming the first registered monitor manufacturer, we have had virtually all subsequent products registered under the program. ENERGY STAR Ver. 6.0 went into effect in June 2013. While the new standard is even more stringent, our products have EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 14 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Collection and Recycling of Used Products EIZO has complied with the directive by Recycling Discarded EIZO Monitors in Europe (EIZO Technologies GmbH) in FY2012 establishing a collection and recycling system for Paper and cartons (kg) 2,102 Packing material (kg) 1,588 The EIZO Group has been collecting and recycling used products in compliance with applicable products sold in Europe. Electronic scrap and metal (kg) 225 environmental laws and regulations in each of the countries where it operates. Solder residue (kg) 251 Japan Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations ◆ Collection of Used EIZO Products from Homes Scope of calculations: four areas as listed below In compliance with the Waste Disposal Act and End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Home Use) Collected in FY 2012 Parts manufacturers and purchasing companies in Japan and overseas the Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization of CRT monitors LED monitors Volume in weight (kg) 22,699 9,149 Resources, EIZO established its Product Collection Quantity (units) 919 1,307 and Recycling System for free collection of monitors Recycled volume (kg) 14,606 8,024 Recycling ratio (%) 64.4 87.7 for home use. Energy usage: CO2 emissions: 89,875 GJ 5,019 t-CO2 Energy usage breakdown: Waste Electricity: 8.48 million kWh ◆ Collection of Used EIZO Products from Corporate Users Waste breakdown: Kerosene: 15.1 kl Industrial waste: 246.1 t LPG: 123.9 t INPUT OUTPUT General waste: 13.4 t In compliance with the Waste Disposal Act and End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Business Use) Copier paper: EIZO Group Collected in FY 2012 Wastepaper: 433 t 5.753 t the Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization of CRT monitors LED monitors Water usage: Recycling rate: 96.9% Volume in weight (kg) 741 1,407 26,140 m3 Resources, we have been collecting and recycling Quantity (units) 30 201 used products for business use under our Product Recycled volume (kg) 495 1,105 Recycling ratio (%) 66.8 78.6 Collection and Recycling System. Customer ◆ Collection of Used TVs In compliance with the Home Appliance Recycling End-of-Life TV Sets Collected and ■ Environmental Impact by Area Recycled in FY 2012 EIZO Display Law, We established our Product Collection and Quantity collected from designated collection sites Area EIZO MS Corporation EIZO Corporation Technologies (Suzhou) Total 168 Headquarters area (units) Nanao Plant Hakui Plant Co., Ltd. (China) Recycling System for the collection and recycling Quantity of products discarded for recycling (units) 161 Production Development and Development and Assembly of of used TVs regardless of whether they were Weight of products discarded for recycling (kg) 3,092 Operations of manufacturing (assembly) manufacturing monitors Weight of recycled products (kg) 2,527 circuit boards of monitors (assembly) of monitors manufactured by EIZO or by other manufacturers. Recycling rate (%) 81 Circuit boards 9,662 29,084 49,716 1,413 89,875 Electricity (10,000 kWh) 97 292 445 14 848 Energy Kerosene (kl) 15.1 15.1 Resources LPG (t) 123.9 123.9 Europe Copier Paper (t) 0.134 0.893 4.463 0.263 5.753 ◆ EIZO Monitors Discarded in Europe Water Usage (m3) 2,608 2,486 20,594 452 26,140 CO₂ Emissions (t-CO₂) 529 1,593 2,785 112 5,019 The European WEEE Directive went into effect in August 2005 toward reducing Industrial Waste (t) 85.4 33.7 127.0 246.1 General Waste (t) 1.0 2.8 9.6 13.4 environmental impact through promotion of the three R’s of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle for Waste Wastepaper (t) 152 58 223 433 discarded electrical and electronic equipment. Recycling rate (%) 98.4 95.9 96.2 96.9 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 15 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Environmental Risk Management ■ Targets and Actual Results (Scope: EIZO Corporation Headquarters and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.) Electricity Kerosene LPG ◆ Facility Management FY 2013 Targets 8.325 million kWh 16kl 140t FY 2012 Targets 9.26 million kWh 16kl 140t In principle, we ensure compliance with stringent voluntary management standards, FY 2012 Actual Results 8.48 million kWh 15.1kl 12.39t including standards not bound by law. Level of Attainment ○ ○ ○ ◆ Regulatory Compliance ◆ Water Use We strive to comply with regulations governing corporate activities such as the Air We use only groundwater in EIZO Corporation’s Headquarters area (Group companies use Pollution Control Act, the Water Quality Pollution Control Act, and the Waste Disposal and the public water supply). We monitor water usage and wastewater discharge to reduce the Public Cleansing Act by collecting information on revisions and new regulations and by risk of subsidence and stress on wastewater treatment systems. We use water in our regularly monitoring and measuring the status of our response. Our emissions of air corporate buildings as well as for the snow melting system and for watering plants in the pollutants NOx and SOx are regularly measured in accordance with the Air Polution Control summer. Our manufacturing processes do not use any water. Act and have remained well below the legal limit. In addition, we adhere to our own voluntary management standards, even in operations for which there are no applicable ◆ Industrial Waste laws. No compliance problems were found in fiscal 2012, and no administrative guidance, Our total volume of industrial waste ■ Discharge of Industrial Waste and Recycling Rate (t) (%) admonitions, orders or reprimands have been received. In addition, no complaints about increased 9% year-on-year to 246.1 t. While 400 97.7 96.7 96.3 95.7 96.9 100 350 347 333 environmental issues were received from our neighboring communities. the volume increased compared with 329 80 300 fiscal 2011, during which production 250 246.1 225 60 200 Prevention of Global Warming, and Energy Conservation adjustments were made in the wake of 150 40 the Great East Japan Earthquake, it 100 20 50 ◆ Emissions of Greenhouse Gases (Japan and China) decreased in comparison with the years 0 0 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 Please refer to page 3 for data. preceding fiscal 2011. The recycling rate of 96.9% exceeded our goal of 96%. ◆ Energy Use In fiscal 2012, we sought to save energy by optimizing the operation of our existing air ◆ Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances conditioning units. As a result, we were able to limit total energy use to below 1,500 kl in We closely manage kerosene and organic solvents in compliance with regulations such as crude oil equivalent, which is the target for energy efficiency under the Energy Savings Law. the Fire Service Act and the Industrial Safety and Health Act. We do not use any chemical We also replaced some of the lighting at the Hakui Plant of EIZO MS Corporation with LED substances subject to the PRTR Law*. lighting. We will continue to pursue group-wide energy saving activities while also * Pollutant Release and Transfer Register: Regulation governing the monitoring and promotion of efforts to more effectively manage the release of controlled substances into the environment. maintaining comfortable working conditions. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 16 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Environmental Targets/Performance Report Scope: EIZO Corporation Headquarters area, EIZO MS Corporation, and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Environmental Environmental FY 2012 Environmental SelfFocus FY 2012 Actual Results FY 2013 Targets Theme Objective Target evaluation Reduce electricity consumption to no more than 8.325 million kWh/year Reduced power Reduce electricity consumption Maintained electricity consumption under 8.48 million kWh/year 〇 • Expand effort to upgrade interior lighting to LED consumption by 9.26 million kWh/year • Shorten aging time of lighting Reduced fuel Reduce consumption of fuel Reduced LPG consumption to 123.9 t/year and kerosene Reduce consumption of fuel 〇 consumption LPG: up to 140 t; kerosene: up to 16 kl consumption to 15.1 kl/year by optimizing air conditioning LPG: no more than 140 t; kerosene: no more than 19 kl Efforts to prevent CO₂ reduction global warming Reduce product electricity consumption EV series developed in fiscal 2012 achieved power consumption of 0.5 • Increase number of products that meet the targets for reduced electricity Environmentally Reduce product electricity W in sleep mode and 0.5 W in off mode consumption when connected to DVI/Display port – 0.5 W for sleep mode sound product ○ consumption EV series developed in fiscal 2012 achieved targets for lightweight, and 0.5 W for off mode design compact and slimmer products • Promote lightweight, compact and slimmer products; conserve resources used for container boxes Promote product recycling 3R design Promote product recycling Reused LCD units of some amusement monitors collected from the market ○ • Promote reuse of parts for amusement monitors Creating a 3R sustainable (reduce, reuse, Reduce industrial waste society recycle) Maintain industrial waste generation Reduced industrial waste generation to 246.1 t, purchase of copier Maintain industrial waste generation below 255 t and purchase of copier 3R activities ○ below 325 t and purchase of copier paper to 5.753 t paper below 5.9 t paper below 6.024 t Reduced Manage and restrict emissions Reviewed and implemented a management system for chemical Manage and restrict emissions and transport of toxic substances Environmental Management of consumption of and transport of toxic substances used at facilities ○ • Thoroughly adhere to appropriate management of chemical substances issues chemicals chemicals substances Replaced a coolant spray with an environmentally sound product used at facilities Education and Conducted employee training Conducted thorough environmental training for new employees ○ (Maintain efforts as a focus issue) training Promoted wearing of lighter or warmer clothes under the “cool biz” Environmental Maintaining Corporate activities and “warm biz” campaigns ○ (Maintain efforts as a focus issue) communication communication Disclosure of Disclosure of product Maintained the Challenge 25 website environmental information information Disclosed product environmental information through the corporate ○ (Maintain efforts as a focus issue) website and catalogs Revised the EIZO Green Procurement Standards to reflect required content Compliance Respond to revised RoHS ○ Revised the CE Declaration of Conformity and prepared supplementary information Continue to respond to revised RoHS and additional SVHC substances under REACH with Environmental Standards Increase number of products that comply with ENERGY STAR 6.0 environmental compliance compliance Respond to ENERGY STAR 6.0 Achieved compliance for 5 EV Series products developed in fiscal 2012 ○ Increase number of products that comply with China Energy Label laws and Increase number of products that comply with TCO Certified Displays 6.0 standards Respond to TCO Certified Displays 6.0 Achieved compliance for 5 EV Series products developed in fiscal 2012 ○ ○ : Results exceeding 75%, △ : Over 50% and under 75%, ×: Under 50% Status of Group Companies The current status of Group companies is as follows. EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (ISO 14001 certification: 2011) Environmental targets applied to EIZO Corporation and EIZO MS Corporation were also applied to EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. from fiscal 2012 to establish an environmental management system that encompasses all three companies. EIZO Technologies GmbH (ISO 14001 certification: 2012) and EIZO GmbH (ISO 14001 certification: 2009) Both companies operate in accordance with local environmental conditions and regulations, including those for CO₂ emissions reduction, 3R’s and management of chemicals. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 17 Seven Promises 3 Operating as an International Corporation Seven Promises 3 Operating as an International Corporation In order to ensure the delivery and ongoing worry-free use of our products worldwide, our group companies and distributors in various countries, maintain strong mutual relationships to support customers and achieve sound corporate growth. We will act as an international EIZO Group Global Network corporation with The EIZO Group comprises 15 companies in Japan, Europe, the United States and China. While leveraging the individual strengths of each Group company, we generate synergies in development, a global outlook production and sales across the Group and utilize our comprehensive, worldwide capabilities to meet the needs of the market while enhancing our product lineup and expanding our market share. and mindset. Germany EIZO GmbH Sweden Eizo Nordic AB Germany EIZO Europe GmbH (and 4 branch offices*) United Kingdom EIZO Limited Japan EIZO Corporation (and 4 companies) (Ishikawa Prefecture) USA Tech Source, Inc. China Switzerland EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. USA EIZO AG Germany EIZO Inc. EIZO Technologies GmbH Group companies Austria Locations of distributor EIZO Austria GmbH Countries in which Eizo products are sold Our products are well received around the world, with current sales in 70 countries and territories through our Group companies and 18 global distributors. (As of September 2013) * EIZO Europe GmbH is composed of the head office in Germany and five branch offices in Belgium, Czech Republic, Italy and the Netherlands. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 18 Seven Promises 3 Operating as an International Corporation Seven Promises 3 Operating as an International Corporation Development and Production Network – Coherent Development and Production System ◆ Direct Sales System in Europe We have expanded its business into vertical markets encompassing medical, graphics, The EIZO Group has three production sites in Japan, two in Germany and one in the industrial and air traffic control monitors. These markets require direct, ongoing United States and China, forming a network that maintains a coherent development and communication with customers as well as solid global support. To more effectively respond production system throughout the Group. This system enables us to apply stringent quality to these specific market environments and diversified sales channels, we established sales control from development to production, promote the creation of development synergies subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Germany in August 2011 and replaced local that maximize the strengths of each base, and construct an optimal production system for distributors with a direct sales system in Europe in 2012. We are pursuing further business each market and customer. In addition, we promptly share information obtained in the growth by reinforcing regional sales centered on the two sales subsidiaries. course of development and production along with opinions and requests obtained from markets and customers to incorporate into product development and customer support. ◆ Collaboration among Group Companies Within the Group there is active collaboration between our sales subsidiaries and ◆ Production in China development and production companies to accurately grasp customer needs in highly China represents a priority market that is expected to continue growing. We are specialized areas and promptly respond to their requirements, particularly in the markets for particularly focusing on expanding into the Chinese medical market. To this end, we did not medical, industrial and air traffic control monitors. establish our Chinese plant to reduce personnel costs, but instead to pursue our basic approach of “local production for local consumption,” in which products sold in the Chinese EIZO United market are produced by our Group company in China. We seek to establish a competitive Group companies and distributors gather once a year at the EIZO Corporation advantage for our products in the Chinese market by understanding local needs and headquarters to participate in technology exhibits and general and individual meetings to reflecting them in product planning and development while also strengthening our local deepen their understanding of EIZO products. Exchanging information on their respective parts procurement. activities broadens their collective base of knowledge and forges closer ties between Group companies. Sales Network – One Country/Territory, One Distributor System, and Our Direct Sales System ◆ One Country/Territory, One Distributor System From the very beginning of selling proprietary products outside Japan, we have adopted a one country/territory, one distributor system in which a single subsidiary or distributor is responsible for all sales within a given country or territory. This unique system enables us to accurately discern customer needs in each country or territory by distributors who fully understand the culture and values of their respective regions and share information more smoothly. It also allows us to offer products through sales methods that are appropriate for each country or territory. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 19 Seven Promises 4 Open and Fair Trade Seven Promises 4 Open and Fair Trade Our suppliers are essential partners for ensuring the long-term viability of our business. We therefore ensure transactions are conducted in a fair and equitable manner and strive to forge relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity. We will conduct open and fair trade. ◆ Relationships of Trust Based on Mutual Prosperity business practices, and we explicitly ensure they understand our corporate stance. With respect to our suppliers, we are committed to forging relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity to build successful, long-term partnerships, and we strive to conduct ◆ Basic Procurement Policy transactions that are fair, equitable and transparent. We deal with suppliers on an equal opportunity basis in accordance with procurement policies. In overseas sales, authority is delegated in each country to Group companies and distributors In conducting transactions, we select suppliers who meet our standards as listed below. who are knowledgeable about local culture and values. This has enabled us to actively engage in overseas sales based on a deep understanding of our products. We have sought to expand sales Selection Standard for Suppliers by building on the relationships of trust and powerful partnerships developed over time, ❶ Sound management ❷ Technological excellence that will contribute to the quality of our products cooperating with distributors in organizing exhibitions, and providing customer support. ❸ Appropriate quality, prices, and delivery schedules for products and materials to be supplied to us ❹ Stable supply capacity and ability to respond flexibly to fluctuations in demand ◆ Enhancing Employee Awareness ❺ Compliance with relevant laws, consideration for the environment, and active Conducting transactions in a fair and open manner requires each employee to have the involvement in environmental preservation necessary level of knowledge and awareness. We seek to deepen employee understanding and awareness with a steady flow of compliance information through our intranet and study ◆ Developing Mutual Understanding with Suppliers sessions. Topics include anti-trust regulations directly related to business transactions as well As a manufacturing company that strives to create excellent products that satisfy customers as procedures for handling confidential information as required by regulations that prohibit around the world through our primary business operations, we place high priority on controlling insider trading and that govern relationships with suppliers. quality, delivery schedules and the cost of parts and materials procured from suppliers as well as confirming that supplier operations are environmentally sound. We ◆ Handling of Information Obtained through Suppliers provide opportunities for regular exchanges of information to We obtain confidential information from suppliers and customers through proper channels address these issues and ensure we and our suppliers share a and will not seek to obtain or use information that is known to have been improperly obtained or common understanding of each others’ management policies and disclosed. We also pay the utmost care in handling information we have obtained and follow the technical strategies. appropriate procedures for managing it. Materials Procurement Briefing ◆ Unequivocal Prohibition of Bribery We conduct regular briefings with our suppliers to explain our basic procurement policy We do not offer money or other benefits in violation of the law governing relationships with public and request their cooperation. We also discuss the market environment and our future efforts. servants and employees of public institutions. Likewise in our relationships with suppliers, we do not Many suppliers attend these briefings, which contribute to a greater understanding of EIZO offer or accept entertainment, gifts or benefits that violate the law or deviate from generally accepted and to gathering information for subsequent incorporation into business decisions. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 20 Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders We will sincerely engage with stakeholders to forge closer bonds of trust through communication channels while fulfilling our responsibilities. We will seek to build and maintain Relationship with Each Type of Stakeholder strong bonds of trust with our EIZO's Stakeholders EIZO’s Responsibility Communication Channels stakeholders ● Developing better products Setting up Contact centers as customer liaison points (business ● ● Creating and offering products with new −Responding to questions and inquiries before and after purchase value. partners, Customers ● Developing products from the −Listening to customer opinions −Technical support In addition to offering products that satisfy customers, we listen customer’s standpoint. employees, closely to their feedback and provide useful support. ● Responding clearly to questions and ● Sharing information with relevant departments and considering incorporation into products P. 22 inquiries. shareholders, ● Thoroughly responding to customer ● Interacting with customers at showrooms and through direct dialog ● Providing and collecting information through participation in requests and feedback. and the local various trade shows ● Providing timely information via the corporate website community). Suppliers ● Building relationships of trust ● Sharing information and creating mutual understanding as partners We view suppliers as essential and important partners in the ● Fair business transactions ● Establishing selection standards, dealing with suppliers on an equal continuation of our business, and forges powerful relationships by ● Explaining corporate policy and broadening opportunity basis P. 20 sharing management policies and technical strategies. understanding among suppliers ● Holding material procurement briefings We are a company focused on creative development that requires Employees ● Motivating workplace environment ● Providing various educational programs the imaginative ideas and powerful motivation of its employees. ● Developing excellent personnel ● Supporting self-development activity We therefore work to create a broadminded corporate climate ● Promoting work-life balance ● Creating workplaces that reflect employee opinions and sound P. 26 and a workplace in which employees have a sense of security, and ● Securing safety and health labor-management relations through consultation conferences we support our employees in their self-development. Shareholders We strive to gain the understanding and trust of our shareholders ● Timely and appropriate disclosure of by providing fair and accurate information on management policies, ● General shareholders meeting (holding informal gatherings) information business strategies and financial performance, and by maintaining ● Enhanced corporate value ● Stable dividend payment P. 23 transparency in our corporate management. Local We seek to build solid relationships with the local community to ● Preventing accidents and disasters at each ● Receiving company visits gain their understanding and cooperation in pursuing our business business site ● Sponsoring various events and organizations Community operations. ● Protecting the regional environment ● Supporting environmental conservation activities We are committed to fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate ● Cooperating with regional development ● Corporation with Local Community and association P. 23 citizen. and promoting culture ● Participating in local voluntary activities EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 21 Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Relationships with Customers We provide product information on our Website, at our showrooms and through sales EIZO Contact Center (Japan) and promotional activities. We strive to directly communicate with customers through The EIZO Contact Center has been set up as a convenient means for customers in Japan 国内 various channels in order to fullyEIZOコンタク answerトセンター questions and respond to customer requests and （お問合せ窓口） to communicate with the company. The center provides answers to inquiries related to EIZO Galleria（ショールーム） feedback. product specifications and operating procedures as well as questions related to purchasing EIZO Direct（直販サイト） Webサイト products through telephone, e-mail and fax. 販社・販売店 ■ Feedback System for All Types of Customer Input ■ Calls to the Contact Center Customer Liaison Others 2.9％ EIZO Contact Center Company/Stock Customer liaison dedicated to ordering 0.0％ Customer liaison for technical support Support/Warranty/ Functions/ Recycling/ Operation procedures Showroom 8.4％ 33.7％ Direct sales website Troubleshooting 9.2％ Website Product compatibility Consulting/ Distributors Product overview Customers 9.9％ Sales companies/Retail stores 25.7％ Orders/Sales service related 10.1％ Fiscal 2012 ◆ Customer Liaison Each Group company has set up a customer liaison process (including access by phone or ◆ Showroom e-mail) to receive inquiries and questions related to EIZO products and technology. Customer Visitors can test the performance of our products while trying out their functions at our inquiries and requests are promptly shared and appropriately addressed within the company, showroom, which also serves as a space for communicating with customers. relevant departments and the Group. They are also utilized to guide product development as well as to prepare information provided to customers. EIZO Galleria (Japan) EIZO Galleria is a showroom located in the Ginza district of Tokyo. Our dedicated onsite staff ● Set introduces products and provides advice to customers who want to know more about them. up the EIZO Contact Center as a dedicated liaison for responding EIZO Corporation (Japan) by phone and e-mail Here our well-received seminars on a variety of topics also provide information on the operating EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) ● Responds to inquiries through a dedicated liaison and website environments of computers for office and home use and on more EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) ● Provides customer support and technical support by e-mail effectively using EIZO products. Moreover, the showroom is used ● Provides a dedicated liaison for after-purchase inquiries over the phone EIZO Inc. (United States) ● Offers an e-mail address for general inquiries as a communication space for other types of events such as exhibitions of photographs taken by customers. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 22 Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Relationships with Shareholders Relationships with the Local Community We conduct investor relations activities based on the principle of providing fair and accurate We seek to build and maintain good relationships with the local communities where each information on management policies, business strategies and financial performance to all stakeholders. Group company operates and are actively engaged in activities that contribute to developing these areas and creating better environments as a community member. ◆ Basic Policy on Information Disclosure We disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner in compliance with the Financial ◆ Relationships with Local Communities Instruments and Exchange Act and related regulations as well as the “Timely disclosure rules and We strive to contribute to communities through sponsorships and donations to local other regulations for issuers of listed negotiable securities or valuable instruments” of the Tokyo organizations and activities. Stock Exchange. We strive to ensure any material information that may affect investment decisions is delivered to all market participants in an equitable manner. Examples of Community Contribution Activities EIZO Corporation ● Voluntary participation in beach cleanups and snow shoveling (Japan) ● Donations to local activities ◆ General Shareholders Meeting EIZO Technologies ● Participation in local environmental protection programs We try to schedule our annual general shareholders meeting for a date that is convenient for GmbH (Germany) ● Donation to activities that support children fighting intractable diseases at a children’s hospital shareholders by avoiding days on which other such meetings are being held. We also send out EIZO Limited ● Donation to “SpecialEffect,” an organization that utilizes IT in activities for enhancing (United Kingdom) the quality of life for persons with disabilities invitations as far in advance as possible to provide enough time for shareholders to examine the ● Donations to activities aimed at providing underprivileged people access to community services proposed resolutions and the state of our operations. EIZO Inc. ● Donations to organizations undertaking community contribution activities (Boys & (United States) Girls Club, the Cypress College Fund, the Southern California Special Olympics, etc.) During the general shareholders meeting, we provide opportunities for direct communication with our shareholders, such as by offering explanations about products exhibited at the meeting site. We also invite shareholders to an informal meeting following the general shareholders ◆ For Regional Development meeting to listen to their questions and comments. EIZO takes part in a variety of local activities for regional development. ◆ Company Presentations for Investors Examples of Participation in Regional Activities We invite institutional investors to our semi-annual earnings results briefings in Tokyo, ● Ishikawa Keiei Tensho Juku: cooperation through operational advice and lectures on an educational project for young corporate managers and future entrepreneurs who will where we report on our business direction, activities and performance. We also hold EIZO Corporation bear responsibility for the future of the regional economy ● Co-sponsorship and support for the Orchestra Ensemble Kanazawa in Ishikawa Prefecture briefings for individual investors to promote a greater awareness of our company. (Japan) ● Co-sponsorship and support for La Folle Journée Kanazawa Music Festival as a member of the executive committee ◆ Shareholder Benefits EIZO Technologies ● Membership and participation in activities undertaken by United Way Worldwide, a corporate organization that discusses local issues and solutions As a benefit for our shareholders, we offer a 20% discount on monitors purchased through GmbH (Germany) ● Ongoing participation in local events such as marathons the EIZO Direct online store. We hope this makes it easier for shareholders to use our EIZO Inc. ● Local development of the arts: support for projects aimed at increasing the artist population by creating opportunities for dance performances and photo exhibitions; projects aimed at developing products and feel comfortable while using their computers, and consequently deepen their (United States) the world of photography by providing educational settings understanding of EIZO products. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 23 Seven Promises 6 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Seven Promises 6 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law We believe each individual employee must raise their awareness of compliance and the company must conduct sound corporate governance to provide our stakeholders with trust through the ongoing creation of corporate value. We will strictly respect and comply with Compliance and advice on problems, concerning legal issues or the content of the principles of conduct, that may arise both the letter in the course of our operations. In addition, we strive to ensure early detection of illegal activity and to and the spirit ◆ Our Philosophy on Compliance prevent misconduct by operating a whistle-blowing system that requires officers and employees to report We recognize compliance as one of the most important concerns of management for fulfilling our social to the liaison point immediately upon learning of activities in violation of laws or ethics, regardless of their of the law as a responsibility at the highest levels, and this includes ethical responsibility. Our action guidelines on own involvement. We ensure that the privacy of the whistle blower is protected and that the individual will good corporate compliance stipulate that we never become involved in illegal or unethical acts, and that we provide not be placed at any disadvantage for reporting the violation. citizen. sufficient compliance training for all officers and employees. We have established an organizational structure for guaranteeing compliance and have been developing measures and systems to ensure effectiveness, and Risk Management steadily promoting these measures based on an annual plan from a long-term perspective. We have established and operate a risk management system to integrate and centralize the ◆ Compliance Training management of risks that could affect our business activities. Risk management is supervised by For officers and other employees, regulatory and other related information are always available on the corporate the Management Conference and the Risk Management Committee, and risks identified by each intranet, and we regularly provide training material to encourage them to update and enhance their knowledge department are examined by the committee. Any risk that could have a significant impact on our toward establishing full awareness of the role and importance of compliance and cultivating an ethical mindset. business is designated as a “serious risk” by the Management Committee, comprising full-time We established the EIZO Group Principles of Conducts – The Seven Promises to clarify our corporate officers and managing officers. Appropriate countermeasures are discussed and implemented. philosophy and action guidelines in concrete terms and to serve as a standard in decision-making, As our business activities became even more global in nature, we expanded the scope of risk evaluation and in the actions undertaken through the course of our business activities. We also seek to identification and evaluation to Group companies in and outside Japan in fiscal 2012. We intend to instill a thorough awareness of compliance among all Group employees in Japan and overseas while further advance these activities in fiscal 2013. further enhancing our compliance system based on the prior establishment of the Compliance Committee and by further strengthening our management structure. ◆ Business Continuity Plan (BCP) To be prepared in the event of a major disaster, EIZO formulated a BCP for responding to natural ◆ Strengthening the Information Management System disasters and a BCP for handling the outbreak of the new influenza virus, and these plans have We ensure proper handling of confidential information in accordance with our established been disseminated throughout the company. Particularly with regard to our BCP for disaster guidelines. We have also appointed an information management representative with overall response, we have established procedures for restoring critical operations and resuming the responsibility for establishing a company-wide information management system. supply of our products within one month, in addition to confirming employee safety and facilitating necessary rescue operations in the immediate aftermath of a major disaster. ◆ Internal Notification Program To further strengthen our compliance system, we set up a liaison point to provide answers to questions EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 24 Seven Promises 6 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Seven Promises 6 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Corporate Governance We strive to be a company that consistently produces satisfactory results with the support ● Managing Officer System of our stakeholders. To this end, we view the ongoing improvement of corporate governance We have introduced a managing officer system to separate the supervision of management as a vital management concern. and the execution of operations, while accelerating the pace of operational execution. ■ Corporate Governance System ● Board of Corporate Auditors General Meeting of Stockholders We have adopted a system of corporate auditors. The board of corporate auditors consists of four Election/dismissal members (one full-time and three part-time, as of June 21, 2013) and includes three outside corporate Board of Corporate Auditors Auditing Board BoardofofDirectors Directors Election (4 members including 3 from outside) All members are male (6 members including 1 from outside) auditors. Corporate auditors attend key meetings of the Board of Directors. /dismissal All members are male Cooperation Separation of The full-time corporate auditor reviews and discusses with directors important documents, such Accounting Auditor Report decision-making Instructions Inspection of accounts and implementation /supervision as draft proposals and contracts. He also collaborates with the Audit Office, the company’s internal Corporate Philosophy Management Committee Principles of Conduct auditing department, on the review of internal regulation functions. Auditing Instructions Internal Auditing Department Report /supervision (Audit Office) Managing Officers Report Instructions /supervision ● Internal Auditing System Legal Auditing Department Auditing Group Companies The Audit Office reports directly to the president and functions as the company’s internal auditing (General Affairs Division) department. It carries out internal audits in accordance with the Basic Regulations on Internal Audits, which specifies audit policies, and with the Basic Annual Audit Plan approved by the president. All ◆ Overview of Management Organization findings of these internal audits are reported to the president. ● Board of Directors The Board of Directors meets monthly and as required to support timely decision-making ◆ Compensation System for today’s business environment. All important matters related to the board’s decisions are With respect to bonuses paid to officers, we have endeavored to further clarify directors’ discussed and progress reports on business tasks are presented on a regular basis. Among the management responsibilities for corporate performance. Also, we have introduced a performancesix board directors, we have appointed a single outside director (as of June 21, 2013) to provide based compensation system that explicitly limits bonuses to within 3% of net income for each fiscal supervision and advice from a third-party perspective and thereby increase the transparency year (up to a maximum of ¥200 million) in an effort to ensure transparency of the calculation method. of management decisions. We also appointed one outside director and two outside corporate auditors as independent directors as stipulated under Tokyo Stock Exchange regulations. ◆ Internal Control System We established our basic policy underlying a system that ensures directors execute their tasks ● Management Committee in compliance with the law and the articles of incorporation, along with a system for ensuring the The Management Committee is composed of directors (excluding the outside director), a fullappropriateness of other operations. Based on the policy, we have proceeded to develop related time auditor and managing officers, and is convened as required to accelerate strategic decision systems and to complete the groundwork for establishing an internal control system. We have also making, respond to important issues, and deliberate or report on the status of operations. established in an internal control system for financial transactions in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, and exercise thorough control over our financial operations. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 25 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture EIZO is a company focused on creative development that requires the imaginative ideas and powerful motivation of all its employees. We therefore take various measures to create a broadminded corporate culture by developing an environment that encourages free exchange of opinions and a workplace in which employees have a sense of security. We will respect Many of our top managers at overseas Group companies are local personnel, and we pay due consideration to the diversity of each country’s cultures and customs to create the most suitable working environments. human rights and value a Laying the Foundations for a Motivating Workplace ◆ Developing Trust-Based Labor-Management Relations broadminded Mutual understanding is the cornerstone of labor-management relations. In keeping with corporate We undertake various activities to create a motivating workplace environment that this fundamental point, we endeavor to develop trust in labor-management relations by cultivates excellent human resources for the sake of the long-term growth of our personnel encouraging dialog through the establishment of a consultation conference. These culture. as well as further corporate development. conferences discuss a wide range of topics, from labor-management agreements and reduction of overtime to ways for improving the work-life balance and employee benefit ◆ Employment packages. We also maintain good labor-management relations at Group companies under To ensure that EIZO continues to develop cutting-edge imaging technology for creating the specific circumstances of each country or company. and offering new values as a company focused on creative development, we are expanding our engineering staff and creating a motivating workplace for our employees. ◆ Promoting the Careers of Persons with Disabilities Persons with disabilities are ■ Percentage of Employees Who Are Persons with Disabilities (EIZO Corporation) ■ EIZO Group Including Overseas Affiliates (as of March 31, 2013) engaged in careers at many of Number of Employees March 2011 March 2012 March 2013 1,637 Engineering staff 562 our worksites, and as of March (regular employees) 2.24 2.09 2.09 2013, 17 disabled people are currently employed by the Group. This represents 2.09% of the workforce at EIZO ■ EIZO Corporation (as of March 31, 2013) Corporation, exceeding the minimum legal requirement of 1.8%. We intend to continue Male 392 improving our workplace environment and expanding work opportunities for the disabled. Number of Employees Female 364 756 (including term employees) Engineering staff 232 ◆ Paying Due Respect to Human Rights Foreign nationals 21 Graduate recruits To curtail behavior that undermines individuality at the workplace and throughout our 21 Joined company in April 2013 operations, such as forced labor and child labor, discriminatory remarks or actions, and Mid-career recruits 1 sexual or power harassment, we have clearly stated our position on the matter in our Joined company from April 2012 through March 2013 principles of conduct and conduct educational activities to keep all employees, including Average age As of March 31, 2013 37.6 those at Group companies, informed of this position. Average length of service 14.3 years As of March 31, 2013 Average annual working hours 1,963 hours FY 2012 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 26 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Promoting Work-Life Balance therefore promoting measures in ■ Average Working Hours (EIZO Corporation) fiscal 2013 to further streamline our FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 1,937 hours 1,908 hours 1,963 hours To respond to diversifying work styles and ensure employees are able to work with a operational processes and achieve sense of satisfaction, accomplishment and happiness, we believe it is important for greater efficiency toward significantly reducing average actual working hours. employees to have extra time to refresh their minds and bodies. Human Resource Development Efforts ◆ Opportunities for Recreation and Exchange We support employees in their ◆ Reinforcing Management Capabilities varied sports and cultural activities Management-level employee training is a high priority at EIZO. We ensure the practical within the company by supplementing usefulness of training by setting a theme for each fiscal year, such as strategic thinking, costs and permitting use of company customer development and operational reform. Training is offered to candidates for facilities to encourage participation. We also offer opportunities management positions, and newly appointed managers receive training on compliance, fair for recreation and exchange through numerous affiliated job evaluation and effective allocation of work to deepen their understanding of these areas. accommodation facilities and sports gyms. ◆ Emphasis on Educating Younger Employees ◆ Supporting Childcare and Nursing Care First-year employees participate in programs on organizational structure and basic Under the respective laws of each ■ Number of Applicants (EIZO Corporation) knowledge for adulthood and independence, and receive on-site factory training to learn country, we support various programs FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 about the foundations of our company. We also conduct a variety of programs specifically including maternity leave, childcare Childcare/Nursing Care Leave 29 29 29 targeting young employees, including technical training for new engineering staff to ensure leave and nursing care leave, shorter Reduced Working Hours For they acquire a broad foundation of knowledge on our basic technologies. Periodic group24 31 27 Childcare or Nursing Care working hours, and leave to care for sick based training and on-the-job training (OJT) is emphasized in each department, and children. We have developed a supportive working environment that includes measures such managers draw up three-year career plans in consultation with young employees, providing as reducing working hours up to two hours per day for childcare to flexibly meet employee a basis for a systematic OJT program. needs. We plan to enhance our programs for supporting employees with childcare or nursing responsibilities by introducing benefits such as childbirth leave for prospective fathers. ◆ Supporting Career Development We encourage employee career development by providing a complete and diverse range ◆ Shorter Actual Working Hours of self-development programs, including language classes, seminars on business skills As part of our efforts to decrease the number of working hours, we undertake work (logical thinking, presentation skills) and by subsidizing the cost of distance learning or improvement activities on a unit-by-unit basis and observe a weekly no-overtime day. We obtaining certifications. also vigorously encourage employees to take compensation days off for working on holidays Our overseas affiliates also provide similar support; for example, EIZO GmbH in Germany and take sufficient paid leave. As a result of these efforts, we were able to reduce average uses its network with the local chamber of commerce to organize seminars that enhance working hours in fiscal 2011. However, these hours began to increase in fiscal 2012. We are professional skills and encourages employees to attend them. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 27 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture ◆ Development of Global Human Resources assessments and safety screening of newly installed machinery and equipment, and by To develop global human resources, we provide English and Chinese classes in Japan, as well as raising awareness on safety through workplace patrols and employee training. Japanese classes at affiliates outside Japan, Voiceand fromhold seminars on cross-cultural communication. a Worksite We also run an exchange program for engineers between affiliates outside Japan, in which ◆ Efforts in Health Management employees are dispatched for between Voice anda 12 6 from months. The program aims to increase the Worksite Our efforts in this area include regular health checkups and preventive checkups for number of employees who can work effectively in a different culture and manage technology lifestyle-related diseases, dedicated contact points for responding to employee anxieties with a global perspective, as well asVoice from a Groupnew to cultivate Company technological expertise. and concerns, mental health checkups and face-to-face consultations with industrial physicians, and follow-up guidance based on the results of health checkups. We will seek to Voice from a Worksite safeguard employee physical and mental well-being by raising individual awareness of I was temporarily transferred to Tech Source, Inc. in Florida for 10 months from January to health management and achieving a goal of 100% follow-up. Voice from a Worksite October 2012. There I worked on developing the Condor series of graphics boards, which are assembled into monitors for the aerospace market. I was involved in the entire process, from Basic Policy on Safety and Health (Safety and Health Management Regulations) formulating product specifications to design and evaluation. The experience of working in The basic policy on the safety and health of EIZO Corporation is intended to create an unfamiliar cultural setting, and because I had not been used to this scale of operations, I a healthy and safe working environment for all employees. This is achieved through was exposed to different approaches and a faster pace. This experience has become an management of risk factors related to safety and health. Specifically, we constantly invaluable asset for me. My interaction with the engineers and my daily life strive to identify unacceptable risk factors in the workplace and neutralize them, with the ultimate goal of eliminating workplace accidents. in the United States also gave me an excellent opportunity to objectively reflect on Japanese culture. I hope to build on this experience and take the initiative in product development, which has become a global undertaking Akira Sakai ■ Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2013 to 2015) Joined EIZO in 2006 for the company. Technology Strategy Raise safety awareness by improving employees’ sense to identify potential dangers and Development Office encourage self-management of physical and mental health in order to enhance operations. Securing Safety and Health ■ Fiscal 2013 Targets/Key Action Points and Fiscal 2012 Performance Management Area FY 2013 Targets/Key Action Points FY 2012 Performance Evaluation The ongoing development, design and production of high value-added products Maintain zero-occurrence of • Workplace accidents 0 Safety workplace accidents, reduce traffic Frequency rate 0 requires not only a significant investment of management resources but also a consistently Management accidents during working hours Severity rate 0 almost • Traffic accidents during working hours 1 (offense) safe workplace and efforts to safeguard employee health. Key point: Ongoing risk assessment • Unacceptable risks 0 100% follow-up on checkup results Health ◆ Efforts in Safety Management Management Key point: Promotion of personal Follow-up 92.2% almost responsibility for health management We strive to prevent workplace accidents by conducting risk assessments for each based on checkup results workplace in addition to KYT (hazard prediction training), “hiyari-hatto” (close call) and 5S * Workplace accidents frequency rate: Number of deaths and injuries caused by industrial accidents per million working hours. Used to express accident frequency. activities. We will continue these efforts by identifying and reducing risks through risk * Workplace accidents severity rate: Number of work-days lost caused by industrial accidents per million working hours. Used to express accident severity. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 28 Appendix Appendix Environmental Timeline Product Standards Corporate Action 1988 Started utilizing bromine-free flame retardants in plastic parts. 1992 Started survey of toxic substances in parts (20 substances). Began working toward TCO’92 certification. 1993 Obtained ISO 9002 certification for quality management system. Began working to acquire ENERGY STAR registration (major product models). 1995 Obtained ISO 9002 for EIZO NANAO MS CORPORATION*1. Started utilizing halogen-free flame retardants in plastic parts. 1996 Began working toward TCO’95 certification. Started environmental compliance assessment. Adoption of Environmental Policy. 1997 Expanded survey of toxic substances in parts (to 34 substances). Obtained ISO 9001 certification for quality management system. Started registering products under International ENERGY STAR Program. 1998 Began working toward TCO’99 certification. Obtained ISO 14001 for environmental management system. Began working toward Eco Circle certification. 1999 Eliminated cadmium from parts. Expanded survey of toxic substances in parts (to 920 substances). 2000 Switched from water-cooled to air-cooled air conditioners. Issued first Environmental Report. Began Eco Mark registration. 2001 Began collecting and recycling business-use products. PC Green Label registration. Adopted Corporate Philosophy. 2002 Established the company’s environmental labeling (established EIZO Eco Products 2002). Received Governor of Ishikawa’s Green Enterprise award. Began working toward TCO’03 certification. 2003 Received Health Minister’s Award for Excellence in health and safety initiatives. Established EIZO Eco Products 2004. Began collecting and recycling home-use products. Started collecting and recycling business-use products in response to requests and over an expanded region. 2004 Launched efforts to comply with the RoHS Directive. Implemented energy conservation measures in conjunction with equipment upgrades (climate control, lighting) at Headquarters. Implemented traffic safety guidance in local communities. Issued first Social and Environmental Report. 2005 Began product shipments in compliance with the RoHS Directive. Obtained ISO 14001 certification for environmental management system, including at sales offices. Obtained ISO 13485 for quality management system for medical equipment. Adopted EIZO Eco Products 2006 standards. Launched J-Moss compliance efforts. EIZO Support Network Corporation was added to the scope of operations included in our ISO 13435 certification. 2006 Started compliance with WEEE Directive (displayed recycling logo and completed providing EIZO Galleria locations were added to the scope of operations included in our ISO 14001 certification. data on hazardous substances to recycling contractors). Substantial increase in energy consumption as R&D building is completed and brought into use. 2007 Launched efforts to comply with REACH regulations. Obtained ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 for EIZO GmbH. Adopted EIZO Eco Products 2009 standards. 2008 Began working toward EPEAT certification. Began working toward TCO Display 5.0 certification. Issued first CSR Report. Began working toward ENERGY STAR (version 5.0) certification. 2009 Added EIZO Nanao MS Corporation*1 to scope of operations included in ISO 14001 certification. Launched efforts to comply with the Home Appliance Recycling Law (Act for Recycling of Obtained ISO 14001 for EIZO GmbH. Specified Kinds of Home Appliances). Began complying with Chinese energy efficiency labeling standards. 2010 Obtained ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 for EIZO NANAO TECHNOLOGIES.INC.*2 Upgraded chemical substance survey system based on new industry format. 2011 Obtained ISO 9001, ISO 13485 and ISO 14001 certification for EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Obtained ISO 14001 for EIZO Technologies GmbH. Installed LED lighting in some areas of the Hakui Plant at EIZO 2012 Began working toward TCO Certified Displays 6.0 certification. MS Corporation. *1 Currently EIZO MS Corporation *2 Currently EIZO, Inc. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 29 Appendix Appendix GRI Index Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo), as a third party, checked the report. ■ GRI Guidelines Index (version 3.1) Item Indicator Report Page Item Indicator Report page 1. Strategy and Analysis 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 4 Economic 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4 Disclosure on Management Approach 6 2. Organizational Profile MARKET PRESENCE 2.1 Name of the organization. 2 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 20 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in 23 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 2 kind, or pro bono engagement. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 18 Environmental relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Disclosure on Management Approach 12 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2, 23 ENERGY 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 15 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 3 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 15 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Not applicable EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 16 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 8 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements 13, 14 3. Report Parameters as a result of these initiatives. REPORT PROFILE EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 16 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 1 WATER 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 15 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 1 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 15 REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 15 3.5 Process for defining report content. 1 Products and Services 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 1 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 13, 14 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 1 COMPLIANCE 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Not applicable EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and 16 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. regulations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to Notes are next to Product Responsibility the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. the charts. Disclosure on Management Approach 11 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. Not applicable PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LABELING 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Not applicable PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information We have not identified GRI CONTENT INDEX and labeling, by type of outcomes. any incident of noncompliance with any 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 30 regulation voluntary ASSURANCE codes. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. A third-party Labor Practices and Decent Work review is on page Disclosure on Management Approach 26 32. EMPLOYMENT 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 26 GOVERNANCE LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 26 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such 25 as setting strategy or organizational oversight. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 27 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 25 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are 25 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. 28 independent and/or non-executive members. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 28 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 25 community members regarding serious diseases. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organization's 25 TRAINING AND EDUCATION performance. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 27, 28 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 25 managing career endings. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s 25 Human Rights strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Disclosure on Management Approach 5, 26 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social 5 NON-DISCRIMINATION performance and the status of their implementation. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. We have not identified 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 5 any incident of nonenvironmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally compliance with any agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. discrimination. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and 25 Society social performance. Disclosure on Management Approach 24 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES CORRUPTION 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 5, 14 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. We have not identified 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 5 any incident of nonor endorses. compliance with any 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organizations. 14 corruption. Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Participates in projects or committees SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Not applicable Views membership as strategic COMPLIANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Not applicable 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 21 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 21 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 20, 21, 22, 23 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 26 – 28 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 30 Appendix Appendix Comparison Table for the United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Coverage by EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Page Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 internationally proclaimed human rights. 3. We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and mindset. 18, 19 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. 20 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate culture. 26 – 28 Principle 2 rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 4 and compulsory labour. 3. We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and mindset. 18, 19 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. 20 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate culture. 26 – 28 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Principle 6 respect of employment and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 2. We will promote our manufacturing and business activities in consideration of reducing their Principle 8 12 – 17 environmental responsibility. environmental burdens. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. 20 Principle 10 including extortion and bribery. 6. We will strictly respect and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the law as a good corporate citizen. 24, 25 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 31 Third-Party Review Third-Party Review To President Yoshitaka Jitsumori, EIZO Corporation Takashi Fukushima President, Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. EIZO views its corporate social responsibility as synonymous with its business activity, an approach to CSR that is clearly reflected in the company’s corporate philosophy and principles of conduct. Instead of advertising its CSR efforts and sustainable management practices, EIZO’s ideal engagement with CSR lies in ensuring that EIZO monitors will always be available to serve a rapidly evolving society. EIZO presents a persuasive case in which its highly accurate and reliable monitors continue to incorporate technological advances to extend their global reach into the areas of medicine, crime prevention, financial transactions and diverse exploration projects. At the same time, the company has remained alert to the need to maintain the accountability of its management, as evidenced by the decision to participate in the United Nations Global Compact as a global enterprise. I hope the company will further enhance its ability to contribute value to society with the vigor of its paradigm shift and integrity as twin pillars. I would suggest a few areas of CSR management in which the company could add to its achievements. The first concerns disclosure of the PDCA cycle for the company’s overall CSR initiatives. EIZO provides a list of targets and results in the environment section of this report, and this could be done for other sections as well. Since EIZO is a company engaged in business on a global scale, adding its Chinese production site to the scope of its environmental management system in fiscal 2012 was respectable; however, the company should not limit disclosure of its environmental impact within the parameters of ISO 14001. CSR procurement is another area where improvements could be made. Today CSR requires corporate groups to exercise responsibility over the entire range of their influence, extending beyond their own boundaries as corporate entities and encompassing the entire supply chain. Executing procurement with due consideration for human rights, diversity and the environment is one course of corporate action for addressing social issues. In addition, I would like to see EIZO move ahead from the green procurement it has practiced over the years and expand into CSR procurement. Stakeholder engagement is a vital aspect of CSR. I realize that EIZO takes into account the expressed interests of various stakeholders as it develops its business on a daily basis, but it could also create more opportunities for obtaining feedback on the overall perception of its CSR efforts. I suggest that the company begins doing this by convening a dialogue involving EIZO employees in Japan and overseas, who represent an important stakeholder constituency. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2013 32
