Sustainability report 2012 01 About Alliance arkitekter 02 About Global Compact 03 The Principles 04 Statement of Continued Support 05 Achievements in the report period 06 Living the principles 07 Sustainable design in planning 08 Our Goals for 2013/2014 The scope of our work spans from case studies and In the spring of 2007, as the first architectural office area planning to the development and completion in Norway, we became members of the UN’s Global of various building projects. Our projects range Compact, where members commit themselves 01 from detailing a 50 m² boat house to developing to aligning their operations with ten principles About 220 000 m² area plans. We primarily work with new concerning environment, anti-corruption, human construction, but are also involved in renovation, rights and labour. restoring and extensions to existing structures. The Alliance arkitekter majority of our commissions consist of residential and commercial developments. Our stated vision: We make Our studio is organized as a non-hierarchical/ horizontal structure and we continuously seek ARCHITECTURE Alliance arkitekter AS is a Norwegian architectural to collaborate with groups and individuals from FOR A BETTER WORLD other disciplines. We believe that this collaboration studio established in June 2005, with headquarters will contribute to a positive synergy effect as well in Oslo and a local branch in Stavanger. The studio as add positive and diverse energy to the work Our involvement so far is mainly concerned with processes, resulting in creative methods and environmental sustainability and labour standards. collaborates with various offices and disciplines, and original results. We carefully as assemble teams Furthermore, we promote the role of architecture we frequently participate in architectural competitions. that possess the necessary experience requested as a trigger in encouraging the public to participate in combination with innovative strategies. This on environmental and social issues. As architects represents the energy and an attitude that we aspire to encourage the discourse on our inspire us in our daily work. We also have a set of current and future urban development, where the values that we strive to implement in all we do: interests of private developers may diverge from CURIOUS, RESPONSIBLE and CHALLENGING. the needs of the society. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy labour and the United Nations. 02 initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies This ever-increasing understanding is reflected About with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment in the Global Compact’s rapid growth. With over 8700 corporate participants and other Global compact and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, stakeholders from over 130 countries, it is as a primary driver of globalization, can help the largest voluntary corporate responsibility ensure that markets, commerce, technology initiative in the world. and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. Endorsed by chief executives, the Global Compact is a practical framework for the As social, political and economic challenges development, implementation, and disclosure (and opportunities) — whether occurring at of sustainability policies and practices, home or in other regions — affect business offering participants a wide spectrum of work more than ever before, many companies streams, management tools and resources recognize the need to collaborate and — all designed to help advance sustainable partner with governments, civil society, business models and markets. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support Alliance arkitekter is committed to the protection and respect the protection of of international human rights within our sphere internationally proclaimed of influence. human rights; and Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities Principle 2: make sure that they are not according to Norwegian law, including implementing complicit in human rights abuses a health and safety management system. 03 The Principles Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Alliance arkitekter is committed to protecting freedom of association and the labour rights, including freedom of association, effective recognition of the right to abolition of forcedand child labour, and the collective bargaining; elimination of any type of discrimination. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Alliance arkitekter fulfils all its responsibilities forced and compulsory labour; according to Norwegian law. Beyond the legislative demand, Alliance arkitekter has appointed Principle 5: the effective abolition of child an employee representative as negotiator on labour; and employee demands to salaries and contractual issues and as neutral support to employees in case Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination of disputes between employees and management. in respect of employment and occupation. Alliance arkitekter sees great value in geographical and ethnic diversity among its work force. At the end of 2012, 35 % of our employees is of foreign origin and 73 % has worked or studied abroad. Furthermore, the office focuses on maintaining a good gender balance, currently 59 % female and 41 % male employees. aNTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against Alliance arkitekter is committed to work against corruption in all its forms, corruption in all its forms. “Due to the type and small size of our business, including extortion and bribery our biggest impact is via our clients, various connections to collaborators and the media. We are committed to raise awareness around The Global Compact and The ten principles, and proactively encourage them to take actions” eNVIRONMENT Founder & Crative Director Harald M. Gjøvaag Principle 7: Businesses should support a Alliance arkitekter is committed to the promotion precautionary approach to of greater environmental responsibility and environmental challenges precautionary approaches to environmental challenges in our sphere of influence. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We seek to involve users on an early stage of our projects. We design for a healthy living-, workingand social environment, and believe that this is a key for a sustainable society. We make an effort to reduce our resourceand energy use in our running of the office and the project development. We aim to achieve best practice for our projects through the use of international measurementand certification system, such as BREEAM the world’s leading design and assessment method for sustainable buildings. (http://www.breeam.org/) Architecture, as a part of the building industry, knowledge on sustainable design, offering a is the single largest source of greenhouse gas broader range of services to our clients. This has led emissions worldwide. Every time we design a to a more environmentally sound project portfolio. building, we project its energy consumption and its greenhouse gas footprint for the next 50-100 The past two years, we have implemented years. This emphasizes why the building industry different internal measures to improve our and architecture is so critical, and why our social impact. Furthermore, we have attended 04 membership in The Global Compact is a vital different network meetings and seminars and relevant tool for our practice. on sustainable design. We participate in the Statement of public debate concerning the architect’s social Since the office was launched in June 2005, we responsibility and role in society and strive for have been focusing on how to utilize the ten an innovative architecture. continued support principles within our sphere of influence and how to encourage other companies, partners and collaborators to act likewise. After five years We believe that the social and environmental components are crucial in the development of of Global Compact activities, it’s clear to us that long term profits and competitive advantages, even a small architectural office can make a and we plan to continue and further develop our considerable contribution in our common efforts commitment to the Global Compact principles. to improve the world. Additionally we continue to seek ways to develop During the last two years, our most successful our work and proficiency through workshops, strategy towards the principles has been through courses, a wide range of interdisciplinary changing our client’s attitude on environmental collaborations, study trips, literature as well as design. Parallel to this, we have increased our the constant exchange of ideas and experience. Oslo, April 2013 _________________ Harald Martin Gjøvaag Founder & Creative Director Alliance arkitekter Human Rights In-house their opinion. We also have office meetings every third week where important issues are stated and Goal discussed. Use Fairtrade products where this is an alternative. Result Anti-corruption in building prosjects As part of being certified with the Norwegian standard Miljøfyrtårn we set up guidelines for all Goal purchases. For example we changed from regular Continue to promote the principles by implementing coffee to Fairtrade organic coffee, Fairtrade and our ethical standard in contracts, in dialogue with organic food whenever this is an option, and our project groups and through our publications and social media activities. 05 office supplies made from recycled material. Achievements in Result Human rights in building projects We’ve published the sustainability report on our web page to show our vision and opinion on these the report period Goal Establish a partnership relation for a specific important principles. Our contracts in building project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO working projects are fair and according to Norwegian law, with human rights. and the staff is encouraged to update themselves on new standards and laws. Result In 2011 we set goals for the future, trying to translate the We have not yet achieved this goal. principles to quantifiable tasks in our daily work. Our Labour in-house goals and achievements are described in the following. Goal aNTI-CORRUPTION in-house Complete second round of competence mapping Goal of the office, including mapping employee learnContinue with a transparent economy and ing motivation. Make an individual competence company administration to all employees. development plan for all employees. Result Result Yes, we still involve all employees in decision Through the annual employee review competence making when it comes to economy and company mapping and a competence development plan is administration. In November 2012 both the made for each individual. Stavanger and the Oslo office met in Reykjavik Iceland along with members of the board, to discuss Goal the strategy and future of Alliance arkitekter. This Further develop opportunities for study leaves was an excellent opportunity for everyone to state and company assisted learning curricula. Result Goal Evironment In-house Goal Courses, training and education are done conUphold a good gender balance. Implement life circle analysis (LCA) in at least Goal tinuous due to the necessity for each member of two projects. By the end of 2012 we will be certified with the the staff and for what the office needs as a whole. Result Norwegian sustainability standard “Miljøfyrtårn”, When one of our co-workers has completed a In 2012 we hired nine new employees. The gender Result meaning we must meet environmental standards course, he/she is considered a resource on the balance is now 59 % women and 41 % men. We have not yet achieved this goal. set by the foundation and be certified by an matter and is obliged to share this knowledge independent consultant. Issues include: Working, through in any way possible. We also cooperate Goal Labour in building prosjects shopping, energy, transport, waste and emissions. with other architect offices and had two study trips Facilitate an open network workshop on the chalin 2012, to boost the competence and inspiration Goal lenges architects face in regards to sustainable for the projects. Further develop our waste recycling by making a Define at least one innovation factor in each new and environmentally friendly design and mandetailed recycling plan. project to promote learning. Implement innovation agement, and how we face the barriers together. Goal in our quality system. Extend employee welfare and benefit schemes Result Result beyond what is defined by Norwegian law, ex. Result We were successfully certified with the Norwegian We have not yet achieved this goal. pension and insurance. For every project a goal is set for environmental standard “Miljøfyrtårn” in December 2012. We benefits. This could be encouraging the builder have issued a report stating what we do today Goal Result to consider densification to decrease CO2, or considering working, shopping, energy, transport, Promote Breeam-certification to all projects. We have increased the amount of pension savings use environmental friendly materials, or even waste and emission. We also made an action plan Implement the scheme in 30% of new projects. for all employees from 2 % to 4 %. Also we signed create energy-positive buildings. for 2013, which will be controlled by an external a new health insurance that guarantees quick representative. Result treatment free of charge in case of any illness. In We offer BREEAM certification through our three addition we have travel insurance. educated assessors, in all contracts. We weren’t Environment in building projects able to implement BREEAM in any new projects Goal in 2012, but continued the certification process for Goal Hire a Managing Director to give the office and earlier projects such as 2020 Park. Specify materials with certificate of origin for products the staff better support in organizing and planning used for in-house projects and encourage our clients the day to day running of the office, including Goal and partners to use materials with certificate of origin developing better long term strategies that reduce for all main building components in projects. Urban planning and development is among our the need for extraordinary work hours. major assignments, and we aim to contribute Result to an environmentally sound and sustainable Result We always inspire our clients by recommending transformation of an area a level higher than In February 2012 we hired managing director materials with certificate of origin. One of the the individual project. We want to expand our Mirella Gullaksen. She is constantly working on staff is appointed responsible for updating and project for the Ministry of the Environment where business strategies in cooperation with the staff, organizing our library of materials at all times. we have developed a 3D-model for Drammen human resource in projects, and staff welfare. She also arranges presentations for sharing municipality and FutureBuilt. This is a tool for a knowledge about the various ranges of materials. more informed and publicly available platform to develop more sustainable cities. We aim at External communication modelling at least three more cities. Goal Publish at least three articles on architectural Result issues related to the principles, and in particular In 2012 we have done urban planning in four projects: on environmental sustainability, such as the architects role and responsibility in society for a Bjørvika west, Oslo more sustainable community. Sustainable urban planning for increased usage in cooperation with heritage authorities. Result We have been published in two articles Sandnes harbour concerning issues related to the principles. Area outside Stavanger where there’s a development potential for business and housing of 25 1. Interview at www.husbanken.no where 000 40 000 m2. architect Charlotte Helleland talk about our project Strømsø city development and Beitostølen, skiing resort densification, which take actions to reduce Expansion of Beitostølen related to that bigger traffic in the city and increase the amount of vision of an alpine village. green areas. Tou Park, Stavanger 2. Article in Farsunds avis, a local newspaper in In Tou Park, we have strived to cultivate existing the south of Norway, where we presented our local qualities and to customize the site to the idea about how to let the architecture play future setting. alongside environment and the nature in the idyllic landscape of Lista. 3. Article in Rogalands avis, a local newspaper in Stavanger, where architect Harald Martin Gjøvaag states his view on urbanisation of the city centre alongside listed buildings. It is now more than five years since Alliance minimum to the recommended time from the arkitekter took on board The Global Compact architects union. in our office. Since the start, we have had a rapid growth in both project volume and staff, Furthermore, we have developed a salary including the establishment of a department ladder for the first eight years of experience, in Stavanger. Following the G.C. principles, we securing that the salary development in the have put a lot of effort into developing both a early years of working remains fair, regardless 06 good work place and great projects. This has of for instance gender, parental leave or required both an on-going process of defining negotiation skills. Living the goals for ourselves and to develop a framework to implement this. We are currently doing another round of mapping staff skills and develop a new principles In terms of in-house processes, we have come a long way on labour issues, considering our office education program for staff to ensure that the office and the staff gets to use the skills at hand is only seven years old. Establishing an office and to develop new skills that the office needs. In takes a lot of effort before it is running smoothly, terms of sustainable design, we have committed particularly with the global financial unrest to ourselves to raise the bar, both on the types As architects we have a remarkable opportunity to complicate matters. The staff has invested a lot and number of projects that are given such an influence the building industry in areas considering of effort and commitment, including a longer approach and in terms of developing skills and work week and adjusting salary expectations to framework to manage this in the projects. design, methods and materials. We take advantage of the finances of the company. this opportunity as often as we can. The office has chosen BREEAM as the preferred Since the start up, the office has regularly used tool for managing sustainable issues in planning surveys to map the priorities of the staff for and building design, because the tool is an open the resources at hand. Now that we are slowly standard that incorporates local legislation. At settling in as a medium size company with the same time, we work with sustainable issues some years’ experience, we have started to put in projects without using the BREEAM standard more of the priorities of the staff into life. This as an active tool, depending on the scope of includes cutting the workweek from the legal the project and the client ambition. A major part of our projects consists of area have continued this work with the municipality 07 planning, master plans and feasibility studies of Drammen as our client. In the master plan that investigate and lay down framework for ideas assignment in Bromsjordet, we used Sustainable later building project development. Getting that framework right on the planning level Breeam as a tool in the concept development. In the master plan ideas assignment design in planning is a key to optimizing the buildings to 2020 park, we worked a lot with ecological come. The framework for most of this work principles in the green area structure and are municipal plans of varying detail and with social sustainable issues. We are hoping ambition, and we see a need for a broader to implement the new Breeam platforms for and more holistic approach to sustainable area planning in the next period, with the planning that also provides a tool for imminent release of the new tool ahead. managing the issues through the process. In the following is a short introduction to some Through the ideas competition entry Look of our planning projects and how we have to Strømsø, we developed an approach for implemented Global Compact principles in how to turn around large urban areas and we the work. Tu school a passive house star The school is shaped like a star, where the various arms meet in an open area of hall, canteen and library. One wing is lowered half a floor to reflect the sloping terrain, and provide the possibility for the stairs outside to flow through the building and form the amphitheatre on the inside. In that way good landscape adaption and contact between inside and outside is obtained. Tu School is planned for a total of 350 students, and will be a passive house school. Øra sustainable business park In the historical centre of Fredrikstad Norway, a master plan for a sustainable and innovative business park is in progress. Today the area attracts creative businesses through the Hydrogen factory an art studio and gallery. There is an enormous potential for expansion of both offices and housing, and also further development as a local centre for cultural activities. We focus on Øra as a sustainable and innovative park of industry and business, where creative and industrial enterprises can benefit from eachother. We are implementing the principles of BREEAM Communities in the planning process. tOU PARK low energy construction This transformation area is a central part of the urban development project, Urban Seafront in Stavanger. The area includes the Tou brewery which is worthy of preservation, and today the old brewery houses the cultural institution Tou Scene. Our planning has sought to cultivate existing site qualities and to customize the area to the future surroundings. The project is universally designed and planned as low-energy buildings. The buildings are designed with a compact shape, good isolation standard and deliberate insertion of glass. It is provided use of district heating in the project. Tou Park is well connected to public networks and transport with walkingand cycling possibilities that connects, within a short distance, to the centre of Stavanger. The environment profile of the project is developed in collaboration with Enova, the Norwegian State Housing Bank and the Future cities Stavanger. 2020 Park BREEAM excellent 2020 Park is the first building in the achievement of a quality and sustainable transformation of an area outside Stavanger Norway. The building process is almost done and we have an on-going evaluation for the BREEAM standard excellent certificate. Our goal is that this development plan inspires the municipality and others to see new opportunities for urban development with high environmental ambitions. HUMAN RIGHTS In building projects Define at least one innovation factor in each new In-house project to promote learning. Establish a partnership relation for a specific project with a Norwegian or foreign NGO working with human rights. ENVIRONMENT In-house In building projects Decrease the number of flights per year. We aim Recommend materials where human rights are to reduce our CO2 emissions by 5 %. considered in the producing process. 08 Make sure that most of our purchases are ecoGoals for ANTI-CORRUPTION In-house labelled products. Reduce the amount of waste by 5 %. the next report Continue with a transparent economy and company administration to all employees. Use less electricity in the office by taking actions such as: using the stairs instead of the elevator, In building projects adjusting lights and heat according to climate, Continue to promote the principles by impleand turn off computers at the end of the day. menting our ethical standard in contracts, in dialogue with our project groups and through In order to measure our progression and development In building projects our publications and social media activities. Through urban planning and local development of our work with the ten principles, we have set some we will make sure to contribute to a sustainable specific goals for the coming year. LABOUR transformation of our projects, to reach for that higher level of environmental change. In-house Improve office environment by adjusting lights, Always offer BREEAM certification in every have occupational therapist to evaluate each building project. working space, green plants, and small exercise breaks through the day. Reduce the amount of waste on construction site by challenging the suppliers and contractors when Have presentations every other week to inspire it comes to material consumption and recycling. and share knowledge between co-workers. Open a Skype-line between Oslo and Stavanger External communication office every weekday between 8:30 and 16:30, to make communication and sharing knowledge Publish at least three articles communicating the more accessible, and also reduce travelling. principles in connection with architecture. This Communication of progress has been discussed, reviewed and approved by our board and all our employees. This report is published on the United Nations Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org and our own website www.allark.no Photo and illustration credits Terje Skåre: page 1 and 36 Espen Gees: page 28-31 Tove Laluten: page 34-35 Alliance arkitekter: page 11, 19, 24-27 Kristian Augusts Gate 13, 0164 Oslo +47 22 36 40 44 Kvitsøygata 23, 4014 Stavanger +47 45 03 62 18
