SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Communication on Progress Global Compact Millenium Development Goals Principles for Responsible Management Education ISAE 1 Instituto Superior de Administração e Economia TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 President’s Message 5 Institutional Presentation 7 Commitments and Participations 7 Global Compact 8 Principles for Responsible Management Education 9 Millennium Development Goals 10 Declaration of Sustainable Practices 10 Letter of Commitment to Sustainable Development 11 Aliança Nosso Paraná Sustentável 11 Rio+20 Agenda 15 Profile 15 Overview 15 Management Approach 15 Description 16 Market 16 Executive Education 18 Awards and Recognitions 19 Leadership and Excellence in Management 19 Corporate Governance 19 Executive Committees 20 Culture of Excellence 21 Quality and Internal Audit 21 Relationship with Stakeholders 24 Strategies and Perspectives 24 Formulation of Strategies 25 Implementation of Strategies 26 Sustainability Management 2 27 Performance: Educational Aspect 27 Global Executive Education 29 Responsible Management Education 29 Perspectivaction Educational Model 30 MBA Curricula Change 30 Course Conclusion Works 31 Learning Workshops 31 Principles and Concepts Workshop 32 Global Business Administration 32 Researches and Publications 37 Performance: Social Aspect 37 Code of Ethics and Conduct 37 Ethical Orientation Council 38 Ozires Silva Chair in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation 41 Ozires Silva Award in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation 42 Uaná Volunteer Program in Management 44 PRME Brazil Network 45 Solidarity Campaigns 46 People Management 53 Performance: Environmental Aspect 53 Environmental Policy 53 Eco-Efficiency 53 Solid Waste 54 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 57 Performance: Economics 57 Financial Resources and Budget 58 Sustainability Events 58 Cycle of Lectures “Ponto e Contra Ponto” 58 Law Week 59 Participation in Events 3 President’s Message (GRI1.1;1.2) Dynamic and full of achievements, the year 2012 was marked by a great number of sustainabilityrelated initiatives. And specially by the meaning and future importance that these achievements represent within the strategy of the Higher Institute of Administration and Economics (ISAE), which has always had concepts such as corporate responsibility and ethics in its DNA. There were numerous efforts, initiatives and talents involved in the continuous search to engage all our publics towards a more ethical and transparent relationship – with focus on educating responsible leaders as our response to a more sustainable future. Among the main performance axes, I highlight the strengthening, integration and consolidation of the PRME Brazil Network, formed by 19 institutions that share the vision of a new role for the educational area. ISAE has concentrated efforts to consolidate the movement in Brazil by promoting the engagement of partner institutions, training programs to support the first stage of implementation of the principles, partnerships for scientific production in the area, and articulation for realizing events – such as the PRME World network reception during Rio+20. Another highlight is the advance in implementing the Global Compact and the PRME into the institute’s educational model Perspectivaction. By intensifying the training involving two key stakeholders in the process (faculty and staff), we have obtained an improvement in the interpretation of the principles, and also in understanding the institutional posture in respect to international organizations – such as the United Nations. This kind of work is essential to embed concepts and principles into all ISAE’s actions. These are some actions that represent a huge potential for developments and results on the consolidation of these two programs in Brazil in the coming years. Thus, the election of ISAE as a member of the Board of the Global Compact Brazilian Committee also expands the ability of the institute to develop actions and partnerships. Norman de Paula Arruda Filho President of ISAE 4 Institutional Presentation ISAE – Responsible Management Education One of the main objectives of the Higher Institute of Administration and Economics – ISAE – is to provide an innovative look on management models, forming globally responsible leaders who are mindful of issues such as corporate sustainability and ethics in relationships. A signatory of the UN Global Compact and Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), ISAE advances the education of professionals engaged with social, corporate and economic development, always noting policies and practices implemented by the greatest world organizations. This way, the Institute has collaborated with the growth of companies and professionals, as well as sensitized and assisted the local market by reinforcing sustainable politics. Academic institutions should take on a new role within the context of global sustainability, in which their main mission is to educate responsible leaders, capable to lead the transformations needed in the search of a better future for next generations. For all the work developed, ISAE is a reference in the area of responsible management education, inspiring other business schools, companies and society as a whole. Jonas Haertle Head of PRME – United Nations Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) – The Tradition of an Institution that is a Reference in Latin America Founded in 1944, Getulio Vargas Foundation is one of the largest academic centers in Brazil focusing on Social and Economic Sciences. Founded in 1944, it is a center of excellence in research and intellectual production. ISAE offers lato sensu courses certified by FGV, representing the foundation in Paraná. (GRI 2.2) 5 Mission (GRI 4.8) To contribute to sustainable development by promoting personal, corporate and social evolution through innovating, generating, encouraging and disseminating knowledge on management. Vision (GRI 4.8) Be the best partner in the sustainable development of solutions and in the generation of results. Values (GRI 4.8) Ethical relationship Team spirit Collaboration, co-responsibility and synergy Clear and effective communication Commitment to sustainable results Guiding Principles The principles that guide ISAE/FGV’s actions are Sustainability, Ethics, Governance, Leadership, Entrepreneurship and Innovation. They are at the core of the organizational intelligence, forming the very basis for all strategies used in executing different moves of the institute. They are also included in all training programs for employees of all levels. 6 Commitments and Participations (GRI 4.12) Global Compact ISAE has been a UN Global Compact signatory since 2001. The Global Compact is an initiative developed by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan that aims at mobilizing the international business community to adopt, in their business practices, internationally accepted values in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, which are reflected in 10 principles. Global Compact Principles Human Rights 1) RESPECT and support internationally recognized human rights in your area of influence 2) ENSURE that your company does not participate in any way in the violation of human rights Labor 3) SUPPORT freedom of association and recognize to open collective bargaining 4) ELIMINATE all forms of forced or compulsory labor 5) ERRADICATE all forms of child labor in your productive chain 6) STIMULATE all practices that eliminate all form of discrimination at the workplace Environment 7) ASSUME a responsible, preventive and proactive posture towards environmental challenges 8) DEVELOP initiatives and practices to promote and divulge socioenvironmental responsibility 9) PROMOTE the development and dissemination of environmentally responsible technologies Anti-Corruption 10) FIGHT corruption in all of its forms, including extortion and bribery 1st Meeting of the Global Compact Brazilian Committee (CBPG) Held in April 2012 at the ISAE headquarters, the CBPG Southern Region meeting brought together all Global Compact signatories in the State of Paraná. It presented the works that have been scheduled by the committee to strengthen the Brazilian Global Compact Network. Among participants were the Committee’s members and the Executive Secretary Yolanda Chao, and representatives of various institutions, such as Instituto GRPCom, Petrobras, Braskem, FAE, UniBrasil. 7 Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) The Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) arose from a UN Global Compact initiative to encourage higher education institutions to act responsibly and in accordance with a set of values internationally accepted as fundamental to achieving sustainability. ISAE participated in the task force to create these guidelines in 2006. Since then, the institution has worked on best practices to implement the principles, involving its sphere of influence and working on shifts. Principle 1. PURPOSE – We will develop the capabilities of students to be future generators of sustainable value for business and society at large and to work for an inclusive and sustainable global economy. Principle 2. VALUES – We will incorporate into our academic activities and curricula the values of global social responsibility as portrayed in international initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact. Principle 3. METHOD – We will create educational frameworks, materials, processes and environments that enable effective learning experiences for responsible leadership. Principle 4. RESEARCH – We will engage in conceptual and empirical research that advances our understanding about the role, dynamics, and impact of corporations in the creation of sustainable social, environmental and economic value. Principle 5. PARTNERSHIP – We will interact with managers of business corporations to extend our knowledge of their challenges in meeting social and environmental responsibilities and to explore jointly effective approaches to meeting these challenges. Principle 6. DIALOGUE – We will facilitate and support dialog and debate among educators, students, business, government, consumers, media, civil society organizations and other interested groups and stakeholders on critical issues related to global social responsibility and sustainability. 8 Millennium Development Goals In 2000, 189 UN-member countries, including Brazil, gathered at the Millennium Summit, committed themselves to building a more peaceful, prosperous and just. To do so, eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have been defined, which are part of the ISAE business strategies for the development of a more just, inclusive and equitable society. Eight Ways to Change the World 1. Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger 2. Achieve universal primary education 3. Promote gender equality and empower women 4. Reduce child mortality rates 5. Improve maternal health 6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases 7. Ensure environmental sustainability 8. Develop a global partnership for development 9 Declaration of Sustainable Practices With focus on the UN Conference on Sustainable Development – Rio+20, leaders of the international academic community were invited to sign a declaration of sustainable practices for higher education institutions. The document stipulates the commitment with several acting axes – teaching sustainable development concepts, encouraging research in the area, implementing ecoefficiency concepts in the campus structure, supporting sustainability efforts in the communities in which they are inserted, and committing to results and actions by means of international structures. Letter of Commitment to Sustainable Development How can we make companies include ethical standards in their relationships? How can we make people consume responsibly? How can we make governments invest significantly in environmental and social policies? In response to such demands, the Global Compact Brazilian Network asked signatories to sign a declaration of sustainable practices. The document foresees the commitment to bring innovative solutions that represent real efficiency advances in the use of natural resources (water and energy), reducing carbon emissions, the promotion of human rights and social inclusion. ISAE is one of the signatory institutions. ISAE’s president Norman Arruda signed and delivered the declaration to the Head of PRME, Jonas Haertle – Rio de Janeiro, June 2012 10 Aliança Nosso Paraná Sustentável In 2012, ISAE signed the adhesion letter of the UN Global Compact Cities Programme and joined the Our Sustainable Paraná Alliance. The program is promotes the adhesion of cities to the ten Global Compact principles, having vital importance to include principles in the daily governance and administration of cities. Rio+20 Agenda ISAE launched a preparatory agenda for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. The intention was to inform the institution’s stakeholders about the importance of the subject “Education in Your Calendar”. The agenda was released in 2011 and promoted events, trainings and activities involving students, professors, partners and other publics that are impacted by the institute’s activities. Carbon Market Workshop and Rio+20 In March 2012, representatives of companies such as Volvo, Renault, Bosch, CNH, Banco do Brasil, Tecpar and Boticário participated in the free workshop “Carbon Market and Rio+20”. The course was offered by ISAE and addressed the practice of carbon market, its main concepts, trends and challenges. It also included climate change, the energy sector in Brazil, international agreements and project models to obtain carbon credits. Short TERM Courses – Global Business Administration ISAE also offered free courses in the area of sustainability to ITS RELATIONSHIP PUBLIC. The program had the following courses: Environmental License (8 hours); Environmental Impact Studies and Environmental Impact Report (EIA/RIMA) (4 hours); Sustainability: Principles and Guidelines, Standards and Certifications (8 hours). 11 Dialogues for Rio+20 – Press Seminar Before Rio+20, ISAE also held a seminar for the national press, promoting better understanding of the subjects proposed for discussion in the Conference. Sustainability, the Brazilian leadership and the main obstacles to the development of a new economy were subjects discussed at the meeting. ISAE’s president Norman Arruda, the coordinator of FGV’s Law and Environment Program, Rômulo Sampaio, and Itaipu Binacional’s superintendent of renewable energy, Cicero Bley attended the debate. ISAE and Itaipu Launch “Cultivando Água Boa” Case Study ISAE’s case study on Itaipu Binacional’s program “Cultivando Água Boa” (CAB – Cultivating Good Water) was launched on the last day of Rio+20 Conference. The publication presents a critical approach of a business school on the main sustainability program of the world’s largest hydroelectric dam. The survey was conducted from a detailed search for information, which included visits to the region, interviews with managers and IMPACTED population, research in printed media, institutional reports, internet, and others. According to ISAE’s president Norman Arruda, the main factors that contribute to the program’s success are: a management model highly focused on leadership; inclusion in the company’s strategic planning; the ability to dialogue with the main stakeholders – such as Government and society; applicability in other situations; and the ability to inspire public policies that contribute to its sustainability. “With the creation of CAB, the city halls of 29 municipalities began to incorporate good environmental and social practices in their planning, transcending actions of the program to the public area. Moreover, education is a key factor – it ensures that future generations will give continuity to the process. “Cultivando Água Boa” case study was developed by Norman Arruda, Rui Sedor, Angela Fink and Cleusa Asanome. 12 Institutional Participation (GRI 4.13) CLADEA ISAE/FGV is a member of CLADEA – Latin American Council of Business Schools, an organization that brings the most important business schools in the world together. The international organization offers a system of cooperation at global level and maintains links with leading academic institutions. CLADEA has over 140 affiliate colleges in Latin America, North America, Europe and Oceania. All of them are higher education institutions dedicated to education and research in the field of public and private administration. EFMD ISAE/FGV became a member of EFMD – European Foundation for Management Development, a global organization dedicated to the continuous development of management, which also directs certification programs such as CEL (Technology Enhanced Learning), EPAS-EFMD Programme Accreditation System, EQUIS (the world’s leading international accreditation for business schools) and CLIP (Corporate Learning Improvement Process). EFMD has over 760 members from 80 countries, playing an important role in the development of an international approach for education management. It a source of information, network research and debate on innovation and best practices. President of ISAE Elected to the Board of the Brazilian Global Compact Network The Committee of the Brazilian Global Compact Network defined the Board that will lead the organization during the biennium 2013–2014. Formed by five companies, this Board has the mission to raise awareness for Brazilian organizations to adopt management models that are committed to the UN Global Compact principles. 13 ISAE, through its managers, is member of the following initiatives: • Editorial Board of “Gestão” Magazine – ISCTE/INDEG • Paraná Coucil of Corporate Citizenship (CPCE) • Higher Board at Paraná Commercial Association (ACP) • Coordinadion of the Education Commission of the Global Compact Brazilian Committee • Strategic Council at the Institute Christiano Becker: Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Brasília (DF) • Council and Board of Directors at Paraná Network of Incubators and Technology Parks • Advisory Council of the Free University of Commerce, Curitiba • Paraná State Thematic Chamber of Commerce and Technology Promotion – 2014 World Cup • Curitiba City Hall’s Climate Change Forum Project Management Institute ISAE is a member of the Project Management Institute (PMI) program “Registered Education Provider” (REP). Following the PMI methodology – a worldwide standard for all large corporations – the institution is among the qualified providers of education in Project Management, 14 Profile ISAE – Responsible Management Education Founded in 1996, the Higher Institute of Administration and Economics (ISAE) is an organization licensed by Fundação Getulio Vargas that seeks, in an innovative and cross sector WAY, to raise awareness and help the market with regard to responsible practices. The institution offers MBA, graduation, short and medium term courses and distance education. Moreover, it has an exclusive area dedicated to companies. The area of Corporate Solutions conducts the diagnosis of corporate environment and elaborates solutions according to the reality of the company. Each program is based on group profile and characteristics of the organization. In 2012, nearly three thousand students took courses offered by ISAE. In its history, the institute has formed more than 400 MBA classes and 18 thousand executives. Overview ISAE is located in central Curitiba, with a branch in Londrina and poles in the cities of Ponta Grossa and Guarapuava. The workforce is composed of 102 professionals, including staff (CLT), trainees, young learners and service providers. Its gross annual turnover is around R$ 27 million (US$ 13 million) and about 7,500 targeted customers. (GRI 2.3) Management Approach Civil Society Organization under private law, nonprofit, with a technical, scientific, educational, cultural and philanthropic approach. ISAE, through its functions, seeks to achieve the education of high-level management leaders, providing performance improvement for organizations in Paraná State, thus contributing to the state’s sustainable development. Business Description ISAE’s processes of insertion and action have been developed since February 1996, in accordance with the model of decentralized management with respect to the Getulio Vargas Foundation, through the functions provided for in statute – education, research and consulting, oriented by its actions’ guiding principles. 15 Teaching is done through the provision of different lato sensu post-graduation courses (including MBAs), opened to the general public, and proposal of master’s degree (stricto sensu) with a foreign institutional partnership. Other modes are short-term in-company and extension courses with a continuing education approach. They are called GBAs (Global Business Administration) and advance the student’s choice for “trails” of knowledge, with subjects that permeate the PRME principles and the institute’s guiding concepts – Innovation, Entrepreneurship, Ethics, Sustainability, Governance and Leadership. Consulting is advanced by institutional articulation and capillarity generated by the quantity and quality of courses, promoting ISAE as a provider of corporate solutions in management, integrated with the community in Paraná. Through research – a complementary function integrated to education and the provision of services – the institution assumes knowledge production from specific objects of study focused on areas of priority interest. Market ISAE operates in the State of Paraná. Performance in Curitiba represents 57%, in Londrina 25%, and in the interior (São Mateus do Sul, Irati, Ponta Grossa and Guarapuava) 3%. In-company courses represent 15%. (GRI 2.7) Major clients and target customers – The main customers are students (82% of representativeness) and companies (18% of representativeness) – 41% study MBA, 3% post-graduation, 32% short and medium-term courses, and 25% in-company courses. (GRI 2.7) Executive Education The market seeks professionals with analytical capacity for decision-making and implementation, capable of leading people and organizations in a sustainable way. In this context, continuing education is a necessity for the contemporary executive. ISAE offers a schedule of short, medium and long-term courses to academically follow the development of several professional profiles. (GRI 2.2) 1. Lato Sensu Post-Graduation Post-Graduation Course in Business Administration With cutting edge technology, through satellite transmission, groups and discussions mediated by local professors, graduate professionals get in touch with great professors from the FGV network. Ideal for adding more value to curriculum, the post-graduation course in Business Administration provides contact with the best management practices in an effective and interactive way. 16 MBA – Master in Business Administration Designed for professionals who need to advance in the various fields of management, the MBA is a program in which practices (such as case studies, experiences, seminars for application of contents) are used to combine academic knowledge with practice. In specialization level, the program offers a broad and systemic vision of the business. 2. GBA-Global Business Administration (short and medium-term) GBA is a dynamic course that uses management tools for immediate implementation, so that the results of classes and practices are readily noticed at work. It provides improvement in specific topics for professionals of various hierarchical levels, regardless of graduation. 3. International Module ISAE’s International programs give the student the opportunity to learn how business is thought and done in other countries, by being in touch with professors and students from renowned institutions. Thus, the reverse also occurs. Through alliances with other business schools, ISAE hosts foreign executives – what establishes a movement of specialized people and dynamic information. After performing a quick and dynamic module in some of the best business schools in the world and completing the MBA, the student has the possibility of acquiring the International MBA certification. 4. Online Courses Upgrading courses Designed for those interested in reviewing and improving professional activities, as well as interacting with other professionals, these practical courses can be readily applied in day-to-day work. Higher Courses in Technology Distance courses that focus on professionals seeking new tools and management techniques. Management Skills Courses These courses promote the development of strategic management skills with emphasis on specific areas of knowledge. Recommended for graduate professionals. Specialization and MBA Courses Designed for those wishing to upgrade their professional career with courses certified by FGV Schools and recognized by the Brazilian Ministry of Education (MEC). Postgraduate Course in Renewable Energy with Emphasis on Biogas Held in 2011 and 2012, nearly 30 professionals from cooperatives in Paraná were enrolled in this course, which is a partnership between Sistema Ocepar, ISAE/FGV and Itaipu Binacional. The course lasted 20 months, totaling 446 hours. 17 Awards and Recognitions Paraná Award in Quality Management (PPrQG) For the second consecutive year, ISAE/FGV won the Prêmio Paranaense de Qualidade em Gestão (PPrQG – Paraná Award in Quality Management) – this year in category II (500 points), Gold Trophy. The award consists of a cycle that aims to recognize public and private organizations following management practices stated in the Modelo de Excelência em Gestão ® (MEG – Management Excellence Model) from Fundação Nacional da Qualidade (FNQ – Brazilian Quality Foundation), which stimulate innovation, productivity and quality in the workplace. In November 2011, the institution received a plaque of recognition for the “Commitment to Excellence”. Marketing Top In October, the winners of Marketing Top 2012 were announced by Associação dos Dirigentes de Vendas e Marketing do Brasil (ADVB-PR – Brazilian Sales and Marketing Managers Association). ISAE won the category Education and Teaching. The award aims to recognize the main marketing and sale works developed in Paraná. On November 22, the awards party was held at Teatro Positivo, in Curitiba, which revealed the winner of the Grand Prix – award given to the case that had the highest rating among the winners of all categories. (GRI 2.10) ISAE Post-Graduation among FGV’s best practices ISAE won the Best Practice Awards from FGV’s PÓS ADM 2012 in the category “Infrastructure and Student Support”, with the project Gestor de Turma (Group Manager). 18 Leadership and Excellence in Management Corporate Governance ISAE’s organization is integrated by the following powers: General Assembly, Administration Council, Fiscal Council and Board of Directors. Meetings of the Administration and Fiscal boards are held once a semester, and the General Assembly meeting is held once a year. The Board of Directors holds weekly meetings to monitor results and strategic settings. At the end of each calendar year (which comprises the period from January 1st to December 31st), the Board of Directors sends the financial report on revenue and expenditure for the Fiscal Board. Then, it is analyzed by the Administration Board and approved by the General Assembly. Direction’s acts are controlled through the Statute, Financial Report and minutes from meetings of the Assembly, Councils and Board of Directors. With respect to mechanisms by which staff can provide recommendations or guidelines to the Board of Directors, there are no channels for this purpose. As a first step, in 2012 the Executive Committees were implemented. This organizational arrangement represents an initiative that – besides encouraging the participation of employees in the institute’s strategy – extends the possibilities of communication between internal public and Board of Directors. (GRI 4.1) (GRI 4.2) (GRI 4.3) (GRI 4.4) Executive Committees ISAE’s new organizational model aims to consolidate actions from the strategic planning with focus on the process of excellence in management, innovation and organizational growth. The strategies arising from committees are presented, discussed and validated at the Reunião Mensal de Avaliação de Resultados (REMAR – Monthly Meeting for the Evaluation of Results), which is attended by members of the committees, managers and the Board of Directors. (GRI 2.9) 19 Strategic Committees Objectives Innovation Committee To formulate innovation strategies with focus on strengthening the product portfolio and increasing scale. Develop initiatives and implement policies, strategies and actions to promote innovation within ISAE's organization framework and its consolidation as an educational institution of excellence. Management Excellence To identify and implement best practices in management. Committee To stimulate the exchange of knowledge between areas, covering the fundamentals and criteria in the Management Excellence Model (MEG). Risks Committee To map and deploy strategies for minimizing negative risks and to make positive risks (opportunities) viable. Ensure the setting of mechanisms and controls related to risk management, coherence of policies with strategic guidelines and business risk profile. Potential Business Committee To identify, develop and execute strategic actions focused on business growth, expanding the operation scale and the consolidation of ISAE as a nationally recognized education institution. Culture of Excellence For successful strategies, employees are mobilized through the ISAE Challenge. It is a participatory tool of corporate knowledge management that promotes organizational learning and skills training, based on a playful and experiential methodology. In 2012, ISAE Challenge’s theme was Modelo de Excelência em Gestão da Fundação Nacional da Qualidade (Management Excellence Model from the Brazilian Quality Foundation). The activities carried out in 2012 focused on preparing the internal public for the achievement of the National Quality Award – one of ISAE’s strategic projects for 2013. Thus, the theme encouraged employees to review internal processes and seek opportunities for improvement based on the criteria from the Brazilian Quality Foundation. In 2012, the Board of Directors began to arrange and attend bimonthly meetings with professors. The purpose is to align actions and analyze opportunities for improvement regarding quality of education and satisfaction of students and teachers. In order to align expectations, the Student Guidance is performed before enrollment. The person has an individual interview and is provided information about opportunities, attributes and advantages of the chosen course, seeking to identify the student’s real motivation and commitment to learning. 20 Student Reception informs about academic rules and commitments and also aims to raise new students’ awareness about the institution’s image, which reflects their position as a student and professional. Student Satisfaction Survey has been done since 2007, and Focal Groups since 2008. These instruments assess student satisfaction and identify opportunities for improvement. In regard to Relationship with Companies, the area of corporate solutions conducts surveys on customer expectations and analyzes the satisfaction results for in-company courses. In 2012, the area began to promote meetings with corporate clients in order to strengthen relationships and expand opportunities for debate on organizational best practices. Quality and Internal Audit To ensure the quality of the management processes and the development of a culture committed to excellence, ISAE has a set of work procedures and instructions that promote organization, standardization and performance measurement. Along with the area of Quality Management, the procedures are subject to periodic analysis by the impacted sectors and, in a process of continuous improvement, are reviewed and updated. Internal Audits take place every six months in order to evaluate the implementation and maintenance of the established procedures. Thus, ISAE’s employees are encouraged to suggest improvements for the Quality Management System through an established procedure and the Bank of ideas. Besides periodic benchmarking, the commitment to process quality is also linked to ISAE’s representativeness in bodies such as the Management Excellence Committee (CBEG) and the Process Management Community Of Practices (COP). Relationship with Stakeholders In 2012, ISAE areas were mobilized by the Responsibility and Sustainability Center to identify stakeholders. The following publics were determined: employees, students, professors, suppliers, third sector organizations, educational institutions, press, FGV and corporate clients. The work consisted in identifying the institute’s main publics in order to improve corporate relationship actions. In this first moment there was not an analysis to identify which would be the priority publics for ISAE’s sutainability. The objective is to determine different degrees of relevance and impact to the business in 2013. (GRI 4.14) (GRI 4.15) 21 Engagement: 1st Multi-Stakeholder Panel In July 2012, ISAE held the 1st Multi-Stakeholder Panel. The event, which gathered the institute’s main stakeholders, aimed to identify stakeholders’ opinions on the challenges to educating globally responsible leaders. Students, graduates, educational institutions, professors, employees, partners, suppliers and representatives of the third sector participated in the panel. Besides being a practice aligned with the PRME, the event was related to the principles and guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It also guided participants towards a vision of ISAE’s future. The panel was conducted by a consulting group specializing in the methodology of appreciative inquiry, with professionals certified by the Case Western Reserve University (USA). “With this methodology, participants were able to draw an optimistic view on the future of the institution and thus identify the path to achieving these goals”, said Gislane Syllos, from SXS Consulting, the company in charge of the event. The event was held at ISAE’s headquarters in Curitiba and gathered 29 people representing the various publics of the Institute. (GRI 3.5) (GRI 4.16) Panelists’ Most Cited Priority Issues – ISAE’s Sustainability Responsible Education Ethics Investment in Social Projects Relationship with the Community Sustainability Education for Employees Global Executive Education (International Actions) Leadership and Entrepreneurship Communication with Stakeholders Results of Social Actions Transparency The process for defining the content of this report (relevance, priority issues and identification of relevant stakeholders) was developed with the engagement promoted by the Multi-Stakeholder Panel. (GRI 3.5) 22 Communication Channels With focus on ethical and transparent relationship with all stakeholders, ISAE has the following communication channels for dialog: Channel Description Website gathers institutional and commercial information, news, articles, ISAE Website interviews and experiences. ISAE has pages on the following social networks: Twitter, Facebook, Linked In, Social Networs FourSquare and YouTube. They are used for promotion and interaction with stakeholders. Internal newsletter is emailed to all employees and contains relevant ISAE Weekly Newsletter information to be communicated to the internal public. It gathers the student's whole academic life, offering access to grades, exam Student's Area dates, Perspectivaction activities and news. Through interviews, ISAE TV features topics of management, communication, business, economics and social responsibility. The schedule is segmented ISAE TV and updated weekly. Program subjects are defined based on relevant current themes and suggestions. Class Relationship Managers are the bridge between students and ISAE. They Class Relationship are always ready to meet students and send their requests to the respective Managers areas. They are also responsible for sending ISAE's requests to students. ISAE has two press officers who promote the institution's events and courses Press in the local and national press. They are also responsible for answering requests from journalists. This online bimonthly publication is addressed to all stakeholders and submitted to more than 100 thousand contacts. The magazine covers various Perspectiva Magazine topics related to management, including cases from various companies. It offers creative content, with business-oriented editorial approach, on a dynamic layout – everything to ensure a stimulating reading. Investing in sustainable management has become an increasingly common practice. Companies and employees have tried to meet the new demands Ozires Silva Sustainable from society and the world. Seeking to highlight these initiatives, ISAE Entrepreneurship Award promotes the Ozires Silva Sustainable Entrepreneurship Award, which recognizes projects that contribute to the development of Brazilian society in the areas of entrepreneurship and sustainability. ISAE promotes a series of lectures to discuss current issues and disseminate Lectures knowledge on management practices. Projects, management, sales and leadership are subjects of lectures for stakeholders. The Meeting With event debates market trends with ISAE students and Meeting With prospects. The entrance is a kilo of non-perishable food, which is donated to charitable associations. 23 Strategies and Prospects Strategy Formulation ISAE’s strategies are defined annually (in the last trimester) by the Board of Directors and strategic managers, along with the area of Business Intelligence (BI), in the process of designing the strategic planning. The work has guidelines focused on initiatives, solutions, attitudes and education, allowing intercession and transversality with advanced, innovative, sustainable and entrepreneurial postures. These guidelines are rooted in ISAE’s acrostic, which was built internally with managers: Innovative Initiatives Sustainable Solutions Advanced Attitudes Entrepreneurial Education Figure 02 – Strategic Planning Guidelines The analysis of the internal and external environment is part of the strategic planning, which is conducted through SWOT analysis on market opportunities and threats. 24 Strategy Implementation ISAE also uses the Balanced Scorecard as a tool for guiding and monitoring the strategy, with focus on the pillars: Learning and Growth, Processes, Customers and Market, Finance. Strategy Pillars Learning and Growth: Valuing and recognizing talent, seeking learning and growth environments, improve talent. Processes: Excellence in relationship, effectiveness in product innovation and development, excellence in products and services. Customers and Market: Ensuring customer satisfaction, increasing the value of customers, increasing customer base, strengthening the brand. Sustainable Results: Improving revenue, streamlining costs and achieving sustainable results. Indicators, goals and action plans are defined by the Board of Directors and managers for short, medium and long-term objectives. To set indicators, primary and support processes are considered. The goals are established using records of results from the previous cycle and market references, which are obtained through benchmarking, aligned to the company’s growth strategies and objectives. The process of goal setting has been refined each year, with greater involvement of managers and staff at the moment of definition, as well as during the entire cycle. The team assesses indicators from previous years to set goals. Using the Strategic Map dashboard, which contains all indicators, the goals are defined by studying the relation between actions and results and also the impact on the organization. External influences are also considered in this process, by assessing market research, reports from local and Brazilian institutions, result reports from companies that excel in management practices, visits and benchmarking of best practices. 25 Sustainability Management ISAE’s Responsibility and Sustainability Center promotes ethical relationships with stakeholders. The concept of responsibility and sustainability is an organizational commitment that considers the impact of decisions and activities on society and the environment. In this context, the center articulates a set of institutional and managerial arrangements to stimulate values and attitudes in favor of a global, inclusive and sustainable economy. Strategies • Inserting processes, policies, instruments and indicators that are consistent with the society’s sustainable development, quality of life and well-being • Considering stakeholders’ interests and expectations in business practices • Ensuring compliance with legal requirements and applicable regulations • Promoting the integration of core principles, guidelines and values that are internationally accepted in the whole institution ISAE acts following the three sustainability links: Social, Environmental and Economic. In this sense, the institute will keep on encouraging the development and dissemination of products and services that combine financial returns and environmental solutions. 26 Performance: Education Global Management Education Global Compact 1 The Center of International Affairs promotes and Millennium Goals 8 coordinates integrated actions developed by ISAE/FGV in partnership with other national international institutions in PRME 1, 4, 5, 6 Brazil and abroad since 2000. Students and partners are able to get in contact with well‐known international institutions and professionals, which enables them to develop a multicultural education. This broader perspective contributes to the formation of leaders more prepared to the global challenges of sustainable development. Doing Business in Brazil X – A Brazilian Cross-Cultural Program Doing Business in Brazil is a seven-month Exchange program. The program is divided into two parts. First, students have full-time Portuguese language classes. Then, they have classes, seminars and technical visits on various topics related to the Brazilian corporate world. That’s when interactions between foreign and Brazilian students occur more intensely. These students come to learn the Brazilian way of doing business. In January 2012, in its 10th edition, the program received students from one of the leading business schools in the United States: the Moore School of Business (University of South Carolina). They had Portuguese lessons, lectures and internships and participated in bilingual learning workshops, which addressed the following themes: Global Climate Change, Communicating Organizations about Climate Change, and “PRME and ISAE Guiding Principles”. Students also attended classes from the MBA in Corporate Strategic Management course. For more information visit: http://doingbusinessinbrazil.blogspot.com 27 International Program ISAE/FGV took 19 Brazilian executives to take a course on Project Management at George Washington University (GWU), which is acknowledged as the best university in the United States in the area of Project Management. GWU is a PRME signatory school. The 4th edition of the International Module on Project Management – held in partnership by FGV and George Washington University – happened from August 7 to 16, with the participation of people from all over Brazil. The module aims to provide participants with what is most advanced in Project Management. It offers an international experience with solid academic content in the area, besides networking with professionals from all over Brazil and the world. International Partners 28 Responsible Management Education Global Compact 1–10 Millennium Goals 7, 8 PRME 1–6 Perspectivaction Educational Model Perpectivaction is a hybrid learning model created by ISAE/FGV in 2003 that has been developed in educational programs in the institution. This educational model offers the possibility for students to broaden their framework of references with activities throughout the MBA course. In each proposed activity the student goes through the process of experimentation, from which it is possible to move forward by developing new skills, changing attitudes and extending or discovering new possibilities. All Perpectivaction activities are designed to meet the Global Compact principles and the PRME. The model has 16 programs that advance several techniques and strategies to improve personal and professional skills, in order to form citizens concerned with the society’s sustainable development. It is recognized for the capacity to connect theory and practice, and also for the contribution to developing a systemic vision of the corporate environment. 29 MBA Curricula Change Besides implementing transversality through its guiding principles (ethics, sustainability, leadership, governance, innovation and entrepreneurship), ISAE has included subjects related to leadership with responsibility and corporative sustainability in all MBA programs. These courses are organized according to the following cognitive axes: • Specific axis: Innovation, Corporate Governance, Ethics, Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development • Strategic axis: Leadership, People Management and Entrepreneurship • Experimentation Axis: PerspectivAction System activities. Course Conclusion Works ISAE/FGV encourages students to produce articles and course conclusion works involving the issue of responsible management education, focusing on sustainability and corporate social responsibility. Table 1 Production of course conclusion works in ISAE/FGV MBA courses (2009-2011) on topics related to sustainability and global responsibility Presented Works Subject 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 TOTAL Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 17 13 20 27 30 107 Corporate Governance 2 6 8 10 26 Social Policies 2 2 3 4 11 source: ISAE 30 Learning Workshops The following workshops on subjects related to Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility were offered by Perspectivaction in 2012: Subject Length Groups Students Sustainability 4h 3 39 Law and Economics 8h 1 13 Elaborating Case Studies 8h 1 15 Consumer Behavior 8h 1 16 Communication with Different Publics 8h 4 60 Creating your LinkedIn Profile and Attracting Followers 8h 2 43 Ethical Dilemmas 4h 2 28 Entrepreneurship 4h 3 73 Elaborating a Business Plan 8h 1 20 Innovation Management 4h 2 40 Professional Image 8h 4 74 Leadership 4h 3 71 Financial Mathematics 8h 3 90 Generation Mix Breaking Business Paradigms 4h 3 40 Curriculum Presentation techniques 8h 3 58 Personal Development Plan 8h 6 201 Sustainable Business Games 8h 1 15 Total 43 896 Principles and Concepts Workshop The workshop presents some of the major UN initiatives, with emphasis on the Principles for Responsible Managent Education (PRME) and ISAE/FGV’s Guiding Principles. It contextualizes the importance of these skills in the education of MBA students, preparing them for a real role of globally responsible leaders. This workshop was offered for all MBA courses in 2012. 31 Global Business Administration Short courses related to the subject of Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility offered in 2011: Course Length Month Carbon Market and Rio+20 8h March Environmental License 24h May Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental 4h June Impact Report (EIA/RIMA) Sustainability: Principles and Guidelines, Norms and 8h October Certifications Research and Publications Scientific research is a great way to exercise and develop intellectual autonomy. It is also an opportunity for entrepreneurial creation offered by Perspectivaction in the Corporate Knowledge Management activity – a new way of understanding knowledge building through planning, execution and written communication. Opportunities include: • Participation in scientific research on Global Compact principles • Participation in Brazilian and international research groups • Possibility to present works in Brazilian and international events 32 Articles published in Paraná Cooperativo magazine: Issue 1 Article Title Group Students Advisor Solutions to minimize the effects of MBA in Strategic Alessandro Illich, Egon Denise Basgal decrease in land owned by members Management and Heinrich Milla, Karl Eduard of Agrária Cooperative Agribusiness Milla, Patrícia Karkle Milla Business Plan to increase production MBA in Company Ândrea Toniolo Kubaski, Marco Antonio and marketing of Castrolanda Seeds Management and Edson Martins de Oliveira, Nascimento da Development Nery Carvalho Filho, Roselia Cunha Gomes da Silva Analysis of economic feasibility of MBA in Managing Alisson José Dmengeon de Luis Humberto biodiesel production with chicken Cooperatives Oliveira, João Cerilo Barbosa Willwock fat processed by the Copacol poultry Filho slaughterhouse Segmentation strategy of products MBA in Financial Vânia da Silva Brunholi, Mauri Alex de and services by high income for Planning for Credit Wilson Ângelo Kinippeberg Barros Pimentel Cooperativa de Crédito de Livre Cooperatives Admissão (Sicredi União PR – VIP) Implementation of financial MBA in Financial Michele Akeme Aoki Salvi, Mauri Alex de consultancy service for Cooperativa Planning for Credit Patricia Kolecha, Verônica Barros Pimentel de Crédito dos Empresários da Grande Cooperatives Baccas de Oliveira Curitiba e Campos Gerais – Sicoob Sul Feasibility study for the MBA in Corporate Carlos Augusto Marques Alexandre Freire implementation of Unimed Londrina Management da Costa Branco, Gilberto vaccination clinic Greco Sorroche, Issao Yassuda Udihara, José Roberto Sabóia Franco, Ricardo Cássio Pinelli Issue 2 Article Title Group Students Advisor Economically sustainable MBAGEC INC Emerson Milla, Gustavo Denise Basgal management alternatives for the legal AGRA GA 1/07 Küster, Harald Peci, reserve in land owned by members of Paulinek. Kuster, Sandra Agrária Agroindustrial cooperative Remlinger Online Producer: internal marketing MBACOPACOL 1/08 Aparecido Antonio Denise Basgal Rigobello, Aparecido Laertis Galli, Darci Mezzari, Edicarlos Grizotto de Oliveira, Luiz Antonio Della Valentin 33 The challenges of family succession MBACOPACOL 1/08 Aparecido Antonio Denise Basgal Rigobello, Aparecido Laertis Galli, Darci Mezzari, Edicarlos Grizotto de Oliveira, Luiz Antonio Della Valentina Decisions of investment and risks in MBAGPJ INC Edson Guilherme, Jorge Mário Luis the environment of cooperatives SESCOOP 1/09 Osawa Sampaio Pereira Project negotiation practices in credit MBAGPJ INC Ana Paula Corrêa, Luiz Mário Luis cooperatives SESCOOP 1/09 Fernando Woellner, Maria Sampaio Pereira Otilia Carneiro Bronislawski A reflection of project management MBAGPJ INC Alex Kayser, Gilmar José da Mário Luis practices on cooperatives in Paraná SESCOOP 1/09 Silva Pinto, Liliane Carolina Sampaio Pereira State O. G. Dunetz, Luiz Augusto Tomczack, Maria Emília Pereira Lima Issue 3 Article Title Group Students Advisor Reverse logistics of lubricants POSGEAGRO INC André Regis Adams, Fredy Silva packages: the Agrária cooperative case AGRARIA GA 1/10 Douglas Kreuscher, João Maria Carvalho, Valdecir de Moraes, Walter Galvan The obstacles faced in implementing POSGEAGRO INC Camila Illich, Evelyne Leh Fredy Silva and developing the process of quality AGRARIA GA 1/10 Klein, Manuela Korpasch, management in the rural property Margret Wild, Mireille Gartner Maroso Impact of new generations on the POSGEAGRO INC Aristides Anastácio Neto, Denise Basgal future of corporate management AGRARIA GA 1/10 Ayrton Guilherme Garozi, Djalma Lucio de Oliveira, Leonardo Marcello Lucas, Silvio Carlos Lopes Study for the installation of the MBAGESAGRO INC Adir Pereira Lopes, Denise Basgal laboratory of soil and foliar analysis – COAMO 1/09 Fernando Borba, Paulo COAMO Nicolau Mocci, Valdemir de Paula Barbosa, Vanilton de Nez Pereira 34 Issue 4 Article Title Group Students Advisor Retention of people at Frimesa Postgraduate Edson Flavio Frescki, José Antônio course in Strategic Ferreira da Silva Raimundo dos Management of Santos Human Capital Internal marketing plan for the Postgraduate Adrielly Suzin Silveira Antônio Soybean Industrial Unit – Cooperativa course in Strategic Raimundo dos Agroindustrial Lar Management of Santos Human Capital Biogas purification in an electric power Postgraduate Claudiane Moretti, Fabiana Antônio conversion system course in Kaninoski, James Morais e Raimundo dos Renewable Energy Leonardo Pereira Lins Santos with emphasis on Biogas Performance evaluation for Uniprime Postgraduate Josiany Carina dos Santos e Cláudio de Souza Norte do Paraná course in People Paulo Eduardo Thomson de Pereira Management Lacerda Publications The 2011 International Congress of Administration theme was “Strategic Management: Collaborative Innovation and Competitiveness”. The following works by ISAE students were published: Article Title Group Students Advisor Microcredit and the financialMBA GFCA – Ana Paula Prestes, Eduardo Osvaldo Callegari economic development of enterprises Curitiba Soares Westphalen, that benefited from the Social Bank Fernando Augusto Mazon program History-based budget and zero-base MBA GFCA – Eduardo Tanno, Gilberto Osvaldo Callegari budget – a case study Londrina Cordovil de Almeida Filho, Marco Antonio de Oliveira, Osmar Martins Hiroki 35 The 12th International Seminar on Project Management was organized by the PMI Chapter in São Paulo, 2012. The following works by ISAE students were published: Article Title Group Students Advisor Relevance of the cost factor to MBA in Project Angelo Borges, Henrique Denise Basgal acquisitions in projects Management – Giacomitti, Osvaldo Lovato, Curitiba Poliana Fujinami, Renata Hyczy Impact of the use of communication MBA in Project Fabrício Vergara Mota, Denise Basgal and negotiation techniques on the Management – Rafael Miranda Venturelli, update of a generic plan of values Londrina Renato Mateus Gorne Viani, Volney Furtado de Souza Methodology for the use of quality MBA in Project Alexandre Leo Pauli, Claudio Denise Basgal tools in treating risks identified in Management – Ferreira Maia projects Curitiba Using situational leadership in project MBA in Commercial Gianfranco Muncinelli Gianfranco management Management – Muncinelli Curitiba Managing innovative projects MBA in Project André Sanches Fonseca Denise Basgal promoted with non-refundable Management – Sobrinho, Caio Dalla Zanna government grants Londrina Control indicator assessment and MBA in Project Adriana Terezinha Salvadori, Denise Basgal project monitoring: earned value Management – Daniella Dos Reis Garcia, analysis Curitiba Diego Cezar Celli, Henrique Favre, Miguel Gervasio Rodrigues Filho President’s Publications ISAE’s president Norman de Paula Arruda Filho writes an innovation column for the business section of Gazeta do Povo – the most popular newspaper in Curitiba, Paraná. The page focuses on entrepreneurship and every week a different columnist writes articles on innovation, management and sustainability. Articles Published in Gazeta do Povo Newspaper An eye on the global conjuncture and opportunities Individual Entrepreneurs and their contribution to sustainability Entrepreneurship in the Knowledge Era Sustainable entrepreneurship at Rio+20 Politics, elections, entrepreneurship and sustainability Innovation and sustainability The importance of ethics in building an entrepreneurial nation 36 Performance: Social ISAE’s Social Responsibility is a set of obligations and commitments promoted to all stakeholders. Following the mission statement, ISAE has been implementing processes, actions and projects that contemplate purposes related to responsibility and corporate sustainability. By promoting dialogue with the various stakeholders, these projects and initiatives help identify opportunities and threats with respect to sustainable development and to set ISAE’s role towards globally responsible leadership. Code of Ethics and Conduct ISAE’s Code of Ethics and Conduct is a formal institutional reference of personal and professional conduct that has been promoted to all employees, professors and service providers since 2010. It advances ethical behavior based on common fair values. It is delivered to the new employee along with the Integration Manual. The document is also available on ISAE’s website. Suppliers who work directly in the processes are continuously involved and committed to the organization’s values and principles through a specific document, called the Procedure ADM004 (Suppliers Qualification). It includes requirements related to corporate responsibility and sustainability practices. (GRI SO2) (GRI SO3) Ethical Guidance Council Administratively linked to the presidency, the Ethical Guidance Council aims to promote, guide and ENFORCE the principles and commitments established by ISAE’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. With meetings held every trimester – and extraordinary meetings to address specific or emergency issues – the council deals with all subjects according to confidential information rules adopted by the institute. Complaints are emailed directly to the council – comite.etica@isaebrasil.com.br. (GRI SO2) (GRI S03) 37 Ozires Silva Chair of Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation Global Compact 1, 7, 8, 9 The Ozires Silva Chair of Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Millennium Goals 2, 8 Innovation was launched in Curitiba, Paraná, on February 8, 2011, during the 4th Ozires Silva Award ceremony. PRME 1, 3, 5, 6 The overall objective of the Chair is to be a center of reference in sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation, disseminating this culture. It aims to develop people’s entrepreneurship for them to build, lead and implement the creative process of elaborating new plans for life, work, education and business. We cannot see these problems as impediments, but ask ourselves what we can do to improve our reality. Brazil is a wonderful country and this kind of initiative is very important to encourage businesses and professionals. Ozires Silva (2011) Chair’s founding partners Associação Comercial do Paraná (ACP) Conselho Latino-Americano de Escolas de Administração (CLADEA) Conselho Nacional de Educação Conselho Regional de Administração do Paraná (CRA) Fundação Getúlio Vargas Grupo Paranaense de Comunicação (GRPCOM) Instituto de Tecnologia do Paraná (Tecpar) ISAE FGV (proponent of the chair) Itaipu Binacional SEBRAE/PR Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda (SEFA) Secretaria Especial para Assuntos Estratégicos (SEAE) SENAI Paraná Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR) Unimonte (Centro Universitário Monte Serrat) World Trade Center – Curitiba 38 Ozires Silva Chair – Londrina Chapter ISAE launched the Ozires Silva Chair in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation – Londrina Chapter on June 27, 2012. It was held in parallel to the 5th Congresso INTEGRA (Integração Empresa, Instituições de Ciência, Tecnologia & Inovação e Governo). The release also included the participation of Ozires Silva – former Minister of Infrastructure and Chair’s patron – who delivered a great lecture on Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation. ISAE’s president also participated in the event. In 2012, chair’s members worked according to the following thematic axes: 1. The internet as a potentializing frontier to entrepreneurship and innovation 2. Education for sustainability 3. Entrepreneurial education 4. Innovation and sustainability as development inductors. Working groups (task forces) were defined in order to contribute to debate and definition of the activities schedule based on the thematic axes. 2012 Main Results Article “Crowdspirit and the redemption of entrepreneurship”. Author: Ricardo Dellaméa. Chapter in the book “Innovation” from Universidade Federal do Paraná. Author: Ricardo Dellamea. Lecture “Managing Creative Enterprises” by Schirlei Freder at Faculdade FAMEC, in São José dos Pinhais (PR), during the 1º Academic and Professional Fair. Presentation of the Ozires Silva Chair and the partnership with CRA-PR (08/11/2012). Lecture “Creative Economy: Concept and Context in Paraná” by Patrizia Bittencourt and Schirlei Freder at Faculdade FAMEC, in São José dos Pinhais – PR, during the 1º Academic and Professional Fair. Presentation of the Ozires Silva Chair and the partnership with CRA-PR (05/11/2012). Lecture “Open innovation and Crowd concept” at Regional Council of Adminsitration (30/10/12). Lecture “Open innovation and Crowd concept” for the technical team at SENAI-PR/C2i in Curitiba – CIETEP em (25/07/12). Lecture “Open innovation and Crowd concept” in the event INTEGRA 2012 realized in Londrina – PR (27/06/12). Interview with the music group A Banda Mais Bonita da Cidade for a case study on the concepts of co-creation, crowdfunding and creative economy (in progress). Article “Where do startups come from?” (in progress). Design of the workshop “Crowdfunding / Crowdknowledge / Croudsourcing” for ISAE Perspectivaction 2013. Design of the short-term course on “Crowdfunding / Crowdknowledge / Croudsourcing” for 2013. Study of conceptualization, actions, initiatives and studies on Creative Economy / Cultural Economics / Creative Interactions. 39 Study of creative / touristic development models – Experience Tourism of Serra Gaúcha / Paraty) – for implementing in the cities of Antonina and Morretes (in progress) Elaboration of a work plan with actions relating to the subjects of Creative Economy, Creative Cities and Tourism, with the aim to hold a round of talks with the local population of Antonina and Morretes, in the Paraná coast Integration of new partners in the Chair’s Executive Committee and Board Collaboration with Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) Participation as a columnist of the section Empreender (Enterprising) in Gazeta do Povo newspaper (Norman de Paula Arruda Filho) Article “Innovation and sustainability” by Norman de Paula Arruda Filho, published on May 17, 2012. Article “Sustainable entrepreneurship at Rio+20” , by Norman de Paula Arruda Filho, published on June 21, 2012. Article “Entrepreneurship in the Knowledge Era” by Norman de Paula Arruda Filho, published on July 19, 2012. Article “Individual Entrepreneurs and their contribution to sustainability” by Norman de Paula Arruda Filho, published on August 23, 2012. Article “Politics, elections, entrepreneurship and sustainability” by Norman de Paula Arruda Filho, published on September 20, 2012. Article “An eye on the Global Economy” by Norman de Paula Arruda Filho, published on October 12, 2012. Participation in Rio+20. Participation in the 3rd PRME Global Forum, Rio de Janeiro. Reception of PRME signatories in the 3rd PRME Global Forum. Collaboration with the release of the PRME Inspirational Guide in Brazil. Publication of two cases in the PRME Inspirational Guide. Launch of case study on the program Cultivando Água Boa (Cultivating Good Water) from Itaipu. Articulation of the CR3 Conference, to be held in 2013. Realization of the 5th edition of the Ozires Silva Award in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation. 2013 planning for the Chair. Discussions in 2012 greatly contributed to the development of theoretical-practical subjects on the agenda. For example, the first axis – which was called “The internet as a potentializing frontier to entrepreneurship and innovation” – was renamed “Open innovation and Crowd Concept” after in-depth discussions. And another axis was considered pertinent to the covered topics: “Creative Economy”. It was defined because of its transversality in respect to the Chair’s proposal. 40 Ozires Silva Award in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation Global Compact 1, 7, 8, 9 Investment in sustainable management has become an Millennium Goals 2, 8 increasingly common practice. Companies and employees have tried to meet and contribute to the new demands from PRME 1, 3, 5, 6 society and the world. Seeking to recognize these initiatives, ISAE and Grupo Paranaense de Comunicação (GRPCOM) – with sponsorship from Itaipu Binacional and SEBRAE – promoted the 5th Ozires Silva Award in Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Innovation in February 2012. The award identifies and rewards the best projects in the areas of entrepreneurship, innovation and sustainability that shall contribute to the development of society in Brazil. Companies, individuals and academics signed up their projects in the categories of Economic Entrepreneurship, Environmental, Educational and Social. We are sure that the Ozires Silva Award was a great motivator for us to believe in the work and make it our project of life. Besides, we had an encouraging support of the great Ozires Silva himself. By winning the award organized by a renowned institution such as ISAE/FGV, we have got greater credibility to patrool.com, what helped us open many doors, which would not be easily open without the award. Carlos Humberto Costa Award-winner in Social Entrepreneurship, Business Plan 2011-2012 41 Uaná Management Volunteer Program Global Compact 1, 3, 6, 8 Millennium Goals 1–8 PRME 4, 5, 6 Uaná program seeks to promote sustainable development through participation and engagement of ISAE students, alumni and professors. Volunteers use the knowledge acquired in the classroom and during his professional career. Uaná has the objective to open way for organizations that need support in management through knowledge exchange and transfer. The initiative focuses on overcoming poverty and promoting economic development that is sustainable and socially fair. In 2010 the Program Uaná started a partnership with the RPC Institute, which – through the portal “Services and Citizenship – Free Services Channel” – offers consultancy in communication and management to nonprofit organizations that promote social inclusion and citizenship. This initiative aims to help improve the management and sustainability of nonprofit organizations at the same time it spreads the culture of social responsibility in Paraná. The program is acknowledged by UNESCO, the Extraordinary Ministry of Food Safety and the Curitiba City Hall. Number of Volunteers (students, former students, professors) * Registered – 117 ** Active – 23 * 2011 and 2012 ** Volunteers participating in activities and projects in 2012 Number of Organizations Registered – 9 * Benefited – 8 * Organizations benefited in 2012 42 Organization Region Organization's field Service Centro de Atendimento para Jovens e Curitiba Disability Rights Project Management Adultos Especiais (CAJAE) Caminho de Retorno ao Lar (CRL) Curitiba Health Project Management Encontro com Deus Curitiba Women's Rights Strategic Management Fundação Iniciativa Curitiba Children's Rights Fundraising Instituto de Desenvolvimento do Curitiba Children's Rights Strategic Management Potencial Humano (IDPH) E-Lixo Londrina Environmental Protection Strategic Management Escola Profissional e Social do Menor Londrina Children's Rights Strategic Management and de Londrina (EPESMEL) Project Management Missão Filadélfia Londrina Children's Rights Marketing Centro de Apoio Esperança Londrina Health Administrative Information Management Strategic planning and project management Volunteering, citizenship and organizational development – this perspective directed ISAE’s management consultancy for Escola Profissional e Social do Menor de Londrina (EPESMEL – Child’s Social and Professional School of Londrina). Besides voluntary consultancy from MBA students to design the institution’s strategic planning, there were project management workshops promoted by the program’s volunteer professors. 1st Social Alliances for Sustainability Exhibition The Uaná Management Volunteer Program was presented at the 1st Social Alliances for Sustainability Exhibition, held at the FIEP Curitiba headquarters on October 30 and 31. Companies, shops, educational institutions and third sector organizations from the Paraná Council of Corporate Citizenship (CPCE) presented cases of sustainability and social responsibility on panels and banners at the 1st CPCE Social Alliances Congress. Uaná Entrepreneurial Round The event was organized by the Uaná Management Volunteer Program (Perspectivaction) and the nonprofit organization Aliança Empreendedora. Held at ISAE on November 23, 2012, it aimed to ensure that small business owners could talk to management experts. Four thematic tables were set: Innovation, Planning, Financial Management and Business in the Web. There were 10 consultant volunteers and 16 micro entrepreneurs. For more information visit: http://programauana.blogspot.com 43 PRME Brazil Network Global Compact 1, 3, 7 The initiative gathers and mobilizes PRME signatory Millennium Goals 8 institutions in Brazil, providing great exchange of information and experiences about the Principles for PRME 1–6 Responsible Management Education. As a PRME network articulator, ISAE mobilizes diverse actors towards the development of initiatives and provides support in the implementation of the principles. The network promotes partnerships for the development of scientific research and production on the subject, exchange of students and professors, courses and corporate events. ISAE started this integrating work in 2012, mainly with newcomers who joined the group after September 2011, when the institute and other partners realized the International Seminar on Education and Sustainability. There were several meetings with the Brazilian network to discuss cases and documents to aid in the implementation of the principles. Besides, ISAE and the Brazilian network promoted a reception for the world’s PRME network during Rio+20. The network performance increased the number of PRME signatories in Brazil – from 9 institutions in 2011 to 19 in 2012, what consolidates ISAE as a PRME model institution in Brazil. PRME Brazil Network Escola Brasileira de Administração Pública e de Empresas (EBAPE) Business School São Paulo Escola de Administração de Empresas de São Paulo (EAESP) Escola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing (ESPM) Estação Business School Faculdades Integradas Santa Cruz FEA-RP USP Universidade Federal do Paraná (UFPR) Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA) Fundação Dom Cabral (FDC) IAG Business School IBPEX Instituto de Tecnologia do Paraná (TECPAR) ISAE/FGV Brazilian Service of Industrial Learning (SENAI Paraná) Social Service of Industry (SESI Paraná) Sociedade Latino Americana de Coaching Universidade Positivo Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná (UTFPR) 44 Solidarity Campaigns Global Compact 7, 8, 9 Corporate citizenship is a concept used by ISAE to stimulate Millennium Goals 7, 8 its different publics to engage in initiatives that contribute to personal and social development. In 2012, the institute PRME 3 promoted a series of campaigns that had the participation of employees, students and professors in actions directed to environmental responsibility and consultancy for institutions in the surrounding community. Among the campaigns are: Earth Hour The Earth Hour is a symbolic act promoted worldwide by the WWF Network, in which governments, businesses and populations demonstrate their concern about global warming by turning lights off for one hour. On March 31, ISAE turned all lights off for one hour, inviting employees and stakeholders to jioin the initiative. Sweater Campaign: Solidarity is the Business The 2012 campaign was held in March and contributions were sent to the community of Jardim Icaraí, from Uberaba district, Curitiba. Winter clothes were delivered to Edina Passion, an active leader at Jardim Icaraí that carries an important community work focused on sports for the neighborhood children. Legal Goal campaign – Children’s Day Campaign The campaign celebrated Children’s Day. Lollipops with children’s names were given to students and employees at ISAE’s entrance and more than 130 gifts were collected and delivered to the community of Jardim Icaraí. 45 People Management ISAE/FGV defends a humanized organization, for an institution that invests in the development of its employees has a competitive difference that adds value to successful enterprises. Ethical commitment, focus on people and on sustainable actions are ISAE’s management assumptions for generating results. Mission The people management office has the mission to ensure competitive advantage by advancing the dissemination and retention of competences in an inspiring and motivating environment of collaboration and learning. Work System Relationship with internal public is driven by quality management and people management policies, with the engagement and self-management of all sectors. Each area has its processes that are published in the Quality System. Whenever necessary, processes related to work organization are updated or new procedures are set aiming at continuous improvement. Employee X-ray ISAE has 102 employees – 83 work at the headquarters in Curitiba and 19 at the Londrina branch. 96 employees are hired under the Brazilian CLT law (Labor Law Consolidation) in accordance with the SENALBA-PR Collective Convention. There are also 6 young apprentices working under the rules of Centro de Integração Empresa Escola do Paraná (CIEE). (GRI LA1, LA2, LA4) 46 Variation between the lowest salary and the local minimum wage at important operational units (EC5 GRI) Variation (%) comparing to City Lowest base salary Brazilian minimum wage Curitiba R$ 1001,36 60,93% Londrina R$ 890,35 43,08% Based on the local minimum wage of R$ 622,00 in 2012 Proportion of base salary between men and women Variation (%) Proportion (%) Men’s average base Women’s average Post comparing to men's comparing to men's salary base salary salaries salaries Curitiba R$ 1126,21 R$ 1001,36 12,48% 88,92% Londrina R$ 890,35 R$ 1001,36 11,08% 112,47% Turnover Rate (GRI LA2) Turnover Rate = 26% Current Employees 102 Turnover in 2012 37 Feminine 25 Masculine 12 Gender turnover rate Internal Communication ISAE strives for clear, objective and assertive communication. The institution disseminates every change in the structure, considering the information’s complexity and urgency. Communication on main issues, significant organizational changes, definitions and collective negotiations is performed by the internal communication channels ISAE Week report, REGAR (General Meeting to Assess Results), REMAR (Monthly Meeting to Assess Results) and through the presentation of the strategic planning. (GRI LA5) Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey The Internal customer satisfaction survey is applied annually and aims to evaluate the satisfaction in relation to processes and areas, as well as build actions to improve labor relations and the value perceived by internal and external customers. 47 Quality of Life In order to provide a healthy environment for developers, ISAE offers labor gymnastics, recreation room and periodic preventive health monitoring. It also promotes a program of guiding lectures based on the results, seeking to create an atmosphere of openness and participation. Every year, the institute maps and treats risks related to security, occupational medicine and ergonomics. The work is conducted by the Occupational Health Medical Control Program (PCMSO) and the Environmental Risk Prevention Program (PPRA). PCMSO performs diagnostics that guide medical procedures and actions to promote people’s health. PPRA identifies environmental, ergonomic, physical, chemical and biological agents, as well as the type, origin, intensity and classification of these agents – thus indicating corrective actions and the use of protective equipment (individual and collective). Since 2009 ISAE has promoted the Program of Quality of Life and Health Problems Prevention (PREVISAE), which aims to encourage the habit of regular physical exercises, prevent postural damage and follow employees’ health. It focuses on combating sedentary lifestyle, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking and diabetes. No illnesses and deaths related to work at the headquarters were recorded, either in the headquarters in Curitiba or in the Londrina branch. The absence rate was 1.20% in 2002. (GRI LA7) (GRI LA8) ABSENCE RATE = working time lost x 100 regular working hours Main Benefits Education allowance 80% for MBA and postgraduate courses for employees that present projects aligned to ISAE's goals. 50% for undergraduate courses. Medical assistance AMIL health plan with state coverage, 80% funded by ISAE, without coparticipation and additional costs to exams, with the right to individual apartment accommodation. Dental plan MetLife dental assistance plan, with national coverage for 230 dental procedures. Food or meal voucher Employees choose between food and meal ticket, provided through Ticket card. Life insurance MetLife life insurance with international coverage, including family funeral assistance. Financial assistance No interest loan for emergencies, such as family deaths and diseases. Loans Loan granted by Itau Bank with reduced rates. Medical emergencies 24-hour service by Plus Santé in the Curitiba Metropolitan Region in case of emergencies, with no cost to the employee. Birthday parties Held on dates such as Carnival, Mother's Day, Father's Day and Halloween providing integration between areas. ISAE gives a R$100-voucher as a birthday present. Christmas basket Delivered in December to all employees. Parties Festa Junina (St. John’s) and end-of-year celebration. Gifts Gifts to employees on special dates like Easter Women's Day. 48 Integration When joining ISAE, new employees go through an integration program that includes training in all areas. This experience provides a systemic view of the business and processes. They also receive the strategic planning booklet, integration manual, channel policy and the code of ethics and conduct, which are updated annually. Training Hours Area Total Academic 1863,10 Administrative 725,55 Financial 941,05 Commercial 1468,40 Marketing 829,08 People Management 592,65 New Solutions 201,45 Corporate Solutions 197,50 Board of Directors 743,70 Centers 1029,35 IT 211,15 Partnership Management 30,00 Delivery Management 275,45 Commercial – LD 503,00 Education – LD 796,00 Adm/ Financial – LD 415,45 Total 10822,88 49 Training and Development Managed by ISAE Academy, T&D programs aim to develop competences in an environment of learning, construction and upgrading for new talents aligned to the institution’s excellence. In 2012 training totaled 10,822.88 hours. There were also 130 hours of workshops related to the Global Compact and PRME. (GRI S03) (GRI LA10) Main Training Programs in 2012 Knowledge management 15h Personal development program in public speaking 16h Education legislation 4h Rio+20 multiplication 1.5h Competency-based management workshop 6h Process presentation 7h Quality in customer service 15h Excel basics 9h PrevISAE 3h PRME and Global Compact 6h Excel intermediate 12h GBA marketing relationship and services 16h Internal quality audit 16h BMP Day SC event 8h Sustainability report 16h Leadership development program (PDL) 62h CONARH 30h GBA corporate contracts 16h E-DOC – Information management on digital 16h environments Writing improvement – basic 24h Process management discipline 16h Good morning HR – skill management 2.5h REGAR LD 1h PDE 12h GBA business ethics 16h Competency-based selection 16h GBA project management 24h GBA trademark management 12h GBA leader coach 24h Writing improvement – advanced 24h 50 In-company BI module 32h Prevention and planning in labor management 7h GBA credit and collection 16h GBA leadership and team development 24h Strategic vision on projects 3.5h Coolhunting – research and trend analysis 2h 2nd Latin American Congress 10h The art of giving feedback 1h Time management 4h GBA sustainability: principles, guidelines, norms and 8h certifications Innovative dialogues 2h Performance management and meritocracy 4h GBA professional communication 8h Advanced specialization course in branding (Grupo 32h Troiano) Training results evaluation 12h GBA carbon market and Rio+20 8h Workshop on elaborating management report 8.5h GBA BSC strategic planning 24h PPrQG volunteer examiners workshop 8h Impact on HR strategic communication 2h Project management workshop 8h Team development 36h Dialog – event on entrepreneurship and innovation 4h Sustainability workshop 3.5h Innovation, concepts and management 9h Excel basic and intermediate LD 6h Lecture Neuromanagement and the challenge of 2h Neuroeconomics Product development 3h VOCÊ 15 30h GBA personal development in communication with 24h emphasis on public speaking Fiscal training 1h Team development 9h Competence-based management LD 2h 51 Competence-based Management One of ISAE’s strategic projects in the area of people management, the program aims to encourage continuous improvement for employees, promote meritocracy, enhance professional development and employability, and improve organizational results. The program was implemented in November 2012 and was supported by the modeling group, which is formed by ISAE employees and managers. Career axes were defined and profiles were elaborated for each kind of function, thus forming an employees’ system of development management. The program aims to enhance development and provide effective management of procedures for competencebased selection, evaluation, development and remuneration. (GRI Gl2) Selection Process The criteria for selecting new talents are based on the ethical principle of transparency and advance the selection of skilled professionals that have behaviors aligned to the institution’s values. For hiring and promotions, competence-based selective processes are carried out, prioritizing internal recruitment. Young Apprentice Program In 2011 ISAE joined the CIEE Young Apprentice Program in 2011 and hired five 15-16 year-old apprentices. This initiative prepares young professionals for the labor market and promotes social inclusion. 52 Performance: Environmental ISAE’s Environmental Management promotes a series of actions and programs in order to identify and control environmental liabilities generated by the institute’s activities. This issue is dealt with by the environmental policy, which describes our environmental responsibility based on guidelines to assist management in matters relating to impacts of activities. The objective is to deal with environmental issues based on sustainability principles. Environmental Policy Global Compact 7, 8, 9 In order to have a formal document to direct the institute Millennium Goals 7 when dealing with environmental issues, ISAE Environmental PRME 1, 3, 5 Policy was launched in September 2012 during REMAR – the monthly meeting to assess results. In addition to being a statement of the institute’s positioning in relation to environmental impacts, the disclosure of the document represented the consolidation of purposes, principles, guidelines and tools that have been guiding the environmental management along ISAE’s history. Eco-efficiency Eco-efficiency is a philosophy for the organization management. We seek to progressively reduce ecological impacts and the use of resources and to develop actions to neutralize CO2 emissions. It aims to raise awareness and engage employees, suppliers, partners and the general public to adopt responsible attitudes that contribute to waste reduction, reuse and recycling. Solid Waste The plan is a set of management procedures that aims to the correct management of waste produced at the institute. It is developed in partnership with Elo Ambiental and covers all necessary actions to minimize waste generation, as well as all the procedures for waste segregation, collection, sorting, packaging, storage, transport, recycling, reuse and disposal – the whole cycle. All waste generated at ISAE/FGV has a correct and certified final disposal. The PGRS of ISAE has been elaborated in accordance with guidelines in the Model Term for Elaborating Waste Management Plans, from the Municipal Secretary of Environment (Curitiba), guidelines from the Brazilian Association of Technical Standards (ABNT), resolutions from competent environmental bodies, such as the National Environment Council (CONOMA), state and municipal decrees. 53 In 2012, with the purpose of engaging the internal public in environmental issues, ISAE implemented the Committee for the Solid Waste Management Plan (PGRS). The group is made up of people from different areas in the institution. They meet twice a month to discuss and deliberate actions to minimize the generation of waste, as well as all the procedures to be adopted in segregation, collection and final disposal of waste. Thus, the committee acts directly in the development of environmental awareness and engagement campaigns. One of the main achievements was the implementation of procedures for quantifying the generated waste. From January to October 5745 kg of solid waste were sent for recycling. (GRI EN22) The table below specifies the total amount of waste: Solid wastes are destined to a cooperative that is registered in ISAE’s Environmental Management System. As defined by the Waste Management Plan, the cooperative was audited in October. The report pointed out items to be improved by in accordance with PGRS requirements. Thus, ISAE aims to promote qualification programs to advance the cooperative’s work. Greenhouse Gas Inventory The development of the inventory of greenhouse gases, by revealing the profile of emissions resulting from the activities of an organization, provides subsidies for monitoring environmental impacts. In partnership with Eco Mind environmental consulting, ISAE published the first Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report in 2012 – a voluntary initiative to reduce and mitigate the emissions of gases that cause global warming. The methodology used in the inventory followed guidelines in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG), which is the most used tool by governments and business leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions. In Brazil, the GHG Protocol has a version adapted to the national context – the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, which guided the process of estimating, verifying and reporting emissions. 54 Emissions in 2012 totaled 188,3 tonnes of CO2eq. (GRI EN16) Calculation was done considering the consumption of electricity (Scope 2 GHG), the equivalent emission from air transport and water consumption (scope 3 GHG) from November 2011 to October 2012. Emissions from electricity consumption (GRI EN17) Month kWh Emission (tCO2eq) November 13431 0,478144 December 12249 0,42749 January 10514 0,309112 February 14656 0,471923 March 17768 0,719604 April 14835 0,952407 May 14814 0,918468 June 15403 0,804037 July 14809 0,583475 August 14841 0,682686 September 15981 1,251312 October 14858 0,5205 Total 175159 8,119157 Mobile combustion emissions (GRI EN17) Monthly GHG emissions from air travel Water consumption (GRI EN8) Emissions due to the production of domestic sewage by water use were of 0.0018 tonnes of CO2eq, with a consumption of 94 m3. This value is considered irrelevant in relation to total emissions from the third scope of this inventory, and it is not added to the total emissions. 55 Emissions by scope According to the GHG Protocol, it is necessary to compare emissions between scopes for reporting. Image 4 below reveals that scope 3 accounts for 95.7% of the total CO2eq emissions in this inventory. Emissions by scope tCO2eq 56 Performance: Environmental ISAE manages the aspects that impact economic sustainability by means of budget management and indicators defined in the strategic map of the Financial Perspective. Monthly meetings (REMAR) focus on managing the information from billing, cash, revenue and expenditure that directly affect organizational results. The Board of Directors reviews and approves the annual programming, which includes strategies, budgets, investment and expenditure forecast. They assess the balance sheet, annual accounts, equity operations and produce the annual activity report, which is then assessed by the General Assembly. Main Financial Indicators Index of current liquidity Equity participation Gross revenue variation index Profit / loss in the exercise Debt index Working capital Revenue growth Default Billing EBITDA index Financial resources and budget Since 2009 ISAE has projected a cash flow considering hired services that will generate revenue and expenditure in the future, the annual goal of courses and the budget for the areas. This practice aims to secure financial resources to meet operational needs. The budget is set in the strategic planning and assessed in the monthly meetings (REMAR). Managers sign a contract containing approved budget, targets, indicators, work plans and cash flow. In 2012, the financial perspective had two strategic projects: Financial Management and ISAE Controllership. In recent years the institution had no need of external fundraising. However, if necessary, the following items are considered: interest rates, payment deadlines and required guarantees. The gross revenue in 2012 was R$ 28 million. (GRI EC4) (GRI EC1) 57 Sustainability Events Global Compact 1, 3, 7 Millennium Goals 8 PRME 1–6 Cycle of Lectures “Ponto e Contra Ponto“ In February 2012, ISAE promoted a series of lectures to discuss current issues and promote knowledge in management practices. Each lecture was given by two professors from FGV, who are also market professionals. They presented pros and cons on the subject. The discussions brought new ideas, solutions and opportunities, combining theory and practice, besides networking. Project The Human Dimension in Projects and Challenges: Edmarson Bacelar and PMI and IPMA References Thiago Ayres Management – Strategic planning for 2012, 2013, 2014! Alexander Baer and Planning is necessary! Luciana Melo Commercial: We are living the Seller Era of the seller is Luiz Melo and gone? Gianfranco Muncinelli Leadership: Career planning in a scenario of change Eduardo Marostica and Carlos Frederico de Andrade Law Week The event was held in May 2012 and covered topics such as outsourcing, tax law, civil liability and contractual imbalance. Outsourcing advantages and disadvantages, legal Selma Carloto foundation, lawful and unlawful outsourcing Tax Law's trends and businesses Renata da Silveira Bilhim Current challenges and difficulties in the courts Rafael Viola Contractual imbalance André Seabra 58 Participation in Events CR3 – The Power of Responsibility. Event held in partnership with the Audencia Nantes School of Management (France), Hanken School of Economics (Finland), La Trobe University (Australia) and ISAE. The partnership aims to strengthen relationships, share information, produce studies and researches collectively. Place: France Date: 21.05.2012 Lecture: “Características indispensáveis para liderança” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Talent to Lead – HSBC, Curitiba (PR) Date: 28.03.2012 Lecture: “Apresentação do caso Cultivando Água Boa” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho. Mundial de Universidades – Rio de Janeiro Date: 05.06.2012 Lecture: “Pacto Global, PRME e Rio+20” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Quinta da Estância – Porto Alegre (RS) Date: 29.05.2012 Table coordinator at PRME Global Forum – Rio+20 Place: Rio de Janeiro Date: 15.06.2012 Lecture: “Resultados do 3° Fórum Global dos Princípios para Educação Empresarial” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Place: Rio de Janeiro Date: 18.06.2012 Lecture: “Apresentação modelo educacional ISAE – Perspectivação” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho IASIA – International Association of Schools and Institutes of Administration Place: Thailand – Bangkok Date: 16–21.07.2012 Debate: “Tendências mundiais para a construção de liderança institucional, redes de trabalho e parcerias estratégicas para o desenvolvimento” Mediador: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Plenary – Assembleia Legislativa do Paraná, Curitiba Date: 01.08.2012 59 Lecture: Apresentação do Case “Cultivando Água Boa”. Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Federal Senate, Brasília (DF) Date: 08.08.2012 Debate: “O evento teve como tema “Rio+20 e dai?” Mediator: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Conselho Consultivo do WTC, Curitiba (PR) Date: 20.08.2012 Lecture: Sustentabilidade, Pacto Global e PRME. Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Conselho Temático de Responsabilidade Social (CORES) da Confederação Nacional da Indústria (CNI) – Brasília (DF) Date: 18.09.2012 Lecture: “A importância da Educação na formação de lideranças responsáveis, para atuar com um novo paradigma empresarial, fundamentado na sustentabilidade” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Congresso Internacional de Administração, Ponta Grossa (PR) Date: 26.09.2012 Lecture: Apresentação do Case “Cultivando Agua Boa” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho Assembleia Anual 2012 – CLADEA (Conselho Latino-Americano de Escolas de Administração), Lima, Peru Date: 24.10.2012 Lecture: “Pacto Global: a contribuição da Administração para uma sociedade mais justa e sustentável” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho XXII ENBRA – Encontro Brasileiro de Administração, Rio de Janeiro Date: 07.11.2012 Lecture: “Sustentabilidade com foco no Pacto Global da ONU” Lecturer: Norman de Paula Arruda Filho 38° Encontro Paranaense de Entidades de Classe, Foz do Iguaçu (PR) Date: 11.11.2012 60 About this publication The Higher Institute of Administration and Economics of Mercosul (ISAE), founded on April 7, 1995, is a nonprofit scientific and technological institution, organized under non-economic objectives. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, ISAE is committed to implement the 10 GC principles in its business strategies. The progress report is published annually and represents communication to the various stakeholders on improvements in implementing GC principles, Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) and Millennium Development Goals (MDG). This is the ninth issue – the report has been published since 2004. It reports on the period from January 1 to December 31, 2012. Previous report January 1 to December 31, 2011 (GRI 3.2) Report boundaries The information contained in this report expresses the management and performance of ISAE Curitiba and ISAE Londrina. With regard to environmental performance, inventory for the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions covered the period from October 2011 to October 2012. (GRI 3.6) (GRI 3.7). Changes in the report Following the process of continuous improvement in reports published since 2004, the 2012 Sustainability Report is more complete and follows a methodology based on the principles and guidelines for elaborating a Sustainability Report, developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Thus, this report brings the main topics discussed in the Management Excellence Model (MEG) from the Brazilian Quality Foundation. (GRI 3.10) (GRI 3.11) Administrative Headquarters Av. Visconde Guarapuava 2943, Centro – Curitiba (PR), Brasil – CEP 80010-100 (GRI 2.4) (GRI2.5) Contact us http://www.isaebrasil.com.br/contato.aspx Information on the report Send email to nrs@isaebrasil.com.br or visit our website – http://www.isaebrasil.com.br (GRI 3.4) FGV Ombudsman Ouvidoria.pr@fgv.br Reporting Team Responsibility and Sustainability Center, People Management 61 INDEX Global Reference Indicator PRME MDG Page Answered Compact Strategy and Analysis GRI 1.1 Declaração da pessoa com maior poder de decisão sobre 1 Fully a relevância da sustentabilidade para a organização e sua estratégia. Organizational Profile GRI 2.1 Denominação da organização relatora. Fully GRI 2.2 Principais marcas, produtos e serviços. 2/3 Fully GRI 2.3 Estrutura operacional da organização e principais divisões, Fully subsidiárias e joint ventures. GRI 2.4 Localização da sede da organização. Fully GRI 2.5 Número e nome de países em que a organização opera e Fully que tenha relevância para as questões da sustentabilidade. GRI 2.6 Tipo e natureza jurídica da propriedade. Fully GRI 2.7 Mercados abrangidos, incluindo uma análise geográfica Fully discriminativa, os setores abrangidos, e os tipo de clientes. GRI 2.8 Dimensão da organização relatora, incluindo: número Fully de funcionários, vendas líquidas, capitalização total, quantidade de produtos disponibilizados e serviços prestados. GRI 2.9 Principais alterações que tenham ocorrido, durante o Fully período abrangido pelo relatório, referentes a dimensão e à estrutura da organização. GRI 2.10 Prêmios recebidos durante o período abrangido pelo Fully relatório. GRI 3.1 Período abrangido (por ex., ano fiscal/civil) para as Fully informações apresentadas no relatório. GRI 3.2 Data do último relatório publicado. 30/12/2011 Fully GRI 3.3 Ciclo de publicação do relatório Fully GRI 3.4 Contato para perguntas referente ao relatório ou ao seu 6 Fully conteúdo. GRI 3.5 Processo para a definição do conteúdo do relatório 5/6 Fully (relevância, questões prioritárias e identificação das partes interessadas). GRI 3.6 Limite do relatório (ex., países, divisões, subsidiárias, Fully instalações, joint ventures, fornecedores). GRI 3.7 Refira quaisquer limitações específicas relativas ao Fully âmbito e ao limite do relatório. Se o âmbito e o limite não abordam todo o conjunto de impactos econômicos, ambientais e sociais, enuncie a estratégia e o cronograma estipulados para a cobertura completa. GRI 3.8 Base para a elaboração do relatório, no que se refere Fully a sua área de influencia e que são passíveis de afetar a comparação entre diferentes períodos e/ou organizações. GRI 3.10 Explicação do efeito de quaisquer reformulações de Fully informações existente em relatórios anteriores e as razões para tais reformulações (ex., fusões, aquisições, mudança do período ou ano base, natureza do negócio, métodos de medição). GRI 3.11 Alterações significativas, em relação a relatórios anteriores, Fully no âmbito, limite ou métodos de medição aplicados. 62 GRI 3.12 Sumário do Conteúdo da GRI. Fully GRI 4.1 Estrutura da organização, incluindo comitês sob o mais Fully alto grau de governança responsável por tarefas, tais como estabelecimento de estratégias ou supervisão da organização. GRI 4.2 Indicar se o presidente do órgão de governança da Fully organização é também um diretor executivo e, neste caso, quais as suas funções no âmbito da gestão e as razões para esta composição. GRI 4.3 Indicar, no caso de organizações com uma estrutura Fully de administração unitária, o número de membros da governação que são independentes e/ou os membros não executivos. GRI 4.4 Mecanismos que permitam aos acionistas e funcionários Fully transmitir recomendações ou orientações ao órgão de governação mais elevado. GRI 4.12 Citar cartas, princípios e outras iniciativas desenvolvidas 1/2/5/6 Fully externamente, de caráter econômico, ambiental e social, que a organização subscreve ou defende. GRI 4.13 Participação em associações, organismos nacionais e 1/5/6 Fully internacionais de defesa em que a organização possui assento em grupos responsáveis pela governança corporativa, integra projetos ou comitês, contribui com recursos de monta, além da taxa básica como organização associada, considera estratégica sua atuação associada. GRI 4.14 Relação dos grupos que constituem as partes interessadas 5/6 Fully envolvidas pela organização. GRI 4.15 Base para identificação e seleção das partes interessadas a Fully serem envolvidas. Performance: Educational ES3 Número de cursos com pelo menos uma disciplina 1–3 Fully relacionada à sustentabilidade. ES8 Número de alunos que participaram de oficinas 1–3 Fully relacionadas à sustentabilidade ES9 Programas orientados para a formação executiva global 1/2/3/5 Fully IN1 Percentagem de projetos de pesquisas relacionados à 4 Fully sustentabilidade. Performance: Social SO1 Natureza, âmbito e eficácia de quaisquer programas e 1–10 1–6 1–8 Fully práticas para avaliar e gerir os impactos das operações nas comunidades, incluindo no momento da sua instalação durante a operação e no momento de sua retirada SO2 Percentagem e número total de unidades de negócio alvo 10 Fully de análise de risco à corrupção SO3 Percentagem de trabalhadores que tenham efetuado 10 Fully formação nas políticas e práticas de anti-corrupção da organização. Performance: Labor Practices LA1 Discriminação da mão-de-obra total, por tipo de emprego, 6 3 Fully contrato de trabalho e por região. LA2 Número total de trabalho e respectiva taxa de rotatividade, 6 3 Fully por faixa etária, gênero e região. LA4 Porcentagem de trabalhadores por acordos de contratação 1/3 Fully coletiva. 63 LA5 Prazos mínimos de notificação prévia em relação a 3 Fully mudanças operacionais, incluindo se esse procedimento é mencionado nos acordos de contratação coletiva LA7 Taxa de lesões, doenças, profissionais, dias perdidos, 1 7 Partially absenteísmo e óbitos relacionados com o trabalho, por região. LA8 Programas em curso de educação, formação, 1 7 Fully aconselhamento, prevenção e controle de riscos, em curso, para garantir assistência aos trabalhadores, às suas famílias, ou aos membros de sua comunidade afetados por doenças graves. LA10 Média de Horas de formação, por ano, discriminadas por Fully categoria de funções. LA11 Programas para gestão por competências e aprendizagem Fully contínua que apoiam a continuidade da empregabilidade dos funcionários e para a gestão de carreira. Performance: Environmental EN8 Consumo total de agua, por fonte. 7;8 7 Fully EN16 Emissões totais diretas e indiretas de gases com efeito 7;8 7 Fully estufa, por peso. EN17 Outras emissões indiretas relevantes de gases do efeito 7;8 7 Fully estufa, por peso. EN22 Quantidade total de resíduos, por tipo e método de 7;8 7 Fully eliminação. Performance: Economics EC1 Valor econômico direto gerado e distribuído, incluindo Partially receitas, custos operacionais, indenizações a trabalhadores, donativos e outros investimentos na comunidade, lucros não distribuídos e pagamentos a investidores e governos. EC5 Variação da proporção do salário mais baixo comparado 1 Partially com o salário mínimo local em unidades importantes. GRI-G3 APPLICATION LEVEL Following the GRI-G3 guidelines, the Higher Institute of Administration and Economics (ISAE) declares an Application Level C for its Sustainability Report for the year ended on December 31, 2012. ISAE reported profile, form of management and 17 essential indicators. 64
