Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Table of contents Contents 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES of the global compact 3 About Strandbygaard Grafisk 4 Statement of support 5 Human rights principles 6 labour principles 7 Environmental principles 10 Anti-corruption principles 12 Goals 2013 13 How Strandbygaard Grafisk implements the global principles 14 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES of the global compact HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ■ Principle 1: ■ Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges. human rights. ■ Principle 8: ■ Principle 2: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Make sure that they are not complicit in environmental responsibility. human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals. ■ Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and goals. LABOUR PRINCIPLES ■ Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining. ■ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all ■ Principle 4: its forms, including extortion and bribery. Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. ■ Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. ■ Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals. 3 About Strandbygaard Grafisk Since 1898 Strandbygaard Grafisk supplies high-quality we are committed to demonstrate social graphic services. and environmental responsibility as well as follow and integrate the Global Compact’s Strandbygaard Grafisk A/S is a company 10 principles of our company. that always strives to be market leaders when it comes to graphic companies, and The purpose of the Global Compact is to during times where environmental matters provide guidance on how we as a company are more and more in focus we focus even can help to solve the social and environmore on the environment ourselves. mental challenges of globalization. Global Therefore, we are certified with the Swan Compact principles show us the way on (The Nordic Eco-label), FSC, PEFC, how we as a company through our actions ISO 14001 and EMAS. We can also offer respect the fundamental human and labor to climate compensate the print. We want rights, showing responsibility towards our environmental policy to be a central the environment and oppose all forms of part of our company basis in the future. corruption. Quality is also an improtant point at Our participation in the UN Global Compact Strandbygaard Grafisk and therfore we are is to maintain our focus on social responalso certified according to ISO 9001. sibility in our activities and strengthen the Global Compact ongoing communication about the progress Communication on Progress At Strandbygaard Graphics, we strive we are making in the field of CSR. (COP) to deliver sustainable solutions for the benefit of people, the environment and society. By joining the UN Global Compact, »We want our environmental policy to be a central part of our company basis in the future«. 1 Sv a -7 5 PEFC/09-31-033 nem 41 5 ær k e t t r y k k er i Promoting Sustainable Forest Management www.pefc.org 4 Statement of support With this COP report Strandbygaard Grafisk of the Global Compact network in our coma/s confirm that we support the 10 principany brochure, on presentation materiel for ples of the Global Compact with respect to Strandbygaard Grafisk, the logo attached human rights, labor standards, environment to our e-mail signature and on tender and anti-corruption. We will make the Comdocuments. munication on Progress report available via our website. Generally we would like to have the possibility of using the logo for our membership Date: May 28th 2013 Mr. Ole Strandbygaard Mr. Claus Scotwin Mrs. Gunhild Dokkedal Managing Director Managing Director Environment & LEAN & owner & owner 5 human rights principles Human rights in the production Collection and registration of personal country confidential information should be minimal, With regard to national and societal cusand it must be ensured that only informatoms, the company must not get involved tion with a legal basis in internal legislation in any violation of human rights in the is registered. production country. Personal information must be stored in This also includes violation referring to naa safe and responsible manner and only tional laws, religious and cultural practice. persons with appropriate errand must have access to this information. Harassment and punishment The employees must be informed if there is Strandbygaard Grafisk treat all employees surveillance of the workplace. The company with respect and dignity. The compamust inform the employees about the type ny refrain from corporal punishment of of information that is stored, for how long employees, threats of violence, sexual and and for what purpose. Employees must psychological harassment, bullying, abusive have access to view the data. behaviour and verbal scold. The company must draw up policies and How to complain and make sanctions prevention steps to protect employees We are open to a complaint from emfrom harassment and punishment. ployees and have procedures in place for ■ Principle 1: handling and settling complaints. Businesses should Protection of privacy Employees must be able to lodge comsupport and respect We respect the employees’ privacy, both in plaints without the risk of threats of the protection of terms of collection of personal information reprisals. The company cooperate with the internationally proand surveillance of the workplace. relevant employee representatives/trade claimed human rights. unions on the establishment of procedures for complaining. The procedure should ■ Principle 2: apply to all, be transparent, and employees Make sure that they must be briefed about this. are not complicit in Complaints must be followed up by rehuman rights abuses search and reporting and must not result in Assessment, Policy discrimination of complaints cf. principle 6. and Goals. 6 labour principles Freedom of association and collective Working environment – cooperation bargaining • the elected representatives of the emIn this code, organisations are defined as ployees are involved in this work. an organisation of employees with the aim • safety committees are established in of promoting and protecting the interests areas with more than nine employees. of the employees. • all involved get the necessary education and training. The company recognises: • workers receive adequate instruction in • the right of the employees to join unions the work including working environment of their own choice without prior authorrisks. isation. However, the national legislation • audits (external/internal) are made at in the production country must be taken least once a year, where the employees into consideration. get the opportunity to comment on their • the right that organisations negotiate working environment. wages and working conditions collec• objectives are followed up (in relation to tively on behalf of their members. If audits). the national legislation does not allow the organisation of independent trade Working environment – chemicals unions, the company must allow the em• the least hazardous chemical substances ployees to form organisations consisting and products are used in connection ■ Principle 3: of representatives of the employees, with printing operations, e.g. through Business should who can discuss issues related to work. substitution of dangerous substances uphold the freedom of and products which are less hazardous association and the efWorking environment or non-hazardous. This could be inks, fective recognition of A safe and healthy working environment is adhesives, and chemicals for washing the right to collective a human right. and cleaning of machines/rollers Bargaining. • there is adequate ventilation in both the Strandbygaard Grafisk ensure that the working area and at working processes ■ Principle 4: working environment is of such a standard with a risk of inhalation of vapours, dust Business should upin relation to the technical progress that etc. hold the elimination of the employees are not exposed to condi• precautions against inhalation of vaall forms of forced and tions or risks that can affect their health in pours, dust, etc. are taken compulsory labour. the short or long term. This regards both occupational diseases and accidents at work. We secure that a system in place that supervises the working environment and continuously works to improve the working environment conditions in accordance with the objectives set. In practice this means: 7 labour principles • the employees through datasheets Ergonomics and work operations know the chemicals they work with, and • the working area is designed to avoid know where first aid is located and that poor working postures and movements personal protective equipment is issued in the best way and stored • there is furniture and equipment e.g. in • appropriate personal protective equipthe form of lifting equipment available ment is used, where there is no exto help eliminate heavy lifting and poor traction of dangerous substances. The postures/movements. equipment is paid for by the employer. Indoor climate Accidents and machine protection • there must be a clean and comfortable • graphic machines are provided with indoor climate/temperature in the working effective protection measures such as area. This is achieved through cleaning, guards, screens, switches, emergency good lighting, and if necessary through mestop, etc. chanical ventilation and other heat control. • the protective functions are supervised • machines undergo inspection and mainWelfare measures tenance at appropriate time intervals • there is clean and adequate washing and • the employees wear shoes to protect toilet facilities separate for both sexes. ■ Principle 5: against foot injuries, when necessary Business should • accidents are recorded and investigated Pregnant women uphold the effective in order to prevent further accidents • pregnant women should be protected abolition of child • a sufficient number of people have been from working with chemical products labour. trained in first aid. that are considered a risk for foetal defects and against the heavy lifting and Noise other loads that can cause miscarriage • the employees are not exposed to noise or premature birth. that can damage their hearing. There must be reducing measures, where it Forced labour is easy to establish. At a minimum, the Strandbygaard Grafisk undertakes to employees must wear proper hearing refrain from making use of any form of protection, which is provided by the forced or compulsory labour: employer. • As a means of maintaining discipline • As a punishment for having participated in strikes • As a means of discrimination on grounds of race, social status, nationality, or religion. 8 Child labour It is not considered discrimination, if the Strandbygaard Grafisk ensure that: distinction, exclusion, or discrimination is • all members of staff are over 13 years due to specific qualifications for employold ment. • employees aged 13 to 15 years old only The company undertakes not to exercise do light work direct or indirect discrimination in recruit• parents of the 13-15 years old employment or to have discriminatory hiring ees have been informed of the work and policies, e.g. about salary, working condithe working conditions tions, fringe benefits, pension, possibility of • employees under the age of 18 do not advancement, etc. carry out harzardous work or work at All staff must at least receive what correnight sponds to the country’s set minimum pay. • employees under 18 years only work for In accordance with national practices, the Strandbygaard Grafisk for a brief period company undertakes to create and pursue of time in connection with their educaa policy that aims at promoting equality tion. and eliminate discrimination. It also includes the ability to recruit people from vulnerable Discrimination groups. Discrimination is defined as: • Any distinction, exclusion or discrimina■ Principle 6: tion based on race, colour, age, sex, marBusiness should supital status, sexual orientation, language, port the elimination religion, mental or physical disability, of discrimination in health status, political opinion, national, respect of employor social origin. ment and occupation • Any other distinction, exclusion or Assessment, discrimination as a result of nullifying Policy and Goals. or impairing equality based on union membership or after consultation with representatives for employee associations/representatives. 9 environmental principles Strandbygaard Grafisk undertakes to Environment – data and information regularly develop and maintain the producSome of the key environmental issues in tion processes and systems for managing graphic production are associated with and preventing the special environmental paper, printing plates, and ink plus the conditions. It can be in connection with origin of paper fibres, where this is particupaper, printing plates, chemicals and energy larly relevant. Paper production is more and issues/consumption. more based on paper fibres from several continents, where there is a risk of illegal The company’s environmental work and logging. Therefore Strandbygaard Grafisk communication with the public must be are FSC and PEFC certified and follow based on dialogue. This means that regular these regulations. dialogue is expected to take place with neighbours, civil society organisations, and others with an interest in environmental activities. This should be done through information that clearly reflects the essential environmental aspects associated with graphic production. ■ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ■ Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 1 Sv a -7 5 PEFC/09-31-033 nem 41 5 ær k e t t r y k k er i Promoting Sustainable Forest Management www.pefc.org 10 Environment – climate take all the necessary measures to ensure Another important environmental paramthat they are replaced with less harmful eter in the production of printed matter is chemicals and substances where possible. the energy consumption and with that the climate impact. As far as possible, the comEnvironment – water and VOCs pany undertakes to provide information on (volatile organic compounds) how production affects the environment The company undertakes to reduce the and take this into account. discharge of waste water and VOC emisFor instance, it can be done by following sions as much as possible and to use the up on the consumption of water, gas and cleanest technology wherever possible. electricity. Environment – recycling We reduce, reuse and recycle waste as widely as possible. Environment – chemicals The company must maintain a continuous risk assessment of the materials, products, and processes and at all times be able to ■ Principle 9: document and provide information about Encourage the develthis. Banned chemicals must not be used. opment and diffusion of environmentally We have a proper storage, handling and friendly technologies disposal of chemicals and other hazardous Assessment, Policy substances. In addition, the company must and goals. 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Strandbygaard Grafisk do not accept The company work against the use of facilcorruption. itation payments. It may in some cases be Bribery is not acceptable in any form, accepted, if it is customary in the country whether it is private/public, direct/indito receive such payments, and all other rect, active/passive corruption. Corruption options must be exhausted. distorts competition and prevents markets from functioning efficiently and can be At the same time, the company must considered an additional tax on investment inform the customer/the company manand trade. agement about the use of facilitation Bribery is defined as a payment that is payments. intended to get someone to do something In addition, the company undertakes to that is dishonest, illegal or against his introduce systems that effectively control duties, with the purpose of obtaining an the economic activities. All persons conundue advantage. cerned in the supplying company must be Facilitation payments are defined as eninformed of the company’s code of conduct couraging public officials to perform their in connection with corruption and the contasks such as issuing licenses and permits. sequences of violations. Gifts ■ Principle 10: Gifts should never be given or received in Businesses should secrecy. It is not allowed to give or receive work against corrupgifts of money or securities. tion in all its forms, Gifts must not be given that are so great including extortion and that the receiver will not be able to provide bribery.. a corresponding gift. Never give gifts in connection with offers, offer evaluation, or contract negotiations. It is not allowed to accept gifts that are clearly intended to influence a decision, including the purchase of goods below market price. 12 GOALS 2013 • Environment / Reduction of energy • LEAN: consumption: To continously develop Strandbygaard By sustaining a certification after Grafisk we have implemented LEAN and ISO 14001 and EMAS we every year set we follow up on deviations to identify new goals. improvements actions. We continuously focus on reducing the For 2013 we focus on for instance consumption of water, electricity, heat reducing errors on the jobtickets (order and compressed air. bags). Last year (2012) the electricity consumption was reduced by 17,5 %. The goal for 2013 is to reduce consumption of gas by 5 %. The goal for 2014 is to reduce consumption of water by 5 %. • Working envirronment Employees are our company’s main resource as they make the backbone of the organization’s daily operations and development. Every second year we make APV (workplace assessment) a mapping of our company’s physical and psychological environment to identify improvements for instance within health & safety. The workplace assessment is also a snaphot of our employees job satisfaction level. APV’s for all employees and working areas in the year 2013. Here we will also focus on the working environment around the new printing machine which is installed in May 2013. 13 How strandbygaard grafisk implements HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES • Strandbygaard Grafisk is not located outside Denmark. • Fundamentally Strandbygaard Grafisk complies with all principles regarding international conventions, which Denmark have joined, including defined employer rights in accordance with ILO’s conventions, and the Danish labour market’s collective agreements. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR PRINCIPLES • It is off importance for our company that • There are special rubbermats different places our employees have the good working in the production facility to make it more conditions. For instance we have a employee comfortabel for the employees to stand up with back problems that wished to move to at the machine. another jobfunction where he did not have • We work continously with LEAN principles to stand and walk so much. His back is much • We focus on avoiding accidents and to conbetter now where his day is a mix between tinously improve safety standing and sitting and we bought a special • All employees can every 14th day sign up for seat for his truck. a treatment by a Fysioteapeut. • Air humidification in production facilities to • Free fresh fruit to all employees every day. have less dust and pleasant working envir• All employees have free access to cold water ronment. and coffee & te. • Also to have a good indoor climate we have a • First aid course offered to all employees. air humidifier in the office facility. • For employees that are smoking we offer re• Employees in the office do daily gym to comfunding some of the money for a quit-smokpensate for the time sitting at a computer. ing course. The goal is to be a non-smoking LABOUR • The desks are high adjustable so it can be set company in 2014. PRINCIPLES to fit the person working at the desk. This way the person has the ability to switch between standing and sitting during the workday. 14 The 10 global compact principles – actions & outcomes within the 4 issue areas ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES • Strandbygaard Grafisk are dedicated to manThe consumption of electricity, heat and water aging our environmental impacts proactively. is followed on a weekly basis and improvement • The environmental principles are described on initiatives are implemented where possible soluour danish webpage www.strandbygaard.dk tions are found to reduce the consumption. This is described in the yearly EMAS report. Strandbygaard Grafisk are certified after and wants to sustain the following certifications: At Strandbygaard Grafisk you can get your print CO2 neutralized through the purchase of quotas • ISO 14001 Eco Management in CO2-reducing projects, primarily in the third • EMAS world. At the moment this report is written we • The Swan = The Nordic Eco-label support reforestation in Uganda through South • FSC certification Pole Carbon Asset Management. • PEFC certification Goal for a new certification is EU-Ecolabel (»Blomsten«). ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES • Strandbygaard Grafisk are committed to achieving a high standard of ethical behavior in everything that we do and we do not accept corruption. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 15 Trykkerivej 2 / DK-6900 Skjern / Denmark / T. +45 96 800 700 / www.strandbygaard.dk
