DiGi’s Sustainability Report 2012  Vision, Mission and Values  CEO’s Message  Our Approach to Sustainability – Governance, Stakeholder Engagement & Material Issues  Sustainability Strategy  Sustainability Focus areas  Empowerment through Connectivity  Quality and Affordable Communications  Industry Development  Community Development  Ethical and Responsible Business Practices  Corporate Governance  Supply Chain Sustainability  Consumer Interests  Best on People  Challenging and Supportive Work Environment  Most Attractive Development, at all levels  Competitive and Performance-based Rewards  Climate Change and Environment  Driving Energy Efficiency  Addressing Environmental Sustainability  Performance Data  Key performance indicators 2010-2012  Progress versus targets  Accolades  About this report  Scope – boundaries of reporting, reporting period, reporting process, new approaches, audience and accessibility  GRI  UNGC  Glossary  Assurance Statement 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/index.php 1/1 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Vision Our vision is to be a company that is always 'Changing the Game'. We do this by constantly pushing boundaries, defining new standards, and ensuring continuous improvements in all parts of our business. Mission We deliver Internet For All as part of our commitment to building a connected Malaysia enabling access to mobile internet services and applications by offering customers the right combination of devices and value pricing, as well as the best usage experience. Values Keep Promises We take ownership for delivering on our goals and responsibilities, and pride ourselves on driving quality into everything we do. Make It Easy We aim for simplicity in the way we work, and in offering products and services that are easy to understand and easy to use. Be Respectful We are open-minded and professional in our conduct, and appreciate differences in cultures, opinions, and outlook. Be Inspiring We bring passion, energy, and creativity into everything we do, and make every effort to constantly drive change and continuous improvement. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-vision.php 1/1 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ceo.php 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Dear Reader, I am pleased to present DiGi's 2012 Sustainability Report, made available for the first time in a fully digital format. Our emphasis on building a sustainable business is closely aligned to our focus on building a connected Malaysia by driving demand for the internet, and building a stronger, wider network to cater to this demand. Our sustainability strategy supports this ambition of making Internet For All a reality by addressing key issues such as digital inclusion, ethical and responsible business practices, people development and environmental responsibility. In 2012, we launched the fourth edition of our Challenge For Change programme which aims to unearth community-centric ideas, and subsequently turn these ideas into mobile applications (apps). DiGi will then support the commercialisation of these apps by promoting them through various customer touchpoints, and through partnerships with Microsoft Malaysia, Google Malaysia, Multimedia Development Corporation's ICON programme, and selected platforms under the Economic Transformation Programme. We also increased our efforts in driving awareness for a safe, family-friendly internet environment, partnering with the Ministry of Education and CyberSecurity Malaysia to reach out to almost 7,000 students, teachers, parents and community groups across Malaysia. We continue to conduct our business in an ethical and responsible manner by ensuring high standards of corporate governance across our value chain, addressing health and safety risks, and by continuously responding to customers' and stakeholders' expectations of our business. We also implemented the DiGi Governance Programme, focused on streamlining policies, processes and internal controls, and strengthening compliance to laws and regulations critical to our business performance. In 2012, we also successfully implemented several strategic human resource transformation initiatives to strengthen our Best on People aspiration. Our ambition is to create an engaging and supportive work culture and environment, provide the most attractive development at all levels, and offer competitive, performance-based rewards for all employees. We believe that we have made solid progress in this area, and that DiGi today continues to be among the most preferred employers in Malaysia. Climate change and environmental risks remain a key concern for DiGi, from an operational efficiency standpoint and as part of our overall corporate responsibility focus. In this regard, we continue to drive energy efficiency initiatives in our network, address broader issues across our operations to minimise our environmental impact, and explore emerging technologies and opportunities to drive improvements in this area. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we actively address all key sustainability aspects consistent with the Global Compact Principles, and continuously seek to improve the disclosure of our sustainability performance. We believe this web-based report will therefore allow more stakeholders and interested parties to view our position and performance on key issues. Further, we have obtained an independent assurance from Ernst & Young for our GRI application level B+, and selected KPIs in our Sustainability Report. Beyond this report, we believe we have put in place a robust process to constantly monitor and improve our Sustainability performance, across all parts of our business. I would like to thank all customers, partners and employees for their commitment and support, and trust you will find this Sustainability Report informative and useful. Henrik Clausen Chief Executive Officer dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ceo.php 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT DiGi's approach on Sustainability is to leverage our core competencies to enable positive changes in society and our business environment. 2012 Highlights RM6.4 billion revenue We constantly review our approach to ensure that key sustainability RM41 billion market challenges impacting our business and society are addressed across our capitalisation value chain. 10.5 million customers 2,307 employees We have made sustainable business practices a core part of our corporate governance and strategic framework. We engage our 95% 2G and 67% 3G stakeholders to identify and prioritise material issues, and have a population coverage comprehensive set of policies and processes to address and monitor progress of such issues. DiGi's Sustainability approach is aligned to Telenor Group's Corporate Responsibility Strategy, Bursa Malaysia's Corporate Social Responsibility Framework, the United Nations Global Compact Principles, and Malaysia's national aspirations to extend the benefits of telecommunications and the internet to all Malaysians. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr.php 1/1 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Sustainability performance is tracked on an ongoing basis, and is reported and discussed at senior levels of management. We have a set of non-financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that are monitored and reported on a quarterly basis to the DiGi Board of Directors encompassing Climate Change, People Management, Health and Safety, and Supply Chain Risks. Guidance on the management of Sustainability issues is provided in a comprehensive set of policies which are part of a broader DiGi Governance Programme. These policies address Anti-Corruption, Legal, Privacy, Supply Chain Sustainability and other Corporate Responsibility issues. In 2012, we have reported our progress publicly in our website, and since 2011, we have obtained Limited Assurance on our Sustainability Reports. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-gov.php# 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Governance of Sustainable Business Practices dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-gov.php# 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Our stakeholders comprise those who have an interest in the sustainability of our business, and have been validated by relevant key personnel and functional representatives, including DiGi's Board of Directors. We engage them on an ongoing basis in the normal course of business, to identify and prioritise material issues. A wide range of engagement platforms are used, depending on the nature of our relationships with them and the topics that are discussed. The following table provides a list of our key stakeholder groups, who are engaged via various engagement platforms. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-stake.php# 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Engagement Platforms Stakeholders Policy makers Regular reports and information sharing Participation in government programmes and initiatives Public-private partnership initiatives Secondment of DiGi's senior employees to government bodies Customers DiGi retail outlets Customer Service channels (online customer service, 24-hour helpline) Social networking e.g. Facebook and Twitter Employees Best on People Council Annual Employee Engagement Survey Internal communications CEO's emails to employees Employee Townhall meetings Leadership forums with all Managers Investors and Stock Analysts Local and overseas Non-Deal roadshows Corporate presentations Analyst briefings Business partners Product presentations Annual Self-Assessment Questionnaires Site inspections and audits Training for suppliers Media Media interviews Media events Formal and informal briefings Media familiarisation trips/visits Community and NGOs Engagement with business and industry forums Engagement with relevant NGOs Community development programmes dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-stake.php# 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholder feedback is reviewed and addressed by relevant functional personnel. Issues that are strategically important to our business are subsequently integrated into our corporate strategy, and form the basis for our Sustainability focus areas and related initiatives. These material issues are monitored closely and regularly reported to the senior management team and Board of Directors. Our materiality assessment is conducted based on a methodology developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This methodology is also closely linked to the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) developed by AccountAbility. The process of identifying our most material sustainability issues has been structured into three main stages, namely, i) identification (internal studies and interviews with internal and external stakeholders), ii) prioritisation (to evaluate the importance of sustainability issues) and iii) validation (to ensure that we have a common understanding of material issues). Following is our materiality matrix where various issues have been grouped into broader topics, mapped against the importance to stakeholders and potential financial or operational risks to our business. We have reported key initiatives and performance indicators on these broad topics as well as the sub-topics in our Sustainability Report. A summary of these key topics and performance highlights is also captured in the Sustainability chapter of our DiGi Annual Report 2012. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-material.php 1/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-material.php 2/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-ourappr-material.php 3/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Sustainability strategy addresses issues that are of high importance to our stakeholders, and key to our longterm growth and success. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-strategy.php 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Empowerment Through Connectivity We strive to harness our core competencies as one Malaysia's leading telecommunications providers to deliver Internet For All. Ethical and Responsible Business We uphold high corporate governance standards and ethics across our value chain. We are guided by our governance framework called the DiGi Way of Work, which encapsulates our C orporate Values, C ode of C onduct, and various other policies and procedures that govern professional conduct. Best on People We aspire to create an engaging and supportive work culture and environment, provide the most attractive development at all levels, and offer competitive, performance-based rewards for all employees. Climate Change and Environment We are committed to driving energy efficiency initiatives in our communications network and facilities, while addressing broader issues across our business operations to minimise our environmental impact. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-strategy.php 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We strive to harness our core competencies as one Malaysia's leading telecommunications providers to deliver Internet For All, by providing quality and affordable communications and by playing our part to drive industry and community development. C hristian Thrane DiGi’s C hief Strategy and C orporate Affairs Officer, shares our approach to Empowerment Through C onnectivity. Quality and Affordable Communications In line with our Internet For All mission, we are building a strong data network, and enabling access to mobile internet services by offering customers the right combination of devices, value pricing, and the best usage experience of mobile internet. Watch a video by Adam, a DiGi customer who is an active advocate of the empowering effect of the internet. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 1/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Our 2012 Initiatives Strengthening our Telecommunications Infrastructure Building our Tomorrow Network The advent of LTE technology (or fourth generation mobile services – 4G) will play a significant part in driving Malaysia's future growth, and the shift to a digital society. This is evident from the fast growing demand for higher capacity mobile internet services. In 2011 we embarked on our single most ambitious network modernisation initiative to-date. Upon completion, our LTE-equipped network will be able to deliver the kind of rich applications currently enjoyed by wired broadband on hand-held devices, on a more energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly network. By end 2012, we have upgraded more than half of our network to be LTE-equipped. Network Sharing In an industry that is undergoing a substantial transformation, these As we enhance our network to address a larger consumer base and higher data traffic, we building blocks will enable a need to manage the subsequent increase in capital expenditure and operating costs. In nationwide network with the right addition, a larger network results in higher energy consumption, greater use of land, natural cost structure that will allow us to resources and construction material. better deliver on our customer's demands moving forward. In 2011, we embarked on a comprehensive infrastructure sharing agreement with CelcomChristian Thrane Axiata, another key player in the Malaysian telecommunications industry, in order to achieve Chief Strategy and Corporate better capital and operational efficiencies. This initiative will benefit customers through better Affairs Officer value and quality of services, and will help to manage the environmental impact from our DiGi Telecommunications growing network. By the end of 2012, we had consolidated more than 250 sites and expanded our sharing to include the joint roll-out of fiber infrastructure, resulting in substantial cost and operational efficiencies for both parties. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 2/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Universal Service Provision We strongly support the Government's efforts to bridge the digital divide across the country. We are a leading contributor to the Universal Service Provision (USP) fund, and actively participate in USP initiatives to build or upgrade infrastructure, to extend mobile and broadband services to underserved districts. Following USP initiatives were implemented by DiGi in 2012, in locations that are aligned to our business objectives and the Government's development priorities. Initiative Outcome Telephony conversion Converted 2,500 fixed to mobile lines. Wireless Village Provided collective wireless broadband access to 290 villages. Provided collective wireless broadband access to communities within the vicinity of Upgraded 2G to 3G sites the 255 upgraded sites. 1Malaysia Internet Centers Established 10 new centers. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 3/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 DiGi-managed 1Malaysia Internet Centers 1 Kg. Pandan, Kuantan, Pahang 15 Kg. Masjid Baru, Melaka* 2 Kg. Ubai, Kuantan, Pahang 16 Bandar Baru Merlimau, Melaka* 3 Pasir Gajah, Kemaman, Terengganu 17 Felda Nitar 2, Johor* 4 Taman Semarak Binjai, Kemaman, Terengganu 18 Kg. Tg. Genting, Johor* 5 Kg. Umbai, Jasin, Melaka 19 Felda Lepar Hilir, Pahang* 6 Kg. Sg Rambai, Jasin, Melaka 20 Kg. Seri Damai, Pahang* 7 Kg. Teriang Besar, Mersing, Johor 21 Bukit Kuang, Terengganu* 8 Felda Tenggaroh 3, Mersing, Johor 22 Kg. Geliga, Terengganu* 9 Lundu, Sarawak 23 Kg. Belimbing, Kelantan* 10 Kuala Berang, Hulu Terengganu 24 Kg. Chawas, Kelantan * 11 Kg. Bukit Diman, Ajil, Hulu Terengganu * Centers that were built and launched in 2012. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 4/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Driving Uptake Amongst Local and Underserved Communities We offer a wide range of convenient, relevant and affordable products and services that suit various customer needs. Several of these products have a strong positive social impact for customers. Case Study Sendmoney DiGi partnered with Maybank Berhad to offer an over-the-counter remittance service that allows Malaysians and migrants alike to remit cash to nine Asian countries. This service provides DiGi and non-DiGi customers a convenient and safe way of remitting cash to key destinations in Asia, and particularly benefits a significantly large migrant community by providing them with an additional option for secure cash remittance. In addition, the service is also useful to Malaysian customers who have domestic helpers or children studying in these countries. C lick here to read more. Case Study Discounts for Persons-With-Disabilities (PWD) DiGi introduced a special RM10 discount off monthly bills for Postpaid or Postpaid broadband services for all Persons-With-Disabilities on top of other promotional rebates offered. C lick here to read more. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 5/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Industry Development We recognise our responsibility to support the development of the local telecommunications industry by leveraging on our global capabilities to drive Malaysia's transformation into a digital society. We focus on three key aspects of industry development i.e. influencing policy development, driving product innovations and developing industry capabilities. Our 2012 Initiatives Policy Development We are a founding member of the following industry forums governed by the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (CMA). These forums encourage and facilitate self-regulation of the industry. Malaysian Technical Standards Forum Berhad initiates and facilitates the development of technical codes, standards, and guidelines on operations, safety and interoperability. Malaysian Access Forum Berhad oversees the Access Code (a voluntary code, which serves as a guide for members of the industry) and makes recommendations to the Malaysia Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) on services and facilities to be included in or removed from the Access List. Consumer Forum aims to protect the rights of consumers within the multimedia and communications industry. Through our active participation, we contribute towards raising the overall standard of the Malaysian industry, as well as advocating the development of consumer and business-friendly policies. In 2012, the telecommunications industry forums addressed several key issues that were of interest to Regulators, the industry and consumers. These included spectrum management, mobile termination rates, accounting separation and Radio Frequency emissions. We also seconded several senior DiGi employees to the Performance Management and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU), a unit in the Prime Minister's Office, to support national transformation initiatives. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 6/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Product Innovations We have a strong track record in delivering local innovations in mobile voice and data services such as the first telco-branded prepaid payment card, the first machine-to-machine Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) and the first Malaysian mobile operator to co-brand Opera Mini featuring a compression technology that allows non-smartphone or feature phone users to access the internet easily. In 2012, we launched a few more product innovations as follows: Partnership with What's App to offer customers an affordable package with unlimited access to this messaging service. Launched DiGi Facebook USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data), allowing customers to access Facebook through non-smartphone or feature phones, thereby, reducing the digital divide to mobile internet. Launched free mobile surfing for accessing Wikipedia Zero on the DiGiLive Zero portal, aimed at driving relevant mobile internet content among Malaysians. Wikipedia Zero is an ultra lightweight site with text-only content to provide faster mobile browsing experience. Launched the DiGi Best Prepaid, a more cost-efficient plan for customers who make very short calls, with charges as low as 6 sen for calls that are below 10 seconds to any network. This product addresses customers' tendencies to make very short calls. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 7/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Capability Development DiGi Challenge For Change programme We recognise the need to develop local capabilities that can meet the increasing demand for relevant local content, in support of the Malaysian government's aim to spur local entrepreneurship within the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector. In 2012, we evolved our long-running community engagement programme Challenge For Change to focus on crowd-sourcing ideas for mobile applications that foster a spirit of community and inclusiveness amongst Malaysians. The initiative which takes the form of a competition that is open to all Malaysians, centers on 5 themes namely, Sharing Together, Working Together, Healthier Together, Learning Together and Discovering Together. The programme will culminate in 2013 with best ideas being developed into mobile applications. DiGi will support the commercialisation of these applications by promoting them on various customer touchpoints, and through partnerships with Microsoft Malaysia, Google Malaysia, Multimedia Development Corporation's ICON programme, and selected platforms under the Economic Transformation Programme. Click here to read more. At Google we celebrate proposals and ideas that address a problem, suggest a radical solution that could work, and use some form of breakthrough technology to make it happen. In the same shared spirit, we're grateful to DiGi for involving us in an initiative that pools Malaysian ideas and gives it room to flex and develop, which also lets us to get closer to our local users and developers. Sajith Sivanandan Country Manager, Google Malaysia dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 8/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Evolution of DiGi Challenge For Change Focused on sustainable energy solutions Focused on sustainable business ideas for rural communities. for Community Broadband Centers and clean technology innovations. Established a micro hydro project for the community of Lumpagas, Sabah. Winner of the Challenge For Change Clean Tech category emerged top 5 in Opened to university students. the Global Clean Tech Open in San Jose, California, USA. Opened to university students and Malaysian youth. Focused on mobile or internet based social ventures to address social, Focused on crowd-sourcing ideas for economic or environmental issues mobile applications that can bring amongst underserved communities. Malaysians together. Achieved strong traction from local NGOs, Winning ideas to be developed into social and Information and mobile applications by Malaysian mobile Communications Technology (ICT) app developers. entrepreneurs at grassroots level. Winning apps to be marketed to our Sponsored one of the winners to the customers Stanford Start-up Boot Camp in California, USA Opened to all Malaysians. Opened to university students. Participation 2009 2010 2011 2012 Institutions of Higher Learning 8 13 23 50 Submissions 15 76 117 1,977 Workshop Participants 60 92 512 1,243 Finalists 6 20 13 26 1 Industry and NGO Partners 8 16 90 5 Employees engaged 2 18 20 25 50 Notes: 1. Refers to finalists for Phase 1 of the programme, i.e. finalists for the best ideas. Phase 2 will take place in 2013. 2. From 2009 to 2011, employees were engaged as mentors to coach finalist teams comprising university students. In the 2012 programme, employees were engaged as participants in an internal version of the DiGi Challenge For Change competition. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 9/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Community Development Our efforts in community development go beyond a traditional philanthropic model to C lick here to strategically deploy resources, either through technology or our people. We focus on refer to our Guide on creating a safer internet for children, and supporting nation-building initiatives in creating a communities which are relevant to our business. Family-friendly Internet experience This year, we reached out to more than 900 communities comprising schools, universities, non-governmental organisations and underprivileged groups including orphanages, rural communities and communities affected by natural disasters. Our 2012 Initiatives Safer Internet for Children While the internet is a powerful tool for empowering communities, the misuse of it can potentially pose risks to more vulnerable members of society, particularly children. This can be seen in the significant increase in incidents of cyber-crimes targeting children, for example cyber-bullying, cyber-stalking, cyber-grooming, identity theft and cyber-pornography. In 2012, we continued our efforts in driving awareness for a safe, family-friendly internet environment through our DiGi CyberSAFE programme. Partnering with the Ministry of Education, CyberSecurity Malaysia (an agency under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation), and NGO Childline Malaysia, the programme aims to educate participants on how to protect themselves against online threats and cybercrimes. By end 2012, we had reached out to 4,194 students and 832 teachers from 272 schools, and 1,729 residents of communities in the vicinity of the 14 1Malaysia Internet Centers (formerly called Community Broadband Centers) operated by DiGi. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 10/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 In addition, as a fore-runner in the fight for a safer digital environment, DiGi was invited as the only private Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector partner to the UNICEF-UN Global Compact Malaysia launch of the Children's Rights and Business Principles. DiGi was also awarded the 2012 Best Information Security Organisation and Cybersafe Ambassador of the Year awards by Cybersecurity Malaysia for our work in raising awareness on online safety. Through the DiGi C yberSAFE workshops, I have heightened my awareness of the risks and how to take steps to safeguard myself and also my family on the Internet. Prior to this, I was unaware that some of these cyber crimes take place so close to home. I have also learnt new skills that I can apply as I continue to enrich my knowledge on the internet. Thanks to DiGi, I can now continue to develop my creative thinking and pursue my personal growth in a safe and secure way, Lievyia Amrita Secondary School Student from Penang. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 11/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Internet for the Underprivileged We partnered local organisations and communities to extend internet services to underprivileged communities. School in Hospital Programme: DiGi provided laptops Computer and Internet Connections for and internet connectivity to three schools that are part of Underprivileged Children:. By end 2012, DiGi had the pilot phase of this initiative which is led by the Ministry provided 75 computers with internet connectivity to 15 of Education and the Ministry of Health. The programme children's homes. aims to provide formal education to children who are undergoing long-term treatment in hospitals. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 12/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Bringing Malaysians Together Recognising the power of mobile internet to bring Malaysians together in positive and enriching ways, we carried out initiatives such as Simfoni Malaysia in conjunction with Malaysia Day 2012. We also hosted the second edition of the DiGi WWWoW Internet For All Awards Malaysia's first 'by the people, for the people' internet awards, paying tribute to ordinary Malaysians who utilise the power of the internet to do extraordinary things. Simfoni Malaysia : In conjunction with Hari Malaysia 2012, DiGi Live Sekolahku Berbakat : A school-based competition we crowd-sourced sounds, and voices from around Malaysia to focused on cultivating talent among 12 to 19 year-olds by make a uniquely Malaysian song. encouraging creative expression through music and dance. This year's competition included an online category and reached out to 373 schools. 12 Charity initiatives in the Regions: Employees from our Regional offices volunteered time and money towards needy causes in their local communities. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 13/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-etc.php# 14/14 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We uphold high corporate governance standards and ethics across our entire value chain. Our values of Keep Promises, Make it Easy, Be Respectful, and Be Inspiring serve as a constant reminder of our corporate culture. We focus on corporate governance, supply chain sustainability as well as consumer interest issues. Albern Murty DiGi’s C hief Marketing Officer, shares our approach to Ethical and Responsible Business. Corporate Governance Long-term stakeholder interest is best served by ensuring that effective risk and governance processes are in place. We are guided by our governance framework, called the DiGi Way of Work which encapsulates our corporate values, Code of Conduct, and various policies and procedures governing professional conduct across our value chain. In order to ensure that employees understand and embrace the DiGi Way of Work, we carry out extensive internal communications and training via various face-to-face and online platforms. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 1/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 DiGi'S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE JOURNEY Formalised new Code of Conduct. Conducted first employee training on Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, Launched and enforced anti-corruption, whistleblowing, compliance policies and whistleblowing and compliance policies. DiGi Values at HQ. Implemented the Sarbanes Oxley Act Launched Compliance Hotline. (USA). Updated Code of Conduct signed by all Code of Conduct signed by the Board of employees. Directors. Extended employee training on Engaged employees on living the DiGi corporate governance policies and values. practices to regional offices. Launch of Intelectual Property Management Policy. Introduced DiGi Way of Work covering Induction programme for new hires the Code of Conduct, values, policies included training on DiGi Way of Work. and procedures. Launched and enforced Gifts and Business Courtesies Policy, Donation Policy, and Information Management Policy dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 2/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Launched and enforced DiGi Governance Programme with formalised requirements on sustainable business practices. Integrated DiGi values into performance management. Awareness and training programmes on updated DiGi Way of Work. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 3/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Our 2012 Initiatives DiGi Way of Work DiGi Values In 2012, we worked towards a stronger integration of the DiGi values into all relevant processes. This included translating the values into behavioral goals as a basis for one-on-one performance and development dialogues. Employee performance evaluation is therefore based on achieving business goals, as well as demonstrating DiGi values in day-to-day conduct at work. These values were emphasised and discussed at several internal leadership forums to ensure that managers lead by example, subsequently contributing towards the improvement of DiGi’s Leadership Profile scores in the 2012 Employee Engagement Survey. Code of Conduct DiGi's Code of Conduct provides guiding principles on professional conduct for employees. It is frequently reviewed and updated to ensure that it meets current business requirements and is easily understood. In 2012, the Code was refreshed and communicated to all employees. The latest update formalises it as an integral part of the DiGi Way of Work. It further makes a firm stand against association with business partners that do not meet high ethical standards. The Code also emphasises the importance of compliance, and provides greater clarity on the consequences of misconduct and infringements. Training sessions were conducted for all employees to facilitate understanding of the new Code. Consistent with our normal practice, all employees and Board of Directors were required to formally acknowledge that they have read and understood the Code. To address risks of corruption, our Compliance Unit analyses all reported cases of corruption. In 2012, only 1 case was reported, and investigations indicated no risk of non-compliance. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 4/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 DiGi Governance Programme The DiGi Governance Programme is a new initiative aimed at streamlining processes, policies and internal controls, as well as strengthening compliance to laws and regulations that are critical to long-term business performance. This involved reviewing and updating 18 policies addressing a wide range of topics covering Finance and Control, Asset Management, Operational Excellence and Sustainable Business Practices. Updated policies that relate to Sustainable Business Practices and other relevant topics are as follows: Corporate Responsibility – addresses human rights and labour rights, climate and environment, safe services and user experiences, emergency relief contributions, non-financial performance, internal and external reporting, and stakeholder dialogues. Supply Chain Sustainability – describes our overall Supply Chain Sustainability framework as well as risk assessments relating to the Supplier Conduct Principles (SCP), implementation of the SCP using the Agreement on Business Conduct and exception handling, as well as monitoring and follow-up. Safety and Security – addresses the working environment, occupational health and safety, business continuity management, crisis management, information security, physical security and fraud relating to telecommunications services. Anti-Corruption – addresses integrity, bribery, gifts and business courtesies, facilitation payments, due diligence on business partners, lobbyists and risk assessments. Whistleblowing Policy – sets out principles and requirements for reporting misconduct. Privacy – addresses the processing and protection of personal data, as well as detection and reporting of non-conformities. People – covers the DiGi Way of Work, leadership, recruitment, on-boarding, employee engagement survey, development and performance process, workforce planning, labour standards, employment terms, working environment and the administration of employee data. Legal – covers topics such as legal risk assessment, information freeze or legal hold, reporting of legal exposure, claims and disputes, and compliance with competition laws. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 5/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Supply Chain Sustainability We extend local and international standards on health, safety, security, environment, human rights, and ethics to all business partners, through our Supplier Conduct Principles (SCP) framework. Supply Chain Sustainability Journey Introduced the Supplier Conduct Embedded SCP into the Agreement for Principles (SCP) to all direct vendors. Business Conduct (ABC), and made it mandatory for all vendors. Piloted site audits for a few high risk vendors. Introduced annual Self Assessment Questionnaire. Commenced vendor training on Health, Safety, Security and Environment, and SCP. Extended ABC to all parties that have a Formalised Supply Chain Sustainability direct contractual obligation with DiGi framework as part of the Supply Chain including dealers and distributors. Sustainability Policy. Extended site inspections to all high risk vendors. Established one-on-one follow up sessions to rectify incidents of noncompliance. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 6/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Our 2012 Initiatives Driving Compliance Our Supply Chain Sustainability framework was formalised as part of the Supply Chain Sustainability Policy, under the DiGi Governance Programme. The policy sets out minimum requirements on risk assessments relating to the Supplier Conduct Principles (SCP), implementation of the SCP based on the Agreement on Business Conduct and exception handling, monitoring, as well as follow-up on major findings. These include compliance to internationally proclaimed human rights standards, forced and child labour, freedom of association and collective bargaining. Regular training sessions are also conducted for suppliers to ensure that they understand and are able to comply with the SCP, and related policies and procedures. DiGi's Supply Chain Risk indicator decreased from 70% at the start of the year to 3% by end 2012, indicating a significant reduction in the risk of non-compliance among our suppliers. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 7/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Consumer Interests We strive to ensure that our business operations are carried out in a manner that improves customer satisfaction, and protects consumer privacy and safety. Our 2012 Initiatives Customer Satisfaction One of the key customer satisfaction challenges faced in 2012 was the quality of our customers' experience on our network, arising from our network modernisation initiative. In the second half of 2012, our stronger focus on enhancing the overall quality and performance of our network resulted in improvements in all swapped areas, including the entire Klang Valley. We also set up a page on our website to provide up-to-date information to customers on the progress of the network modernisation initiative, as well as information on affected locations. Overall, we had a much stronger emphasis on customer centricity in 2012. In line with this aspiration, we kicked off initiatives to measure customers' willingness to recommend us to their family and friends, a closed feedback loop to address all customer concerns, streamlined touchpoint operations, and a stronger customer-centric culture. We also engaged key external stakeholders and partners to drive a much stronger focus on the quality of our services. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 8/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Privacy While we have always been conscious of risks to data privacy, the enactment of the Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) 2010 has increased the need for more stringent measures to protect the privileges of privacy and data of our customers, employees and business partners. As part of our overall focus on customer centricity, we are taking all necessary precautions to ensure the safety and protection of customer data. Internally, we have taken measures to ensure compliance to the PDPA 2010, including: Internal audits to identify the flow of information and potential risks to data protection. Revisions to information gathering processes to address potential risks. Information to customers about personal data protection and the need to exercise consent for the usage of their data via notices in all customer touchpoints (DiGi website, retail centers, service centers, dealers, paper bills, SMS blasts and emails). Beyond statutory requirements, we embarked on an Information Security Management Programme addressing broader issues of information management and security across the organisation. We also obtained ISO27000 Certification for Information Security covering our ongoing network modernisation initiative and value-added services. On industry level, we are working with the Personal Data Protection Commission and telecommunications industry to draft an industry code for personal data protection in Malaysia. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 9/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Managing Spam Since 2009, we have been progressively putting in place a range of anti-spam initiatives, such as traffic filters, international spoof blocking, and reporting mechanisms to curb the growing number of unsolicited SMS marketing blasts and scams. In 2012, we focused on driving greater internal awareness on managing spam especially amongst our Customer Service employees. We take a firm stand against spamming, except to support issues of national importance. For example, we offer our customers an opt-in multimedia-messaging service (MMS) in support of the National Urgent Response (NUR) Alert, a government-led initiative to spread information to help trace missing children. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 10/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Addressing Radio Frequency Emissions While there is inconclusive evidence about health risks posed by Radio Frequency (RF) emissions arising from mobile phones and transmission equipments, there remains a perception that these emissions could be damaging to health. Public concerns on the issue have on some occasions led local communities demanding for telecommunication structures to be dismantled. Such actions adversely impact the coverage and quality of service, and pose a key challenge to the industry as a whole. In 2012, our commitment to deliver safe services to consumers has been incorporated into the Corporate Responsibility Policy which sets out requirements for the installation of transmission equipment to adhere to stringent guidelines of the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) standards. RF tests conducted in the year show that emission levels are well within permissible limits of these standards. We also continue to monitor concerns and views relating to RF, and where needed our internal RF Response Team investigates and takes necessary corrective measures. Since 2011, DiGi has been a founding and active member of an industry-led initiative to raise and address consumer awareness on this issue. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-ear.php# 11/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We aspire to create an engaging and supportive work culture and environment, provide the most attractive development at all levels, and offer competitive, performance-based rewards for all employees. Henrik C lausen DiGi’s C EO, shares our approach to Best on People. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 1/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Best on People Highlights Streamlined development process Reviewed and updated all job integrating business goals, professional descriptions. development goals, capability assessments, succession planning, and Strengthened salary and job grading Employee Engagement Survey. structures. Introduced Leadership Development Defined career development paths for programmes to drive a performancefuture growth. driven and values-based culture. Benchmarked salary and rewards Obtained OHSAS 18001 Certification for structure. Central region. Refreshed work environment. Completed Strategic Workforce Planning to assess skills and leadership capabilities and gaps. Obtained OHSAS18001 Certification for nationwide operations. Launched Best on People Council. Launched Competency Framework. Launched Flexible Benefits Plan. Introduced new informal channels of employee engagement. Launched in-house gym for employees. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 2/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Engaging and Supportive Work Environment We seek to create an engaging and supportive work environment that encourages a culture PROVIDING EQUAL of values-based collaboration, and high performance. We have established various OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL platforms to drive employee participation, provide greater clarity on our corporate initiatives, and obtain employee feedback. C lick here to listen to a BFM podcast featuring Syadakal and C heryl, two of DiGi’s employees who joined five years ago under our Open Mind Open Hearts Programme, a programme that aimed to providing employment opportunities to Persons With Disabilities. Our 2012 Initiatives Strengthening Employee Engagement Our focused efforts in addressing concerns arising from the 2011 Employee Engagement Survey resulted in improved employee engagement and leadership profile indicators in 2012. This annual survey measures various indicators of engagement including career development, service quality, internal processes, living the DiGi values, and leadership. CASE STUDY EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES One of the key concerns arising from the 2011 Employee Engagement Survey was the lack of understanding about the impact of the ongoing network modernisation initiative on the quality of network experience. The following initiatives were implemented to address this issue, and empower employees to be more involved in the continuous improvement process. Awareness sessions for employees to understand the ongoing network modernisation programme, related challenges and improvement efforts. Weekly updates via internal communications channels. Formed a team of Tomorrow Network​ Ambassadors, equipped with up-to-date information on upgrading efforts, to enable them to share relevant information with fellow employees on a timely basis. 300 employees from various departments conducted user experience tests of newly upgraded locations in Klang Valley, and escalated issues to our network team accordingly. Equipped employees with communications channels to provide feedback regarding quality of service to the network team. To ensure that all employees are well informed about corporate goals, directions and initiatives, we have put in place various platforms to communicate corporate performance, goals, directions and organisational initiatives. These include quarterly company-wide townhall sessions and divisional meetings, management off-site meetings involving department and team leaders, as well as monthly emails from the CEO. Formal engagement platforms have been further strengthened with the establishment of the Best on People Council (BOPC), an official forum for employee representatives to discuss work-related matters or employee grievances, by means of regular consultation between the senior management team and employees. These include matters relating to the welfare of employees, benefits and rewards, improvements to working conditions, career development, performance improvements, and employee health, amenities, safety and the environment, among others. It also serves as a sounding board for employees on company decisions, and as a reference group for the senior management team on new business or policy decisions directly affecting employees. In 2012, the newly formed BOPC reviewed all issues raised by employees and proposed relevant solutions for decisions by senior management. More than 120 issues or suggestions were received, out of which 70 percent have been addressed with the remaining currently being considered. Employees were notified of outcomes via our internal online collaboration website. In the coming year, we hope to find ways to expedite the resolution of issues by the BOPC. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 3/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 In my view, BOPC is an innovative idea that encourages better employer-employee relationship and engagement. There was a feeling of uncertainty in the beginning as it was an entirely new process. Over time, as we saw issues and suggestions by employees addressed, employees gained more trust in the process, and in our senior management’s commitment to address the issues. It’s a bottom-up approach that helps to validate senior management’s perception of what employees want Vijaiyakumar Raman Head of Technology Operations and Chairman of the Best on People Council 2012 DiGi Telecommunications We also introduced other informal platforms to engage employees and get their feedback on a broad range of people-related issues. These included a hotline for employees to call and seek clarification on people issues, coffee chats between heads of division and department or unit leaders, and monthly informal get-togethers (called D'Chillz). Employees based in our regional offices were not left out of this process as the senior management team made regular visits to engage with them. 12345 123 Family Day : A step towards greater Work-Life Integration Annual Company Event : To strengthen camaraderie amongst employees to achieve our mission of bringing Internet For All dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 4/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 5/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Promoting Health, Safety and Wellness Healthy employees are important for the long-term sustainability of company performance. We therefore place strong emphasis on health, safety and wellness at the workplace. In line with our OHSAS 18001 Certification and local health and safety regulations, DiGi adheres to formalised health, safety and security policies and procedures. Key indicators are monitored by a joint management-employee health committee that operates at the headquarters and regional levels, and reports to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. At the headquarters, 35 percent of the committee comprises management team members, with the remaining 65 percent consisting of employees. In regional offices where there are a higher number of field-based employees, on average 93 percent of the committee is represented by employees, and 7 percent management team members. During the year, we also carried out several initiatives that encouraged employees to pursue activities that enhanced personal wellness, even during work hours. We established an in-house fitness center, organised weekly sporting and friendly divisional games during office hours, and ran awareness sessions on a range of wellness topics. Breast Cancer Awareness week : DiGi organised a company-wide breast cancer awareness week in conjunction with the International Breast C ancer Awareness month. Employees also helped to raise funds for the cause through a charity run whereby DiGi committed RM10 for every kilometre clocked in on the treadmill located at our in-house gym. Funds were channeled to the C ancer Research Initiatives Foundation (C ARIF) in support of their work. 123 D'Gym : One of the initiatives to encourage employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle. The gym is open daily from 6.30a.m. to 9.00p.m. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 6/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 7/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Most Attractive Career Development We are committed to providing our employees with the most attractive career development opportunities and framework, at all levels of the organisation. We have well defined job descriptions and competency requirements for each role. We are also putting in place more targeted coaching and development platforms for more effective and individualised development plans. Our 2012 Initiatives Targeted Coaching and Development Programmes We developed and launched a training portfolio consisting of programmes that address key skills and leadership gaps that were identified in the Strategic Workforce Planning exercise that was conducted in 2011. We also implemented special training sessions and clinics for managers to improve the quality and outcomes of performance and development dialogues with team members. In addition to training programmes organised by DiGi, employees who have been identified as potential leaders are given the opportunity to participate in a number of Telenor Group executive development programmes. In the last three years, more than 20 DiGi employees have participated in these programmes. Creating a More Defined Career Path for Employees Further to the comprehensive review and benchmarking of job roles and grades that was completed in 2011, we developed a Competency Framework to provide employees at all levels with the right guidance around career advancement in DiGi. To encourage a more values-based performance culture, the framework as well as performance management processes incorporate DiGi values and leadership competencies. The Competency Framework will also form the basis for a new career framework that is being developed as a tool for managers to enhance development dialogues and plans with team members. Nurturing Young Talents Given the dynamic nature of our industry landscape, we recognise the importance of investing in future talent. We introduced the Technical Graduate Programme hiring fresh graduates on a 1-year contract attached to our Technology division. This programme complements our existing internship programme for local students and fresh graduates, and ranges from ten weeks to a maximum of six months. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 8/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Competitive and Performance-Based Rewards We continue to offer competitive compensation that is benchmarked against the best perfoming companies in Malaysia, and a rewards framework that is closely linked to employees’ performance. Our 2012 Initiatives Flexible Benefits We introduced a flexible plan which empowers employees to choose benefits that best suit their needs and lifestyles. The design and development of the plan was based on industry best practices and employee feedback. The plan consists of core and optional benefits. Core benefits provide basic protection and are designed to meet statutory requirements. Optional benefits allow employees to choose from a range of optional benefits covering healthcare for parents, post-graduate education, childcare, purchase of communications devices, and internet access fees, among others. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-bop.php# 9/9 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We are committed to driving energy efficiency initiatives in our communications network and facilities, while addressing broader issues across our business operations to minimise our environmental impact. Ole Martin Gunhildsbu DiGi’s C hief Technology Officer, shares our approach to C limate C hange and Environment. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 1/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Climate Change and Environmental Highlights Launched Deep Green initiative to Environmental sustainability part of integrate environmental sustainability company strategy. into company operations. Launched Challenge for Change Conducted 3 week internal awareness programme, encouraging Malaysian campaign about Climate Change. university students to find Climate-friendly solutions for rural electrification and communications Introduced internal initiatives to drive networks. environmentally sustainable mindsets amongst employees, e.g. carpooling, recycling, tele-commuting, paper Launched initiatives to create climate reduction, etc. and environmental awareness and conservation amongst customers, e.g. e-billing and Earth Hour. Introduced green procurement criteria. First-time participation in the Carbon Kicked off energy optimisation Disclosure Project. initiatives in network and buildings. Established pilot solar powered Launched Deep Green NOW, our 1st transmission site. community outreach programme, to create Climate Change awareness amongst Malaysian school children. First Malaysian company to sign up to the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate the Business Leadership Platform. ISO14001 certification for Central Rated #1 in Malaysia and #5 in Asia in region operations. the Carbon Disclosure Project 2011. Green Building Index Provisional Gold ISO14001 certification for nationwide certification for Technical Operations operations. Center (TOC). Energy efficiency integrated into net Introduced handset recycling initiative. work modernisation initiative Partnership with GSMA to study the viability of renewable energy sources for transmission sites in Malaysia. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 2/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Climate and environmental requirements formalised in the new Corporate Responsibility policy. Secured full Green Building Index Certification for TOC. Launched formal project to manage obsolete electrical and electronic equipment. Supported NGO CETDEM's study on Low Carbon Sustainable Development Options for Malaysia. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 3/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Driving Energy Efficiency As more Malaysians enter the digital age and demand higher capacity mobile internet services, we expect to experience continued increase in energy consumption and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Our main focus is to improve the efficiency of our network, which represents more than 80% of DiGi's total energy consumption. Our 2012 Initiatives Energy Efficiency in the Network Network Modernisation Our on-going network modernisation initiative, involving a nationwide swap of our entire telecommunications network, is expected to provide energy savings on a gradual basis once the migration is completed. Early results indicate a slight stabilisation of electricity consumption on a year-on-year comparison, with greater efficiencies expected upon completion and optimisation of the new network. In the second half of the year, there was a slight delay in the network swap which impacted our energy consumption and efficiency levels. The delay was mainly due to a stronger focus of resources on improving the quality of network experience for our customers, by expanding our 3G footprint, and optimising our new network. Conversion of Off-Grid Sites A significant number of our transmission sites are in locations that are located off the national electricity grid (off-grid), and run on diesel-powered generator sets. We have been actively exploring cost-efficient means to convert these sites into more carbonefficient energy sources. By end 2012, we had converted 64 sites into hybrid solar-diesel sources, thereby reducing the amount of diesel consumption. We have not been able to deploy fully solar-powered transmission sites, due to the insufficient power supply generated by photovoltaic panels. We hope to explore full solar-powered sites in the future, as more advanced photovoltaic technologies and energy-efficient telecommunications equipment become available. In other less remote locations, we worked with the local electricity provider to provide electricity to off-grid sites. By end 2012, we had successfully converted more than 80 off-grid sites to grid power. Despite the rise in number of converted sites in 2012, we experienced an increase in diesel consumption due to the higher number of new 3G sites built in off grid locations under the national Universal Service Provision initiative. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 4/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Greening our Data Center Data centers are known to require large amounts of energy, especially electricity. In line with our efforts to drive environmental and energy efficiency, the construction and operations of our Technical Operations Center (TOC) was built based on environmentally-friendly principles. In 2012, we achieved full Gold Level Certification, upon verification by Green Building Index auditors that various eco-friendly features indicated in the planning and design stages of the building had been effectively implemented. Case Study DiGi's Technical Operations C enter was the first data center in Malaysia to achieve the provisional Gold Level C ertification from the Green Building Index. The design, construction and operations of this data center incorporate a wide range of energy and environmentally-friendly features. Green features: Energy efficiency (target Power Usage Efficiency < 1.6) Renewable Energy solar cells of 35.2KWp for internal usage Water efficiency rain water harvesting capacity with bio-swale tank Eco-friendly elements – eco-friendly carpeting, low volatile organic compound (VOC ) wall paint, low emissions coated window panels, 'Green' fire suppression system (inert gas used with zero ozone depleting potential) 12 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 5/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Sourcing Energy-Efficient Solutions We constantly source for new and emerging energy-efficient solutions that strengthen our efforts. These range from simple lighting solutions, to running pilot tests on more sophisticated energy-efficient innovations. In 2012, we upgraded the lighting in four of our Mobile Switching Centers for greater energy efficiency. We also ran pilots on energy and carbon-efficient refrigerants for our air conditioning systems, as well as on smart metering solutions. Air conditioning is estimated to consume approximately 60% of energy in our network, and therefore presents a sizeable opportunity for energy efficiency. Smart metering provides more accurate insights into energy consumption patterns across the network and would therefore help to improve our energy management efforts. Addressing Environmental Sustainability We take a proactive approach to managing potential environmental risks and impacts across our operations. We comply with international and local standards such as ISO14001 for environmental management in managing obsolete electrical and electronic equipments, and in advocating a greener future amongst our key stakeholders. Our 2012 Initiatives Adherence to Environmental Standards Environmental sustainability is part of our governance framework and the way we work at DiGi. In 2012, guidelines relating to Climate and Environment were formalised as part of the Corporate Responsibility Policy under the DiGi Governance Programme. Adherence to this policy is managed via our ISO14001-certified Environmental Management System. Managing Obsolete Electrical and Electronic Equipment Electronic waste represents a substantial portion of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment from our network and the disposal of mobile phones by our customers, and therefore poses environmental risks to DiGi. Retiring Network Equipment In 2012, we put in place a formal process to facilitate the disposal of swapped network equipment, in accordance to environmental and safety standards. The process ensures that all unused equipment is properly dismantled and subsequently stored for reuse as spare parts, refurbished and sold, or scrapped according to environmental and safety requirements. 123 DiGi Handset Recycling C ampaign 2012 collected more than 500 handsets from its DiGi C enters and offices nationwide dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 6/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Recycling Handsets Malaysian consumers are upgrading their mobile phones at an increasing pace, as devices become more affordable and integral to our daily lives. Recognising the environmental risks that come with the disposal of mobile phones, we have implemented handset collection processes for recycling since 2011. To raise awareness amongst our customers, we run an annual handset recycling campaign. We made this part our customer loyalty programme by offering free tickets to the 2012 David Guetta concert to customers who brought along a friend to recycle their old mobile phones. Collected handsets are disposed off in accordance with Malaysian regulations for the disposal of scheduled waste. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 7/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Advocating a Greener Future In line with the Malaysian government's efforts to reduce the nation's carbon intensity by 40% by the year 2020, and our own Deep Green initiative, DiGi has taken several initiatives to raise awareness amongst key stakeholders and the general public on environmental challenges, and ways we can address this issue together. One such initiative was the 2012 study entitled Low Carbon Sustainable Development Options for Malaysia by the Sustainable Development Initiatives (SUDI), a think-tank under the Centre for Environment, Technology and Development (CETDEM). The report focused on three main aspects, namely establishing baseline emissions data, assessment of low carbon sustainable development options for Malaysia, and recommendations on viable options for government, private sector and Malaysians at large. Our support was mainly to assist in raising awareness about this study and encourage dialogue and action towards reducing Malaysia's carbon intensity. During the course of the year, we also shared our Deep Green 12 initiatives via various speaking engagements and participation in DiGi was the only Malaysian telecommunications company to the International Green Tech and Eco Products Conference and exhibit in IGEM 2012 Exhibition 2012 (IGEM 2012). dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-focus-climate.php# 8/8 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Empowerment Through Connectivity dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-etc.php 1/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Note: 1. New parameter reported. Note: 1. Data includes schools engaged in the DiGi CyberSAFE Programme. *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. Cumulative total number of participants in the DiGi CyberSAFE Programme as at 31 December 2012. 2. Participants as at December 2011. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-etc.php 2/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-etc.php 3/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Ethical and Responsible Business *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. 2011-2012 data reflects training given to new hires only, as part of the induction programme. 2. Refers to employees who have read, understood and agreed to the terms of our Code of Conduct. Anti-competitive behavior There was no legal action for anti-competitive behavior in 2012. The Communications and Multimedia industry is governed by competition regulations under the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998, and therefore, the Competition Act 2010 is not applicable to DiGi. Compliance with regulations and voluntary Notice of Improvement and Notice of codes concerning health and safety impacts of Prohibition were issued for a workplace products and services during their life-cycle accident by the state Department of Occupational Safety and Health, to DiGi's Mobile Switching Center in Senawang, Negeri Sembilan. The cause of the accident has been rectified and the Notices have been officially closed by the authorities. Compliance with regulations and voluntary There were no incidents of non-compliance in codes concerning product and service 2012. information and labeling Compliance with regulations and voluntary DiGi was fined RM20,000 for breaching the codes concerning marketing communications, Mandatory Standards of Provisioning of Mobile including advertising, promotion, and Content Services. The incident which was sponsorship by type of outcomes caused by a system error has been rectified. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-erb.php# 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Compliance with laws and regulations There were no incidents of non-compliance in concerning the provision and use of products 2012. and services Compliance with environmental laws and There were no incidents of non-compliance in regulations 2012. Note: 1. The Supply Chain SCP Risk indicator (SCSR) gives an indication about the SCP risk level in the supply chain, based on a supplier Self Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) made at the end of every year. The SCSR is reduced during the subsequent year, based on verification of concrete risk elimination at suppliers’ side. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-erb.php# 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Best on People Notes: 1. New parameter reported. 2. Two DiGi employees were seconded to the Performance Management and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU) under the Prime Minister's Office. 3. Fresh graduates hired on a 1 year-contract and attached to the Technology division. 4. Employees assigned from other Telenor subsidiary companies to DiGi. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-bop.php 1/6 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Notes: 1. 5 consecutive days of leave is granted to male employees following the birth of a new child. 2. Extended maternity leave of up to 4 months is offered to female employees following the birth of a new child. The first 2 months are on full salary, and the optional 3rd and 4th months are on half salary. Note: 1. We have reviewed the scope and definition of this parameter and re-stated the 2010 and 2011 data to include all factors that lead to employees leaving DiGi which include expiry of fixed-term contracts, dismissal, retrenchment, mutual separation, abscondment, retirement, resignation and frustration of contract. Note: 1. Measures employees' perception of managers living up to DiGi's Leadership Expectations encompassing 'Passion for Business', 'Empower People', 'Excellent Execution', 'Change and Continuous Improvement', and 'Integrity and Accountability'. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-bop.php 2/6 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Note: 1. We have reviewed and re-stated this data for 2010 to 2012, by expanding the definition of Management to include the senior management team, and all Heads of Departments, Units or Sub-Sections. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-bop.php 3/6 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Notes: 1. Malaysian Chinese. 2. Malaysian Indian. *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. Based on external assurance recommendations arising from DiGi's 2011 Sustainability Report, we have reviewed the definition and calculation of working hours , by excluding in-house contractors. 2010 and 2011 data have been accordingly re-stated. 2. 2010 and 2011 data have been re-stated based on Telenor Group's revised calculation methodology which tracks absences reported up to one month after the incident. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-bop.php 4/6 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Note: 1. Health and Safety Committee was expanded to include regional representatives in 2012, reflected in the higher number of members and meetings. *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. Training hours are calculated based on 8-hours per day. 2. New parameter reported. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-bop.php 5/6 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-bop.php 6/6 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Climate Change and Environment *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. New parameter reported based on Green House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Scope 1 represents emissions arising from fuel and gas consumed by DiGi, Scope 2 is from electricity consumed by DiGi and Scope 3 represent emissions from travel and transportation. 2. Fuel consumption (diesel) is estimated based on rated capacity of generators at 75% load. 3. The calculation of CO2 emissions for 2012 has been updated based on the latest energy to CO2 conversion factor as provided by the International Energy Agency guidelines. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-cce.php 1/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Notes: 1. Increased due to the roll-out of new 3G sites to off-grid locations under the national Universal Service Provider (USP) initiative. 2. Increased due to the on-going network expansion activities causing higher consumption in two parallel networks, which will continue to operate until the migration is completed and the previous network is fully decommissioned. 3. New parameter reported showing total energy consumption per revenue unit. Notes: 1. Increased due to the higher number of retail centres and round-the-clock operations at DiGi's Technical Operations Center and the facility that houses employees and partners working on the network modernisation initiative. 2. Increase in the number of retail centres. 3. The number of buildings is re-stated according to 2011 Telenor Group definition i.e. to include only office buildings and exclude network buildings. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-cce.php 2/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Note: 1. E-waste, a subset of DiGi's obsolete electrical and electronic equipment is defined according to Malaysian regulations for Scheduled Waste. It refers to components such as accumulators, mercury-switches, glass from biphenyl-capacitors, or parts contaminated with cadmium, mercury lead, nickel, chromium, copper, lithium, silver, manganese or polychlorinated biphenyl. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-cce.php 3/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Empowerment Through Connectivity 2012 target objectives, Status as at end 2013 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives 2012 Strengthen our mobile internet proposition to Offer products and services that promote affordable and further drive internet uptake. positive use of the internet. Expand our 3G network, introduce LTE 3G network in 80% of populated areas. services, and continue infrastructure sharing initiatives. Complete network modernisation programme, and roll out LTE services. Support the government's coverage and USP Continue supporting the government's coverage and USP initiatives to enhance digital inclusion. initiatives that bring internet to more Malaysians. Complete the final round of DiGi Challenge for Complete Phase 1 of DiGi Challenge for Change 2012/2013 Change 2011/2012. and choose best ideas for mobile applications. Launch DiGi Challenge for Change 2012/2013 Develop minimum of 5 mobile applications from the best ideas. with an enhanced focus on mobile internet. Extend DiGi CyberSAFE Programme to more Launch Phase 2 of DiGi CyberSAFE Programme. than 200 schools, 5,000 children, teachers, parents and guardians, and 14 1Malaysia Train 400 teachers and create awareness amongst 40,000 Internet Center communities. school students. Ethical and Responsible Business 2012 target objectives, Status as at end 2013 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives 2012 Review and update governance framework. Enhance management of compliance to risk-assessment. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-vstarget.php# 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Extend the scope of supply chain monitoring to Focus on reducing risks of major non-compliance in our supply sub-suppliers via inspections and awareness chain. programmes. Continued focus on excellent customer Embed customer centricity focus in key customer touchpoints. experience. Enhance customer centric culture amongst employees. Focus on consumer protection issues. Strengthen internal awareness and compliance to policies and manuals on privacy, information management and security. Best on People 2012 target objectives, Status as at end 2013 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives 2012 Strengthen channels for employee feedback. Strengthen the effectiveness of the BOPC to expedite resolution of issues. Cultivate a proactive health, safety, security Promote healthier lifestyles through awareness and training and environment (HSSE) culture amongst programmes for employees. employees. Focus on reducing the Lost-time Injury Frequency. Continue upgrading physical work Refresh key workspaces within DiGi's offices. environments. Develop stronger performance, development Introduce the Competency Framework. and competency management processes. Commence development of a Career Framework. Design a formalised training curriculum. Strengthen employer branding to attract and retain top talents. Competitive and performance-based rewards. Continue enhancing total rewards framework. Climate Change and Environment 2012 target objectives, Status as at end 2013 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives 2012 Drive greater energy efficiency via the network Complete network swap, and optimise energy efficiencies. modernisation initiative. Reduce diesel consumption in off-grid sites via Strengthen efforts to reduce diesel consumption via hybrid renewable solar energy, and conversion to grid solar-diesel sites and conversion of off-grid sites to grid power, electricity. where feasible. Efforts to reduce air conditioning in our Strengthen efforts to improve energy efficiency of air network. conditioning. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-performance-vstarget.php# 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Our sustainability efforts have been recognised through various awards and ratings. Following are awards and ratings received in the last three years. Asian Sustainability Ratingsby Asian Sustainability RatingTM 2011 No. 1 telecommunications company, and No. 2 overall in Malaysia 2010 No. 1 telecommunications company in Asia, and No. 1 overall in Malaysia Asia's Best Companies by Finance Asia 2012 No. 5 Best Managed Company Category No. 5 Best Corporate Governance Category No. 6 Best Corporate Social Responsibility Category 2011 No. 9 Best Managed Company Category No. 5 Best Corporate Governance Category No. 4 Best Corporate Social Responsibility Category dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-accolades.php 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Billion Ringgit Club 2011 by The EDGE Malaysia by The EDGE Malaysia 2012 No.2 Best CSR Initiatives Category 2011 Top 10 CSR Company of the Year Carbon Disclosure Project 2011 No.1 in Malaysia and No.5 in Asia (excluding Japan, India, China and Korea) Malaysia Cyber Security Awards by Cybersecurity Malaysia 2012 Information Security Outreach Provider of the Year CyberSAFE Ambassador for the Year Malaysia's 100 Leading Graduate Employers 2011 by GTI Media 2011 Winner, Telecommunication Sector Category Malaysia Corporate Governance Index by Minority Shareholders Watchdog Group (MSWG) Award 2011 Distinction Award 2010 Distinction Award MSOSH Occupational Safety and Health by Malaysian Society of Occupational Safety & Health 2010 Silver Recognition Award ACCA Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Awards 2010 by the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants 2010 Best First Time Reporter Ethical Business Excellence Award 2010/2011 by Ministry of Domestic Trade, Cooperatives and Consumerism 2010 Highest Recognition in the Large Enterprise Category dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-accolades.php 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our fourth Sustainability Report and the fourth Communication on Progress (COP) since becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact in September 2008. Our last Sustainability Report was published on May 8th, 2012. Scope The report covers DiGi.Com Berhad and its subsidiaries, which only operate within Malaysia. It does not include outsourced activities, joint venture and suppliers. The DiGi Annual Report 2012 together with the information this website, address all issues that are material to our business, covering social, environmental and economic impacts. Therefore, information on this report is to be read and crossed referenced with DiGi's Annual Report 2012 for a more comprehensive view of the group's overall financial and non-financial performance. Reporting period This is an annual report which covers the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 (Fiscal Year 2012). For selected performance indicators that have been historically tracked, we have included data from the past three years. Reporting Principles Our Sustainability Report is developed in accordance with the DiGi Standard Operating Policy and Procedures on Sustainability Reporting. The policy and procedures aim to provide guidance on the scope and boundaries of reporting, roles and responsibilities, internal control processes, and definitions for all reported parameters. They are consistent with the Telenor Group Non-Financial Reporting Procedures and other established reporting standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1 Guidelines, Green House Gas Emissions Protocol, Carbon Disclosure Project and the UN Global Compact. Following is an illustration of the reporting process that was undertaken for this year's report. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about.php 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 * Content Providers are employees responsible for providing data for various parameters. They are accountable for the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of data provided. New approaches Based on feedback received on our previous Sustainability Reports, we have implemented the following new approaches to improve the overall reporting quality and disclosure standards. Updating DiGi Standard Operating Policy and Procedures to provide greater clarity on roles and responsibilities of Content Providers. Referencing corporate information and initiatives that address issues relevant to the Principles of the UN Global Compact. Publishing this report in a fully digital format. This will help to extend the reach of our disclosure on Sustainability performance to a wider audience, and is also in keeping with our efforts to minimise our environmental impact. Audience and Accessibility This report is made available on our corporate website (www.digi.com.my/sustainability), for all key stakeholders and members of the public. A printable version of the full report is also available on the same website. Feedback Please direct your enquiries or feedback to: Joachim Rajaram – Head of Communications and Corporate Responsibility Email: cr@digi.com.my Tel: 03 57211800 Address : Lot 10, Jalan Delima 1/1, Subang Hi-Tech Industrial Park 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor Malaysia. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about.php 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT We have benchmarked our sustainability reporting against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines, and obtained an independent assurance from Ernst & Young for application level B+. Index of Conformance with the GRI 3.1 Guidelines: Strategy and Analysis Organisational Profile Report Parameters Governance, Commitments and Engagements Economic Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Labour Performance Indicators Human Rights Performance Indicators Society Performance Indicators Product Responsibility Performance Indicators The table below provides links to relevant information which has been published in this report, as well as other printed or electronic publications by DiGi. Core Indicator Additional Indicator 1. Strategy and Analysis Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker Annual report: Chairman and CEO's Statement of the organisation about the relevance of CEO's Message sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and CEO's Message opportunities. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 1/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 2. Organisational Profile Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer 2.1 Name of reporting organisation. About this report : Scope 2.2 Primary brands, products and services. Annual Report: Management Discussion and Analysis DiGi Website 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation including Annual Report: Corporate Structure main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. Annual Report: Notes to the Financial Statements About this Report 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation DiGi only operates in Malaysia. operates, and names of countries with either About this Report major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Annual Report: Notes to the Financial Statements 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Annual Report: Management Discussion and Analysis sectors served and types of About this Report customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation (including DiGi offers a wide range of voice, data and internet products in employees, assets, sales and products). the form of pre-paid, post paid, business solutions, international and financial services. Annual Report: Financial Statements and Notes to the Financial Statements About this Report Best on People: Performance Indicators DiGi website 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report: Chairman's Statement regarding size, structure or ownership. Annual Report: Statement of Changes in Equity 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Accolades 3. Report Parameters Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. About this Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle. About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Report or its contents. Reporting Scope and Boundary dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 2/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 3.5 Process for defining report content (including About this Report materiality, prioritising topics and identifying Our Approach to Sustainability stakeholders) 3.6 Boundary of the report. About this Report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or About this Report boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, About this Report leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of About this Report calculations, including assumptions and Ethical and Responsible Business: Performance Indicators techniques, underlying estimations applied to the Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Best on People: Performance Indicators information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Best on People: Performance Indicators periods in the scope, boundary or measurement Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators methods applied in the report. GRI Report Content 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard This index disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Assurance Statement external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the Sustainability 2012: Summary Report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider. 4. Governance, Commitment and Engagement Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, Annual Report: Corporate Structure including committees under the highest Annual Report: Governance governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer (and if so, their function within the organisation's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board Annual Report: Directors' Profiles structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance provide recommendations or direction to the Our Approach to Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement highest governance body. Best on People: Strengthening Employee Engagement 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Annual Report : Statement on Corporate Governance the highest governance body, senior managers, Our Approach to Sustainability and executives (including departure DiGi Values arrangements) and the organisation's performance (including social & environmental dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 3/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 performance (including social & environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance DiGi Code of Conduct 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance to economic, environmental and social DiGi Code of Conduct performance, and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance overseeing the organisation's identification and Our Approach to Sustainability management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance body's own performance, particularly with respect Our Approach to Sustainability to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitment to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Annual Report: Statement on Corporate Governance precautionary approach or principle is addressed DiGi Code of Conduct by the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, CEO's Message and social charters, principles or other initiatives About this Report : Reporting Principles to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Members in associations and/or DiGi as part of the Telenor Group is an active participant in national/international advocacy organisations in GSMA, the global association for mobile operators. which the organisation: DiGi is also a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Locally, DiGi actively participates in telecommunications industry forums, Has positions in governance bodies government bodies, Business Council for Corporate Social Participates in projects or committees Responsibility Malaysia and EU Malaysia Chamber of Commerce Provides substantive funding beyond and Industry. routine membership dues; or Empowerment Through Connectivity: Industry Development Views membership as strategic CEO's Message Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. E.g. surveys, focus groups, community panels, corporate advisory panels, written communication, management/union structures and other vehicles. Say whether any engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement and through stakeholder engagement, and how the Material Issues organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Performance Management Approach DiGi contributes directly to the Malaysian economy through license fees, taxes, contribution to Universal Service Provision, job creation and support to local business partners. Indirectly, our core offering of mobile internet and telephony are key enablers for socio economic development. Annual Report CEO's Message Our Approach to Sustainability dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 4/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Our Approach to Sustainability Empowerment Through Connectivity Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Annual Report: Group Financial Summary including revenues, operating costs, employee Annual Report: Statements of Comprehensive Income compensation, donations and other community Empowerment Through Connectivity : Performance Indicators investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and CEO's Message opportunities for the organisation's activities due Climate Change and Environment to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit Annual Report: Notes to the Financial Statements plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Annual Report: Statements of Cash Flows government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage DiGi's standard entry level wage is more than 150% of the compared to local minimum wage at significant gazetted minimum wage. locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Empowerment Through Connectivity : Performance Indicators locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of All available positions including senior management are opened senior management hired from the local to DiGi employees and external local candidates to select the community at significant locations of operation. best fit for the position. For selected positions with specialised skills, the search is extended to the Telenor Group of companies. Best on People: Performance Indicators EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Empowerment Through Connectivity investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Our Approach to Sustainability economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Empowerment Through Connectivity Environmental Performance Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Climate and Environment Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. DiGi is not involved in manufacturing. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled DiGi is not involved in manufacturing. input materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency improvements. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 5/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or N/A DiGi's main product or service is our communications services renewable energy based products and services, and energy efficiency. and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency and reductions achieved. Climate and Environment: Performance Indicators Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators EN9 Water sources significantly affected by DiGi's activities, products and services do not consume nor withdrawal of water. depend on large amounts of water. EN10 Percentage and total water volume of water DiGi's activities, products and services do not consume nor recycled and reused. depend on large amounts of water. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and from DiGi's activities, products and services. areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting products, and services on biodiversity in from DiGi's activities, products and services. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting from DiGi's activities, products and services. EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting managing impacts on biodiversity. from DiGi's activities, products and services. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting conservation list species with habitats in areas from DiGi's activities, products and services. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by DiGi's activities, products and services do not utilise nor weight. manufacture significant amounts of ozone depleting substances. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Under review to establish materiality. type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. DiGi's activities, products and services do not discharge large amounts of water. Office buildings are DiGi's main source of wastewater, which is treated according to local discharge conditions and legal requirements. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Climate and Environment: Performance Indicators method. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no spills in 2012. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or N/A DiGi disposes all scheduled waste in accordance with Malaysian treated waste deemed hazardous under the Scheduled Waste regulations. terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity DiGi's activities, products and services do not discharge large value of water bodies and related habitats amounts of water. significantly affected by the reporting dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 6/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 significantly affected by the reporting organisation's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Climate Change and Environment products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Under review to establish materiality. materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no cases of non-compliance in 2012. number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Transportation generates less than 3% of DiGi’s total CO 2 products and other goods and materials used for emissions and is therefore does not have a significant impact. the organisation's operations, and transporting Climate and Environment: Performance Indicators members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Environmental protection is taken into consideration in overall investments by type. capital expenditure decisions. Annual Report: Business Review Social Performance Labour Practices and Decent Work Management Approach Indicator Compliance Cross Reference and Direct Answer Labour Practices and Decent Work Our Approach to Sustainability Best on People Supply Chain Sustainability Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Best on People: Performance Indicators contract, and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee hires and Best on People: Performance Indicators turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are DiGi hires temporary employees from third party agencies and not provided to temporary or part-time they are not entitled to any benefits given to DiGi’s full-time employees, by significant locations of operations. employees. Best on People: Competitive and Performance-Based Rewards LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Best on People: Performance Indicators leave, by gender. Labour/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective DiGi supports freedom of association and collective bargaining as bargaining agreements. stated in DiGi's Code of Conduct. Under the Industrial Relations Act 1967 the right to collective bargaining is similarly enshrined. Best on People: Performance Indicators DiGi Code of Conduct LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant DiGi gives 1 month notice to inform all employees of operational operational changes, including whether it is changes that result in loss of employment. For employees falling specified in collective agreements. within the scope of the Employment Act, notice is as provided in sections 12 (2) (a), (b) and (c), and section 12 (3) of the Employment Act 1955. Best on People: Engaging and Supportive Work Environment Occupational Health and Safety dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 7/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Best on People: Promoting Health, Safety and Wellness formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, There were no work-related fatalities in 2012. and absenteeism, and number of work-related Best on People : Performance Indicators fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and DiGi organises education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce risk-control programmes for employees, whenever there is an members, their families, or community members outbreak of serious diseases. regarding serious diseases. Best on People: Engaging and Supportive Work Environment Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal N/A To-date, there is no trade union in DiGi. agreements with trade unions. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Best on People : Performance Indicators by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Best on People : Most Attractive Career Development learning that support the continued employability Best on People : Performance Indicators of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Best on People : Performance Indicators performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Annual Report: Directors Profiles breakdown of employees per category according Best on People: Performance Indicators to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by DiGi practices equal opportunity to all in salary and employee category. remunerations. DiGi Code of Conduct Best on People Human Rights Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability DiGi Code of Conduct Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant All significant investment agreements are subject to the terms of investment agreements that include human rights our Supplier Conduct Principles which include internationally clauses or that have undergone human rights proclaimed human rights standards such as the UN Declaration screening. and conventions on human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators Supplier Conduct Principles HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and All agreements with significant suppliers and contractors are contractors that have undergone screening on subject to the terms of our Supplier Conduct Principles and/or human rights and actions taken. DiGi Code of Conduct which includes internationally proclaimed human rights standards including the UN Declaration and conventions on human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators Supplier Conduct Principles HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Ethical and Responsible Business: Performance Indicators procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and There have been no incidents of discrimination in 2012. DiGi is actions taken. opposed to discriminatory practices, and is committed to do its utmost to promote equality in all employment practices. This is dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 8/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 utmost to promote equality in all employment practices. This is stated in DiGi’s code of conduct. DiGi Code of Conduct Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in DiGi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks which the right to exercise freedom of association of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses and collective bargaining may be at significant on freedom of association and collective bargaining. risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Child Labour HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for DiGi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks incidents of forced and compulsory labour, and of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses measures taken to contribute to the elimination on child labour. of forced and compulsory labour. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for DiGi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses measures to contribute to the elimination of on forced and compulsory labour. forced or compulsory labour. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the All security personnel have been trained in basic health, safety organisation's policies or procedures concerning and security, as part of the requirements in the Supplier Conduct aspects of human rights that are relevant to Principles. operations. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving There have been no violations in 2012. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that DiGi assesses its operations for risks of violations to our code of have been subject to human rights reviews conduct and Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses and/or impact assessments. on internationally proclaimed human rights such as the UN Declaration and conventions on human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators DiGi Code of Conduct Supplier Conduct Principles Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights There have been no filed grievances in 2012. filed, addressed and resolved through formal DiGi Code of Conduct grievance mechanisms. Society Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Empowerment Through Connectivity Ethical and Responsible Business DiGi Code of Conduct Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Community S01 Percentage of operations with implemented local DiGi assesses its operational impact on community, and carries community engagement, impact assessments, and out relevant development and engagement programmes to development programmes. address such impacts. Empowerment Through Connectivity Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Interests S09 Operations with significant potential or actual Ethical and Responsible Business negative impacts on local communities. Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 9/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 S10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented Ethical and Responsible Business in operations with significant potential or actual Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children negative impacts on local communities. Corruption S02 Percentage and total number of business units DiGi’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy apply strict analysed for risks related to corruption. requirements across our operations. S03 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators anti-corruption policies and procedures. S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of There were no incidents of corruption in 2012. corruption. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Public Policy Behavior S05 Public policy positions and participation in public Empowerment Through Connectivity : Industry Development policy development and lobbying. S06 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to N/A DiGi does not give support to political parties, either in the form political parties, politicians, and related of direct financial support or paid time. This is stated in DiGi’s institutions by country. Code of Conduct. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance DiGi Code of Conduct Anti-Competitive Behaviour S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive There were no legal actions in 2012. behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no cases of non-compliance in 2012. number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety All key products and services are subject to health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for assessments which cover design, use/delivery and disposal, and improvement, and percentage of significant are required to be compliant with local safety standards. DiGi is products and services categories subject to such committed to taking an active role in delivering safer products procedures. and services. Ethical and Responsible Business Ethical and Responsible Business : Addressing RF Emissions Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with There were no incidents of non-compliance in 2012. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children by procedures and percentage of significant Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Interests products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with There were no incidents of non-compliance in 2012. regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Consistent with the Telenor Group, DiGi introduced a new including results of surveys measuring customer improved customer satisfaction indicator during the year, which satisfaction. will be disclosed in our 2013 report. Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Interests Marketing Communications dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 10/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Marketing Communications PR6 Programme for adherence to laws, standards, and DiGi has identified laws, standards and voluntary codes relating voluntary codes related to marketing to marketing communications which apply to its products and communications, including advertising, promotion, services. Internal policies and procedures regarding marketing and sponsorship. communications are in place. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Interests Privacy PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with One incident of non-compliance on Mandatory Standards of regulations and voluntary codes concerning Provisioning of Mobile Content Services. marketing communications, including advertising, An internal audit has been carried out to ensure strict adherence promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. and our Regulatory (together with Internal Audit team) is now reporting the progress to Audit Committee on quarterly basis. Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints One case was lodged to Consumer Forum Malaysia (CFM) on regarding breaches of customer privacy and customer privacy. The case was closed on the same day. losses of customer data. Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Interests Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators DiGi Code of Conduct Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonThere were no fines for non-compliance in 2012. compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-gri.php# 11/11 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT This report serves as our fourth communication on progress by DiGi.com Berhad. The list below provides links to this website and other publications by DiGi, which explain our approach and performance on issues relevant to the Principles of the Global Compact. Principle 1: Support and Respect the Protection of Internationally Proclaimed Human Rights Corporate Governance Consumer Interests Supply Chain Sustainability Best on People Safer Internet for Children Principle 2: No Complicity in Human Rights Abuses Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-un.php 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Principle 3: Uphold Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining DiGi Way of Work Engaging and Supportive Work Environment Principle 4: Elimination of all forms Forced and Compulsory Labour Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability Principle 5: Abolition of Child Labour Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability Principle 6: Eliminate Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation Corporate Governance Competitive and Performance Based Rewards Principle 7: Support a Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges DiGi Way of Work Climate Change and Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Promote Greater Environmental Responsibility DiGi Way of Work Climate Change and Environment Principle 9: Encourage the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies DiGi Way of Work Climate Change and Environment Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-un.php 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT 2G services Voice and data services being provided using our GSM network (operating in 900MHz and 1800MHz bands). 3G services Voice and data services being provided using our WCDMA network (operating in 2100MHz band). Voice and data services using the next generation of mobile broadband technologies including Long Term 4G services Evolution (LTE) and operating in 2600MHz band. The price charged by a telecommunication service provider for connection to its network in order for the Access Pricing other provider to complete the service for its end-user customers. Deconsolidation of financial statements for wholesale and retail services as if they were separate businesses. Accounting It is designed to reduce information asymmetry, enhance transparency and complement the existing Separation regulatory instruments to address and prevent anti-competitive behaviour in the telecommunications industry. A network that has greater bandwidth than another standard or usual signal or device, with ability to Broadband transmit signals of up to 128 Kbps. Pusat Internet 1Malaysia (formerly A project under the Universal Service Provision programme to provide collective internet access in known as Community underserved areas. Broadband Centre) Initiative to share the use of towers, fibre optic facilities and also network capacity between two or more Infrastructure Sharing telecommunication companies. The provisions of collective broadband access and individual broadband access service for targeted Wireless Village communities living in the underserved areas. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-glossary.php# 1/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Mobile Virtual A mobile service provider that does not own key network assets such as spectrum and telecommunications Network Operator structures but leases them from other mobile network operators. (MVNO) Radio Frequency A frequency of electromagnetic radiation in the range at which radio signals are transmitted. Emission Spectrum A range of electromagnetic frequencies required for telecommunication systems to operate. A programme to support the development and usage of communication services in underserved areas and Universal Service communities. Operators are mandated to contribute to the USP fund which is managed by the Malaysian Provision (USP) Communications and Multimedia Commission, and are reimbursed for building telecommunications infrastructure in underserved areas. As defined by SKMM, any area: Where the penetration rate for broadband subscribers in Malaysia is below the national broadband penetration rate or where broadband access services are not sufficient. Underserved areas Where the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) subscribers penetration rate is 20% below the national PSTN penetration or where PSTN services are not sufficiently available. With a population density of 80 persons per square kilometer or less, and where public cellular services are not sufficiently available. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-glossary.php# 2/2 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES · APPROACH · STRATEGY · FOCUS AREAS · PERFORMANCE · ACCOLADES · ABOUT THIS REPORT Assurance Statement by Ernst & Young Independent Limited Assurance Statement To The Management Of DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd We have performed limited assurance procedures in relation to DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's Sustainability Report 2012 ('the Report') as detailed in the 'Scope of work' below. The Management's responsibility DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's Sustainability Report (2012) has been prepared by the Management of DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd, which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information it contains and for maintaining adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the sustainability reporting process. There are currently no legally prescribed requirements relating to the preparation, publication and verification of sustainability reports. The auditor's responsibility Our responsibility in performing our limited assurance activities is to the Management of DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with them. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at their own risk. Our review was limited to the information on the select indicators set out within the Company's sustainability web content and our responsibility does not include: Any work in respect of sustainability information published elsewhere on DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's annual report / website; Sustainability information prior to 01 January 2012; and Review of Management's forward looking statements such as targets and intentions Our multi-disciplinary team has the required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement. Reporting criteria As a basis for the assurance engagement, we have used relevant criteria in the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative ('GRI G3.1'). We consider these reporting criteria to be relevant and appropriate to review the Report. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-assurance.php 1/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Assurance standard used and level of assurance Our limited assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the ISAE 30001. We have also considered the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 ('GRI G3.1') reporting guidelines in conducting our limited assurance procedures. A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Our procedures were designed to provide a limited level of assurance and as such do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance. The procedures performed depend on the assurance practitioner's judgement including the risk of material misstatement of the specific activity data, whether due to fraud or error. While we considered the effectiveness of Management's internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our review was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Scope of work We have been engaged by the Management of DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd ( Company ) to perform limited assurance on select indicators of the Report. Subject matter The subject matter for our limited assurance engagement is: Statements and claims related to the following indicators in relevance to DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's focus areas presented in the Report: 1. Empowerment Through Connectivity: Number of students attending the DiGi CyberSAFE Programme 2. Ethical and Responsible Business: Number of employees trained for Code of Conduct 3. Best on People: Lost time due to Injury and Career development oriented training undergone by employees 4. Climate Change & Environment: Direct and indirect energy consumption, direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (limited to business travel and mileage claims) What we did to form our conclusions The procedures performed in order to obtain limited assurance aim to verify the plausibility of information and probe less deeply than those performed for assurance engagements aimed at obtaining limited reasonable assurance. We designed our procedures in order to state whether anything has come to our attention to suggest that the subject matter detailed above has not been reported in accordance with the reporting criteria cited earlier. In order to form our conclusions we undertook the steps outlined below: 1. Interviewed DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's executives including the Chief Strategy and Corporate Affairs Officer who also holds responsibility for the sustainability reporting process, to understand the current status of their sustainable development agenda and activities. 2. Undertook visits to DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's offices including their Technology Operations Center. 3. Reviewed DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's' processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report. 4. Reviewed selected relevant internal documents pertaining to the select indicators to assess the accuracy of reporting. 5. Reviewed draft of the Report for statements or assertions for consistency with the findings from our work. 6. Traced select relevant sources of information in line with the Telenor Group non financial reporting guidelines, reviewed conversion factors in relation to their sources, relevance and accuracy. 7. Obtained and reviewed evidence to support key assumptions and reasonableness in calculations and other data. The limitations of our review Our review was limited to the information on the select indicators set out within the Company's sustainability web content at http://www.digi.com.my/sustainability. The accuracy and completeness of the sustainability indicators are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance report should therefore be read in connection with DiGi's procedures on the reporting of its sustainability performance. Our independence Ernst & Young has provided independent assurance services in relation to the DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's Sustainability Report (2012). We have provided no other services relating to DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's approach to sustainability reporting. In conducting our assurance engagement we have met the independence requirements of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Singapore, Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics. Our independence policies prohibit any financial interests in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence. Each year, partners and staff are required to confirm their compliance with the firm's policies. dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-assurance.php 2/3 08/05/2013 DiGi Sustainabilty Report 2012 Observations and areas for improvement Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a report to DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's Management. The focus on this report will be in addressing any identified gaps between the GRI principles for defining report content, materiality, completeness, sustainability context and stakeholder inclusiveness and those presented within the report. These observations do not affect our conclusions on the Report set out below. Standardisation of data collection/compilation procedures from input sources need to be improved to ensure greater degree of relevance, consistency and accuracy in the Report. Categorisation and compilation of all the types of training imparted to employees need further organisation to arrive at a fuller picture of training investment in employees. Conclusion We believe that our procedures provide us with an appropriate basis to conclude with a limited level of assurance on the select indicators for DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's Sustainability Report 2012. On the basis of our procedures aimed at obtaining limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Report does not comply with the above mentioned reporting criteria and DiGi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd's self-declaration of GRI application level B+ is not fairly stated. K SADASHIV Partner Climate Change and Sustainability Services Ernst & Young LLP 26 April 2013 Note: 1. International Federation of the Accountants' International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) dev.mustardworldwide.com/digi_report_2012/page-about-assurance.php 3/3
