NIBC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Table of contents About NIBC At a Glance 2 Letter from the CEO 4 Report of the Managing Board Strategy 6 Review of 2012 8 Our Clients 13 Our People 17 Risk Overview 20 Outlook and Targets 2013 22 SWOT Analysis 23 Governance Report of the Supervisory Board 24 Corporate Governance 28 Remuneration Report 30 In Control Report 34 Risk Management 35 Consolidated Financial Statements 48 Company Financial Statements 182 Other Information 210 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 1 At a Glance Who we are is now and will always be our guiding principle. We NIBC Bank N.V. (NIBC) is an entrepreneurial bank employ a ‘yes’ mentality spotting opportunities for that offers Corporate Banking and Consumer our clients and doing all we can to help them reach Banking. Agile and flexible, we think and act like their goals. entrepreneurs to support corporate clients in building their businesses. For our independentThis client focus and social commitment is the minded, enterprising retail clients, we offer heart of our corporate responsibility. Everything we straightforward, transparent products. do is in the service of our clients. In order to serve them to the best of our abilities, we need to be Our clients are our top priority. By understanding financially healthy. That knowledge is why our their needs and putting our know-how to work, we long-standing strategic financial priorities are build long-term relationships. We work together sustainable profitability, strong solvency and ample with corporations, financial institutions, liquidity. institutional investors, financial sponsors, family offices, entrepreneurial investors and retail clients. Our stakeholders We have a responsibility to manage our impact on What we do stakeholders and consider their interests in our Our Corporate Banking activities cover a decision-making. We define stakeholders as groups combination of advice, financing and coor individuals who are affected by or can affect the investment activities. We have expert sector achievement of our objectives. We distinguish these knowledge in Food, Agri & Retail; Commercial groups of stakeholders as: clients, employees, Real Estate; Industries & Manufacturing; shareholders, investors, suppliers, society and Infrastructure & Renewables; Oil & Gas Services; environment, peer banks, regulators, rating Shipping & Intermodal; and Technology, Media & agencies and the government. Services. For every transaction, we put together a hand-picked, cross-discipline Corporate Banking We aim to be transparent and constantly engage team that tailors NIBC’s services to the individual with all our different stakeholders. Engagement client. takes place in different forms, from ongoing dialogue to direct feedback requests. We take Our Consumer Banking activities include feedback seriously, as the support of our various residential mortgages and online retail saving stakeholders is necessary for our long-term success. deposits via NIBC Direct in the Netherlands, Visit our website for an overview of stakeholder Germany and Belgium. engagement. Our mission The NIBC Code of Conduct sets the framework for We believe clients want a long-term relationship of how we carefully balance the diverse interests of our trust with their bank. In a complex world, they look stakeholders. The code is based on our three core for a bank that is transparent and accessible; a bank values − trust, professionalism and integrity − that provides them with clear and sustainable supported by our vision, mission and ambition and solutions. This is reflected in our mission: to be the NIBC’s business principles. Visit our website for bank of choice for decisive financial moments. more information on our Code of Conduct. Our strategy Our clients We were established in 1945 with a fundamental Our clients are our starting point, driving social purpose: to provide financing for the everything we do. We are a trustworthy banking entrepreneurs who helped rebuild the Netherlands partner and act swiftly and resolutely at decisive after World War Two. Putting clients first was then, moments for our clients. It is our goal to create a 2 About NIBC At a Glance sustainable franchise for the future by building For further detail on NIBC and our activities, please long-term relationships with our clients and refer to our website or click on the links throughout delivering clear and sustainable solutions. this report. In Corporate Banking, we focus on helping our clients navigate complex issues to achieve their strategic ambitions. In Consumer Banking, we offer no-nonsense, transparent retail products such as online savings accounts, brokerage activities and mortgage lending. Our people The success of NIBC depends largely on the quality of our people. People are our most important asset, giving our clients optimal advice and support and sharing the same entrepreneurial spirit. We aim to be an attractive employer that strives for diversity and selects, retains and develops the best people. Our corporate responsibility Our client focus and fundamental social commitment to supporting entrepreneurs are at the heart of our corporate responsibility. Our sustainability efforts are also geared toward managing risks as we work with our clients to create a sustainable value chain. We measure our performance not only by financial achievements, but also by our economic, social and environmental contribution. We have defined three areas of attention to ensure that sustainability considerations are incorporated in every aspect of our business, drive our performance and contribute to sustainable profitability: 1. Client Business: to maintain long-term relationships, deliver responsible services and realise sustainable growth; 2. Corporate Citizenship: to take our social and environmental responsibility; and 3. People: to respect human rights as a responsibility towards our employees and people in the world around us. This 2012 Annual Report meets the GRI level B+ (self-declared) criteria. This year we also received external assurance on our key corporate responsibility figures. Our offices Headquartered in The Hague, NIBC also has offices in Brussels, Frankfurt, London and Singapore. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 3 Letter from the CEO Looking back on 2012, I am proud of how NIBC performed and what we achieved despite the persistent challenges of eurozone crisis and global economic weakness, not to mention factors such as the Dutch political and budget uncertainty. Some calm returned to markets after the summer, but this is still a nervous market and business environment. NIBC realised a net profit of EUR 73 million (2011: We used our strong capital and liquidity position to EUR 68 million) and NIBC Holding N.V. (NIBC continue strengthening our franchise, serving our Holding) a net profit of EUR 102 million (2011: clients in support of their business ambitions. Our EUR 86 million) in 2012. Our Corporate Banking two-pillar structure of Corporate Banking and business continued to close good transactions. Consumer Banking enhanced our focus on the Consumer Banking further increased retail savings, specific needs of our client groups. including in Belgium, where it launched NIBC Direct in December 2011 as a third market As well as financial health, you need committed alongside the Netherlands and Germany. employees if you are to satisfy your clients. I am delighted that for the third year running, our NIBC has always had a fundamental social purpose. annual employee survey demonstrated very high We were established to finance entrepreneurs who engagement among NIBC staff. Overall helped rebuild the Netherlands after World War engagement was 85%, putting NIBC ahead of other Two. To this day, our client focus and social global financial services organisations and on a par commitment are the heart of our corporate with other high-performing organisations around responsibility. the world. When your clients drive everything you do, their As a bank, we recognise our responsibility to all our satisfaction is paramount. So I am deeply gratified stakeholders, including clients, employees, by the positive client feedback we received last year, investors and the community. Corporate both informally and through the Net Promoter responsibility is increasingly woven into the fabric Score (NPS) survey. of everything we do. It matters most in our core business, where we focus on serving our clients To serve clients the best you can, you need to be while consistently applying regulatory, ethical, financially healthy. This requires sustainable environmental and social standards to clients and profitability, strong solvency and ample liquidity – transactions. As part of our corporate citizenship strategic priorities on which NIBC again made initiatives last year, NIBC bankers visited local good progress last year. primary schools to teach children about money management, while employees from our We strengthened and diversified our funding Technology & Operations department did position further in 2012. We issued two unsecured voluntary work with children, elderly and bonds – clear testament to market faith in NIBC – handicapped people in and around The Hague. On and a residential mortgage-backed securitisation. the environmental front, we continued to be a We also increased our retail deposits gathered carbon-neutral organisation. through NIBC Direct. Our already strong solvency further improved, with capital ratios more than In 2013, we will continue to do all in our power to fulfilling Basel III requirements. We opted to preserve our clients, sharpening our sector focus and pay part of our remaining government-guaranteed expertise so we can offer them even better tailorbonds. made products and services. At the same time, we 4 About NIBC Letter from the CEO Jeroen Drost Kees van Dijkhuizen Rob ten Heggeler Petra van Hoeken will control costs, ensure strong capital and I am confident that NIBC’s client-focused model, liquidity, meet ever-increasing regulatory financial health and engaged staff stand us in requirements and reduce our non-core activities, excellent stead for 2013 and the years beyond. just as we did in 2012. External factors such as the eurozone situation, low On behalf of the Managing Board, economic growth, budget cuts in the Netherlands and weak consumer and business confidence have The Hague, 5 March 2013 not disappeared. Yet there are some positive macroeconomic signs as we enter this year. Jeroen Drost Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Managing Board Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 5 Strategy We were established in 1945 with a fundamental social purpose: to provide financing for the entrepreneurs who helped rebuild the Netherlands after World War Two. Putting clients first was then, is now and will always be our guiding principle. We employ a ‘yes’ mentality spotting opportunities for our clients and doing all we can to help them reach their goals. This client focus and social commitment is the Sustainable profitability heart of our corporate responsibility. Everything we Our aim is to be profitable in a sustainable manner, do is in the service of our clients. In order to serve which is a multi-year process. Sustainable them to the best of our abilities, we need to be profitability is crucial to all our stakeholders. In financially healthy. That knowledge is why our order to serve our clients and create shareholder long-standing strategic financial priorities are and stakeholder value, we aim to deliver the optimal sustainable profitability, strong solvency and ample balance between risk and return and we focus liquidity. relentlessly on controlling costs. NIBC’s risk management approach ensures responsible To fulfil these priorities, we need to work within the banking, in line with regulatory requirements and parameters set by financial stakeholders such as the ethical, environmental, social and other Dutch Central Bank (DNB), our shareholders and sustainability standards. the rating agencies. At a Strategy Day attended by the Managing Board and Supervisory Board in Our performance is measured not only by financial 2012, we mapped out the diverse requirements of achievements, but also by our economic, social and these stakeholders. Reconciling these demands and environmental contribution. Three areas of interests is integral to how we operate. attention have been defined to ensure that sustainability considerations are incorporated in Client focus every aspect of our business, drive our performance Our clients are our starting point, driving and contribute to sustainable profitability: everything we do. We are a trustworthy banking partner and act swiftly and resolutely at decisive 1. Client Business: to maintain long-term moments for our clients. relationships, deliver responsible services and realise sustainable growth; In Corporate Banking, we focus on helping our 2. Corporate Citizenship: to take our social and clients navigate complex issues to achieve their environmental responsibility; and strategic ambitions. Our relatively modest size 3. People: to respect human rights as a enables sector and product specialists to work responsibility towards our employees and together to develop tailor-made financial solutions people in the world around us. for evolving client demands. In these turbulent times, we remain focused on the long term. We believe this will enable us to perform better as a company and to build sustainable client We aim to expand our existing client relationships relationships. on the back of our sector knowledge, as well as using that knowledge and our track record to Funding and solvency expand our client base. In order to serve our clients well, we need a solid funding position. Financial institutions worldwide In Consumer Banking, we offer no-nonsense, have seen their access to capital markets deteriorate transparent retail products such as online savings rapidly since the credit crisis. Diversification of accounts, brokerage activities and mortgage lending. funding has been an important part of our strategy Here too, we have the clear intention to grow. since the beginning of 2008. 6 Repor t of the Management Board Strategy In order to ensure long-term stability, we took decisive steps to diversify our funding and ensure stable, transparent and tightly-controlled liquidity. We have obtained forms of funding such as online retail savings products via NIBC Direct, covered bonds, securitisations and senior unsecured debt. Achieving and maintaining a rating appropriate to our position in the banking world is part of our long-term sustainable funding policy. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 7 Review of 2012 In terms of general economic, financial and business conditions, 2012 began in the same challenging way that 2011 ended. The first half of the year was difficult as the eurozone crisis flared. But financial markets stabilised after European Central Bank action in the summer, and we saw some fragile calm return. Against this volatile backdrop, NIBC performed Our high-quality portfolio proved robust – a strongly. NIBC ended 2012 with a net profit of notable achievement given the difficulties many EUR 73 million compared to EUR 68 million the cyclical sectors are experiencing in this economic previous year. NIBC Holding posted net profit of climate. Our consumer banking activities enjoyed EUR 102 million versus 2011’s EUR 86 million. another excellent year. Income statement in EUR millions 2012 2011 Net interest income 127 172 Net fee and commission income 18 36 Dividend income 8 5 Net trading income 94 18 Gains less losses from financial assets 27 50 Share in result of associates (1) 1 Other operating income Operating income 272 282 Personnel expenses (89) (99) Other operating expenses (52) (65) Depreciation and amortisation (6) (6) Operating expenses (146) (170) Impairments of financial assets (45) (44) Total expenses (192) (213) Profit before tax 80 69 Tax (7) (1) Profit after tax 73 68 Result attributable to non-controlling interests Net profit attributable to parent shareholder 73 68 The income statement differs from that presented in the consolidated financial statements due to the treatment of non-financial companies controlled by NIBC. This only affects the presentation of the income statement and not the bottom-line profit figures. See note 1 to the consolidated financial statement for more information and a full reconciliation between the two presentations of the income statement. Small differences are possible in this table due to rounding. 8 Repor t of the Management Board Review of 2012 Client focus balance our Corporate Loan and Residential Last year saw us further balance the businesses that Mortgages portfolios. form our two-pillar organisation: Corporate Banking and Consumer Banking. Both sides The slight decrease in these portfolios was fully performed robustly, although uncertainty over the offset by an increase in the average portfolio spread. economic outlook took an undeniable toll. Business It therefore had little impact on net interest income. confidence declined – depressing demand for new Net interest income declined, mainly driven by the corporate credit facilities – as did consumer funding costs of our high level of liquidity in 2012, confidence. which is being built up to repay the remaining balance of state-guaranteed funding in the coming Consumer banking activities matured and grew two years. In the second half of 2012, we succeeded further in 2012, with NIBC Direct savings in lowering these costs by repurchasing EUR 0.5 increasing 26% to EUR 7.7 billion by end 2012. billion of our state-guaranteed funding. In addition, NIBC Direct Belgium enjoyed a highly successful funding costs are temporarily higher as the interest first year after its launch in December 2011. Our rates paid on our savings follow the significantly retail activities in the Netherlands and Germany lower Euribor (Euro Interbank Offered Rate) also developed well, with savings volumes in those market rates in 2012 with a time lag. Our net countries continuing to grow. interest income increased in the second half of the year compared to the first half and we expect this to On the corporate side, we supported clients with continue in 2013. advisory, financing and investment transactions across core regions and sectors. We were able to Between 2011 and 2012, our fee income fell as close innovative deals across all our sectors and corporate clients postponed strategic transactions. disciplines. The second half of 2012 saw an improvement compared to the first half. We continued to reap the benefits of the adjusted organisational set-up we implemented at the Our trading line increased significantly. This was beginning of 2012. All our Corporate Banking primarily due to our residential mortgage book, for activities are now integrated into client-focused which we use fair value accounting. Unrealised groups of sector specialists. This sector-based losses from the past now return as unrealised profit approach promotes better dialogue and sharing of gains, as a result of declining spreads in the industry expertise across the bank, which clearly Residential Mortgage-backed Securities (RMBS) benefits our corporate clients. market. Feedback from our clients, both directly and in NPS Our insight into market needs and demands was surveys, was positive, recognising our role in enhanced again in 2012 by advice from our Senior supporting them in these difficult economic times Board Advisors and Advisory Board. These – both in the Netherlands and abroad. Our offices boards’ members – Dirk Boogmans, Arnoud Boot, in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany and Marcel Corstjens, Joost van der Does de Willebois, Singapore again delivered vital contributions to our Menno de Jager, Ad Scheepbouwer, Koos Tesselaar, overall performance in 2012. Pieter Verboom, Hein Verloop and Philippe de Vicq de Cumptich – are all senior professionals with Our Corporate Loan portfolio (both drawn and strong track records, reputations and relevant undrawn) decreased by EUR 660 million to networks. The Advisory Board meets regularly to EUR 8.8 billion at end 2012. Although origination discuss strategy, trends and/or special issues for the of new loans was at a healthy level, it was more benefit of NIBC’s clients. It met four times in 2012 than offset by pre-payments and repayments as and its members had much individual ad hoc our clients deleveraged their balance sheets in contact with NIBC bankers during the year. Please response to market conditions. NIBC’s Residential see our website for more information. Mortgage portfolio (both own book and securitised) decreased from EUR 8.7 billion to For more on how client focus fits into our strategy, EUR 8.2 billion, reflecting our decision to better see the Strategy section. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 9 Sustainable profitability Principles on Business and Human Rights, and Cost control stakeholder feedback. We also started embedding a We further reduced our operating expenses to risk-based sustainability framework, allowing our EUR 146 million in 2012 from EUR 170 million in businesses to sharpen their focus on those 2011 as we maintained strict control. By lowering sustainability risks that are most relevant and costs by 14%, we reduced our cost-to-income ratio potentially have the highest impact, thus making from 60% at end-2011 to 54% at end 2012. our sustainability efforts more efficient. Personnel expenses decreased by 10% to NIBC continues to be a carbon-neutral EUR 89 million. The number of full-time organisation and is committed to reducing its equivalents (FTEs) fell from 664 to 627 in 2012. carbon footprint. In 2012, we continued Other operating expenses declined by 20%. implementing our energy-saving programme. We completed the construction of a hot/cold storage This increased cost efficiency across the board facility at our premises in The Hague, which demonstrates our ongoing commitment to contributes to significant energy savings. reducing our cost base. Taking our social responsibility, NIBC supports Engaged employees several local projects to encourage financial literacy Our third annual Employee Engagement Survey among young people. We continued initiatives such drew an extremely high 86% participation rate that as our debt prevention programme in The Hague matched that of 2011. The overall engagement score last year, and dozens of NIBC employees facilitated at NIBC remains high at 85% and was comparable guest lessons at local schools to encourage pupils to to that of 2011 (86%). manage their finances responsibly. We again outperformed the Financial Services Funding and solvency Benchmark, with a level of engagement equivalent to We strengthened and diversified our funding other high-performance organisations. Outcomes position further in 2012 and maintained strong improved particularly in the following areas: liquidity and solvency. This was reflected in our transparency and trust – effective functioning and decision to channel income from our activities into communication by line managers; ethical standards maintaining a robust cash position and repaying – awareness of doing business in a socially part of our government-guaranteed funding. responsible way and in line with NIBC’s basic principles; and diversity – recognising and respecting We issued a milestone EUR 300 million senior differences such as gender, age and nationality. unsecured bond in May – our first unsecured transaction in five years and a clear sign of market Employees were also positive when asked whether faith in NIBC. We followed that in December with sufficient action was taken in response to the the issue of a Norwegian krone-denominated findings of previous surveys. senior unsecured bond of NOK 500 million. Sustainability In the third quarter, we successfully issued a Our total client focus and fundamental social EUR 526.5 million residential mortgage-backed commitment to supporting entrepreneurs are at the securitisation. heart of our corporate responsibility. Our sustainability efforts are also geared toward We repaid EUR 1.4 billion of governmentmanaging risks as we work with our clients to create guaranteed bonds and we bought back a sustainable value chain. EUR 500 million of outstanding Governmentbacked debt securities in two tranches, in July and We continuously review our sustainability policies October 2012. We also extended a EUR 590 million to ensure they reflect the latest changes and insights secured funding transaction at an attractive rate. As regarding corporate responsibility. In 2012, we part of this transaction, NIBC issued two privatelyupdated the human rights section of our placed unsecured floating rate notes with notional sustainability policies, triggered by changes in values of EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million, international standards, such as the UN Guiding both with a term of three years. 10 Repor t of the Management Board Review of 2012 Funding also increased through our successful Consumer Banking operations. Retail savings in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium via NIBC Direct increased to EUR 7.7 billion by year end, continuing NIBC Direct’s powerful growth since launching four years ago. Our strong liquidity position is illustrated by our Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio of 236% and our Net Stable Funding Ratio of 114%. Maintaining a strong solvency position has also been a strategic priority in recent years. NIBC’s core Tier-1 ratio was 15.3% (NIBC Holding: 14.1%) and our Tier-1 ratio was 18.1% (NIBC Holding: 16.9%) at end December 2012. This is clearly above the new Basel III capital requirements and the core Tier-1 ratio of 13.8% and Tier-1 ratio of 16.2% in 2011 (NIBC Holding core Tier-1 ratio: 12.8% and Tier-1 ratio: 15.2% in 2011). Our BIS ratio was 19.1% in 2012 compared to 17.5% in 2011. Important external recognition came in November when rating agency Standard & Poor’s revised its assessment of NIBC’s capital position to ‘strong’ from ‘adequate’. NIBC was the only Dutch bank to retain its current rating and outlook. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 11 Targets and performance in 2012 The following table shows the targets the Managing Board set for 2012, and our performance against those targets. Targets Performance Client focus Targets ✓ Strengthen proposition among client target groups: Corporate campaign very well received. Brand awareness increased from 60% to 67% in use NPS and NIBC Direct surveys to assess client 2012 and brand preference rose from 49% to 59%. An increased number of clients were perceptions and take appropriate action. asked for feedback. Good NPS scores (12%) at Corporate Banking. NPS at Consumer Banking above peer bank average. Feedback used to further improve client processes. ✓ Further balance Corporate Banking and Consumer Diversification of Corporate Loan portfolio increased by rebalancing exposures Banking activities. to the various sectors. Improved alignment of the size of the Residential Mortgage portfolio to that of the Corporate Loan portfolio. ✓ Sustainability in client business: continue screening Environmental and social risk assessments fully embedded in our client transaction 100% of clients for environmental and social risks process. Risk-based approach to sustainability assessments developed in cooperation with while further developing and embedding a risk-based stakeholders. This approach will be implemented in Q1 2013. Policies updated to ensure sustainability framework. they meet the latest international standards on human rights and labour standards. Sustainable profitability ✗ Bring cost-to-income ratio below 50%. Strict cost control maintained to bring cost-to-income ratio down to 54% from 2011’s 60% the right trend but not yet on target. ✓ Maintain tight credit risk control and keep Impairment level of loans and debt investments was 27 basis points, so below 40 basis impairment level of loans and debt investments points throughout 2012. below 40 basis points. ✓ Exceed global financial sector benchmark for Employee engagement again exceeded this benchmark, at 85% in 2012 in line with employee engagement. high-performing organisations. ✓ Diversity: increase number of women in senior Figures improved compared to 2011. In 2012, 16% of our Managing Board members management positions, with goal to increase this to and Managing Directors were women (2011: 14%). At Director level 7% were women 30% in 2015. (2011: 5%). ✓ Aim to realise all the above targets with close Dialogue with stakeholders further intensified. Feedback from clients, employees, attention to the needs of all stakeholders. shareholders, rating agencies and NGOs was used to realise our targets while maintaining their long-term support. ✓ Act as responsible social citizen and encourage We expanded our project in The Hague, where NIBC volunteers teach high school employees to undertake or participate in our social children about avoiding debt, to five schools. Employees from the Technology & citizenship activities. Operations department did voluntary work with children, elderly and handicapped people. Employees volunteered at a children’s organisation in Frankfurt and supported starting entrepreneurs in The Hague. NIBC joined ‘Bank voor de Klas’, a national initiative to teach primary school children about financial matters. ✓ Further reduce NIBC’s energy use (aiming for 25% Implementation of our energy savings programme continued. We completed saving on our energy use as of 2014 compared to construction of a hot/cold storage facility at our offices in The Hague, which reduced 2009) and use green power from the Netherlands gas use by around 22% in 2012. We switched to electricity that is 100% derived from for our Dutch office. Dutch wind energy for our office in the Netherlands. Funding and solvency ✓ Keep NIBC Holding core Tier-1 ratio above 10%. Strong core Tier-1 ratio of 14.1% at end 2012 at Holding level. ✓ Keep leverage ratio (debt/equity) below 15%. Leverage ratio ended 2012 at 13.2% at Holding level. ✓ Continue funding diversification by further Retail savings increased strongly and year ended with Basel III Liquidity Coverage ratio increasing retail savings and, already in 2012, keep of 236% and Net Stable Funding Ratio of 114%. the Basel Liquidity Coverage ratio and the Net Stable Funding Ratio above 100%. ✓ Maintain strong liquidity position. NIBC’s liquidity profile remains strong. Liquidity position improved in 2012 by further reducing our Legacy Debt Investment portfolios, increasing retail savings from EUR 6.1 billion to EUR 7.7 billion and attracting EUR 0.9 billion in funding through two senior unsecured transactions and a securitisation transaction. 12 Our Clients Our clients are our starting point, driving everything we do. We are a trustworthy banking partner and act swiftly and resolutely at decisive moments for our clients. For more on our strategic commitment to client focus, see the Strategy section. As our retail activities have grown, we have The uncertain economic climate and volatile progressed from our previous strategy around market conditions made clients more hesitant Merchant Banking and Specialised Finance into an about doing deals in 2012, which resulted in organisation centred around our two main transactions taking longer to complete. Our clients activities of Corporate Banking and Consumer turned to NIBC more frequently as a sparring Banking. These are supported by our Treasury, Risk partner and required us to be even more innovative Management and Corporate Center teams. in our structuring solutions. Of our sectors, Commercial Real Estate and Shipping & Intermodal were the ones where the economic circumstances had the most impact. Non-food retail also felt some pressure from the CORPORATE CONSUMER crisis. Food, Agri & Retail did well, as did Oil & Gas BANKING BANKING Services. Other sectors were stable during the year. The volume of mergers and acquisitions declined across the whole market, sapping the demand for acquisition finance. The economic crisis has also spurred many clients to optimise working capital TREASURY further, reducing their need for financing. Nevertheless, as in previous years, 2012 saw us close Risk management/ interesting deals for our Corporate Banking clients CORPORATE CENTER across all our sectors and disciplines. NIBC’s sector knowledge and liquidity position meant we could assist our clients with financing, expert advisory, Corporate Banking clients balance sheet and non-balance sheet services. Our Corporate Banking activities cover advice, financing (including derivatives and structuring) The market challenges also created new and co-investments. We have expert sector opportunities. For example, growing numbers of knowledge in Food, Agri & Retail; Commercial institutional investors wish to invest directly in Real Estate; Industries & Manufacturing; infrastructure projects and we are increasingly Infrastructure & Renewables; Oil & Gas Services; playing an intermediary structuring role. As an Shipping & Intermodal; and Technology, Media & example, for the new military museum in Services. Soesterberg, a major PPI project, we advised construction company Heijmans and participated We work in partnership with our business clients. in the financing for the building phase. They can rely on us to spring into action with spoton solutions at moments critical to their company’s We expect more such private placement transactions development. Our specialists work closely together in coming years as Basel III capital requirements to develop tailor-made solutions that meet our affect banks’ lending powers and institutional clients’ evolving needs. investors seek yields higher than those on Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 13 government bonds. We are well positioned to play Before we enter into a client relationship, we make advisory and structuring roles, and have invested in sure we thoroughly understand the client and its staff to boost our capabilities here. Last year, we held business activities. Part of this customer due diligence a seminar for institutional investors and clients to is using a risk-based approach to understand how the discuss this increasingly important area. company and its processes are organised. We assess the organisational set-up of the company and any Our other sector-focused client events included a other parties involved that may affect our direct client retail industry seminar, at which mainly CEOs, relationship, such as a charterer of our client’s vessel. CFOs and investors from the food and non-food retail sector in the Benelux and Germany attended a Also part of the framework are our sustainability presentation given by Rajiv Lal, professor of policies. These provide guidance on managing retailing at Harvard Business School. We also held environmental and social risks in the business sectors an automotive sector gathering and an event for in which we operate. In 2012, we started embedding a Dutch and German publishers around the risk-based sustainability framework. This means we Frankfurter Buchmesse (Frankfurt Book Fair). identify the relevant sustainability risks for each client or transaction before assessing how For our NPS measurement, introduced in 2011, we sustainability risks are managed and mitigated, rather sent out surveys to around 350 clients and received than subjecting all clients to the same sustainability feedback from some 45%. The outcomes were very screening. This approach makes our sustainability positive. According to a study by Boer & Croon and efforts more efficient and enables more in-depth the University of Groningen, we had an NPS score analyses of our clients’ sustainability performance. of 12%. We built on the outcomes of the 2011 NPS survey, which showed our speed and sector We added a supplement to our sustainability policy knowledge were particularly appreciated by containing updated human rights and labour respondents. In 2012, we made improvements to standards. This addition was prompted by changes in accelerate our client transaction process further. international standards such as the UN Guiding In keeping with our shift from a product-centred to Principles on Business and Human Rights (‘Ruggie a client-centred organisation, we increased the Principles’) and feedback from stakeholders, number of client calls and contact moments in including the Dutch chapter of Amnesty 2012. We also introduced a more client-focused International. client relationship management system. The majority of our client activities take place in We further developed the ‘ABC’ sales programme countries where human rights are widely protected we originally implemented in 2011. We added a and respected. However, through their supply chain new training module, focusing on deal or subsidiaries, they may have human rights impacts. management – functioning of deal teams, NIBC expects clients to understand and manage the interaction, speed and efficiency. All Corporate potential human rights effects of their activities. This Banking employees will receive this training, as will is reflected in our policies. support departments involved in transactions. We initiated stakeholder dialogue with clients in the We closed 2012 with a well-filled pipeline of real estate sector, hosting a seminar on corporate transactions. However, the current environmentally-sound construction in cooperation difficult markets mean it takes longer to close deals, with the Dutch Green Building Council. As part of and we are increasingly seeing clients being this initiative, NIBC signed the Dutch Green Building cautious with transactions such as refinancings or Council financial sector covenant committing several acquisitions. financial institutions to exploring how financiers can contribute to making the real estate sector ‘greener’. Sustainable corporate client relationships Our Risk Management framework guides our As a signatory to the Equator Principles (EP), NIBC efforts to build sustainable relationships with our applies EP for all project financing transactions. In corporate clients and ensures that they meet NIBC’s 2012, 16 transactions were closed in line with EP. We regulatory, ethical and sustainability standards. also closely monitored the update of the EP and its impact on us. This new version is expected to come 14 Repor t of the Management Board Our Clients into effect in 2013. For the full EP report, please see boost funding, and online savings banks expanded our website. into other European countries. All new Corporate Banking clients and transactions NIBC Direct were assessed in line with the standards set out in Under the brand name NIBC Direct, we provide our client acceptance policy, which includes our online retail savings to clients in the Netherlands, sustainability policy and sector policies. Where Germany and Belgium. As demand for relevant, NIBC discusses environmental and social transparency and simplicity increases, our issues with new clients. In 2012, there were 14 consumer clients are drawn by our combination of transactions that required an intensified risk simple products, transparent communication and assessment. Risk was related to issues such as labour competitive interest rates. The same motto applies conditions, gambling and the environmental to all countries: no small print and equal treatment impact of offshore oil and gas activities. In three of all savings clients, regardless of age, amount of cases, NIBC decided to refrain from a transaction. savings, and whether they are new or existing The remaining transactions went ahead, subject to clients. continued monitoring of the client’s sustainability performance. As a ‘do-it-yourself ’ (execution-only) concept, NIBC Direct perfectly fits NIBC’s profile as both an As a complement to our bankers’ strong sector entrepreneurial bank and a bank for expertise, employees are trained to understand entrepreneurial consumers. regulatory requirements, compliance and sustainability issues and NIBC’s approach to these NIBC Direct, launched in 2008, experienced strong issues. In 2012, 35 new employees in the growth again in 2012 as increasing numbers of Netherlands, Belgium and Germany followed our consumers placed their trust in us. Since its launch, Sustainability Training programme, which NIBC Direct has attracted almost 350,000 clients. familiarised them with our sustainability policy The total value of Dutch, German and Belgian framework and approach. Forty commercial savings with NIBC Direct rose from employees received sector-specific sustainability EUR 6.1 billion at end 2011 to EUR 7.7 billion at training, focusing on sustainability trends, human end 2012. Some 45% of the volume is placed in term rights, climate change, biodiversity and additional deposits with maturities of up to 10 years. sector-specific issues. In addition, employees were trained in customer due diligence on a regular basis NIBC Direct expanded its operations into Belgium and in different settings. Many on-the-job training, at the end of 2011. The addition of a third country courses were given, and 115 employees participated opened up a large new market with a great tradition in group courses. Following developments in the in saving, bringing attractive new opportunities, as commercial real estate sector, training was given to well as further diversifying NIBC’s funding mix. understand integrity-related issues within the The concept has proved a great success in Belgium, sector, specifically aimed at all staff active in and Belgian savings with NIBC Direct totalled Commercial Real Estate. more than EUR 600 million at end 2012. Consumer Banking clients NIBC Direct has offered brokerage activities in Our Consumer Banking activities continued to Germany since summer 2011, in order to further grow strongly in 2012. Our NIBC Direct label broaden client relationships and to reposition us attracted more clients in the Netherlands and from a pure savings focus towards an onlineGermany, and NIBC Direct rapidly gained a serious focused retail bank. This extra service allows NIBC footprint in Belgium after launching there in Direct clients to keep their savings and financial December 2011. investments in one place. Via the NIBC Direct platform, clients can invest, on an execution-only The year was not without its challenges, foremost basis, in various shares, bonds, investment funds among them the substantial fall in Euribor (Euro and index trackers. Interbank Offered Rate). The market grew more competitive as increasing numbers of banks entered We regularly seek feedback from our clients, for the retail market in search of consumer savings to example in a survey conducted each year by an Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 15 independent research bureau. Clients receive a NIBC’s Residential Mortgages portfolio, which is of detailed questionnaire covering a wide range of very high quality, declined from EUR 8.7 billion to topics, including our call centres. Last year’s survey EUR 8.2 billion in 2012. We are confident that the showed customer satisfaction with NIBC Direct mortgage market will recover in 2013. was above average, and that overall satisfaction was high despite dissatisfaction with the decline in interest rates. To stay connected, we also invited a number of clients to discuss several business and/or client-related topics, such as our sustainability policy. We were proud to win several awards for NIBC Direct last year. In Germany, NIBC Direct won seven awards in total – two for brokerage and five for savings. Our savings accounts were pronounced the best by the most important consumer group in Germany – Stiftung Warentest/Finanztest – and the financial magazine €uro. Leading German TV news channel n-tv, €uro magazine and top best-buy table FMH-Finanzberatung recognised the NIBC Direct custody account. NIBC Direct Netherlands again scored highly for its customer-centric savings policy in a survey by Dutch regulator Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). NIBC Direct Belgium won the award for best savings product three times in 2012. Residential mortgages In 2012, unemployment increased, house prices fell and the Dutch government decided to reform the mortgage market. The combination of these three factors increased the perceived risk attached to Dutch mortgages. Competition in the Dutch mortgage market was therefore limited last year and origination occurred at attractive margins. House prices have declined for four years and are currently around 16% below peak levels of 2008. This has resulted in higher losses in our mortgage portfolio. Although the losses relating to residential mortgage loans have increased, they are still low as a percentage of the overall portfolio. The trend in arrears and default levels continues to rise, but these are still low in comparison with other housing markets. In order to control the credit risk in the Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio, NIBC has established standardised procedures to manage all loan amounts in arrears and everything is managed in-house to ensure a high level of service for our clients. 16 Our People The success of NIBC depends largely on the quality of our people. Our focus on people is part of our strategic commitment to sustainable profitability. We respect human rights as a responsibility towards our employees and those in the world around us. People are our most important asset, giving our clients optimal advice and support and sharing the same entrepreneurial spirit. We aim to be an attractive employer that strives for diversity and selects, retains and develops the best people. For more details, see the Strategy section and our Targets and Performance in 2012. HR focus areas in 2012 Promoting diversity Our human resources strategy enables the bank’s NIBC strives to be both an attractive employer and sustainable growth by supporting our people to a banking partner of choice for our clients. That is deliver their best possible performance. We use why we put great effort into creating a stimulating feedback from staff to identify and prioritise our work environment for people from all backgrounds, activities in areas such as employee engagement, whose diversity reflects that of our international promoting diversity, developing talent, health and clients. We aim to have 30% of senior management safety and sustainable remuneration. positions filled by women by 2015. A great deal of attention was paid to remuneration In May 2012, we signed the ‘Talent to the Top’ in 2012 as we implemented various guidelines and Charter, a code with clear agreements regarding the requirements. The DNB confirmed our successful realisation of gender diversity at the top and subimplementation of these measures. We also focused top management levels. By signing the Charter, on ways to enhance efficiency and contributed NIBC has gained access to tools, knowledge and significantly to reducing bureaucracy by resources to support us in our strategy of simplifying systems and processes. embedding gender diversity throughout our organisation. Employee engagement Overall engagement at NIBC remains high at 85% In 2012, 16% of our Managing Board members and (2011: 86%). This is ahead of other financial our Managing Directors were women (2011: 14%). institutions and in line with high-performing At Director level 7% were women (2011: 5%). These organisations. In addition, 86% of our employees percentages improved compared to 2011. The participated in the 2012 survey – the same response target of balanced gender distribution of at least rate as in 2011. 30% for the Supervisory Board and Managing Board is now embedded in the Dutch Act on Maintaining such high levels of engagement and Management and Supervision. At end 2012, 20% of participation in these challenging economic times our Managing Board and 10% of our Supervisory shows how much employees appreciate the value we Board were women. attach to their opinions. From the Managing Board down, we take the outcome of the annual survey We adjusted our recruitment and selection criteria seriously and draft action plans to implement to further ensure there is no bias against candidates suggestions and address employee feedback. based on gender, age or nationality. This applies to both external hires and internal promotions. As a Action plans relating to the 2012 survey are in the result, we saw more diversity among candidates in process of being drawn up, and will be implemented the second half of the year. in early 2013. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 17 Work-life balance was another area we addressed to (2011: 97) and voluntary health checks that 244 make NIBC an even more attractive employer. employees made use of in 2012 (2010: 239). Following a successful pilot project in 2011, we rolled Absenteeism remained low at an average of 2.1% out a new flexible way of working across the bank in (2011: 2.7%). 2012. This allows employees to choose when and where they want to work. The outcomes of the Getting the work-life balance right and helping engagement survey show staff are positive about the employees manage stress remains an important topic new way of working, which allows them to better for us and we continued to provide information and combine their professional and personal lives. raise awareness about ways to deal with stress. Talent development End of 2012, we introduced a more efficient way to Developing our people was a key focus area during report illness and recovery. Rather than duplicating 2012, and we offered a number of training courses and re-entering data, line managers can now enter to enhance business skills and personal absences and subsequent return to work straight development. into the system themselves. Based on the outcome of our 2011 Employee Sustainable remuneration Engagement Survey, we organised a seven-day NIBC’s Remuneration Policy for all staff is advanced corporate credit training course from sustainable, balanced and in line with our chosen Fitch. This was attended by 15 bankers from our strategy and risk appetite. We use a mix of fixed offices in The Hague, London and Frankfurt. salary and variable compensation for all staff. We developed a programme, initially for Corporate In 2012, we put into action the processes we drew Banking, that enhances the dynamics between deal up in 2011 to ensure our sustainable Remuneration team members and helps team captains to be more Policy meets the requirements of the Dutch and accountable and decisive. The programme was European banking authorities. It was the first year designed by HR in close cooperation with the all the systems and processes were in place and the business. Around 35 bankers attended the pilot DNB confirmed NIBC meets the latest remuneration course in two sessions in 2012. The workshops will standards. In 2013, we expect changes to reflect be rolled out to more participants in 2013. In further restraints on executive compensation in the addition to Corporate Banking, the programme will Netherlands. For more information on remuneration, also be rolled out to other parts of the organisation, please refer to the Remuneration Report. enhancing and integrating cooperation between the client-facing and support staff in deal teams. Employees’ Council The Employees’ Council (EC) represents all NIBC Customised training for staff in the business units employees based in the Netherlands and ensures continued, with 63% of employees using our webmanagement’s objectives are aligned with those of based training platform My Learning Plaza during employees. The council consists of 11 members the year. from all departments and levels within the bank. The Analyst Programme was attended by 16 young Besides its regular meetings, the EC periodically bankers in 2012 (2011:18) to develop their banking meets with the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) to stay and general skills. The content is adjusted every abreast of financial developments. Twice a year, it year to reflect our business and operating meets members of the Supervisory Board. All environment. We will extensively evaluate the meetings are held in a spirit of constructive current programme before the 2013 programme cooperation and open dialogue. begins in June. In 2012, the EC’s composition changed as three Health and safety members stood down and were succeeded by three A healthy workforce makes good long-term colleagues representing Consumer Banking, business sense. As part of our health and safety Treasury and Legal. With these changes, the EC policy, we offer preventative measures such as flu continues to be well balanced and a good reflection inoculations for staff, which 66 people took up of the NIBC organisation. 18 Repor t of the Management Board Our People The EC advised last year on matters such as facilitated 36 lessons at local primary schools. Nine approval of the 2012 remuneration policy, the new staff members of our Frankfurt office spent a full staff manual, the company fitness scheme and day as volunteers at the premises of SOS Children’s holiday arrangements of Managing Directors and Village outside Frankfurt, helping this child Directors. It also advised on the reappointment of support organisation by painting playground Jeroen Drost as Chief Executive Officer (CEO). equipment, doing gardening work and other chores the organisation lacked the time or resources to do. In 2013, the EC will be following issues such as the 2013 remuneration policy, pension changes, a social Environmental responsibility protocol and staff development. NIBC is a carbon-neutral organisation and committed to reducing its carbon footprint. As part Employment of our energy savings plan launched a few years ago, We ended 2012 with 627 FTEs (2011:664). Of these, the construction of a hot/cold storage facility at our 20% (126 FTEs) work at our international offices. Hague premises was completed in 2012. Together with the renovation of our offices – completed in Women make up 27.7% of our total workforce, 2011 – to make them more energy-efficient, and which is in line with 2011. other energy-saving measures, we aim to achieve a 25% saving on our energy use by end-2013 Responsible corporate citizen compared to 2009. To NIBC, corporate citizenship means contributing to building a sustainable society for future All electricity used at our offices in The Hague, generations and taking action to minimise our Frankfurt, Brussels and London is green energy. As impact on the environment. per 1 January 2012, we switched to electricity that derived entirely from Dutch wind energy for our Social responsibility office in the Netherlands. NIBC’s social citizenship projects have a local focus and an educational theme related to children and To reduce the carbon footprint of our lease car fleet, youth. Most of the educational themes of our which comprises 96 vehicles, NIBC encourages programmes are financial, as that is where our employees to choose low-emission cars. Following expertise lies. We encourage our employees to changes to Dutch fiscal regulations aimed at allocate time to the social projects we support. We promoting the use of cars with low CO2 emissions, also support charitable projects our employees we limited the selection of lease cars to the three initiate or support, by matching either funds they ‘greenest’ categories of car under this regulation, raise, or time they spend when engaging in these starting on 1 July 2012. activities. We ran a pilot project to promote the use of electric In 2012, we again expanded the debt prevention cars, allowing employees to test-drive different project we launched in cooperation with the city of types of electric cars. Seven employees who entered The Hague in 2009. This project, which has been a new lease contract in 2012 chose an electric car joined by other local financial institutions over the lease contract. We aim to continue promoting the years, aims to educate young people in managing use of electric and other environmentally-sound their finances responsibly. In 2012, 45 volunteers means of transport in 2013 and beyond. from NIBC and its partners FMO, Nederlandse Waterschapsbank, ASN and BNG facilitated guest lessons for approximately 350 students at five secondary schools in The Hague, up from 240 students at three schools in 2011. Supporting the Dutch Banking Association’s ‘Week of Money’ initiative, NIBC employees taught pupils at their children’s primary school or at schools near our office in The Hague to make them aware of the value and function of money. Our employees Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 19 Risk Overview The economic headwinds that persisted into 2012 continued to affect the financial sector. Markets remained volatile, businesses and consumer confidence stayed weak and regulatory pressure increased. We enhanced our forward-looking, proactive nn Excellent cooperation between Commercial attitude and structured disciplined approach to Real Estate and Risk Management helped us managing risk. We reviewed our risk and control restore some distressed real estate assets to a framework to ensure that in the changing healthier state; environment, risk appetite, culture and behaviour nn Liquidity risk was very well controlled by as well as accountability for risk remain clear to Treasury and the ALM team; everyone in the bank. We explicitly identified and nn Business continuity and information security communicated the boundaries within which we can policies were strengthened to reduce the risk of continue to operate successfully, sustain incidents; profitability and improve our rating and client nn Our New Product Approval Process (NPAP) was satisfaction. re-tailored to better meet regulatory, customer and efficiency needs; We ran several scenarios in order to promptly nn Together with the Finance department, we identify their potential impact on NIBC and take developed a robust recovery and resolution plan corrective measures in advance where feasible and that meets new DNB requirements; and desirable. These scenarios included a eurozone nn Risk feedback was incorporated into the annual break-up, rating downgrades of financial individual performance review process. institutions, and further pressure on the housing and real estate markets in the Netherlands. The Last year, we again increased our capital base while annual DNB stress test was also performed again in strengthening and diversifying our funding June. We continued de-risking our balance sheet by position. We were again able to obtain unsecured successfully restructuring certain distressed assets, wholesale funding in addition to the gradually selling more volatile debt and securitisation growing depositor. Liquidity remained key and was investments and reducing concentration in our strong throughout the year. Interest rate risk Corporate Loan book. In November, NIBC was the management was further enhanced in view of the only Dutch bank to retain its current Standard & low interest rate environment and our changed Poor’s rating and outlook – showing the impact of funding model. Implementation of Basel III and assessing risks thoroughly and then taking resolute similar regulations of the DNB are encouraging action. financial institutions to attract more capital and further strengthen liquidity. In light of the changing stakeholder and economic environment, Risk Management further enhanced As our Consumer Banking activities grow, we enjoy collaboration with the Consumer and Corporate the trust of an increasing number of clients. We are Banking strategic business units, teams in the keenly aware of our duty of care, these clients’ needs Corporate Center and our international offices to for smooth, efficient, effective and transparent ensure understanding, proactive management and handling, and the importance of managing control of their key risks. Special attention was paid reputational risks. to further developing a stronger risk culture and behaviour to underpin NIBC’s strategic goals. We We are building NIBC’s strength and value while developed additional management information and supporting the economies and communities in tools to improve insight for our decision-makers into which we operate. We attach great value to key credit, market and operational risks. Here are compliance with local and international laws and some examples of our actions and their outcomes: regulations – both the letter and the spirit – and to corporate responsibility. This is integral to our 20 Repor t of the Management Board Risk Overview client-focused model: by ensuring our clients thrive, so does NIBC. We wish to work with clients who meet our ethical, environmental, social and other sustainability standards and to fulfil our duty of care to all our clients. For 2013, our structured, disciplined and proactive approach to risk management will stand us in good stead to address an environment that remains fragile – although there are glimmers of hope on the macroeconomic front as we enter the year. More detailed information on Risk Management is included in the risk management chapter and notes 54-57 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 21 Outlook and Targets 2013 There are glimmers of hope on the macroeconomic front as we enter 2013, but the environment remains fragile. Caution and prudence remain the watchwords. Until some economic stability returns to peripheral nn Continue to exceed global financial sector European countries, markets will remain nervous. benchmark for employee engagement; An expected rise in inflation will affect the kind of nn Increase number of women in senior business NIBC does: it could have a positive effect management positions, with mid-term goal to on real estate, for example. We expect the private increase this to 30% in 2015; placement market to increase in importance as nn Keep up-to-date with sustainability and investors seek better returns than those they regulatory developments; currently receive on state debt. nn Act as responsible social citizen and encourage at least 10% of employees to undertake or One of the biggest challenges for 2013 remains the participate in social citizenship activities; and weak confidence among companies and consumers. nn Reduce NIBC’s energy use, reducing our energy Low business confidence means existing or use by 25% as of end-2013 compared to 2009. prospective clients are delaying major investments or transactions, which are the moments at which Funding and solvency they turn to NIBC. For a robust pick-up, market nn Keep core Tier-1 ratio at Holding level above confidence needs to return. 12% and realise an S&P Risk-Adjusted Capital (RAC) ratio above 10%; NIBC enters this year with a strong capital and nn Maintain strong liquidity position by keeping liquidity position, which we will use prudently to Basel Liquidity Coverage ratio and Net Stable serve existing and new clients. Our well-filled Funding Ratio above 100%; Corporate Banking pipeline and growing nn Keep leverage ratio (debt/equity) below 15; and Consumer Banking business give us confidence for nn Continue funding diversification by further 2013 and beyond. increasing retail savings and examining opportunities for securitisation, covered bonds Targets 2013 and/or an unsecured bond. Client focus nn Continue to rebalance the Corporate Loan and Residential Mortgage portfolios; nn Optimise the composition of the Corporate Loan portfolio; nn Maintain a positive NPS for Corporate Banking and high customer satisfaction with NIBC Direct, and thus remain in the top quartiles within the financial sector; and nn Assist our corporate and investor clients with non-bank financing, such as private placements. Sustainable profitability nn Reduce cost-to-income ratio to below 50%; nn Maintain tight credit risk control and keep impairment level of total Loan portfolio below 40 basis points; nn Increase return on equity compared to previous years; 22 SWOT Analysis The following table sets out our assessment of our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. Strengths Weaknesses Clear strategic choice for 100% client-focused business Exposure to cyclical sectors Expert, highly engaged staff Credit rating High client satisfaction Strong capital and liquidity Opportunities Threats Global economic recovery Weakness in geographies or sectors to which we are exposed Increased client confidence in home markets Low level of confidence in financial institutions Recovery of Dutch mortgage market Continued low interest rate environment The Hague, 5 March 2013 Managing Board Jeroen Drost, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman Kees van Dijkhuizen, Chief Financial Officer, Vice-Chairman Rob ten Heggeler, Chief Client Officer Petra van Hoeken, Chief Risk Officer Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 23 Report of the Supervisory Board External circumstances remained tough in 2012, with low economic growth, volatile markets, sectors such as real estate under pressure and the mortgage market among the factors that made conditions difficult. Against this backdrop, NIBC performed strongly as it continued to service entrepreneurial clients in the business and retail banking markets. In recent years, the bank has gradually yet tirelessly As of 31 December 2012, the Supervisory Board of streamlined its structure and sharpened its focus NIBC Bank was composed of ten members, who around twin pillars of Corporate Banking and are also members of the Supervisory Board of NIBC Consumer Banking. The Supervisory Board was Holding (see table). Sir Callum McCarthy resigned gratified by the further balancing of the Corporate as member of the Supervisory Board, effective Banking and Consumer Banking businesses in 2012. 1 September 2012. Mr. J.C. Flowers was appointed Retail savings operation NIBC Direct continued to as member of the Supervisory Board by the grow in the Netherlands and Germany and enjoyed Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on a highly successful debut year in Belgium. Despite a 29 October 2012, following the approval of this challenging year for the business world, NIBC appointment by the DNB on 2 October 2012. bankers continued to employ their expertise and Mr. Rümker resigned as member of the Supervisory flexibility to produce innovative solutions for their Board as per 31 December 2012. corporate clients. Six of the ten Supervisory Board members meet the The Supervisory Board highly appreciates how the independence criteria contained in the Dutch Managing Board and the entire staff of NIBC Corporate Governance Code. For a detailed worked every day last year to take the bank further explanation of this compliance with the Dutch along its strategic path. Their admirable Corporate Governance Code, we refer to our commitment and competence remain website. All members of the Supervisory Board meet indispensable in enabling the bank to perform well the criteria of the Dutch Corporate Governance in such challenging conditions. Code relating to other positions, in so far as they are Composition of the Supervisory Board Year of Member End of Name birth Nationality since term Committee Memberships1 Mr. W.M. van den Goorbergh (Chairman) 1948 Dutch 2005 2014 ACC, RNC, RPC, RPTC Mr. D.R. Morgan (Vice-Chairman) 1947 Australian 2010 2014 RNC, RPC Mr. A.A.G. Bergen 1950 Belgian 2010 2014 ACC, RPC, RPTC Mr. M.J. Christner 1972 German 2011 2015 ACC Mr. C.H. van Dalen 1952 Dutch 2005 2013 ACC Mr. J.C. Flowers 1957 American 2012 2016 Mr. N.W. Hoek 1956 Dutch 2005 2013 ACC, RNC Mr. A. de Jong 1954 Dutch 2005 2015 RPC Ms. S.A. Rocker 1954 American 2009 2013 RNC Mr. A.H.A. Veenhof 1945 Dutch 2006 2015 RPTC, RNC 1. ACCAudit and Compliance Committee; RNC Remuneration and Nominating Committee; RPC Risk Policy Committee; RPTC Related Party Transactions Committee. 24 Governance Repor t of the Supervisory Board relevant to the performance of the duties of the introduction of this law, we are monitoring the Supervisory Board member. For a detailed overview number of supervisory functions performed by our of their additional functions, we refer to our website. Supervisory Board members. When Supervisory Board members are appointed or reappointed, The Dutch Act on Management and Supervision compliance with this new law will be checked. came into force on 1 January 2013. Following the Composition of the Managing Board Name Year of birth Nationality Member since End of term 1 Mr. J.P. Drost (Chairman, CEO) 1961 Dutch 2008 2016 Mr. C. van Dijkhuizen (Vice-Chairman, CFO) 1955 Dutch 2005 2014 Mr. R.H.L. ten Heggeler (CCO) 1963 Dutch 2009 2013 Ms. P.C. van Hoeken (CRO) 1961 Dutch 2011 2015 1. These are the dates until which the appointment as statutory director runs. They do not refer to the expiry of employment contracts. As at 31 December 2012, the Managing Board of In 2012, the Supervisory Board continued its NIBC Bank was composed of four members, who programme of lifelong learning. The topics of these are also members of the Managing Board of NIBC learning sessions included credit ratings, corporate Holding. As per 1 June 2012, Jeroen van Hessen left governance and remuneration. For more details on the Managing Board of NIBC. The Supervisory the lifelong learning programme, please see our Board accepted his resignation and thanked him for website. Also in 2012, the Supervisory Board his dedication and contribution. Jeroen Drost was evaluated itself on the basis of written reappointed as CEO and Chairman of the questionnaires and interviews, supported by Managing Board for a further period of four years external facilitator Egon Zehnder. The Board was by the Supervisory Board following the approval positive about its performance overall and feels that of the General Meeting of Shareholders on substantial improvements have been made based 15 May 2012. on earlier evaluations of the Supervisory Board. Meetings of the Supervisory Board The financial statements and the findings of the The Supervisory Board met on six occasions in external auditor were discussed in the external 2012. There were five regular two-day meetings of auditor’s presence. Most of the discussions and the Supervisory Board. On 28 June 2012, a Strategy decisions of the Supervisory Board were prepared Day was organised at which the Supervisory Board in the committees referred to below, at which at and the Managing Board discussed the current and least two members of the Supervisory Board are future strategy of NIBC. Seven members of the always present. Members of the Managing Board Supervisory Board participated in all the 2012 attended all but one meeting of the Supervisory meetings; four members were absent from one or Board at which the Supervisory Board discussed two meetings. Each quarter, the Supervisory Board the following topics: its own functioning and that of had lunch meetings with senior management of the its individual members; the desired profile, bank. composition and competences of the Supervisory Board; and the functioning of the Managing Board During the regular meetings, there was extensive collectively and in terms of its individual members. discussion of NIBC’s market position and customer approach. Risk/return and financial performance Members of the Supervisory Board attended two discussions were held in relation to the half-year consultation meetings between the Managing results of 2012 and the 2013 budget. Other matters Board and the EC. The Supervisory Board also met discussed were quarterly results, control-related with the external auditor to discuss the financial topics, the financial reporting process, composition statements. of the Supervisory Board and its committees and compliance with legislation and regulations. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 25 Meetings of the committees of the Board, the Managing Board and certain other Supervisory Board senior managers. In addition, it provides the The Supervisory Board is supported by four Supervisory Board with proposals for appointments committees consisting of members of the and reappointments to the Supervisory Board, its Supervisory Board. committees and the Managing Board, evaluates the performance of the other Supervisory Board Audit and Compliance Committee committees, and assesses the performance of the The Audit and Compliance Committee (ACC) members of the Managing Board and the assists the Supervisory Board in monitoring NIBC’s Supervisory Board. The RNC monitors the systems of financial risk management and internal remuneration policy, which entails discussing the control and compliance with legislation and total available pool for variable compensation and regulations, the integrity of its financial reporting defining the collective and individual performance process and the content of its annual financial targets that form the basis for the variable statements and reports. The ACC also advises on compensation of individual members of the corporate governance and corporate responsibility Managing Board. Furthermore, the RNC oversees issues. the remuneration of Identified Staff and determines the remuneration of the control functions. During 2012, the ACC extensively reviewed NIBC’s quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial reports In 2012, the RNC discussed amendments to the and related press releases and trading updates. The Remuneration Policy, resulting in a more sustainable committee discussed the reports of the external remuneration policy, in response to social auditor, including the Board Report and developments and further changes in regulation. Management Letter, before these were dealt with in Amendments included changing the pay mix for the Supervisory Board meeting. Identified Staff and strengthening the target-setting processes. For more details, please see the The ACC also discussed Internal Audit’s annual Remuneration Report in this Annual Report. The plan and its quarterly reports, and Compliance’s RNC also discussed the Remuneration Policy of the annual plan and its quarterly reports. Both internal Supervisory Board, individual compensation auditors and the external auditor reported on the arrangements for the members of the Managing quality and effectiveness of governance, internal Board and senior management, the overall available control and risk management. funding for variable compensation arrangements, and the performance and targets of the Managing The ACC took note of and discussed NIBC’s Board. contacts with the DNB. Furthermore, the RNC advised on the The ACC evaluated the external auditor and the reappointment of Jeroen Drost, the resignation of functioning of Internal Audit and of Compliance. Jeroen van Hessen and composition and size of the The internal auditors and the compliance officer Managing Board. were represented at all meetings. The external auditors, by mutual agreement, were represented at The RNC held four meetings in 2012. A delegation all but one meeting of the ACC in 2012. The of the RNC attended a meeting of the Committee of external auditor had one meeting with the ACC Control Functions. without the members of the Managing Board present. Risk Policy Committee The Risk Policy Committee (RPC) assists the The ACC met five times in 2012 in the presence of Supervisory Board in monitoring NIBC’s risk all members of the Managing Board. policy and profile in relation to its general lending and investment policy. The committee also advises Remuneration and Nominating the Supervisory Board on credit, liquidity, market, Committee investment and operational risks and with regard to The Remuneration and Nominating Committee regulatory changes. During 2012, the RPC (RNC) advises the Supervisory Board on the extensively discussed NIBC’s assets, liquidity, stress remuneration of the members of the Supervisory tests and risk profile, including the bank’s risk 26 Governance Repor t of the Supervisory Board appetite. Reports on specific parts of the Corporate Banking portfolio, country risk reports, The Supervisory Board recommends that the impairment reports and credit risk portfolio Annual General Meeting of Shareholders discharge overviews were also discussed. the Managing Board and Supervisory Board for their respective management and supervision On a regular basis, the committee discussed NIBC’s during the financial year 2012. market risk and event risk reports, economic capital reports and liquidity risk reports. Additionally, it reviewed and approved the NPAP. The Hague, 5 March 2013 Supervisory Board The RPC met four times in 2012. Mr. W.M. van den Goorbergh, Chairman Related Party Transactions Committee Mr. D.R. Morgan, Vice-Chairman The Related Party Transactions Committee (RPTC) Mr. A.A.G. Bergen is now a direct subcommittee of the Supervisory Mr. M.J. Christner Board and no longer a subcommittee of the Risk Mr. C.H. van Dalen Policy Committee. It assists the Supervisory Board Mr. J.C. Flowers in assessing material agreements of any kind with a Mr. N.W. Hoek person or group of persons who hold, directly or Mr. A. de Jong indirectly, 10% of NIBC’s issued and outstanding Ms. S.A. Rocker share capital, or of the voting rights at the Annual Mr. A.H.A. Veenhof General Meeting of Shareholders, or any person affiliated with any such person(s). An agreement will, in any event, be considered material if the amount involved exceeds EUR 10 million. The Supervisory Board has delegated the authority to approve such material transactions to the RPTC. In 2012, one related party transaction that required Supervisory Board approval was presented to the RPTC. A case was presented whereby NIBC waived its right to a fee arrangement with its shareholder for services that were no longer provided. The RPTC met once in 2012. Financial statements and dividend proposal The financial statements have been drawn up by the Managing Board and audited by Pricewaterhouse­ Coopers Accountants N.V., who issued an unqualified opinion dated 5 March 2013. The Supervisory Board advises and proposes that shareholders adopt the 2012 consolidated financial statements at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 14 May 2013. Following the interim dividend of EUR 19 million paid in September 2012, NIBC proposes to pay a final dividend of EUR 20 million, payable after the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 14 May 2013. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 27 Corporate Governance It is crucial for NIBC that its corporate governance and reporting lines are sound and transparent. On our website, you can find our articles of association, policies, charters and other information on corporate governance, as well as the compliance statements relating to the Dutch Banking Code and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. This chapter contains some important highlights of our governance structure. To the extent applicable, NIBC adheres to international governance standards such as the European Banking Authority (EBA) Guidelines on Internal Governance. In 2012, we made some improvements to the The Managing Board members have all signed the corporate governance of NIBC. The RPTC, moral and ethical declaration as prescribed in the previously a subcommittee of the RPC, is now a Dutch Banking Code. This declaration is embedded direct subcommittee of the Supervisory Board. The in our Code of Conduct, which is implemented chairman of the RPC is now a formally independent throughout the entire organisation and included in Supervisory Board member. our employee contracts. Members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board will swear the Managing Board bankers’ oath in March 2013. More information The Managing Board is responsible for the day-toconcerning the Managing Board, including short day operations of NIBC and our long-term strategy. biographies, can be found on our website. It also ensures we comply with relevant legislation and regulatory requirements. The four members of Since mid-2011, we have had an Ethics Advisory the Managing Board have thorough and in-depth Bureau to advise on ethical dilemmas. This body, knowledge of the financial sector in general and the which falls under the auspices of the ECC, is a banking sector in particular. sounding board that makes non-binding recommendations on ethical dilemmas submitted Jeroen van Hessen left the Managing Board as per to it by NIBC individuals, teams or bodies such as 1 June 2012. It was decided not to replace him but to the Transaction Committee or Investment retain a Managing Board consisting of four Committee. members. His tasks were divided among the remaining Managing Board members. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board oversees management The Managing Board, which meets weekly, performance and advises the Managing Board. represents and balances the interests of all On 31 December 2012, the Supervisory Board stakeholders. The interests of stakeholders are also consisted of ten people with extensive and discussed in the Engagement and Compliance international expertise in fields such as banking Committee (ECC), which combines members of the and finance, corporate governance and corporate Managing Board, the general counsel and the head of management. For more information concerning Group Compliance and Corporate Social the Supervisory Board, its activities and short Responsibility. The ECC meets weekly to manage biographies of its members, please refer to the potential conflicts of interests presented by Report of the Supervisory Board or visit our commercial deals or clients and to ensure that the website. decision-making process for commercial deals fulfils legal, regulatory and compliance requirements and Dutch Banking Code ethical and sustainability standards. The Dutch Banking Code was established by the Dutch Banking Association in September 2009 28 Governance Corporate Governance following the outbreak of the financial crisis. Its aim Supervisory Board. Six of the Supervisory Board was to restore public trust in financial institutions, members qualify as formally independent. which was damaged by the crisis. Under the Code, banks must abide by rules on issues such as On our website, you can find a detailed overview of remuneration, risk management and audit. NIBC’s compliance with the principles of the Code, including reasons for the above and other minor In December 2009, the Supervisory Board departures, as well as the full text of the Corporate approved revisions to NIBC’s charters, those of its Governance Code. committees, the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board, to ensure our governance was fully aligned with the Banking Code. We have implemented all the procedural and operational measures required under the Banking Code. We revised our Remuneration Policy for staff and completed the revision of our Remuneration Policy for the Managing Board. The Managing Board members signed a moral and ethical conduct declaration as prescribed in the Banking Code and this is published on NIBC’s website. A programme of lifelong learning was drawn up and training sessions for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board have been held regularly since 2010. The Supervisory Board evaluated its performance in 2012, with the support of external advisors, and has continued following up on the recommendations. See the Report of the Supervisory Board for more information. NIBC is fully compliant with the Dutch Banking Code. A detailed explanation of the Code and an overview of NIBC’s compliance with it can be found on our website. Dutch Corporate Governance Code NIBC voluntarily supports and applies the principles of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. NIBC applies most of the best practices and principles as laid out in the Code. The main deviation is that NIBC does not comply with best practice provision III.2.1, which provides that the members of a supervisory board, with the exception of not more than one person, should be independent. On this point, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code deviates from the policy of the DNB that came into force in 2012. It is policy of the DNB that at least 50% of the members of the Supervisory Board should be formally independent members according to the criteria of provision III.2.1 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Based on this new policy, we made an assessment of the independence of the members of our Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 29 Remuneration Report The Supervisory Board reviewed and amended NIBC’s Remuneration Policy in 2012. The review took into account all relevant regulations and guidelines: the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Dutch Banking Code, the DNB Principles on Sound Remuneration Policies (DNB Principles), including additional DNB guidance on the implementation of the DNB Principles and the Committee of European Banking Supervisors Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices (CEBS Guidelines). In 2012, DNB assessed the Remuneration Policy of NIBC and concluded that it was in line with the DNB Principles. NIBC’s Remuneration Policy and Managing Board Peer group composition remuneration for 2012 are outlined below. An In order to determine appropriate market levels of overview of the remuneration of other staff and the remuneration for the Managing Board, a hybrid Supervisory Board is also presented. More benchmark peer group has been determined by the information about the Remuneration Policy can be Supervisory Board, consisting of all AEX and AMX found on our website. (Euronext) listed companies. The composition of this peer group reflects the labour market in which Managing Board remuneration 2012 NIBC competes for talent. As such, it is an objective To avoid unnecessary duplication, we refer to note measure outside NIBC’s control. 53 of the consolidated financial statements for all relevant tables. These can be considered an integral Market positioning part of this Remuneration Report. Through the cycle, total compensation for the Chairman and members of the Managing Board is Remuneration principles targeted just below the median of their peers in the NIBC’s Remuneration Policy is sustainable, aforementioned peer group, based on benchmark balanced and in line with our chosen strategy and data provided by external independent risk appetite. It identifies the following five key compensation consultants. principles: remuneration is (i) aligned with business strategy; (ii) appropriately balanced between shortBase salaries term and long-term; (iii) differentiated and relative As of 1 January 2012, base salary for the Chairman is to the realisation of performance objectives and the set at EUR 800,000 gross per annum, while the base results of the bank; (iv) externally competitive and salary for members is set at EUR 500,000 gross per internally fair; and (v) managed in an integrated, annum. Base salaries are payable in 12 equal monthly total compensation manner. instalments. The Supervisory Board will review the level of base salaries against the market each year and In response to social developments and further may decide to adjust it. For 2013, the salaries of the regulatory changes, the Supervisory Board decided Managing Board will remain at 2012 levels. to further amend the Remuneration Policy for the Managing Board in early 2012. This resulted in an Short-term incentive compensation even more sustainable and long-term As of 1 January 2012, all short-term variable Remuneration Policy. The amendment includes compensation is eliminated. eliminating short-term variable compensation altogether and strengthening the existing long-term Long-term incentive compensation compensation element. As of 1 January 2012, the maximum long-term incentive is 70% of base salary for the CEO, 60% for 30 Governance Remuneration Report members of the Managing Board responsible for The pensionable age for the Chairman and the commercial activities and 40% for the CFO and members of the Managing Board is 65. There are no Chief Risk Officer (CRO). contractual early retirement provisions. A standard flat-rate contribution is paid by NIBC into the If any long-term incentive (LTI) is granted pension fund. Just like other employees, depending conditionally, this will be in the form of 66.67% on the respective employment date, the Managing Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts (CRDRs) Board members are required to make a personal and 33.33% cash. The LTI is conditional upon the contribution towards their pension. achievement of performance conditions, is forward-looking and is subject to a three-year Other key benefits performance period and an additional three-year The Chairman and the members of the Managing pro rata deferral period. The Supervisory Board has Board are entitled to a company (lease) car up to a agreed a set of six long-term performance certain price limit or, if they choose, the equivalent conditions. Two are financial performance value of the (lease) car limit as a gross cash conditions and have a weighting of 60% (average allowance. The Chairman is entitled to the use of a return on equity and average impairment level). permanent chauffeur from the chauffeur pool, Four are non-financial performance conditions and while the other members of the Managing Board have a weighting of 40% (employee engagement, are entitled to use a chauffeur from the pool for client satisfaction for corporate as well as consumer business purposes only, unless specifically clients and diversity). These are aligned with the otherwise agreed by the Supervisory Board. In overall corporate targets. The final LTI grant addition, the Chairman and the members of the depends on the degree to which the agreed Managing Board are entitled to dividend performance criteria have been met. compensation on share awards conditionally granted before 2012. In line with other employees, In view of current legislation, the Supervisory the Chairman and the members of the Managing Board is not able to grant any variable Board are entitled to a contribution towards their compensation until NIBC has repaid all medical insurance, disability insurance, accident outstanding state-guaranteed funding. insurance and permanent travel insurance and a subsidy on mortgage interest paid. For the LTI that was granted conditionally to the Managing Board in 2010, the three-year cliff vesting Employment contracts period ended on 1 January 2013. The Supervisory The Chairman and members of the Managing Board reviewed the agreed performance conditions. Board all have indefinite employment contracts, The financial performance conditions (60%) were which are fully compliant with the Dutch Corporate not met. The non-financial performance conditions Governance Code. Their appointment to the (40%) were met in full. The Supervisory Board Managing Board is for a maximum term of four therefore awarded a vesting of 40% of the LTI, years. The term can be renewed. Any severance consequently 60% was forfeited. The vested payment is limited to 12 months’ base salary. instruments (Conditional Common Depositary Receipts (CCDRs)) have an additional retention Jeroen van Hessen stepped down as a statutory period of two years. Furthermore, these vested member of the Managing Board as per 1 June 2012 instruments need to be held until a liquidity event and his employment contract ended as per takes place to ensure alignment with the 31 December 2012. His severance was in line with shareholders. the policy of 12 months’ base salary. Pension Amendments to Managing Board The Chairman and members of the Managing Remuneration Policy in 2013 Board are members of the NIBC pension plan, in After the thorough review of Managing Board line with the arrangements available to all other remuneration in 2012, the Supervisory Board employees. The pension plan consists of a defined decided that no further amendment for 2013 is benefit pension arrangement up to a maximum necessary. salary and a defined contribution arrangement up to their respective base salaries. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 31 Other staff remuneration stating that (for Identified Staff) 50% of all variable In line with the DNB Principles, employees whose compensation is in the form of equity or equityprofessional activities have a material impact on linked instruments and 40% of both the cash and NIBC’s risk profile are designated ‘Identified Staff ’. equity component are deferred. Specific remuneration conditions may apply to Identified Staff other than Managing Board Special situations members. The outlines of the remuneration policies Only in exceptional cases and only in the first year for Identified Staff and other staff are given below. of employment will the Managing Board offer signFor further details on the policies for Identified on or guaranteed minimum bonuses to new Staff, please refer to our website. employees and retention bonuses to existing employees. In the unforeseen circumstance that Total compensation funding these amount to more than 100% of the base salary Each year, based on a proposal by the Managing of the individual employee concerned, prior Board, the Supervisory Board decides, at its approval will be obtained from the RNC and discretion, on the overall amount of money Supervisory Board. available for total compensation, the amount of variable compensation and the specific forms in Any severance payment made in the event of which variable compensation may be awarded. The termination of employment by NIBC without cause 2012 compensation ratio (total compensation costs is subject to local legislation. For the Netherlands, as percentage of operating income) was 35%. the prevailing business court formula (kantonrechtersformule) and, in the case of Variable compensation reorganisation, the bank’s Social Protocol are All employees are eligible for STI compensation. applicable. Special compensation plans for specific Whether they actually receive it or not is wholly groups of employees are subject to prior approval by discretionary and depends on the overall the Managing Board, which will annually inform performance of the bank, of their respective the RNC and Supervisory Board about these business unit and their own personal performance. arrangements. Each employee will have a pre-agreed set of financial and non-financial performance targets. Supervisory Board remuneration The performance assessment takes into account the Remuneration for the Supervisory Board remains realisation of pre-agreed targets, as well as the way unchanged. The Chairman and the members of the the employee has behaved according to the Business Supervisory Board are entitled to an annual gross Principles of NIBC. The 100% cap introduced by basic fee that amounts to EUR 60,000 for the the Dutch Banking Code will also serve as a Chairman, EUR 50,000 for the Vice-Chairman and guideline for other employees. EUR 40,000 for a member. In addition to the annual basic fee, the Chairman and members of the Pay mix Supervisory Board are entitled to further fees for Variable compensation, if any, will be delivered in membership of one or more committees amounting various components: (i) cash; (ii) deferred cash; (iii) to EUR 15,000 for the ACC, EUR 11,500 for the vested Phantom Share Units (PSUs); (iv) unvested RPC and EUR 10,000 for the RNC. The Chairman PSUs. STI compensation will be a combination of and the members of the Supervisory Board are cash, deferred cash and PSUs. The Managing Board further entitled to reimbursement of genuine determines the precise split between cash and business expenses made in the fulfilment of their equity or equity-linked components, the proportion duties. of deferred compensation and the form in which this is distributed (e.g. cash or unvested equity), Remuneration governance whether a threshold applies for the deferred In line with the various recommendations and component and, if so, how high that threshold is. guidelines issued by regulators, the governance For Identified Staff, no threshold applies and all surrounding the annual remuneration process has variable compensation, if any, is delivered in a prebeen strengthened and key roles have been agreed defined mix: 30% is delivered in cash, 20% in for the Human Resources, Risk Management, deferred cash, 30% in PSUs and 20% in unvested Compliance, Audit and Finance functions. This PSUs. With this, NIBC complies with regulations process was formalised in 2011 by establishing a 32 Governance Remuneration Report Committee of Control Functions consisting of representatives of the functions mentioned and further strengthened in 2012 by amending the governance processes. The Supervisory Board has discussed employees with the highest proposed variable compensation for 2012, Identified Staff and the remuneration and performance of control functions. Scenario analyses have been conducted to assess the possible outcomes of the variable remuneration components on an individual and collective basis. Any vested amounts of STI, LTI or one-off variable remuneration are subject to claw back by the Supervisory Board in the event they have been based on inaccurate financial or other data, fraud, or when the employee in question is dismissed ‘for cause’. Moreover, in exceptional circumstances, the Supervisory Board has the discretion to adjust downwards any or all variable remuneration if, in its opinion, this remuneration would have unfair or unintended effects. In assessing performance against pre-agreed performance criteria, financial performance shall be adjusted to allow for estimated risks and capital costs. In addition to claw backs the concept of ‘malus’ is part of the Remuneration Policy. This is an arrangement that permits NIBC to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of deferred compensation in relation to risk outcomes of performance. Malus is a form of ex-post risk adjustment, one of the key requirements, in addition to ex-ante risk adjustments. In case of resignation, any unvested amounts of compensation will be forfeited. Conclusion The RNC and the Supervisory Board believe that the Remuneration Policy is compliant with the latest regulations and is prudent and sustainable. The Supervisory Board continues to believe in prudent management of remuneration but recognises that NIBC operates in a competitive marketplace where it needs to be able to attract, motivate and retain sufficient talent. NIBC is determined to make a positive contribution towards creating the level playing field that regulators envisage with regard to variable compensation. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 33 In Control Report The responsibilities of the Managing Board are anchored in the principles of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act 1 and other regulations. These responsibilities include compliance with relevant legislation and responsibility for the implementation of risk management and control systems. The management and control systems aim to ensure reliable financial reporting and to control downside risk to the operational and financial objectives of NIBC. Risk Management and control Responsibility statement The Managing Board relies on the risk management In respect of Article 5:25c, Section 2 (c) (1 and 2) of and control framework and is supported by the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, the members business unit management. The business unit of the Managing Board of NIBC hereby confirm, to managers provide a bi-annual In Control Statement the best of their knowledge, that: to the Managing Board, based on a risk and control self-assessment. The results of the self-assessments nn The annual financial statements give a true and have been shared with the Supervisory Board. fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of NIBC and its The internal risk management and control systems consolidated group companies; based on a risk identification process combined nn The annual report gives a true and fair view of with an established set of detective, preventative the situation on the balance sheet date and and repressive control measures provide reasonable developments during the financial year of NIBC assurance that the financial reporting does not and its consolidated group companies; and contain errors of material importance and that the nn The annual report describes the material risks internal risk management and control systems which NIBC faces. regarding the financial reporting risks worked properly in the year under review. The Hague, 5 March 2013 In view of the above, the Managing Board of NIBC Managing Board believes it is in compliance with the requirements of best practice II.1.4 and best practice II.1.5 of the Jeroen Drost, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Kees van Dijkhuizen, Chief Financial Officer, Vice-Chairman Rob ten Heggeler, Chief Client Officer Petra van Hoeken, Chief Risk Officer 1 Wet op het financiële toezicht (Wft), 12 oktober 2006. 34 Risk Management Risk Management at NIBC is fully integrated in the strategic planning and daily business activities, thus enforcing efficiency, prioritisation and effectiveness throughout the organisation. Proactive, robust and structured Risk Management is implemented in NIBC’s two pillars, Corporate and Consumer Banking. Key developments in 2012 Risk Management includes credit, market, nn Continued de-risking of the balance sheet and operational, liquidity, investment, regulatory and further reduced concentration of portfolios; reputation risk. In line with previous years, NIBC nn Reinforced emphasis on clients via an enhanced had no sovereign debt exposure. sector-based approach in the Corporate Banking pillar; Notes 54, 55, 56, and 57 to the consolidated nn Intensified and proactive portfolio management financial statements contain more detailed in line with current market conditions with information on Risk Management as well as on strong focus on credit quality of existing and NIBC’s internal rating process and its use in newly originated clients; decision-making. Additional information can be nn Increased cohesiveness of the second line of found in NIBC’s Pillar 3 report on capital adequacy defence and heightened attention to operational and risk management, published on NIBC’s risk; website. nn Strengthened capital and liquidity position with capital ratios well above the regulatory minimum Portfolio overview requirements: 15.3% core Tier-1 ratio, 18.1% Table 1 presents a breakdown of the book value of Tier-1 ratio and 19.1% BIS ratio; NIBC’s risk exposures (drawn and undrawn), nn Diversified funding with expansion of the retail together with the types of risk present in these savings to EUR 7.7 billion and successful portfolios. Definitions of the main risk types are placements of two senior unsecured transactions given in the respective sections that follow. and a securitisation transaction; and nn Prioritised management of interest risk in view of The exposure amounts of table 1 are in general the low interest rate environment. aligned with the regulatory capital view of Basel II 1 Overview of risk exposures IN EUR MILLIONS Main risk types 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 CORPORATE/INVESTMENT LOANS 8,923 9,642 Corporate loans Credit risk 8,750 9,410 Investment loans Credit risk 173 232 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES Credit risk 8,187 8,745 EQUITY INVESTMENTS Investment risk 274 351 DEBT INVESTMENTS 1,346 1,412 Debt from financial institutions and corporate entities Credit risk/Market risk 601 707 Securitisations Credit risk/Market risk 745 705 CASH MANAGEMENT Credit risk 2,188 3,030 DERIVATIVES 1 Credit risk/Market risk 3,916 3,880 TOTAL 24,834 27,060 1. Positive replacement values. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 35 capital calculations, except for derivatives, which daily risk monitoring and management. The risk show the positive replacement values only, without departments are Credit Risk Management (CRM), netting and without any potential future exposure Restructuring & Distressed Assets Management add-on. The numbers presented can differ from the (RDA), Asset & Liability Management and Market numbers on the balance sheet, on which only drawn Risk (ALM/MR), Financial Markets Credit Risk and amounts are shown, with the exception of equity Risk Policy & Reporting (FMCR/RP&R) and investments. Note 54 to the consolidated financial Operational Risk Management (ORM). Compliance statements presents a more detailed comparison & CSR (C&C) and Legal joined Risk Management between risk figures and balance sheet amounts. in their reporting line to the CRO in 2012, which Sold securitised loans of EUR 468 million are further enhanced the cohesiveness of the second excluded from corporate loans as NIBC does not line of defence. have risk on them. The retained notes (EUR 143 million) are included in the exposure. In the Effective and comprehensive internal risk reporting Annual Report of 2011 both were included. enables senior management to promptly and accurately assess the bank’s risk profile and to Risk governance ensure it remains within the predefined risk NIBC uses the so-called ‘three lines of defence’ appetite framework. It further empowers the first model, which has become a standard model in a line of defence, by providing tools and management modern financial institution’s approach to information to optimise their portfolio decisions managing uncertainty and prevent risk. The first from a risk perspective. External risk reporting line consists of the business. The second line is the ensures that all stakeholders are informed through control functions, made up primarily of risk annual reports, interim reports and regulatory management and compliance. These functions set reports such as the Pillar 3 report on capital policies, define work practices and oversee the adequacy and risk management. business frontlines with regard to risk and compliance. The third line of defence refers to Credit risk internal audit, who regularly reviews both the NIBC defines credit risk as the current or potential business frontlines and the control functions to threat to the company’s earnings and capital as a ensure that they are carrying out their tasks to the result of a counterparty’s failure to make required required level of competency. payments related to financial obligations on time or to comply with other conditions of the agreement. With its responsibilities as the second line of defence, The possibility of restrictions on or impediments to NIBC Risk Management translates and cascades the the transfer of payments from abroad also fall risk appetite throughout the organisation via a risk under credit risk. Credit risk at NIBC is present in management culture, policies, limits and approvals. corporate loans, residential mortgages, debt investments, investment loans, cash management NIBC has a two-tier board structure consisting of and derivatives. These portfolios are further Supervisory Board and Managing Board. The discussed in note 54 to the consolidated financial overseeing body at Supervisory Board level for riskstatements. related matters is the RPC and for compliance and audit-related topics the ACC. Formal authority Corporate loans and decision-making are the responsibilities of the For quantifying the credit risk of its Corporate Loan Managing Board, who delegates to the Risk portfolio, NIBC has been employing an internally Management Committee (RMC), the Transaction developed methodology under the Basel II Advanced Committee (TC), the Asset & Liability Committee Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) approach since 2008. (ALCO), the Investment Committee (IC) and the In line with regulations, the methodology consists of ECC. These committees ensure that all risks NIBC three elements: a counterparty credit rating (CCR) is exposed to are effectively managed and that the that reflects the probability of default (PD) of the bank is operating in line with the overall desired borrower, an anticipated loss element that expresses risk appetite. the potential loss in the event of default (loss given default (LGD), which takes into account the The risk committees are supported by a robust risk presence of collateral, and exposure at default management organisation, which focuses on the (EAD), defined as the amount that is expected to be 36 Governance Risk Management outstanding at the moment that a counterparty sector reacted by increasing its focus on the capital defaults. markets and applying the team’s expertise to execute advisory mandates. In terms of Main developments in the Corporate Loan geographical split, the sector is spread across the portfolio United Kingdom (59%), Germany (18%) and the In 2012, NIBC strengthened its sector focus, further Netherlands (14%). The remainder of the portfolio concentrating on industries, where it possesses is located in the rest of Europe. The portfolio spans strong expertise and knowledge and where it can various industry sectors, of which education (23%), best assist its clients to achieve their strategic renewable energy (18%), healthcare (17%) and ambitions. Excellent understanding of customer roads & railways (13%) are the most prominent needs, key industry fundamentals, market sectors. developments and simultaneously, constantly following the trends are of pivotal importance. As a The Commercial Real Estate portfolio result of the increased emphasis on sectors, in early (EUR 1,941 million) remained relatively stable. In 2012, corporate lending was split into three sectors 2012, the emphasis was on active portfolio being Industries & Manufacturing, Technology, management with frequent screenings and semiMedia & Services and Food, Agri & Retail. This annual reviews of key clients. Credit default swap resulted in Leveraged Finance being the only protection (EUR 202 million) was purchased and department concentrated on a product type and significant steps were taken in restructuring covering a variety of sectors. The client focus of defaulted clients, which resulted in a better overall Leveraged Finance is fully aligned with NIBC’s portfolio quality. More than 79% of the portfolio is sectors and the department collaborates with other appraised every year with external parties, in line teams offering its specific product type expertise. with the increased focus on external and timely valuations. Early engagement with clients is The Corporate Loan portfolio remained one of pursued for upcoming redemptions and loan NIBC’s core portfolios. The total exposure amounted repayments. Commercial Real Estate remains a to EUR 8,750 million at 31 December 2012 well-diversified portfolio across various (31 December 2011: EUR 9,410 million). The eight commercial real estate classes. The properties are sectors in the Corporate Loan portfolio are located in Germany (51%), the Netherlands (47%) Infrastructure & Renewables, Commercial Real and the United Kingdom (2%). Residential Estate, Shipping & Intermodal, Oil & Gas Services, commercial property financing accounts for 59% of Industries & Manufacturing, Technology, Media & the portfolio, which significantly reduces the Services, Food, Agri & Retail and Leveraged Finance. concentration risk in the underlying collateral pool given the large number of tenants. The majority of Compared to 2011, the geographical distribution of NIBC’s residential properties are located in corporate loans remained almost unchanged. The Germany (80%), where in general the market has exposure in Germany increased, reflecting NIBC’s remained strong. Other prominent segments relate strategy for further growth in this market. Europe to financing of development companies (9%), comprises 83% of exposure, which is located mainly offices (9%), hotels (7%) and retail property in the Netherlands (30%), Germany (23%) and the financing (4%). Sold securitised loans of around United Kingdom (18%). The exposure distribution EUR 468 million are excluded from the in Asia/Pacific (8%), North America (5%) and Commercial Real Estate exposure as NIBC does other regions (4%) remained stable in 2012. not have risk on them. The retained notes (EUR 143 million) are included in the exposure. The Infrastructure & Renewables sector increased slightly in 2012 to EUR 2,190 million. The growth The Shipping & Intermodal sector exposure in the renewables segment continued and at year(EUR 1,521 million) slightly reduced in 2012, end this segment covered 18% of the total sector despite new transactions broadening the client (EUR 404 million). In 2012, NIBC increased its base. The adverse economic conditions that the presence particularly in the solar segment after industry has been experiencing for the past three closing its first solar transaction in 2011. The years continued throughout 2012. Active portfolio market witnessed an increased appetite from management, which remained a high priority on an institutional investors in the last year, to which the on-going basis, resulted in a stable credit quality. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 37 The sector did not experience new defaults. technology segment undergoing frequent and Attention to three key lending parameters, which significant changes. The portfolio mostly consists of are considered crucial for the generation of healthy general services (38%), IT services (22%), financial cash flows, intensified in 2012. The three services (19%), media (8%) and electronics (8%). parameters are asset quality, owner of the asset and Borrowers are mainly located in the Netherlands access to cargo. NIBC’s Shipping & Intermodal (51%) and Germany (35%). The sector has a small portfolio consists mainly of tankers (34%), bulk presence in the Asia/Pacific region (8%) and the carriers (28%), container boxes (also known as rest of Europe (6%). intermodal; 12%) and container vessels (9%). Borrowers are mainly located in Europe (38%), The exposure of the Food, Agri & Retail sector Asia/Pacific (34%) and North America (17%). amounted to EUR 141 million at year-end 2012 and is balanced across several segments. Most of the Oil & Gas Services performed well and the portfolio clients in this sector operate in food-retail (45%), grew to EUR 1,015 million. In 2012, the sector services (19%), food & beverages (18%) and continued diversifying its client base and product wholesale (12%). In terms of geographic scope and further established its presence in the distribution, the focus is exclusively on Europe with reserve-based lending and offshore support the Netherlands representing 56% of the portfolio, segments. The credit quality remained solid with no Germany 38% and the rest of Europe 6%. The credit defaults, impairments or arrears. The total exposure quality remained solid, resulting from the in this portfolio is split over five main subsectors of continuous emphasis on a well-balanced credit which offshore support vessels (34%), drilling selection. A substantial part of the Leveraged (25%) and production (21%) are the most Finance portfolio is Food, Agri & Retail related. prominent subsectors. In terms of geographical focus, the sector is balanced across Europe (51%), The exposure of the Leveraged Finance portfolio Asia/Pacific (18%) and North America (13%) and (EUR 1,080 million) decreased in 2012, mainly due the assets are located all over the world in key oil to reduced deal volume in the market and through and gas areas. sales in the secondary markets. NIBC continued its selective approach with respect to origination and The Industries & Manufacturing portfolio was its focus on proactive and forward-looking EUR 435 million at year-end 2012. Most of the portfolio management. Consistent with the clients are located in the Netherlands (75%) and the increased sector emphasis, Leveraged Finance remainder in Germany (18%) and in the rest of pursued client alignment with the NIBC sectors. Europe (7%). The credit quality of the portfolio The portfolio is granular and well diversified, remained stable, as a result of active portfolio spread across NIBC key industries and geographies management. Although in general the demand for with a clear focus on mid-market companies. The industrial products tends to be cyclical, NIBC most important segments are manufacturing of focuses on the more stable subsectors. The portfolio industrial products (17%), wholesale (15%), retail is well balanced and split across various industry (14%), services (12%), healthcare (10%), food & sectors: rental and leasing activities (25%), financial beverages (6%) and media (5%). The remainder of services (23%), industrial products (18%), the portfolio is spread over several sub-sectors, wholesale (15%), consumer products (8%), none of which represents more than 5%. At yeartransportation & storage (7%) and other (4%). end 2012, exposure was located in the Netherlands Certain transactions in the financial services (46%), Germany (25%) and the United Kingdom industry are funded through a financial markets’ (13%) with the remainder in the rest of Europe. structure with highly-rated and self-liquidating collateral. Development of credit quality and special attention exposure The Technology, Media & Services’ portfolio The credit quality of the Corporate Loan Portfolio amounted to EUR 225 million at year-end 2012. remained stable in 2012. Emphasis during the year The credit quality of the portfolio slightly improved was on ensuring solid quality of existing and newly during 2012. In the recent years, various originated clients. This was enforced by strong and developments occurred in the sector with the media pro-active portfolio management and increased segment redefining its business model and the sector emphasis. 38 Governance Risk Management In terms of CCR’s distribution, the credit quality of nn Impaired exposure: defined by the International the portfolio is concentrated in the 5 and 6 categories Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in NIBC’s internal rating scale (BB and B categories in accounting standard. Facilities are considered external rating agencies’ scales). The concentration of impaired if the TC decides on an impairment NIBC’s corporate loan exposure in sub-investment amount for that facility; and grade is counterbalanced by the fact that almost all nn Non-performing exposure: defined by the loans have some form of collateralisation. Loans can International Monetary Fund (IMF). Nonbe collateralised by mortgages on vessels and real performing include facilities with an arrear for estate, by lease and other receivables, by pledge on more than 90 days and facilities with an arrear machinery and equipment, or by third-party for less than 90 days and carrying an guarantees and other similar agreements. The impairment amount. collateral portfolio also benefits from external valuations. As a result, NIBC’s LGDs are concentrated In 2012, four out of five special attention metrics in those LGD categories that correspond to recoveries improved. Table 2 shows an overview of the five in the range of 80% and 90%, which are relatively high metrics as a percentage of the total exposure at for the banking industry. 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. As a result of a successful restructuring, executed in Note 54 to the financial statements provides more cooperation between the business and Risk detailed information on the evolution of Management, the corporate loan exposure carrying impairments and write-offs. an arrear fell to EUR 307 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: Residential mortgages EUR 600 million). Fewer write-offs were taken in Since 1 January 2008 NIBC’s rating methodology 2012 (EUR 28 million) compared to 2011 for residential mortgages using the AIRB approach (EUR 71 million), while impairments increased by for calculating solvency requirements and 17% to EUR 134 million. reporting to the DNB has been approved by the DNB. The calculation of PD, LGD and EAD is Risk Management monitors the special attention performed by an internally developed Basel II AIRB exposure on a monthly basis, which enables a model, which has been in use since 2006. This AIRB prompt and proactive response, if needed. Several model is periodically assessed by the DNB to ensure metrics defining the special attention exposure are that minimum requirements are met. used to capture potential problematic borrowers: nn Exposure managed by the RDA department; The Residential Mortgage portfolio at nn Exposure on watch list: the watch list consists of 31 December 2012 amounted to EUR 8,187 million obligors not managed by RDA, but with an (31 December 2011: EUR 8,745 million), improving increased risk of potential default. Several its alignment to the Corporate Loan portfolio’s size. criteria exist for placement on the watch list, In 2012, it decreased by approximately which mostly relate to credit ratings, rating EUR 600 million, due to repayments being higher migrations, non-commercial restructuring or than originations. The portfolio consists of non-performing facilities; residential mortgage loans originated in the nn Defaulted exposure: defined by the Basel II Netherlands and Germany. The majority (96%) of definition (see note 54). A counterparty is the Residential Mortgage portfolio consists of considered defaulted if it carries an internal Dutch mortgages. The other 4% comprises German CCR rating of 9 or 10; mortgages. The total Dutch mortgage book of 2 Overview of special attention exposure (percentage of total exposure at year-end 2012 and 2011) IN % OF TOTAL EXPOSURE 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Defaulted exposure 6.1 9.3 Impaired exposure 4.8 3.6 Non-performing exposure 3.1 5.0 Exposure managed by RDA 11.1 12.1 Exposure on watch list 2.2 5.8 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 39 EUR 7,836 million is externally funded for The exposure was mainly from issuers located in the EUR 4,512 million by bonds bought by investors of Netherlands (22%), the United States (20%), the RMBS programmes. The German mortgage book United Kingdom (15%), Germany (15%) and other has a size of EUR 351 million. NIBC handles all Western European countries (28%). There were no management of amounts in arrear of its Dutch Credit Default Swaps (CDS) outstanding in the Debt Residential Mortgage portfolio in-house. Investments portfolio. NIBC successfully placed a securitisation transaction The total securitisation exposure amounted to (EUR 527 million) backed by residential mortgages EUR 745 million at 31 December 2012 (31 under its long-standing Dutch MBS programme, in December 2011: EUR 705 million), all of which was line with the improvement in the RMBS markets in located in Western Europe. 2012. The placement under the Dutch MBS programme increased the size of the securitised The size of both portfolios combined decreased in portfolio compared to 2011. 2012, mainly due to regular repayments and active sales of assets. Note 54 to the consolidated financial The residential mortgage market in 2012 remained statements provides more information for both challenging. After the September 2012 elections in portfolios. the Netherlands, new measures were taken by the government with several new plans for the Dutch Cash management housing market, specified in note 54 to the financial NIBC is also exposed to credit risk as a result of statements. cash management activities. An example is the credit risk on cash accounts with other banks. The origination spread of mortgages in the NIBC holds foreign currency accounts at Netherlands increased significantly, showing an correspondent banks and also utilises third-party increased risk perception of mortgages and account providers for internal securitisations. increased funding costs. In the last two years losses increased, due to market circumstances; however, In 2012, NIBC’s risk management framework for losses in 2012 were lower than in the previous year. cash management continued its conservative Actual credit losses have, in general, been low in the attitude, taking into account the vulnerable past years. financial markets. Debt investments NIBC places its excess cash primarily at the DNB The Debt Investments portfolio contains issuer risk, and a selected number of strong investment-grade which is the credit risk of losing the principal financial institutions. For the approved financial amount on products such as bonds. It is calculated counterparties, a monitoring process is set up based on the book value. This portfolio contained within the FMCR department. Ratings of financial no sovereign exposures. counterparties are verified on a daily basis. NIBC identifies the following sub-portfolios: The size of this portfolio decreased to nn Debt from financial institutions and corporate EUR 2,188 million at 31 December 2012 (31 entities; and December 2011: EUR 3,030 million), mainly as a nn Securitisations, further broken down into result of the redemptions and buy-backs of Western European and Liquidity Investments government-guaranteed funding. At 31 December portfolio. 2012, 73% of NIBC’s excess cash was placed at the DNB. The remainder was mainly placed at financial The portfolio of debt issued by financial institutions institutions rated single-A or higher, of which 46% and corporate entities amounted to were located in the Netherlands, 23% in France, EUR 601 million at 31 December 2012 20% in the United States and 10% in other (31 December 2011: EUR 707 million). This European countries. Note 54 to the consolidated portfolio is used to support NIBC’s liquidity position. financial statements provides more information on Bonds issued by financial institutions comprised cash management. 97% of this amount, and 3% were corporate bonds. 40 Governance Risk Management Derivatives exchange risk, both within and outside the Trading Credit risk in derivatives is the risk of having to portfolio. For fixed-income products, market risk replace the counterparty in derivative contracts. also includes credit spread risk, which is the risk due NIBC manages this risk, based upon the markedto movements of underlying credit curves. to-market value plus a Potential Future Exposure (PFE). The PFE reflects a potential future change in The predominant market risk drivers for NIBC are marked-to-market value during the remaining interest rate risk and credit spread risk. Interest rate lifetime of the derivative contract. risk of NIBC is present in the Trading portfolio, the Mismatch portfolio and the Banking Book. NIBC’s credit risk in derivatives can be split into exposures to financial institutions and corporate In the Trading portfolio, NIBC takes short-term entities. NIBC’s policy is to minimise this risk. With positions in the EUR, GBP and USD yield curves. respect to financial institutions, NIBC only enters This portfolio also contains interest rate risk related into Over The Counter (OTC) derivatives with to derivative transactions of NIBC’s clients. The investment-grade counterparties with ratings of overall market risk in NIBC’s Trading portfolio is single-A or higher. NIBC has bilateral collateral limited, as is also exhibited by the amount of Basel II/ contracts in place with all of the main financial Pillar I regulatory capital required for this activity, institutions it does business with. These contracts which only comprises 3% of the total regulatory aim to mitigate credit risk in the derivatives by capital. This is a slight increase compared to 2011, means of Credit Support Annexes (CSA). For since the capital requirement is now based upon the corporate clients, NIBC enters into a derivative sum of the normal Value at Risk (VaR) and Stressed transaction as part of its relationship management. VaR, whereas previously the capital requirement was No CSA agreements are in place for these contracts, based upon the normal VaR. The low level of market however corporate derivative exposures usually risk is further emphasised by the VaR, calculated benefit from the collateral also supporting the with a 99% confidence interval, which amounted, on related loan exposure. average, to only EUR 0.7 million in 2012. The VaR limit is currently set at EUR 2.25 million. The size of NIBC’s derivative portfolio excluding netting, collateral and PFE amounted to EUR 3,916 In the Mismatch portfolio, NIBC concentrates the million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: interest rate risk of the bank based upon a long-term EUR 3,880 million). Including netting and view. Traditionally, NIBC only takes mismatch collateral, the size was EUR 970 million positions in the currencies in which the bank has (31 December 2011: EUR 965 million). Netting and lending activities. NIBC closed the existing collateral almost exclusively reduce the exposure to mismatch positions in 2011. Throughout 2012, derivatives with financial institutions. interest rates remained at very low levels. NIBC did not to open a new mismatch position in 2012. Derivative contracts are closed with financial institutions and corporate clients in NIBC’s core Apart from the Trading portfolio and the Mismatch geographies. In terms of net exposure, 42% is located portfolio, interest rate risk is also contained in a in the United Kingdom, 25% in the Netherlands, number of portfolios collectively referred to as 13% in France and 12% in Germany. In terms of Banking Book. The Banking Book only contains industry sector, all of NIBC’s financial counterparties residual interest rate risk and basis risk. fall into the financial services sector. Corporate clients with derivatives are mainly active in NIBC is subject to credit spread risk in the Debt Infrastructure & Renewables (52%), Commercial Investments portfolio, which is part of the Banking Real Estate (34%) and Shipping & Intermodal (5%). Book and comprised mainly investments in financial Note 54 to the consolidated financial statements institutions and securitisations. provides more information on derivatives. NIBC has the policy not to take any active currency Market risk position. When currency positions exceed small NIBC defines market risk as the current and facilitating limits, NIBC enters into a hedging prospective threat to its earnings and capital as a transaction. NIBC’s overall open currency position, result of movements in market prices. Market risk in general, is lower than EUR 25 million. includes price risk, interest rate risk and foreign Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 41 In 2012, interest rates decreased to record low Management of investment exposures levels. This had little impact on the Trading Direct investment transactions with respect to portfolio, whose result is in general more equity exposures are approved by the IC. As far as influenced by the volatility of the rates than their indirect investment transactions are concerned, actual level. NIBC closed its mismatch position in these are approved by the investment committees of 2011 and after having considered the low interest the NIBC Funds, subject to the investment rate environment, did not envisage opening a new guidelines stipulated in the fund agreements mismatch position in 2012. The predominant effect between the manager of the NIBC Fund and the of the low interest rates is manifested in the Banking investors. Book. Due to the competitive environment, the client rate for retail savings cannot be lowered at the NIBC’s equity investments are generally same pace as the decline in interest rates. In characterised by low liquidity. Because the size of addition, NIBC has to hold significant cash buffers, the Investment portfolio is limited, concentration both for prudent liquidity management and as risk is assessed per individual new asset. Market, collateral for derivatives. The short-term interest sector and geographical exposure profiles are also rates’ decline to levels close to zero had a negative taken into account. impact on NIBC’s interest margin. Note 55 to the consolidated financial statements provides more All investment exposures are reviewed on a information on market risk. quarterly basis. The investment manager drafts a review document and prepares a valuation of the Investment risk investment in accordance with the International Investment risk for NIBC’s equity investments is Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation the risk that the value of the investment will Guidelines, to the extent that these are consistent deteriorate. NIBC includes investment risk in its with IAS 39. The International Private Equity and market risk framework. Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines set out recommendations, intended to represent current NIBC’s investment risk relates to positions in best practice on the valuation of private equity private equity, infrastructure equity and real estate investments. All valuations are approved by the IC. equity investments. These equity investments can be divided into direct investments and indirect In each quarterly review, the exit strategy of the investments. Indirect investments are investments investment is updated, where applicable. made through funds set up and managed by NIBC Divestment proposals for direct investments are (NIBC Funds) that are controlled by NIBC and submitted for approval to the IC. Divestment thus consolidated into NIBC’s consolidated proposals for indirect investments are submitted for financial statements. Direct investments are all approval to the investment committee of the NIBC other investments and consist of private and listed Fund. common equity investments, preference shares, warrants and interests in funds managed by NIBC Avedon Capital Partners, which incorporated the or by third parties in which NIBC does not exercise activities of NIBC Capital Partners, was spun off control. from NIBC in 2011. Avedon Capital partners manages the NIBC Growth Capital Fund II and the The investment process is based on the following equity funds NIBC Merchant Banking Fund IA and principles: IB. It is fully independent from NIBC, in line with nn Investment risk exposures are authorised market requirements for the governance of thirdindependently from the business originators; party funds. nn Systematic risk analysis of the investment is undertaken, with a view to identifying, Composition of investment exposure measuring and evaluating all risks; and Tables 3 and 4 present the breakdown of the onnn The principles of Know Your Customer, CSR balance Equity Investments portfolio in industry and customer due diligence are embedded as an sectors and regions. NIBC’s off-balance integral part of the overall investment process. commitments amounted to EUR 43 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 67 million). 42 Governance Risk Management 3 Breakdown of equity investments per industry sector IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Wholesale/Retail/Leisure 97 130 Infrastructure 80 76 Financial Services 32 33 Commercial Real Estate 17 31 Manufacturing 16 17 Services 3 3 Shipping 0 13 Agriculture & Food 0 5 TMT 21 Other 29 22 TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 274 351 4 Breakdown of equity investments per region IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 The Netherlands 214 281 United Kingdom 11 13 Rest of Europe 27 37 North America 22 20 TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 274 351 Liquidity risk two weeks to the ALCO, in order to allow NIBC defines liquidity risk as the inability of the continuous monitoring of the liquidity position. company to fund its assets and meet its obligations The market-wide stress test, for example, assumes as they become due, at acceptable cost. no additional funding, continuation of business and potential outflow of cash due to collateral One of the cornerstones of NIBC’s liquidity risk agreements. The outcomes of the liquidity stress management framework is to maintain a tests are at a comfortable positive level and remain comfortable liquidity position. The credit and positive for a prolonged period. Note 56 to the liquidity crisis made liquidity risk management consolidated financial statements provides more even more important. NIBC was able to maintain a information on liquidity risk. sound liquidity position in the difficult times of the credit crisis due to the prudent and conservative Funding liquidity and funding policy in the past, as well as NIBC further diversified its funding base by the by diversifying funding sources. Following the initiatives mentioned earlier. An overview of the funding diversification of the past years, the major Funding portfolio at 31 December 2012 and funding initiatives undertaken in 2012 were the 31 December 2011 is shown in graph 5. The further expansion of the online retail savings funding overview is based on total balance sheet programme NIBC Direct from EUR 6.1 billion to amounts. EUR 7.7 billion, as well as renewed issuance of unsecured debt and a RMBS issuance. In addition, Operational risk NIBC was able to maintain its liquidity buffers of Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss highly liquid assets and collateralised funding resulting from inadequate or failed processes or capacity throughout 2012. systems, from human error, fraud, or external events including legal risk. NIBC has chosen also to Based on projections prepared by the business units include reputation and strategic business risk as and reviewed by Risk Management, and the current operational risk. asset and liability maturity profiles, several liquidity stress tests are prepared and presented once every Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 43 5 B  reakdown of total Funding portfolio, 31 December 2012 (EUR 26,242 million) and 31 December 2011 (EUR 28,554 million) IN % 2012 2011 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Retail Secured Derivatives StateOther Shareholder’s Other savings (wholesale) guaranteed unsecured equity funding funding In NIBC’s three lines of defence model, the ORM Capital adequacy department is part of the second-line function. Regulatory capital NIBC’s operational risk management framework The principal ratios for reviewing NIBC’s capital outlines principles for the roles, responsibilities and adequacy are the Basel II regulatory capital ratios: the accountabilities for front-to-back ORM. Staff is core Tier-1 ratio, the Tier-1 ratio and the BIS ratio. responsible for adherence to the framework and the operational risk policies, which include oversight of As in previous years, NIBC was very well capitalised all operational risks specific to the business and at 31 December 2012, characterised by the strong reporting of operational risk events and losses. regulatory ratios. The core Tier-1 ratio stood at 15.3% (31 December 2011: 13.8%); the Tier-1 ratio ORM monitors and manages operational risk on at 18.1% (31 December 2011: 16.2%); and the BIS group level, develops policies and processes (such ratio at 19.1% (31 December 2011: 17.5%), well as the new product approval process) and provides above the capital requirements imposed by the methodology and tools. In the course of 2012, five DNB, which require a minimum Tier-1 ratio of 4% new products were launched by NIBC. The tools and a minimum BIS ratio of 8%. NIBC is well utilised give an integrated view of the risk selfprepared for Basel III charges on capital ratios. assessment, control identification, action planning, and event and loss registration. These tools support The main driver for the higher levels of these ratios the constant process of evaluating and reducing compared to 2011 was the further decrease in Risk operational risk, and planning mitigation measures. Weighted Assets (RWA). Of the total capital The department also co-ordinates the development requirement, 89% relates to credit risk, 8% to of forward-looking scenario analysis (hypothetical operational risk and 3% to market risk. Table 6 shows external or internal scenarios with which it is the summary of capital ratios and RWA for NIBC. ensured that a plan exists in case these events occur). Examples of such scenarios include business continuity plans for buildings, key technology systems and key processes of the bank, a possible exit of a country from the eurozone, stress in the Dutch banking sector, large-scale staff unavailability due to e.g. a pandemic, and other hypothetical events for which a forward-looking action plan is necessary. Overall, attention to operational risk was heightened and a reorganisation of the team took place in 2012. 44 Governance Risk Management 6 NIBC capital ratios, Basel II IN % 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 CAPITAL RATIOS Core Tier-1 ratio 15.3 13.8 Tier-1 ratio 18.1 16.2 BIS ratio 19.1 17.5 IN eur millionS 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 RISK WEIGHTED ASSETS Credit risk 8,670 10,827 Market risk 325 254 Operational risk 736 717 TOTAL RWA 9,731 11,798 Economic capital In addition to regulatory capital, NIBC also calculates Economic Capital (EC). This is the amount of capital that NIBC needs as a buffer against potential losses from business activities, based upon its own assessment of risks. It differs from Basel II regulatory capital as NIBC sometimes assesses the specific risk characteristics of its business activities in a different manner from the general regulatory method. At NIBC, EC is based on a one-year risk horizon with a 99.95% confidence level. This confidence level means that there is a probability of 0.05% that losses in a period of one year will be larger than the allocated EC. During 2012, the EC remained relatively stable and ranged between EUR 1.1 billion and EUR 1.3 billion, with an average of EUR 1,163 million. Compared to 2011, the reduction in portfolios has led to a small decline in calculated EC. Note 57 to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on capital management. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 45 Table of contents Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement 48 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 49 Consolidated balance sheet 50 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholder’s equity 52 Consolidated statement of cash flows 53 Accounting policies 54 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Segment report 83 2 Net interest income 85 3 Net fee and commission income 85 4 Dividend income 86 5 Net trading income 86 6 Gains less losses from financial assets 86 7 Other operating income 87 8 Personnel expenses and share-based payments 87 9 Other operating expenses 96 10 Depreciation and amortisation 96 11 Impairments of financial assets 97 12 Tax 97 13 Result attributable to non-controlling interests 98 14 Cash and balances with central banks (amortised cost) 98 15 Due from other banks (amortised cost) 99 16 Loans (amortised cost) 99 17 Debt investments (amortised cost) 101 18 Securitised loans (amortised cost) 102 19 Equity investments (available-for-sale) 103 20 Debt investments (available-for-sale) 104 21 Loans (designated at fair value through profit or loss) 105 22 Residential mortgages own book (designated at fair value through profit or loss) 106 23 Securitised residential mortgages (designated at fair value through profit or loss) 106 24 Debt investments at fair value through profit or loss (including trading) 108 25 Equity investments (including investments in associates) (designated at fair value through profit or loss) 109 26 Derivative financial instruments 110 27 Investments in associates (equity method) 116 28 Intangible assets 117 29 Property, plant and equipment 118 30 Investment property 119 46 Table of contents 31 Current tax 119 32 Other assets 120 33 Deferred tax 120 34 Due to other banks (amortised cost) 121 35 Deposits from customers (amortised cost) 122 36 Own debt securities in issue (amortised cost) 122 37 Debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages (amortised cost) 123 38 Own debt securities in issue (designated at fair value through profit or loss) 123 39 Debt securities in issue structured (designated at fair value through profit or loss) 124 40 Other liabilities 124 41 Employee benefits 124 42 Subordinated liabilities amortised cost 128 43 Subordinated liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 129 44 Shareholder’s equity 130 45 Fair value of financial instruments 132 46 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets 137 47 Commitments and contingent assets and liabilities 138 48 Business combinations 139 49 Assets transferred or pledged as security 139 50 Assets under management 140 51 Related party transactions 140 52 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 141 53 Remuneration of the Statutory Board members and Supervisory Board members 142 54 Credit risk 151 55 Market risk 171 56 Liquidity risk 174 57 Capital management 178 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 47 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 Interest and similar income 575 693 Interest expense and similar charges 449 528 NET INTEREST INCOME 2 126 165 Fee and commission income 18 36 Fee and commission expense 1 NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 3 17 36 Dividend income 4 8 5 Net trading income 5 94 19 Gains less losses from financial assets 6 28 48 Share in result of associates 27 (1) 1 Other operating income 7 22 64 OPERATING INCOME 294 338 Personnel expenses and share-based payments 8 98 128 Other operating expenses 9 60 79 Depreciation and amortisation 10 10 19 OPERATING EXPENSES 168 226 Impairments of financial assets 11 45 44 TOTAL EXPENSES 213 270 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 81 68 Tax 12 8 1 PROFIT AFTER TAX 73 67 Result attributable to non-controlling interests 13 (1) NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT SHAREHOLDER 73 68 48 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Tax Tax charge/ charge/ IN EUR MILLIONS Before tax (credit) After tax Before tax (credit) After tax PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 81 8 73 68 1 67 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Net result on hedging instruments (30) (7) (23) 28 6 22 Revaluation loans and receivables 4 1 3 14 3 11 Revaluation equity investments (10) (1) (9) 1 1 Revaluation debt investments 24 6 18 (25) (6) (19) Revaluation property, plant and equipment 1 1 (13) (3) (10) TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (11) (1) (10) 5 1 4 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 70 7 63 73 2 71 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO Parent shareholder 70 7 63 74 2 72 Non-controlling interests (1) (1) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 70 7 63 73 2 71 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 49 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 Assets FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTISED COST Cash and balances with central banks 14 1,604 2,430 Due from other banks 15 2,123 2,104 Loans and receivables Loans 16 7,343 7,517 Debt investments 17 366 507 Securitised loans 18 611 613 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE Equity investments 19 49 66 Debt investments 20 985 887 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Loans 21 515 998 Residential mortgages own book 22 3,675 3,185 Securitised residential mortgages 23 4,512 5,560 Debt investments 24 124 164 Equity investments (including investments in associates) 25 215 258 Derivative financial assets held for trading 26 3,642 3,657 Derivative financial assets used for hedging 26 275 292 OTHER Investments in associates (equity method) 27 10 14 Intangible assets 28 50 52 Property, plant and equipment 29 47 51 Investment property 30 1 27 Current tax 31 2 3 Other assets 32 93 169 TOTAL ASSETS 26,242 28,554 50 Consolidated financial statements IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 Liabilities FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT AMORTISED COST Due to other banks 34 1,026 1,261 Deposits from customers 35 8,347 6,644 Own debt securities in issue 36 4,314 7,096 Debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages 37 4,470 5,416 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Own debt securities in issue 38 34 41 Debt securities in issue structured 39 1,654 1,733 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading 26 4,026 3,966 Derivative financial liabilities used for hedging 26 20 34 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other liabilities 40 159 149 Current tax 31 9 Deferred tax 33 18 Employee benefits 41 4 5 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES Amortised cost 42 83 85 Fair value through profit or loss 43 264 296 TOTAL LIABILITIES 24,410 26,744 SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY Share capital 44 80 80 Other reserves 44 312 322 Retained earnings 1,385 1,361 Net profit attributable to parent shareholder 73 68 (Interim) dividend paid (19) (22) TOTAL PARENT SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY 1,831 1,809 Non-controlling interests 1 1 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY 1,832 1,810 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY 26,242 28,554 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 51 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholder’s equity Attributable to parent shareholder DistribuTotal tion NonshareShare Other Retained Net charged to controlling holder's IN EUR MILLIONS capital reserves1 earnings profit net profit Total interests equity BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2011 80 318 1,329 76 (22) 1,781 22 1,803 Transfer of net profit 2010 to retained earnings 54 (76) 22 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 4 68 72 (1) 71 Divestment of third-party interests in a subsidiary formerly controlled by NIBC (20) (20) Dividend paid 2 (22) (22) (44) (44) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 80 322 1,361 68 (22) 1,809 1 1,810 Attributable to parent shareholder DistribuTotal tion NonshareShare Other Retained Net charged to controlling holder's IN EUR MILLIONS capital reserves1 earnings profit net profit Total interests equity BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2012 80 322 1,361 68 (22) 1,809 1 1,810 Transfer of net profit 2011 to retained earnings 46 (68) 22 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 (10) 73 63 63 Dividend paid 2 (22) (19) (41) (41) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 80 312 1,385 73 (19) 1,831 1 1,832 1. Other reserves include share premium, hedging reserve and revaluation reserves. 2. Ordinary interim and final dividend paid in 2012 and 2011 to equity holder. 52 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net profit for the year 73 68 ADJUSTMENTS FOR NON-CASH ITEMS Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 10/11 55 63 Changes in employee benefits 41 (1) Gains less losses from financial assets 6 (28) (48) Share in result of associates 27 1 (1) CHANGES IN OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Derivative financial instruments 26 55 164 Operating assets 1,293 813 Operating liabilities (including deposits from customers) 523 1,539 Dividends received from associates 27 4 3 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 1 1,975 2,601 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and investment property 29/30 26 38 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 29/30 (2) (12) Disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 19/25/27/28 75 133 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 27/28 (1) (1) CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 98 158 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net decrease in own debt securities in issue 36/38 (2,789) (1,118) Net decrease in subordinated liabilities 42/43 (34) (107) Net decrease in debt securities in issue structured 39 (79) (387) Dividend paid (41) (44) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (2,943) (1,656) NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (870) 1,103 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 1 JANUARY 3,107 2,004 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (870) 1,103 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2,237 3,107 RECONCILIATION OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash and balances with central banks 14 1,604 2,430 Due from other banks (maturity three months or less) 15 633 677 2,237 3,107 SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURE OF OPERATING CASH FLOW INFORMATION: Interest paid 554 576 Interest received 624 686 1. The cash flows from operating activities included an amount of EUR 1 million of taxes (2011: EUR 1 million of taxes). Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 53 Accounting policies Authorisation of consolidated financial statements are disclosed in the Critical financial statements accounting estimates and judgements section. The consolidated financial statements of NIBC Bank N.V. (NIBC) for the year ended 31 December Standards, amendments and interpretations 2012 were authorised for issue by the Managing effective in 2012 Board of NIBC on 5 March 2013. NIBC, together The following new or revised standards and with its subsidiaries (NIBC or the group), is interpretations and amendments to standards and incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands, interpretations became effective in 2012: and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NIBC Holding nn Amendment to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Transfers N.V. (NIBC Holding). The principal activities of of Financial Assets’. If the assets transferred are NIBC are described in the Our Clients section of not derecognised entirely in the financial this Annual Report. statements, an entity has to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to Summary of significant understand the relationship between those accounting policies assets which are not derecognised and their The principal accounting policies applied in the associated liabilities. If those assets are preparation of these consolidated financial derecognised entirely, but the entity retains a statements are set out below. These policies have continuing involvement, disclosures have to be been consistently applied to all the years presented, provided that enable users of financial unless otherwise stated. Where considered statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks necessary comparative figures have been adjusted associated with, the entity’s continuing to conform to changes in presentation in the involvement in those derecognised assets; current year. nn IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ (Amendment) – Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Assets. The Statement of compliance amendment introduces an exception to the NIBC’s consolidated financial statements have been existing principle for the measurement of prepared in accordance with the International deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by investment property measured at fair value; and the European Union (EU) and with Title 9 of Book 2 nn IFRS 1 ‘First-Time Adoption of IFRS’ of the Netherlands Civil Code. (Amendment) – Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First Time Adopter. Basis of preparation This amendment provides guidance on how an The consolidated financial statements have been entity should resume presenting IFRS financial prepared under the historical cost convention, as statements when its functional currency ceases modified by the revaluation of property, available to be subject to severe hyperinflation. The for sale financial assets, financial assets and amendment also removes the legacy fixed dates financial liabilities held at fair value through profit in IFRS 1 relating to derecognition and day one or loss, and all derivative contracts. All figures are gain or loss transactions. In the amended rounded to the nearest EUR million, except when standard these dates coincide with the date of otherwise indicated. transition to IFRS. The preparation of financial statements in The amendment to IFRS 7 ‘DisclosuresTransfers conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain of Financial Assets’ and the other amendments critical accounting estimates. It also requires resulting from Improvements to IFRSs to IAS 12 management to exercise judgement in the process ‘Income Taxes’ and IFRS 1 ‘First-Time Adoption of of applying NIBC’s accounting policies. The areas IFRS’ did not have any impact on the financial involving a higher degree of judgement or position or performance of NIBC. complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated 54 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Standards, amendments and interpretations to on the accounting treatment of investments existing standards that are not yet effective and currently held by NIBC; have not been early-adopted by NIBC nn IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other The following standards, amendments an Entities’ (effective as from 1 January 2014). IFRS interpretations to existing standards issued by the 12 includes all of the disclosures that were International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated and endorsed by the EU are mandatory for financial statements, as well as all of the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January disclosures that were previously included in IAS 2013 or later periods, but NIBC has not early31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’ and IAS 28 adopted them: ‘Investment in Associates’. These disclosures nn Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial relates to an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, Statements Presentation of Items of Other joint arrangements, associates and structured Comprehensive Income (OCI)’ (effective for entities. A number of new disclosures are also annual periods beginning on or after 1 July required. One of the most significant changes 2012). The amendments to IAS 1 change the introduced by IFRS 12 is that an entity is now grouping of items presented in OCI. Items that required to disclose the judgements made to could be reclassified (or ‘recycled’) to profit or determine whether it controls another entity. loss at a future point in time would be presented Many of these changes were introduced by the separately from items which will never be IASB in response to the financial crisis. Now, reclassified. The amendment affects even if NIBC concludes that it does not control presentation only and has no impact on NIBC’s an entity, the information used to make that financial position or performance; judgement will be transparent to users of the nn IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ (effective as financial statements to make their own from 1 January 2013). IFRS 13 does not define assessment of the financial impact had NIBC when an entity is required to use fair value, but reached a different conclusion regarding rather, provides guidance on how to measure consolidation. NIBC will need to disclose more the fair value of financial and non-financial information about the consolidated and assets and liabilities when required or permitted unconsolidated structured entities with which it by IFRS. There are also additional disclosure is involved or has sponsored. However, the requirements. Adoption of this standard is not standard will not have any impact on the expected to have a material impact on NIBC’s financial position or performance of NIBC; financial position or performance; nn IAS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’ (Revised) nn IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ (effective as from 1 January 2014). As a (effective as from 1 January 2014). IFRS 10 consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, replaces the requirements of IAS 27 what remains in IAS 27 is limited to accounting ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and Statements’ that address the accounting for associates in separate financial statements. consolidated financial statements and SIC 12 NIBC does not present separate financial ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities (SPE)’. statements; What remains in IAS 27 is limited to accounting nn IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and Ventures’ (Revised) (effective as from 1 January associates in separate financial statements. 2014). As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 NIBC is currently assessing the impact of ‘Joint Arrangements’, and IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of adopting IFRS 10; Interests in Other Entities’, IAS 28 ‘Investment nn IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ (effective as from in Associates’, has been renamed IAS 28 1 January 2014). IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures’ ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’ and SIC 13 ‘Jointly and describes the application of the equity Controlled Entities – Non Monetary method to investments in joint ventures in Contributions by Venturers’. Because IFRS 11 addition to associates; uses the principle of control in IFRS 10 to define nn IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures, Offsetting Financial Assets control, the determination of whether joint and Financial Liabilities’ (Amendment) control exists may change. The adoption of IFRS (effective as from 1 January 2013). These 11 is not expected to have a significant impact amendments require an entity to disclose Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 55 information about rights to set-off and related nn IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (Revised) (effective arrangements (e.g. collateral agreements). The as from 1 January 2013). The amended IAS 19 disclosures would provide users with states that changes in the defined-benefit information that is useful in evaluating the obligation and fair value of plan assets should be effect of netting arrangements on an entity’s recognised in the period as they occur. The financial position. The new disclosures are corridor method is to be eliminated and required for all recognised financial actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised past instruments that are set in accordance with IAS service costs to be recognised directly in OCI. 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’. The Because actuarial gains and losses are not disclosures also apply to recognised financial deferred, both the net defined-benefit liability/ instruments that are subject to an enforceable asset and the amounts to be recognised in profit master netting agreement, irrespective of or loss are affected. whether they are set off in accordance with IAS  32. These amendments will not impact NIBC’s The amended standard splits changes in financial position or performance; defined-benefit liability/asset into: nn IAS 32 ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and nn Service costs (including past service costs; Financial Liabilities’ (Amendment) (effective as curtailments and settlements) in profit or from 1 January 2014). These amendments loss; clarify the meaning of ‘currently has a legally nn Net interest costs (i.e. net interest on the net enforceable right to set-off ’. It will be necessary defined-benefit liability) – profit or loss; to assess the impact to NIBC by reviewing nn Remeasurements of the defined-benefit settlement procedures and legal documentation liability/asset – in OCI. to ensure that offsetting is still possible in cases where it has been achieved in the past. In certain For the impact of IAS 19 (Revised) on the financial cases, offsetting may no longer be achieved. In and capital position of NIBC reference is made to other cases, contracts may have to be note 41 Employee Benefits. renegotiated. The requirement that the right of set-off should be available for all counterparties Basis of consolidation to the netting agreement may prove to be a The consolidated financial statements are challenge for contracts where only one party has comprised of the financial statements of NIBC and the right to offset in the event of default. The its subsidiaries as at and for the years ended 31 amendments also clarify the application of the December 2012 and 2011. IAS 32 offsetting criteria to settlement systems (such as central clearing house systems) which Subsidiaries apply gross settlement mechanisms that are not Subsidiaries are all entities (including SPEs) over simultaneous. Offsetting on the grounds of which the group has the power, directly or simultaneous settlement is particularly relevant indirectly, to govern the financial and operating for the bank where it engages in large numbers policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of of sale and repurchase transactions. Currently, more than one half of the voting rights. The transactions settled through clearing systems existence and effect of potential voting rights that are, in most cases, deemed to achieve are presently exercisable or presently convertible simultaneous settlement. While many are considered when assessing whether the group settlement systems are expected to meet the new controls another entity. The financial statements of criteria, some may not. Any changes in subsidiaries are included in the consolidated offsetting are expected to impact leverage ratios, financial statements from the date that control regulatory capital requirements etc. As the commences until the date that control ceases. impact of the adoption depends on NIBC’s examination of the operational procedures The group uses the acquisition method of applied by the central clearing houses and accounting to account for business combinations. settlement systems it deals with to determine if The consideration transferred for the acquisition of they meet the new criteria, it is not practical to a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets quantify the effects; and transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the group. The consideration 56 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies transferred includes the fair value of any asset or of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. liability resulting from a contingent consideration Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are interests are also recorded in equity. expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in When the group ceases to have control or a business combination are measured initially at significant influence, any retained interest in the their fair values at the acquisition date. On an entity is remeasured at its fair value, with the change acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the group in carrying amount recognised in the income recognises any non-controlling interest in the statement. The fair value is the initial carrying acquiree either at fair value or at the nonamount for the purposes of subsequently controlling interest’s proportionate share of the accounting for the retained interest as an associate, acquiree’s net assets. joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost comprehensive income in respect of that entity are less impairment. Cost is adjusted to reflect changes accounted for as if the group had directly disposed in consideration arising from contingent of the related assets and liabilities. This may mean consideration amendments. Cost also includes that amounts previously recognised in other direct attributable costs of investment. comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement (gains less losses from financial The excess of the consideration transferred, the assets). amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any If the interest in an associate is reduced but previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair significant influence is retained, only a value of the group’s share of the identifiable net assets proportionate share of amounts previously acquired is recognised as goodwill. If this is less than recognised in other comprehensive income are the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary reclassified to the income statement, where acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the appropriate. difference is recognised directly in the income statement. Any contingent consideration payable is Joint ventures recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the A joint venture exists where the group has a contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is contractual arrangement with one or more parties not remeasured and settlement is accounted for to undertake activities typically, though not within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the necessarily, through entities that are subject to joint fair value of the contingent consideration are control. recognised in the income statement. The group’s interests in jointly controlled entities Intercompany transactions, balances and are accounted for by proportionate consolidation. unrealised gains on transactions between group NIBC combines its share of the joint venture’s companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are individual income and expenses, assets and also eliminated unless the transaction provides liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with evidence of impairment of the assets transferred. similar items in the group’s financial statements. The accounting policies of subsidiaries (including The group recognises the portion of gains or losses SPEs that the bank consolidates) have been changed on the sale of assets by the group to the joint venture where necessary to ensure consistency with the that is attributable to the other venturers. The group policies adopted by NIBC. does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result from the group’s Transactions with non-controlling purchase of assets from the joint venture until it interests resells the assets to an independent party. However, The group treats transactions with non-controlling a loss on the transaction is recognised immediately interests as transactions with equity owners of the if the loss provides evidence of a reduction in the group. For purchases of non-controlling interests, net realisable value of current assets, or an the difference between any consideration paid and impairment loss. the relevant share acquired of the carrying amount Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 57 With effect from 1 January 2007, to the extent that evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. newly acquired joint ventures are held by the Accounting policies of associates have been venture capital organisation (as that term is used in changed where necessary to ensure consistency IAS 31) within NIBC, the group designates upon with the policies adopted by NIBC. Dilution gains initial recognition all newly acquired investments or losses arising in investments in associates are in such joint ventures as financial assets at fair value recognised in the income statement. through profit or loss. These assets are initially recognised at fair value, and subsequent changes in Segment reporting fair value are recognised in the income statement in Operating segments are reported in a manner the period of the change in fair value. consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief Associates operating decision-maker, who is responsible for Associates are those entities over which NIBC has allocating resources and assessing performance of significant influence, but not control, generally the operating segment, has been identified as the accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and Managing Board of NIBC. For details of NIBC’s 50% of the voting rights. operating segment reference is made to note 1. Except as otherwise described below, investments Foreign currency translation in associates are accounted for by the equity Functional and presentation currency method of accounting and are initially recognised Items included in the financial statements of each of at cost. The group’s investment in associates the group’s entities are measured using the currency includes goodwill (net of any accumulated of the primary economic environment in which the impairment loss) identified on acquisition. entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in With effect from 1 January 2007, all newly acquired EUR, the functional currency and presentation investments in associates held by the venture capital currency of NIBC. organisation (as that term is used in IAS 28) within NIBC are designated upon initial recognition as Transactions and balances financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. Foreign currency transactions are translated into These assets are initially recognised at fair value, the functional currency using the exchange rates and subsequent changes in fair value are recognised prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign in the income statement in the period of the change exchange gains and losses resulting from the in fair value. settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary Under the equity method, the group’s share of its assets and liabilities denominated in foreign associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is currencies are recognised in the income statement, recognised in the income statement; its share of except when deferred in equity (other post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income net of tax) as qualifying net comprehensive income is recognised in other investment hedges. comprehensive income. The cumulative postacquisition movements are adjusted against the Changes in the fair value of monetary loans carrying amount of the investment. When the denominated in foreign currency that are classified group’s share of losses in an associate equals or as available for sale are analysed between foreign exceeds its interest in the associate, including any exchange translation differences and other changes other unsecured receivables, the group does not in the carrying amount of the loan. Foreign recognise further losses, unless it has incurred exchange translation differences are recognised in obligations or made payments on behalf of the the income statement, and other changes in the associate. carrying amount are recognised in other comprehensive income. Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of Foreign exchange translation differences on nonNIBC’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses monetary assets and liabilities that are stated at fair are also eliminated unless the transaction provides value through profit or loss are reported as part of 58 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences Forward purchases and sales other than those on non-monetary items classified as available for requiring delivery within the time frame sale assets are included in the revaluation reserve in established by regulation or market convention are other comprehensive income. treated as derivative forward contracts. Group companies Derecognition of financial assets The results and financial position of all group and liabilities entities (none of which has the currency of a Financial assets (or, where applicable, a part of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional financial asset or part of a group of similar financial currency different from the presentation currency assets) are derecognised when: are translated into the presentation currency as nn The rights to receive cash flows from the follows: financial assets have expired; or nn Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet nn When NIBC has transferred its contractual presented are translated at the closing rate at the right to receive the cash flows of the financial date of that balance sheet; assets, and either: nn Income and expenses for each income nn substantially all risks and rewards of statement are translated at weighted average ownership have been transferred; or exchange rates (unless this average is not a nn substantially all risks and rewards have reasonable approximation of the cumulative neither been retained nor transferred but effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction control is not retained. dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and If NIBC has transferred its contractual rights to nn All resulting exchange differences are receive cash flows from an asset and has neither recognised as a separate component of other transferred nor retained substantially all the risks comprehensive income. and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of On consolidation, exchange differences arising NIBC’s continuing involvement in the asset. from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency Continuing involvement that takes the form of a instruments designated as hedges of such guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at investments, are taken to shareholder’s equity. the lower of the original carrying amount of the When a foreign operation is disposed of, or asset and the maximum amount of consideration partially disposed of, such exchange differences are that NIBC could be required to repay. recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. When continuing involvement takes the form of a written and/or purchased option (including a cashGoodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the settled option or similar provision) on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets transferred asset, the extent of NIBC’s continuing and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at involvement is the amount of the transferred asset the closing rate. that NIBC may repurchase, except that in the case of a written put option (including a cash-settled Recognition of financial option or similar provision) on an asset measured at instruments fair value, the extent of NIBC’s continuing A financial instrument is recognised in the balance involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value sheet when NIBC becomes a party to the contractual of the transferred asset and the option exercise provisions that comprise the financial instrument. price. NIBC applies trade date accounting to all financial A financial liability is derecognised when the instruments. All purchases and sales of financial obligation under the liability is discharged or assets requiring delivery within the time frame cancelled or expires. established by regulation or market convention are recognised on the trade date, which is the date on If an existing financial liability is replaced by which NIBC commits to purchase or sell the asset. another from the same lender on substantially Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 59 different terms, or the terms of an existing liability that could cause the holder not to recover are substantially modified, such an exchange or substantially all of its initial investment, except modification is treated as a derecognition of the through credit deterioration. original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective Financial assets that are not eligible for carrying amounts is recognised in the income classification as loans and receivables may be statement. transferred from held for trading to available for sale only in rare circumstances arising from a single Classification of financial event that is unusual and highly unlikely to recur in instruments the near term. Financial assets are classified as: nn Loans and receivables at amortised cost; Financial assets that would now meet the criteria to nn Available for sale financial instruments; or be classified as loans and receivables may be nn Financial instruments at fair value through transferred from held for trading or available for sale profit or loss and held for trading, including to loans and receivables if the entity has the intention derivative instruments that are not designated and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future. for cash flow hedge accounting relationships. Reclassifications are recorded at the fair value of Financial liabilities are classified as: financial asset as of the reclassification date. The nn Financial instruments at amortised cost; or fair value at the date of reclassification becomes the nn Financial instruments at fair value through new cost or amortised cost as applicable. Gains or profit or loss, including derivative instruments losses due to changes in the fair value of the that are not designated for cash flow hedge financial asset recognised in the income statement accounting relationships. prior to reclassification date shall not be reversed. Effective interest rates for financial assets The measurement and income recognition in the reclassified to the loans and receivables category are income statement depend on the IFRS classification determined at the reclassification date as the of the financial asset or liability. The classification discount rate applicable to amortise the fair value of financial instruments, except for the financial back to expected future cash flows at that date. assets reclassified in 2008, is determined upon Subsequent increases in estimated future cash flows initial recognition. will result in a prospective adjustment to the effective interest rate applied. Financial assets – reclassification In accordance with the amendment to IAS 39: For financial assets reclassified from available for sale ‘Reclassifications of Financial Assets’, NIBC may to loans and receivables, previous changes in fair reclassify certain non-derivative financial assets value that have been recognised in the revaluation held for trading to either the loans and receivables reserve within other comprehensive income are or available for sale categories. The amendment also amortised to the income statement over the allows for the transfer of certain non-derivative remaining life of the asset using the effective interest financial assets from available for sale to loans and rate method. If such assets are subsequently receivables. determined to be impaired, the balance of losses previously recognised in other comprehensive NIBC is allowed to reclassify certain financial assets income are released to the income statement and, if out of the held for trading category if they are no necessary, additional impairment losses are recorded longer held for the purpose of selling or in the income statement to the extent they exceed the repurchasing them in the near term. remaining (available for sale) revaluation reserve in equity (other comprehensive income). The amendment distinguishes between those financial assets which would be eligible for Reclassification of financial assets classification as loans and receivables and those (as of 1 July 2008) which would not. The former are those instruments As of 1 July 2008, the effective date of the which have fixed or determinable payments, are not amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7, the following quoted in an active market and contain no features financial assets were reclassified: 60 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies nn Loans and receivables: loans and receivables, this change in classification is to align with except for those that were designated at fair market practice; value through profit or loss, were reclassified nn Debt investments (assets): with effect from out of the available for sale category to loans and 1 July 2007, newly originated assets in the receivables at amortised cost; and EU structured credits books were classified as nn Debt investments: available for sale. Assets acquired before 1 July nn EU Structured Credits originated after 1 July 2007 were classified as held for trading. The 2007 were reclassified out of the available for reason for this change in classification is to align sale category to loans and receivables at with market practice; amortised cost to the extent the assets meet nn Equity investments in associates and joint the definition of loans and receivables; ventures: with effect from 1 January 2007, all nn EU Corporate Credits and EU Structured newly acquired investments in associates and Credits originated before 1 July 2007 were joint ventures held by the venture capital reclassified out of the held for trading organisation (as that term is used in IAS 28 and category to loans and receivables at IAS 31) have been designated at fair value amortised cost to the extent the assets meet through profit or loss. Previously acquired the definition of loans and receivables; and investments in associates, where material, were nn EU Collateralised Debt Obligation (CDO) accounted for using the equity method and equity was reclassified out of the held for investments in joint ventures were proportionally trading category to the available for sale consolidated. The reason for this change in category. Any subsequent change in fair classification is to align with market practice; and value from the fair value at the date of nn Equity investments: equity investments reclassification will be recorded in the acquired before 1 January 2007 held in the (available for sale) revaluation reserve unless Investment portfolio of the venture capital it is determined to be impaired or until the organisation are classified as available for sale instrument is derecognised. assets in the consolidated balance sheet. With effect from 1 January 2007, all newly acquired The amendments to IFRS 7 regarding equity investments held by the venture capital reclassifications require disclosure of the impact of organisation are designated upon initial the reclassification of each category of financial recognition as financial assets at fair value assets on the financial position and performance of through profit or loss. The reason for this NIBC. The information provided as of the change in classification is to align with market reclassification date relates only to financial assets practice. remaining on the balance sheet as of the reporting date 31 December 2012. Changes to the classification of financial liabilities (in 2007) Changes to the classification of financial In 2007, a change was made to the classification of assets (in 2007) certain financial liabilities (debt securities in issue) In 2007, NIBC made the following changes: upon origination. During the period commencing 1 nn Loans and receivables: loans and receivables January 2007, plain vanilla fixed-rate long-term debt originated before 1 July 2007 are accounted for securities (liabilities) were issued together with at fair value through profit or loss (residential matching interest rate swaps as part of a documented mortgages, commercial real estate loans and interest rate risk management strategy. An accounting leveraged loan warehouses, secondary loan mismatch would arise if the debt securities in issue trading, and distressed asset trading) or were accounted for at amortised cost because the available for sale (all other corporate lending). related derivatives are measured at fair value with With the exception of residential mortgages, movements in the fair value through the income loans originated after 1 July 2007 are classified statement. By designating the long-term debt as fair as loans and receivables at amortised cost. These value through profit or loss, the movement in the fair loans were initially measured at fair value plus value of the long-term debt will also be recorded in directly attributable transaction costs, and are the income statement, and thereby off set the gains subsequently measured at amortised cost using and/or losses on the derivative instrument that is also the effective interest method. The reason for included in the income statement. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 61 Financial instruments at fair value management on that basis. Under this criterion, through profit or loss the main classes of financial instruments This category has two subcategories: financial designated by NIBC at fair value through profit instruments held for trading and financial or loss are: Equity investments (originated after instruments designated upon initial recognition at 1 January 2007), Commercial real estate loans fair value through profit or loss. (originated before 1 July 2007), Leveraged loan warehouses, Secondary loan trading and Financial instruments held for trading Distressed asset trading. NIBC has documented A financial instrument is classified as held for risk management and investment strategies trading if it is acquired or incurred principally for designed to manage such assets at fair value, the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near taking into consideration the relationship of future with the objective of generating a profit from assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market short-term fluctuations in price or dealer’s margin. risks. Reports are provided to management on Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading the fair value of the assets; and unless they are designated and effective hedging nn Relates to financial instruments containing one instruments. or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows resulting from those The measurement of these financial instruments is financial instruments. Under this criterion, the initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to main classes of financial instruments designated the income statement. Subsequently, their fair value by NIBC at fair value through profit or loss are: is re-measured, and all gains and losses from Debt securities in issue structured and changes therein are recognised in the income Subordinated liabilities at fair value through statement in net trading income as they arise. profit or loss. Financial instruments designated upon The fair value designation, once made, is initial recognition as fair value through irrevocable. profit or loss Financial instruments are classified in this category Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair if they meet one or more of the criteria set out value of derivatives that are managed in below, and provided they are so designated by conjunction with designated financial assets or management. NIBC may designate financial liabilities are included in net trading income. instruments at fair value when the designation: nn Eliminates or significantly reduces valuation or Financial instruments at fair value through profit or recognition inconsistencies that would loss (comprising the categories described above) are otherwise arise from measuring financial assets initially recognised at fair value and transaction or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and costs are expensed in the income statement. losses on them, on different bases. Under this Subsequent measurement is at fair value and all criterion, the main classes of financial changes in fair value are reported in the income instruments designated by NIBC at fair value statement, either as net trading income or as gains through profit or loss are: Residential mortgage less losses from financial assets. Interest is recorded loans (own book and securitised), certain Debt in interest income using the effective interest rate Investment portfolios, Equity investments method, while dividend income is recorded in (including investments in associates and joint dividend income when NIBC’s right to receive ventures held by our venture capital payment is established. organisation), and certain Fixed-rate long-term debt securities issued after 1 January 2007; Available for sale financial assets nn Applies to groups of financial assets, financial Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative liabilities or combinations thereof that are financial assets that are designated as available for managed, and their performance evaluated, on a sale and are not classified as (a) loans and fair value basis in accordance with a receivables, (b) held-to-maturity investments or (c) documented risk management or investment financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. strategy, and where information on the groups The main classes of financial instruments of financial instruments is reported to designated as available for sale assets at 62 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies 31 December 2012 include: amount at which the instrument could be nn Equity investments; exchanged or settled between knowledgeable nn Certain debt investments that do not meet the willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. NIBC definition of loans and receivables; and determines fair value either by reference to quoted nn EU equity tranche notes. market prices or dealer price quotations without adjustment for transaction costs for those financial Available for sale financial assets are intended to be instruments that are currently traded in an active held for an indefinite period of time but may be sold market. The fair value measurement is based upon in response to needs for liquidity or changes in the bid price for financial assets and the ask price interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices. for financial liabilities. These financial instruments are reported as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Available for sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and are A financial instrument is regarded as quoted in an subsequently measured at fair value. Changes in fair active market if quoted prices are readily and value are recognised directly in the revaluation regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, reserve in other comprehensive income until the industry group, pricing service or regulatory financial instrument is derecognised or impaired. agency, and those prices represent actual and When available for sale investments are sold, regularly occurring market transactions on an arm’s cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in length basis. If the above criteria are not met, the other comprehensive income are recognised in the market is regarded as being inactive. income statement as net trading income or as gains less losses from financial assets (including equity The fair value of financial instruments not quoted investments). in an active market is determined using appropriate valuation techniques. These valuation techniques Interest calculated using the effective interest are applied using, where possible, relevant market method and foreign currency gains and losses on observable inputs (level 2) or unobservable inputs monetary instruments classified as available for sale (level 3). Valuation techniques include the are recognised in the income statement as interest discounted cash flow method, comparison to and similar income and net trading income similar instruments for which market observable respectively. Dividends on available for sale prices exist, option pricing models, credit models financial instruments are recognised in the income and other relevant models. statement as dividend income when NIBC’s right to receive payment is established. Certain financial instruments are recorded at fair value using valuation techniques in which current Fair value estimation market transactions or observable market data are IFRS 7 requires for financial instruments that are not available. Their fair value is determined using a measured at fair value in the balance sheet valuation technique based on NIBC’s best estimate disclosure of each class of financial assets and of the most appropriate assumptions and that has liabilities within a three-level hierarchy, referring to been calibrated against actual market transactions. the respective basis of fair value measurement as Outcomes are adjusted to reflect the spread for bid follows: and ask prices, to reflect costs to close out positions, nn Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets where necessary for counterparty credit and for identical assets and liabilities (level 1); liquidity spread, and for any other limitations in the nn Inputs other than quoted prices included within technique. Profit or loss, calculated upon initial level 1 that are observable for the asset or recognition (day one profit or loss), is deferred liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly unless the calculation is based on market (derived from prices) (level 2); and observable inputs, in which case it is immediately nn Inputs that are not based on observable market recognised. Otherwise, day one profit or loss is data (unobservable inputs) (level 3). recognised over the life of the instrument, when the inputs become observable or upon derecognition of Determination of fair value of the instrument (see also recognition of day one financial instruments profit or loss). The fair value of a financial instrument is the Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 63 The level within the fair value hierarchy at which an transaction costs and subsequently measured at instrument measured at fair value is categorised is amortised cost using the effective interest method determined on the basis of the lowest level input (including interest accruals) with the periodic that is significant to the measurement of fair value amortisation recorded in the income statement. in its entirety. NIBC has a documented policy with respect to its approach to determining the The main classes of financial liabilities at amortised significance of unobservable inputs on its fair value cost include amounts due to other banks, deposits measurements of instruments and that policy is from (corporate and retail) customers, own debt applied consistently. securities in issue under the European Medium Term Note programme, Covered Bonds and State An analysis of the fair values of financial Guaranteed Funding programme and debt securities instruments and further details as to how they are in issue related to securitised mortgages. The main measured are provided in note 45. classes of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss include debt securities in issue Loans and receivables at amortised structured that consist of notes issued with cost embedded derivatives and derivative financial Loans and receivables at amortised cost are nonliabilities held for trading and used for hedging. derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are (upon recognition) NIBC classifies capital instruments as financial not quoted in an active market, other than: (a) those liabilities or equity instruments in accordance with that NIBC intends to sell immediately or in the the substance of the contractual terms of the short term, which are classified as held for trading; instrument. NIBC’s perpetual bonds are not (b) those that NIBC upon initial recognition redeemable by the holders but bear an entitlement designates at fair value through profit or loss; to distributions that is not at the discretion of (c) those that NIBC upon initial recognition NIBC. Accordingly, they are presented as a financial designates at available for sale; and (d) those for liability. which the holder may not recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit Preference shares, which are mandatorily deterioration. redeemable on a specific date, are classified as liabilities. The dividends on these preference shares An interest acquired in a pool of assets that are not are recognised in the income statement as interest loans and receivables (for example an interest in a expense. mutual fund or similar fund) is not a loan or receivable. Subordinated liabilities are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. The main classes of loans and receivables at Subordinated liabilities without embedded amortised cost at 31 December 2012 include derivatives are subsequently measured at amortised corporate lending (excluding commercial real estate cost; any difference between the proceeds net of and leverage loan warehouses, secondary loan transaction costs and the redemption value is trading and distressed asset trading) and investments recognised in the income statement over the period in the EU Corporate Credits and EU Structured of the financial liability using the effective interest Credits portfolio that were reclassified in 2008. method. Subordinated liabilities containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair modify the cash flows are designated at fair value value plus directly attributable transaction costs, through profit or loss. and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method (including Fair value of financial assets and interest accruals less provision for impairment). liabilities not carried at fair value The following describes the methodologies and Financial liabilities assumptions used to determine fair values for With the exception of those financial liabilities disclosure purposes of those financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss, these which are not recorded at fair value in the financial are initially recognised at fair value net of statements. 64 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Assets for which fair value differences between the transaction price and the approximates carrying amount model value, commonly referred to as day one For financial assets and financial liabilities that have profit or loss, are not recognised immediately in the a short-term maturity (less than three months), it is income statement. assumed that the carrying amounts approximate fair value. This assumption is also applied to Deferred day one profit or losses are amortised to demand deposits from customers and customer income over the life until maturity or settlement. savings with a specific maturity. The financial instrument is subsequently measured at fair value as determined by the relevant model Fixed rate financial instruments adjusted for any deferred day one profit or loss. The fair values of Fixed-rate financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost are estimated by Offsetting comparing market interest rates when they were Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net first recognised with current market rates for amount is reported in the balance sheet when a similar financial instruments. The estimated fair legally enforceable right to set-off the recognised value of fixed interest bearing deposits is based on amounts exists and the group intends to settle on a discounted cash flows using prevailing money net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability market interest rates for debts with similar credit simultaneously. risk and maturity. For quoted debt issued, the fair values are determined based on quoted market Collateral prices. For those notes issued where quoted market The group enters into master agreements and Credit prices are not available, a discounted cash flow Support Annexes (CSA) with counterparties model is used based on a current interest rate yield whenever possible and when appropriate. Master curve appropriate for the remaining term to agreements provide that, if the master agreement is maturity and on credit spreads. For other variable being terminated as a consequence of an event of rate instruments, an adjustment is also made to default or termination event, all outstanding reflect the change in required credit spread since transactions with the counterparty will fall due and initial recognition. all amounts outstanding will be settled on a net basis. In the case of a CSA with counterparties, the The fair values of NIBC’s financial instruments that group has the right to obtain collateral for the net are not carried at fair value in the balance sheet are counterparty exposure. disclosed under the respective notes of the related balance sheet item. The group obtains collateral in respect of counterparty liabilities when this is considered Recognition of day one appropriate. The collateral normally takes the form profit or loss of a pledge over the counterparty’s assets and gives The best evidence of fair value at initial recognition the group a claim on these assets for both existing is the transaction price (that is, the fair value of the and future liabilities. consideration given or received), unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by The group also pays and receives collateral in the comparison with other observable current market form of cash or securities in respect of other credit transactions in the same instrument (that is, instruments, such as derivative contracts, in order without modification or repackaging) or based on a to reduce credit risk. Collateral paid or received in valuation technique whose variables include only the form of cash together with the underlying is data from observable markets. recorded on the balance sheet at net realisable value (the net realisable value is management’s best NIBC has entered into transactions where fair value estimate (the determination method of the value is determined using valuation models for which not differs per asset class)). Any interest payable or all inputs are market observable prices or rates. receivable arising is recorded as interest expense or Such financial instruments are initially recognised interest income respectively. at the transaction price, which is the best indicator of fair value, although the value obtained from the relevant valuation model may differ. Significant Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 65 Derivative financial instruments and attributable to the hedged risk in the fair value or hedging cash flows of the hedged items. Interest on NIBC uses derivative financial instruments both for designated qualifying hedges is included in net trading and hedging purposes. NIBC uses interest income. derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks NIBC discontinues hedge accounting prospectively and to credit risk. when: nn It is determined that a derivative is not, or has Derivative financial instruments are initially ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge; measured, and are subsequently re-measured, at fair nn The derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or value. The fair value of exchange-traded derivatives exercised; is obtained from quoted market prices. Fair values of nn The hedged item matures, or is sold or repaid; over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using nn A forecast transaction is no longer deemed valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow highly probable; or models and option pricing models. nn It voluntarily decides to discontinue the hedge relationship. The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives are held Fair value hedge for trading or are designated as hedging NIBC applies portfolio fair value hedge accounting instruments and if the latter, the nature of the risks and fair value hedge accounting on a micro level. being hedged. All gains and losses from changes in Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are the fair value of derivatives held for trading are designated and qualify as fair value hedging recognised in the income statement. instruments are recorded in the income statement together with changes in the fair value of the hedged When derivatives are designated as hedges, NIBC items attributable to the hedged risk. classifies them as either (i) a fair value hedge of interest rate risk (‘portfolio fair value hedges’); (ii) a If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria fair value hedge of interest rate risk and foreign for hedge accounting, the cumulative fair value exchange rate risk (‘micro fair value hedges’) (iii) a adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged cash flow hedge of the variability of highly probable item is amortised to the income statement over the cash flows (‘cash flow hedges’); or (iv) hedges of net remaining period to maturity using the effective investments in a foreign operation (‘net investment interest method. If the hedged item is derecognised, hedge’). Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised designated as hedging instruments, provided immediately in the income statement. certain criteria are met. Portfolio fair value hedge Hedge accounting NIBC applies portfolio fair value hedge accounting Where derivatives are held for risk management to the interest rate risk arising on portfolios of fixed purposes, and when transactions meet the criteria interest rate corporate loans (classified as available specified in IAS 39, NIBC applies fair value hedge for sale financial assets or as amortised cost assets), accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging to portfolios of plain vanilla fixed interest rate of a net investment in a foreign operation, as funding (liabilities classified as amortised cost) and appropriate, to the risks being hedged. retail deposits. At the inception of a hedging relationship, NIBC In order to apply portfolio fair value hedge documents the relationship between the hedging accounting, the cash flows arising on the portfolios instrument and the hedged item, its risk are scheduled into time buckets based upon when management objective and its strategy for the cash flows are expected to occur. For the first undertaking the hedge. NIBC also requires a two years, cash flows are scheduled using monthly documented assessment, both at hedge inception time buckets; thereafter annual time buckets are and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the used. Hedging instruments are designated for each derivatives that are used in hedging relationships time bucket, together with an amount of assets or are highly effective in offsetting changes liabilities that NIBC is seeking to hedge. 66 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Designation and de-designation of hedging The effective portion of changes in the fair value of relationships is undertaken on a monthly basis, hedging instruments that are designated and together with an assessment of the effectiveness of qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other the hedging relationship at a portfolio level, across comprehensive income within the cash flow all time buckets. hedging reserve. Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised Ineffectiveness within the 80% 125% bandwidth is immediately in the income statement. recognised in the income statement through the actual hedge adjustment. Ineffectiveness outside Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive the 80% 125% bandwidth is recognised by not income are recycled to the income statement in the posting a hedge adjustment to the hedged item. periods in which the hedged item will affect the income statement. When a hedging instrument Micro fair value hedge expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets NIBC applies micro fair value hedge accounting to the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative the interest rate risk and/or the foreign exchange gain or loss in other comprehensive income at that risk arising from debt investments at available for time remains in other comprehensive income until sale and fixed interest rate funding denominated in the forecast cash flow is recognised in the income a foreign currency. statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used as was reported in other comprehensive income is hedging instruments. Changes in the fair value of immediately transferred to the income statement. derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Net investment hedge income statement together with changes in the fair Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any risks. gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in Retrospective effectiveness is tested monthly, by other comprehensive income net of tax; the gain or comparing the cumulative clean fair value loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised movement (since inception) of the hedged item, immediately in the income statement. Gains and due to changes in both benchmark interest rates losses accumulated in other comprehensive income and foreign exchange rates, to the total clean fair net of tax are included in the income statement value movement of the hedging instrument (the when the foreign operation is sold. cumulative dollar offset method). Hedge effectiveness testing Ineffectiveness within the 80% 125% bandwidth is To qualify for hedge accounting, NIBC requires that recognised in the income statement through the at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, actual hedge adjustment. Ineffectiveness outside the each hedge must be expected to be highly effective 80% 125% bandwidth is recognised by not posting (prospective effectiveness). Actual effectiveness a hedge adjustment to the hedged item. In this case, (retrospective effectiveness) must also be the micro hedge relationship is dedesignated and it demonstrated on an ongoing basis. is re-designated at the beginning of the next period if expected to be highly effective prospectively. The documentation of each hedging relationship describes how effectiveness will be assessed. For Cash flow hedge prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument Cash flow hedging is applied to hedge the must be expected to be highly effective in achieving variability arising on expected future cash flows due offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows to interest rate risk on available for sale corporate attributable to the hedged risk during the period for loans and/or corporate loans at amortised cost with which the hedge is designated. For actual floating interest rates. As interest rates fluctuate, the effectiveness, the changes in fair value or cash flows future cash flows on these instruments also must offset each other in the bandwidth of fluctuate. NIBC uses interest rate swaps to hedge 80% 125% for the hedge to be deemed effective. the risk of such cash flow fluctuations. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 67 Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income nn Delinquency in contractual payments of statement in net trading income. principal or interest; nn Cash flow difficulties experienced by the Derivatives managed in conjunction with borrower (for example: equity ratio and net financial instruments designated as at income percentage of sales); fair value through profit or loss nn Breach of loan covenants or conditions; All gains and losses arising from changes in the fair nn Initiation of bankruptcy proceedings; value of any derivatives that do not qualify for nn Deterioration of the borrower’s competitive hedge accounting are recognised immediately in position; and the income statement. Derivatives used to manage nn Deterioration in the value of collateral. the interest rate and credit spread exposure on certain financial assets and liabilities (mainly The estimated period between a loss event structured funding, debt investments and occurring and its identification is determined by residential mortgage loans) are not designated in management for each identified portfolio hedging relationships. Gains and losses on these (Corporate Loans, EU Corporate Credits and EU derivatives together with the fair value movements Structured Credits). The average period used is on these financial assets and liabilities are reported three months for the different Corporate Loan within net trading income. portfolios. Losses expected from future events, no matter how likely, are not recognised. Sale and repurchase agreements Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements Financial assets reported at (Repos) are reclassified in the financial statements as amortised cost pledged assets when the transferee has the right by The group first assesses whether objective evidence contract or custom to sell or re-pledge the collateral; of impairment exists individually for financial assets the counterparty liability is included in amounts due that are individually significant, and individually or to other banks or other deposits as appropriate. collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. If the group determines that Securities purchased under agreements to resell no objective evidence of impairment exists for an (Reverse repos) are recorded as loans and advances individually assessed financial asset, whether to other banks or customers, as appropriate. The significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of difference between sale and repurchase price is financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics treated as interest and accrued over the life of the and collectively assesses them for impairment. agreements using the effective interest method. Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in Assets that are individually assessed for impairment the financial statements. and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective Impairment assessment of impairment. General The group assesses at each reporting date whether The amount of the loss is measured as the difference there is objective evidence that a financial asset or between the asset’s carrying amount and the present group of financial assets is impaired. A financial value of estimated future cash flows (excluding asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and future credit losses that have not been incurred) impairment losses are incurred only if there is discounted at the financial asset’s original effective objective evidence of impairment as a result of one interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is or more events that occurred after the initial reduced through the use of an allowance account recognition of the asset (a loss event) and that loss and the amount of the loss is recognised in the event (or events) has an impact on the estimated income statement. If a loan has a variable interest future cash flows of the financial asset or group of rate, the discount rate for measuring any financial assets that can be reliably estimated. impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract. As a practical The criteria that the group uses to determine that expedient, the group may measure impairment on there is objective evidence of an impairment loss the basis of an instrument’s fair value using an include: observable market price. 68 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies The calculation of the present value of the estimated If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the future cash flows of a collateralised financial asset impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be reflects the cash flows that may result from related objectively to an event occurring after the foreclosure less costs for obtaining and selling the impairment was recognised (such as an collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable. improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed For the purposes of a collective evaluation of by adjusting the allowance account. The amount of impairment, financial assets are grouped on the the reversal is recognised in the income statement basis of similar credit risk characteristics (i.e. on under impairments of financial assets. the basis of the group’s risk rating process that considers asset type, industry, geographical Financial assets classified as available location, collateral type, past due status and other for sale relevant factors). Those characteristics are relevant The group assesses, at each reporting date, whether to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a such assets by being indicative of the debtors’ ability group of financial assets is impaired. to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated. In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline Future cash flows from a group of financial assets in the fair value of the security below its cost is that are collectively evaluated for impairment are considered in determining whether the assets are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows impaired. of the assets in the group and historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics If objective evidence of impairment exists for similar to those in the group. Historical loss available for sale financial assets, the cumulative experience is adjusted on the basis of current loss – measured as the difference between the observable data to reflect the effects of current acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any conditions that did not affect the period on which impairment loss on that financial asset previously the historical loss experience is based and to recognised in the income statement – is removed remove the effects of conditions in the historical from other comprehensive income and recognised period that do not currently exist. in the income statement under gains less losses from financial assets (including equity Estimates of changes in future cash flows for groups investments). of assets should reflect and be directionally consistent with changes in related observable data Reversals of impairment losses are subject to from period to period (for example, changes in contrasting treatments depending on the nature of unemployment rates, property prices, payment the instrument concerned: status, or other factors indicative of changes in the nn Impairment losses recognised in the income probability of losses in the group and their statement on equity instruments are not magnitude). The methodology and assumptions reversed through the income statement; and used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed nn If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt regularly by the group to reduce any differences instrument classified as available for sale between loss estimates and actual loss experience. increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the Following impairment, interest income is recognised impairment loss was recognised in the income using the original effective rate of interest that was statement, the impairment loss is reversed used to discount the future cash flows for the through the income statement. purpose of measuring the impairment loss. Non-financial assets When a loan is uncollectible, it is written off against Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not the related provision for loan impairment. Such subject to amortisation and are tested annually for loans are written off after all the necessary impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation procedures have been completed and the amount of are reviewed for impairment whenever events or the loss has been determined. changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 69 amount may not be recoverable. An impairment benefit from the business combination in which the loss is recognised for the amount by which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable segment. amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Trademarks and licenses Separately acquired trademarks and licenses are For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are shown at historical cost. Trademarks and licenses grouped at the lowest levels for which there are acquired in a business combination are recognised at separately identifiable cash flows (Cash-Generating fair value at the acquisition date. Trademarks and Units CGUs). Non-financial assets, other than licenses have a finite useful life and are carried at cost goodwill that suffered an impairment, are reviewed less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is for possible reversal of the impairment at each calculated using the straight-line method to allocate reporting date. Impairment losses and the reversal the cost of trademarks and licenses over their of such losses, for non-financial assets other than estimated useful lives of ten years. goodwill, are recognised directly in the income statement. Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring Renegotiated loans to use the specific software. These costs are Where possible, NIBC seeks to restructure loans amortised over their estimated useful lives of three rather than to take possession of collateral. This years. may involve extending payment terms and the agreement of new loan conditions. Once the terms Customer relationships have been renegotiated, any impairment is Customer relationships acquired in a business measured using the original effective interest rate as combination are recognised at fair value at the calculated before the modification of terms and the acquisition date. The contractual customer loan is no longer considered past due. Management relationships have a finite useful life and are carried reviews renegotiated loans on an ongoing basis to at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation ensure that all criteria are met and that future is calculated using the straight-line method over the payments are likely to occur. The loans continue to expected life of the customer relationship. be subject to an individual or collective impairment assessment, calculated using the loan’s original Impairment intangible assets effective interest rate. At each reporting date, NIBC assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired or Intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances Goodwill indicate that the carrying amount may not be Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an recoverable (see impairment – non-financial assets). acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary/ Tangible assets associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on Property (land and buildings), plant and acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible equipment assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is Land and buildings comprise factories and offices included in investments in associates. Goodwill is (land and buildings) and are measured at fair value tested annually for impairment or more frequently (revaluation model). This fair value is based on the when there are indications that impairments may most recent appraisals by independent registered have occurred and carried at cost less accumulated appraisers, less straight-line depreciation for impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill buildings over the estimated economic life taking are not reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of into account any residual value. Buildings in own an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill use are valued at market value on an unlet or let relating to the entity sold. basis. If arm’s length lease agreements have been concluded between NIBC group companies, the Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of building is recognised at its value as a let property. If impairment testing. The allocation is made to those there is no lease agreement, the property is CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to recognised as vacant property. Any accumulated 70 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies depreciation at the date of revaluation is eliminated Investment property against the carrying amount of the asset, and the net Investment property is property (land or a building amount is restated to the revalued amount of the or part of a building or both) held to earn rentals asset. All other property, plant and equipment are or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for stated at historical cost less depreciation. Historical use in the production or supply of goods or cost includes expenditure that is directly services, for administrative purposes or sale in the attributable to the acquisition of the items. ordinary course of business. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying Investment properties are measured initially at cost, amount or recognised as a separate asset, as including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial appropriate, only when it is probable that future recognition, investment properties are stated at fair economic benefits associated with the item will flow value, which reflects market conditions at the to the group and the cost of the item can be measured balance sheet date. The fair value is the price at reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are which the property could be exchanged between charged to the income statement during the financial knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length period in which they are incurred. transaction, without any deduction for transaction costs it may incur on sale or other disposal. The Increases in the carrying amount arising from unrealised gains and losses arising from the changes revaluation of land and buildings are credited to in fair value of the investment property as a result of other reserves in shareholder’s equity. Decreases appraisals are included in other operating income that offset previous increases of the same asset are in the income statement. charged against other reserves directly in other comprehensive income; all other decreases are Investment properties are derecognised when they charged to the income statement. Each year, the have been disposed of. difference between depreciation based on the revalued carrying amount of the asset charged to the Cash and cash equivalents income statement and depreciation based on the For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash asset’s original cost is transferred from other and cash equivalents comprise balances with less reserves to retained earnings. than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition, including cash and non-restricted Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other balances with central banks and net credit balances assets is calculated using the straight-line method on current accounts with other banks. to allocate their cost or revalued amounts to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as Cash balances are measured at face value while follows: bank balances are measured at cost. nn Buildings 30 50 years nn Machinery 4 10 years Other assets nn Furniture, fittings and equipment 3 10 years Trade receivables related to consolidated non-financial companies The assets’ residual values and useful lives are Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each and subsequently measured at amortised cost using balance sheet date. the effective interest method, less a provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade An asset’s carrying amount is written down receivables is established when there is objective immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s evidence that the group is not able to collect all carrying amount is greater than its estimated amounts due according to the original terms of the recoverable amount. receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter Gains and losses on disposals are determined by bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount or delinquency in payments (more than 30 days and are recognised within other operating income. overdue) are considered indicators that the trade When revalued assets are sold, the amounts receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision included in other reserves are transferred to is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount retained earnings. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 71 and the present value of estimated future cash flows, conditions and practices in the countries in which discounted at the original effective interest rate. The they operate. NIBC generally funds these carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the arrangements through payments to insurance use of an allowance account, and the amount of the companies or trustee administered funds, loss is recognised in the income statement within determined by periodic actuarial calculations. other operating expenses. When a trade receivable is These various pension arrangements consist of a uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance defined-contribution plan, a defined-benefit plan account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries or a combination of these plans. of amounts previously written off are credited against other operating expenses in the income statement. A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan under which NIBC pays fixed contributions to a Provisions separate entity; the contributions are recognised as Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims an expense in the income statement as incurred. are recognised when: Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to nn The group has a present legal or constructive the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the obligation as a result of past events; future payments is available. NIBC has no legal or nn It is more likely than not that an outflow of constructive obligations to pay further definedresources will be required to settle the contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient obligation; and assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to nn The amount has been reliably estimated. employee service in the current and prior periods. The group does not recognise provisions for A defined-benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a projected future operating losses. defined-contribution plan. Typically, definedbenefit plans define an amount of pension benefit Where there are a number of similar obligations, that an employee will receive on retirement, usually the likelihood that an outflow will be required in dependent on one or more factors, such as age, years settlement is determined by considering the class of of service and compensation. obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to The liability recognised in the balance sheet in any one item included in the same class of respect of defined-benefit pension plans is the obligations may be remote. present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan Provisions are measured at the present value of the assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised expected required expenditure to settle the actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and The defined-benefit obligation is calculated the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in annually by independent actuaries using the the provision due to passage of time is recognised as projected unit credit method. The present value of interest expense. the defined-benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows Contingent liabilities, if applicable, are not using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds recognised in the financial statements but are that are denominated in the currency in which the disclosed, unless they are remote. benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related Trade payables pension liability. Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience the effective interest method. adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in excess of the greater of 10% of the value of plan Employee benefits assets or 10% of the defined-benefit obligation are Pension benefits charged or credited to the income statement over NIBC and its subsidiaries have various pension the employees’ expected average remaining arrangements in accordance with the local working lives. Past service costs are recognised 72 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies immediately in administrative expenses, unless the original estimates, if any, in the income statement, changes to the pension plan are conditional on the with a corresponding adjustment to equity. employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, No expense is recognised for awards that do not past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is basis over the vesting period. conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the Termination benefits market condition is satisfied, provided that all other Termination benefits are payable when vesting conditions are satisfied. Similarly, awards of employment is terminated by the group before the equity instruments with non-vesting conditions are normal retirement date, or whenever an employee treated as vesting if all vesting conditions that are accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these not market conditions are met, irrespective of benefits. NIBC recognises termination benefits whether the non-vesting conditions are satisfied. when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees Where the terms of an equity-settled award are according to a detailed formal plan without modified, the minimum expense recognised in possibility of withdrawal or providing termination personnel expenses is the expense as if the terms benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage had not been modified. An additional expense is voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more recognised for any modification which increases than 12 months after the balance sheet date are the total fair value of the share-based payment discounted to their present value. arrangement or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. Share-based compensation NIBC operates both equity-settled and cash-settled Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is share-based compensation plans. treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is Equity-settled transactions recognised immediately. This includes any award The group operates a number of equity-settled where non-vesting conditions within the control of share-based compensation plans, under which the either NIBC or the counterparty are not met. entity receives services from employees as However, if a new award is substituted for the consideration for equity instruments (shares or cancelled award, and designated as a replacement options) of the group. The fair value of the award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled employee services received in exchange for the and new awards are treated as if they were a grant of the shares or options is recognised as an modification of the original award. expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the Cash-settled transactions shares or options granted: For the cash-settled share-based compensation nn Including any market performance conditions; plan, the fair value of the employee services nn Excluding the impact of any service and nonreceived in exchange for the grant of share-based market performance vesting conditions; and compensation is recognised as a liability. The nn Excluding the impact of any non-vesting liability is re-measured at each balance sheet date conditions. up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised in the income Non-market vesting conditions are included in statement in personnel expenses. The social assumptions about the number of shares or options security contributions payable in connection with that are expected to vest. The total expense is the grant of the share options are considered an recognised over the vesting period, which is the integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will period over which all of the specified vesting be treated as a cash-settled transaction. conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, NIBC revises its estimates of the Profit-sharing and bonus plans number of shares or options that are expected to A liability is recognised for cash-settled bonuses vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. and profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes NIBC recognises the impact of the revision to into consideration the profit attributable to our Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 73 shareholder after certain adjustments. NIBC the group and it is probable that the difference will recognises a provision where contractually obliged not reverse in the foreseeable future. or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. The tax effects of income tax losses available for carry-forward are recognised as an asset when it is Income tax probable that future taxable profits will be available Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises against which these losses can be utilised. current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the Deferred tax related to the fair value extent that it relates to items recognised directly in remeasurement of available for sale investments shareholder’s equity (other comprehensive income), and cash flow hedges, which are charged or credited in which case it is recognised in shareholder’s equity directly to other comprehensive income, is also (other comprehensive income). credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the income statement when the deferred gain or loss is taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates recognised in the income statement. (and laws) enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable Shareholder’s equity in respect of previous years. Current tax assets and Share capital liabilities are offset when NIBC intends to settle on a Shares are classified as equity when there is not a net basis and a legal right of offset exists. contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets. Deferred income tax is provided for in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences Share issue costs arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue and their carrying amounts in the consolidated of new shares or options are shown in equity as a financial statements. Deferred income tax is deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the Dividends on ordinary shares balance sheet date and are expected to apply when Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a the related deferred income tax asset is realised or liability in the period that the obligation for the deferred income tax liability is settled. payment has been established, being in the period in which they are approved by the shareholder. NIBC’s principal temporary differences arise from the revaluation of certain financial assets and Revenue recognition liabilities including derivative contracts, the Revenue comprises the fair value of the depreciation of property and provisions for consideration received or receivable for the sale of pensions and other post-retirement benefits and tax goods and services in the ordinary course of the losses carried forward and, in relation to group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value acquisitions, on the difference between the fair added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after values of the net assets acquired and their tax base. eliminating sales within the group. Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises The group recognises revenue when the amount of from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that transaction other than a business combination that future economic benefits will flow to the group and at the time of the transaction affects neither when specific criteria have been met for each of the accounting nor taxable profit or loss. group’s activities as described below. The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable Deferred income tax is provided on temporary until all contingencies relating to the sale have been differences arising from investments in subsidiaries resolved. The group bases its estimates on historical and associates, except where the timing of the results, taking into consideration the type of reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. 74 Consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Interest income and expense recognised based on the applicable service Interest income and interest expense are recognised contracts, usually on a time-proportionate basis. in the income statement for all interest bearing instruments, including those classified as held for Asset management fees related to investment funds trading or designated at fair value through profit or are recognised pro rata over the period in which the loss. service is provided. The same principle is applied for wealth management, financial planning and For all interest bearing financial instruments, interest custody services that are continuously provided income or interest expense is recognised using the over an extended period of time. effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts Performance-linked fees or fee components are through the expected life of the financial instrument recognised when the performance criteria are or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net fulfilled. carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability (on an amortised cost basis). The calculation Dividend income includes all contractual terms of the financial Dividends are recognised in the income statement instrument (for example, prepayment options) but when NIBC’s right to receive payment is not future credit losses. The calculation includes all established. fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective Net trading income interest rate, transaction costs and all other Net trading income comprises all gains and losses premiums or discounts. from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial profit or loss as well as realised gains and losses on assets is impaired, interest income is subsequently financial assets and financial liabilities excluding recognised using the rate of interest used to those presented under gains less losses from discount the future cash flows for the purpose of financial assets. Net trading income includes measuring the impairment loss. Any increase in related foreign exchange gains and losses. estimated future cash flows of financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables at amortised Gains less losses from financial assets cost on 1 July 2008 will result in a prospective Realised gains or losses from debt investments and adjustment to the effective interest rates. equity investments as available for sale previously recognised in other comprehensive income, and Fee and commission income and expense gains or losses from associates and equity Fees and commissions are generally recognised on investments at fair value through profit or loss and an accrual basis when the service has been impairment losses on equity investments are provided. Loan commitment fees for loans that are recognised in the income statement as gains less likely to be drawn down are deferred (together with losses from financial assets. related direct costs) and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan. Other operating income Income less cost of sales from consolidated nonLoan syndication fees are recognised as revenue financial companies is presented under other when the syndication has been completed and operating income. NIBC has retained no part of the loan package for itself or has retained a part at the same effective Sales of services by consolidated non-financial interest rate as the other participants. Commissions companies and fees arising from negotiating, or participating The group sells temporary employment services. in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party Revenue from temporary employment services is – such as the arrangement of the acquisition of generally recognised at the contractual rates. shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – are recognised on completion of the Statement of cash flows underlying transaction. Portfolio and other The statement of cash flows, based on the indirect management advisory and service fees are method of calculation, gives details of the source of Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 75 cash and cash equivalents that became available during the year and the application of these cash and cash equivalents over the course of the year. The cash flows are analysed into cash flows from operating activities, including banking activities, investment activities and financing activities. Movements in loans and receivables and inter-bank deposits are included in the cash flow from operating activities. Investing activities are comprised of acquisitions, sales and redemptions in respect of financial investments, as well as investments in and sales of subsidiaries and associates, property, plant and equipment. The issuing of shares and the borrowing and repayment of long-term funds are treated as financing activities. Movements due to currency translation differences as well as the effects of the consolidation of acquisitions, where of material significance, are eliminated from the cash flow figures. Fiduciary activities NIBC acts as trustee and in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions. These assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements as they are not assets of the group. 76 Critical accounting estimates and judgements NIBC makes estimates and assumptions that affect The key assumptions used in the value-in-use the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. calculation are as follows: Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other IN % 2012 2011 factors, including expectations of future events that Perpetual growth rate 1.0 0.0 are believed to be reasonable under the Pre-tax discount rate 9.7 8.8 circumstances. Management determines budgeted results based Estimates and judgements are principally made in upon past performance and its expectations of the following areas: market developments. The discount rate (weighted nn Estimated impairment of goodwill arising on average cost of capital) used is pre-tax and reflects consolidated non-financial companies; specific risks relating to the operations of the group nn Fair value of certain financial instruments; of CGUs. nn Impairment of corporate loans; nn Impairment of debt investments classified as NIBC has not recognised a goodwill impairment amortised cost; charge for the consolidated non-financial nn Impairment of debt investments classified as companies recognised at balance sheet date 31 available for sale; December 2012. nn Impairment of equity investments classified as available for sale; When this exercise demonstrates that the expected nn Securitisations and Special Purpose Entities; cash flows of a group of CGUs have declined or that and their discount rate has increased, the effect is to nn Pension benefits. reduce the estimated recoverable amount. If this results in an estimated recoverable amount that is Estimated impairment of goodwill lower than the carrying amount of the group of arising on consolidated nonCGUs, a charge for impairment of goodwill will be financial companies recognised, thereby reducing by a corresponding NIBC tests whether its goodwill is impaired on an amount NIBC’s profit before tax for the year. annual basis in accordance with its accounting policies. The rate used to discount the future cash flows of the group of CGUs can have a significant effect on The recoverable amount of CGUs related to the group of CGUs’ valuation. The discount rate consolidated non-financial companies is calculated depends on inputs reflecting a number of determined based on a value-in-use calculation, financial and economic variables including the riskthat is the higher of value in use and fair value less free interest rate and a premium to reflect the costs to sell. This calculation uses pre-tax cash flow inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These projections based on prudent forecasts covering a variables are established on the basis of three-year period (2013 2015). Cash flows beyond management judgement. the three-year period are extrapolated using an estimated perpetual growth rate. If the estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to discounted cash flows for the group of CGUs had been 1% higher than management’s estimates (10.7% instead of 9.7%) at 31 December 2012, Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 77 the outcome of the goodwill impairment test would Own liabilities designated at fair value not have changed. Management judgement is also through profit or loss required in estimating the future cash flows of the At 31 December 2012, the fair value of these group of CGUs. These values are sensitive to the liabilities was estimated to be EUR 1,952 million cash flows projected for the periods for which (31 December 2011: EUR 2,070 million). This detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions portfolio is designated at fair value through profit regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash or loss and is reported on the face of the balance flows thereafter. While the acceptable range within sheet under the following headings: which underlying assumptions can be applied is nn Financial liabilities at fair value through profit governed by the requirement to compare resulting or loss: Own debt securities; forecasts with actual performance and verifiable nn Financial liabilities at fair value through profit economic data in future years, the cash flow or loss: Debt securities in issue structured; and forecasts necessarily and appropriately reflect nn Financial liabilities at fair value through profit management’s view of future business prospects. or loss: Subordinated liabilities. If the budgeted profit before tax of the group of The portion of fair value changes on these liabilities CGUs used in the value-in-use calculation had been designated at fair value through profit or loss 5% lower than management’s estimates at 31 during 2012 attributable to the movement in credit December 2012 the outcome of the goodwill spreads as displayed in notes 38, 39 and 43 reflects impairment test would not have changed. gross amounts, excluding pull-to-par and model refinement effects. Net of pull-to-par and model Fair value of certain refinement effects the portion of fair value changes financial instruments on these liabilities designated at fair value through The fair value of financial instruments is profit or loss during 2012 attributable to the determined based on quoted market prices in an movement in credit spreads amounts to EUR 11 active market or, where no active market exists, by milion debit (2011: EUR 78 million debit), being a using valuation techniques. In cases where reduction of the carrying value. valuation techniques are used, the fair values are estimated from market observable data, if available, In 2012 NIBC refined the existing valuation or by using models. Where market-observable methodology of the portfolio Debt securities in inputs are not available, they are estimated based on issue structured designated at fair value to profit or appropriate assumptions. loss. This refinement encompasses changes in the valuation model which facilitates the valuation of Where valuation techniques are used to determine the bonds on an individual basis instead of a fair values, they are validated and periodically portfolio-based valuation. This is considered as a reviewed by qualified personnel independent of those change in accounting estimate resulting in an who prepared them. All models are reviewed prior to increase of the carrying amount of Debt securities use and models are calibrated to ensure that outputs in issue structured designated at fair value through reflect actual data and comparative market prices. To profit or loss of EUR 12.2 million. the extent possible, models use only observable data; however, in areas such as applicable credit spreads The credit spread used to revalue these liabilities (both own credit spread and counterparty credit was based to the extent possible on the observable spreads), volatilities and correlations may require issuance spread movements of new primary management to estimate inputs. unsecured debt issuances by financial institutions. Bearing in mind the market inactivity, both for cash Changes in assumptions could affect the reported and synthetic NIBC funding and protection, these fair value of financial instruments. For the observations are combined with data for both cash identification of assumptions used in the and synthetic indices indicators such as iTraxx determination of fair value of financial instruments indices and credit curve developments. The and for estimated sensitivity information for level 3 resulting overall market view supports the financial instruments, except for own liabilities reasonableness of the range in which the applied designated at fair value through profit or loss, credit spread falls. reference is made to note 45. 78 Consolidated financial statements Critical accounting estimates and judgements The valuation of all the above classes of financial Valuation Guidelines to the extent that these are liabilities designated at fair value through profit or consistent with IAS 39. loss is sensitive to the estimated credit spread used to discount future expected cash flows. A 10 basis On 31 December 2012, the fair value of this point change in the weighted average credit spread portfolio was estimated to be EUR 264 million used to discount future expected cash flows would (2011: EUR 324 million). This portfolio is reported increase or decrease the fair value of these own as equity investments (including investments in financial liabilities at 31 December 2012 by associates) at fair value through profit or loss EUR 6.1 million (31 December 2011: (2012: EUR 215 million; 2011: EUR 258 million) EUR 13.4 million). and as equity investments at available for sale (2012: EUR 49 million; 2011: EUR 66 million). Valuation of corporate derivatives (credit value adjustment) For the determination of the fair value of equity Credit Valuation Adjustments (CVAs) are investments and for estimated sensitivity to key incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect assumptions in the valuation, reference is made to the risk of default of the counterparty. In essence, note 45. CVA represents an estimate of the discounted expected loss on an Over The Counter (OTC) Impairment of corporate loans derivative during the lifetime of a contract. It is NIBC assesses whether there is an indication of applied to all OTC derivative contracts, except impairment of corporate loans classified as loans those that benefit from a strong collateral and receivables at amortised cost on an individual agreement where cash collateral is regularly basis on at least a quarterly basis. NIBC considers a exchanged, mitigating credit risk. In practice, this range of factors that have a bearing on the expected means that CVAs are only applied to OTC future cash flows that it expects to receive from the derivative contracts that generate credit risk on loan, including the business prospects of the corporate (i.e. non-financial) counterparties. borrower and its industry sector, the realisable value of collateral held, the level of subordination In line with market practice, the CVA of a derivative relative to other lenders and creditors, and the likely contract is calculated at the counterparty level as cost and likely duration of any recovery process. the sum of the present value of the expected loss Subjective judgements are made in the process estimated over the lifetime of all outstanding OTC including, the determination of expected future derivative contracts that generate credit risk. This cash flows and their timing and the market value of requires the application of Probability of Default collateral. Furthermore, NIBC’s judgements change (PD) and Loss Given Default (LGD) estimates to the with time as new information becomes available, or Expected Exposure (EE) profile. The EE profile as recovery strategies evolve, resulting in frequent estimate takes into account the amortisation of the revisions to individual impairments, on a case-bynotional amounts and the passage of time to case basis. NIBC regularly reviews the methodology maturity. PD and LGD estimates are based on and assumptions used for estimating both the internal Counterparty Credit Rating (CCR) and amount and timing of future cash flows, to reduce LGD ratings due to the absence of a credit market any differences between loss estimates and actual for most of NIBC’s corporate counterparties. loss experience. The CVA is sensitive to changes in credit quality of If, as at 31 December 2012, for each of NIBC’s counterparties, as well as to changes in interest rates impaired corporate loans, the net present value of affecting current exposure. Based on the current the estimated cash flows had been 5% lower or composition of the portfolio, the CVA, in general, higher than estimated, NIBC would have reduces when interest rates rise. recognised an additional impairment loss or gain of EUR 13.5 million (2011: EUR 10.8 million). Fair value of equity investments The group estimates the fair value of its equity Impairment of debt investments investments using valuation models, and it applies classified as amortised cost the valuation principles set forth by the NIBC assesses whether there is an indication of International Private Equity and Venture Capital impairment on debt investments classified as Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 79 amortised cost on an individual basis on at least a operational or financing cash flows. The level of the quarterly basis. NIBC considers a range of factors impairment loss that NIBC recognises in the that have a bearing on the expected future cash consolidated income statement is the cumulative loss flows that it expects to receive from the debt that had been recognised directly in the revaluation investment including rating downgrades and reserve of other comprehensive income. If NIBC had delinquencies and/or defaults in the underlying deemed all of the declines in fair value of equity asset pools. Adjustments are also made to reflect investments below cost as ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’, such elements as deteriorating liquidity and the effect would have been a EUR 8.8 million (2011: increased refinancing risk. EUR 6.5 million) reduction in the profit before tax (gains less losses from financial assets) in 2012. If, as at 31 December 2012, for each of NIBC’s impaired debt investments, the net present value of Securitisations and Special Purpose the estimated cash flows had been 5% lower or Entities higher than estimated, NIBC would have NIBC establishes SPEs primarily for the purpose of recognised an additional impairment loss or gain of allowing clients to hold investments in separate EUR 0.7 million (2011: EUR 0.2 million). legal entities, to allow clients to invest jointly in alternative assets, for asset securitisation Impairment of debt investments transactions, and for buying or selling credit classified as available for sale protection. NIBC does not consolidate SPEs that it NIBC assesses whether there is an indication of does not control. impairment on debt investments classified as available for sale on an individual basis on at least a The determination of whether NIBC exercises quarterly basis. This requires similar judgement as control over an SPE requires NIBC to make applied to debt investments at amortised cost. judgements about its exposure to the risks and rewards derived from the SPE as well as its ability to The level of the impairment loss that NIBC make operational decisions for the SPE in question. recognises in the consolidated income statement is In many instances, elements are present that, equivalent to the cumulative loss that had been considered in isolation, indicate control or lack of recognised directly in the revaluation reserve of control over an SPE, but when considered together other comprehensive income plus any additional make it difficult to reach a clear conclusion. In such impairment loss (if applicable). If, as at 31 cases, the SPE is consolidated. December 2012, for each of NIBC’s impaired debt investments, the fair value had been 5% lower or When assessing whether NIBC has to consolidate higher, NIBC would have recognised an additional an SPE, it evaluates a range of factors, including impairment loss or gain of EUR 0.2 million (2011: whether: EUR 0.4 million). nn It will obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of an SPE; Impairment of equity investments nn It retains the majority of the residual ownership classified as available for sale risks related to the assets in order to obtain the NIBC determines an impairment loss on the benefits from its activities; available for sale equity investments held in the nn It has decision-making powers to obtain the Investment portfolio of the venture capital majority of the benefits; and organisation when there has been a significant or nn The activities of the SPE are being conducted on prolonged decline in fair value below original cost. NIBC’s behalf according to NIBC’s specific NIBC exercises judgement in determining what is business needs so that it obtains the benefits ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’ by evaluating, among from the SPEs operations. other factors, whether the decline is outside the normal range of volatility in the asset’s price. In The evaluation mentioned above is necessarily addition, impairment may be appropriate when subjective. there is evidence of deterioration in the financial health of the company whose securities are held by Were the group not to consolidate the assets, NIBC, a decline in industry or sector performance, liabilities and the results of these consolidated SPEs, adverse changes in technology or problems with the net effect on the balance sheet would be a 80 Consolidated financial statements Critical accounting estimates and judgements decrease in total assets of EUR 5.5 billion (2011: increases. Any changes in these assumptions will EUR 6.4 billion) and the net effect on the income impact the carrying amount of pension obligations. statement in both 2012 and 2011 would be insignificant. The group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year. This is the interest rate that De-recognition of assets and recognition should be used to determine the present value of of continuous involvement estimated future cash outflows expected to be NIBC executed transactions under its Commercial required to settle pension obligations. In Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS) programme. determining the appropriate discount rate, the The purpose of this programme is to offer NIBC’s group considers the interest rates of high-quality real estate clients access to the capital markets. corporate bonds that are denominated in the NIBC established SPEs for the commercial backed currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that securities programme. All loans transferred to the have terms to maturity approximating the terms of SPEs are collateralised by commercial real estate the related pension liability. properties. The SPEs obtain funding from the capital markets by issuing CMBS notes. The Other key assumptions for pension obligations are commercial real estate loans, included in the CMBS based in part on current market conditions. programme, were originated by NIBC or by other Additional information is disclosed in note 41. banks prior to the securitisation. The total amount of commercial loans originated by NIBC prior to Were the discount rate to differ by 10% from the securitisation and that were subsequently management’s estimates, the carrying amount of transferred to these SPEs amounts to EUR 1,288 pension obligations would be an estimated million. The notional amount at 31 December 2012 EUR 17.9 million (2011: EUR 18.0 million) lower or was EUR 966 million (2011: EUR 1,161 million). EUR 19.5 million (2011: EUR 19.9 million) higher. The loans that continued to be recognised to the The service cost would be EUR 0.7 million extent of NIBC’s continuing involvement amounted (2011: EUR 0.8 million) lower or EUR 0.8 million to EUR 679 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: (2011: EUR 0.9 million) higher. EUR 683 million). The reason for recognising this continuing involvement is that, based on a risks and rewards analysis, NIBC did not transfer substantially all risks and rewards associated with the securitised assets. The continuing involvement is reflected in the balance sheet as EUR 611 million (2011: EUR 613 million) securitised loans valued at amortised cost and an amount of EUR 467 million (2011: EUR 469 million) in debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages, EUR 65 million (2011: EUR 65 million) in loans at fair value through profit and loss with a corresponding amount in debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages and EUR 3 million (2011: EUR 5 million) in debt investments at fair value through profit or loss which concerns the fair value of NIBC’s investment in certain CMBS notes. Pension benefits The present value of pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (or income) of pensions include the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, future salary increases, future inflation and future pension Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 81 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Segment report The segment information has been prepared in accordance with IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’, which defines requirements for the disclosure of financial information on an entity’s operating segments. IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified based on internal management reports on components of the entity that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker in order to allocate resources to the segment and to assess segment performance. The Managing Board is the group’s chief operating decision-maker. Based on the information reported to the chief operating decision-maker for the allocation of resources and performance of the business, NIBC Bank as a whole is identified as a single operating segment. Segment information is presented in these consolidated financial statements on the same basis as used for internal management reporting within NIBC. Internal management reporting within NIBC is based on IFRS. Segment reporting under IFRS 8 requires a presentation of the segment results based on management reporting methods and a reconciliation between the results of the operating segments and the consolidated financial statements. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 83 The following table presents the results of the single operating segment, being NIBC Bank, including a reconciliation to the consolidated results under IFRS for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. Internal management report operating Total (consolidated segment NIBC Bank Consolidation effects 2 financial statements) IN EUR MILLIONS 1 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Net interest income 127 172 (1) (7) 126 165 Net fee and commission income 18 36 17 36 Dividend income 8 5 8 5 Net trading income 94 18 1 94 19 Gains less losses from financial assets 27 50 2 (2) 28 48 Share in result of associates (1) 1 (1) 1 Other operating income 22 64 22 64 OPERATING INCOME 272 282 22 56 294 338 OPERATING EXPENSES 146 170 21 57 168 226 Impairments of financial assets 45 44 45 44 TOTAL EXPENSES 192 213 21 57 213 270 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 80 69 1 (1) 81 68 Tax 7 1 1 8 1 PROFIT AFTER TAX 73 68 (1) 73 67 Result attributable to non-controlling interests (1) (1) NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT SHAREHOLDER 73 68 73 68 Average allocated economic capital 1,418 1,438 1,418 1,438 Average unallocated capital 237 117 237 117 Segment assets 26,137 28,424 104 130 26,242 28,554 Segment liabilities 24,340 26,651 69 93 24,410 26,744 Capital expenditure 1 8 1 1 10 Share in result of associates based on the equity method (4) (4) Investments in associates based on the equity method 10 14 10 14 1. Small differences are possible in the table due to rounding. 2. The items displayed under ‘consolidation effects’ refer to the non-financial entities over which NIBC has control. IFRS requires NIBC to consolidate these entities. The internal management report differs from this, as the investments in these entities are non-strategic and the activities of these entities are nonfinancial. Therefore, in the income statement of NIBC, only NIBC’s share in the net result of these entities is included in the line-item ‘gains less losses from financial assets’. Subsequently, under ‘consolidation effects’ this is eliminated and replaced by the figures of these entities used in the consolidated financial statements. NIBC generated 86% of its revenues in the Netherlands (2011: 87%) and 14% abroad (2011: 13%). 84 Consolidated financial statements Notes 2 Net interest income IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 INTEREST AND SIMILAR INCOME Interest income from assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 263 295 Interest income from other assets 312 398 575 693 INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR CHARGES Interest expense from liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 24 25 Interest expense from other liabilities 425 503 449 528 126 165 Interest income from debt and other fixed-income instruments designated at held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in interest and similar income at the effective interest rate. For the year ended 31 December 2012, interest expense related to deposits from customers amounted to EUR 267 million (2011: EUR 207 million). For the year ended 31 December 2012, interest income included accrued interest on impaired financial assets of EUR 2 million (2011: EUR 3 million). Interest income from financial assets reclassified in 2008 following the IAS 39 amendments, both after reclassification and before reclassification (assuming the reclassifications in 2008 had not been made), is displayed in the following table. The difference between the figure after and the figure before reclassification reflects the amortisation of discounts and premiums on financial assets reclassified from held for trading or available-for-sale. For the period ended 31 December 2012 2011 After Before After Before IN EUR MILLIONS reclassification reclassification reclassification reclassification Interest income 74 69 96 87 3 Net fee and commission income IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME Agency and underwriting fees 3 6 Investment management fees 6 19 Other 9 11 18 36 FEE AND COMMISSION EXPENSE Other non-interest related 1 1 17 36 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 85 4 Dividend income IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Equity investments (available-for-sale) 8 5 8 5 5 Net trading income IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss (including related derivatives) 84 (4) Assets and liabilities held for trading 30 7 Other net trading income (20) 16 94 19 Net trading income included a foreign exchange loss of EUR 2 million (2011: loss of EUR 6 million). Net trading income on financial assets reclassified in 2008 following the IAS 39 amendments, both after reclassification and before reclassification (assuming the reclassification in 2008 had not been made) is displayed in the following table: For the period ended 31 December 2012 2011 After Before After Before IN EUR MILLIONS reclassification reclassification reclassification reclassification Net trading income (7) 40 4 (4) 6 Gains less losses from financial assets IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 EQUITY INVESTMENTS GAINS LESS LOSSES FROM EQUITY INVESTMENTS (AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE) Net gain/(losses) on disposal 34 7 Net revaluation gain/(losses) transferred from equity on disposal 1 Impairment losses equity investments (1) GAINS LESS LOSSES FROM EQUITY INVESTMENTS (FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS) Gains less losses from associates (3) 31 Gains less losses from other equity investments (3) 8 28 46 DEBT INVESTMENTS Gains less losses from debt investments (available-for-sale) 2 2 28 48 Impairment losses relating to debt investments (available-for-sale) are presented under impairments of financial assets (see note 11 Impairments of financial assets). 86 Consolidated financial statements Notes 7 Other operating income IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 OTHER OPERATING INCOME OF NON-FINANCIAL COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATION CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Net revenue Net sales 250 311 Cost of sales (227) (247) 23 64 Other (1) 22 64 Other operating income for the year 2011 included the net revenue of the non-financial companies which have been deconsolidated since 20 September 2011. 8 Personnel expenses and share-based payments IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Salaries 63 64 Variable compensation 7 17 PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT CHARGES: Defined-benefit plan 6 6 Defined-contribution plan 3 3 Other post-retirement charges/(releases) (1) Social security charges 8 7 Other staff expenses 2 2 Staff cost of non-financial companies included in the consolidation 9 30 98 128 The decrease in salaries in 2012 is mainly explained by a decrease in the average number of Full Time Equivalents (FTEs). The decrease in variable compensation is mainly explained by a further reduction of the variable compensation pool available for employees, lower performance related fees combined with a lower level of expenses related to share-based payment plans from previous years, partly due to remeasurement based upon target realisation. The number of FTEs (excluding the non-financial companies included in the consolidation) decreased from 664 at 31 December 2011 to 627 at 31 December 2012. The number of FTEs employed outside of the Netherlands decreased from 130 at 31 December 2011 to 126 at 31 December 2012. At 31 December 2012, 106 FTEs (2011: 106 FTEs) were employed at the non-financial companies included in the consolidation, all of them are employed in the Netherlands. The decrease of staff costs is fully related to the deconsolidation of the non-financial companies of NIBC Merchant Banking Fund IB of which NIBC lost control on 20 September 2011. Information on the pension charges is included in note 41 Employee benefits. Information on the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board can be found in note 53. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 87 Remuneration of Statutory Board and Supervisory Board Key management personnel compensation (Statutory Board) IN EUR 2012 2011 THE BREAKDOWN OF THE TOTAL REMUNERATION OF THE STATUTORY BOARD IS AS FOLLOWS1: Cash compensation (base salary) 2,800,000 2,294,698 Cash compensation (severance payment) 500,000 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) Short-term incentive compensation (deferred cash bonus) Short-term incentive compensation (phantom share units) Vesting of prior years short-term deferred share awards compensation 108,480 Vesting of prior years long-term deferred share awards compensation (124,998) 408,333 Vesting of 2009 one-off co-investment related deferred share awards compensation (389,444) 945,947 Forfeiture of unvested share awards 2 (330,189) (352,863) Pension costs 474,049 393,722 Other remuneration elements 455,680 373,111 3,385,098 4,171,428 1. In addition to the above, personnel expenses in the income statement also include expenses relating to the vesting of the Statutory Board’s sign-on and retention awards, which were rescinded after 31 December 2008. The additional amount for 2012 is EUR 0.4 million (2011: nil). In accordance with NIBC’s accounting policies for share-based compensation, this amount has been credited to other reserves. 2. The forfeiture in 2012 relates fully to non-vested long-term deferred compensation granted to Mr. Jeroen van Hessen in 2012 and previous years. Mr. Jeroen van Hessen stepped down as member of the Statutory Board on 1 June 2012 and his employment ended at 31 December 2012. The forfeiture in 2011 relates fully to non-vested long-term deferred compensation granted to Mr. Jan Sijbrand in 2011 and previous years. Mr. Jan Sijbrand stepped down as member of the Statutory Board on 30 June 2011 and his employment ended at the same date. In 2012 the government imposed a one-off crisis levy of 16% on salaries of employees exceeding EUR 150,000. This one-off levy on employers is not part of the remuneration of the Statutory Board as presented in note 53 or in the previous table. The total crisis levy included in the personnel expenses amounts to EUR 1.4 million of which EUR 0.4 million relates to current and former members of the Statutory Board. The total number of options on NIBC Holding Common Depositary Receipts (CDRs) held by the Statutory Board amounted to 267,056 (vested) as at 31 December 2012 (2011: 242,056 (vested) and 25,000 (unvested)). As at 31 December 2012, members of the Statutory Board held 282,990 CDRs (2011: 273,581), nil Restricted Depositary Receipts (RDRs) (2011: 2,316), 146,272 Conditional Common Depositary Receipts (CCDRs) (2011: 81,083) and 70,395 Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts (CRDRs) (2011: 217,045). Key management personnel compensation (Supervisory Board) IN EUR 2012 2011 TOTAL REMUNERATION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD IS AS FOLLOWS: Annual fixed fees, committee fees 653,500 664,000 653,500 664,000 88 Consolidated financial statements Notes Components of variable compensation NIBC Choice NIBC Choice is NIBC Holding’s share-based and deferred compensation plan and governs all variable compensation components in the form of equity, equity-related and deferred cash compensation. In addition to this, variable compensation can consist of a discretionary short-term cash bonus. NIBC Choice is only open to management and employees and contains restrictions relating to termination of employment or certain corporate events, such as restructurings, affecting the rights that would otherwise accrue to them. Depositary receipts The Depositary Receipts (DRs), consisting of CDRs and RDRs, are issued by Stichting Administratiekantoor NIBC Holding (the Foundation) in accordance with its relevant conditions of administration (administratievoorwaarden). The Foundation issues a DR for each ordinary share it holds in NIBC Holding. The Foundation exercises the voting rights in respect of each of these ordinary shares at its own discretion, while the holder of a DR is entitled to the dividends and other distributions declared payable in respect of the underlying ordinary share. Holders of DRs cannot exercise voting rights or request a power of attorney from the Foundation to vote in respect of our ordinary shares. Under the conditions of administration, the holders of DRs have pre-emption rights similar to other shareholders of NIBC Holding, subject to the Foundation having been given pre-emptive rights. Consequently, when given these pre-emptive rights, the Foundation will exercise the pre-emption rights attached to the ordinary shares underlying the DRs if these holders so elect. RDRs cannot be transferred and are subject to specific vesting rules. Up to 1 January 2008, they were subject to five-year vesting with one fifth vesting on 1 January of each year. In 2008, the vesting schedule was changed to three-year vesting, with one third vesting each year on 1 January, to better align with vesting practices in other financial institutions. In 2012 the vesting date of newly granted instruments was changed 1 April to be in line with the remuneration guidelines of the Dutch Central Bank (DNB). Additionally, RDRs are subject to certain limitations, including the forfeiture of the RDR in the case of termination of employment, or in the case of certain corporate events, such as restructurings. On every vesting date, the applicable tranche of RDRs converts automatically into CDRs if the vesting conditions are met. In 2012, no new RDRs were granted by NIBC Holding. Instead, the 2011 short-term deferred compensation was delivered in the form of a deferred cash bonus and Restricted Phantom Share Units (RPSUs), both subject to three-year vesting, the first such vesting to occur on 1 April 2013. In 2009, Statutory Board members made a combined personal investment of EUR 1.7 million (184 thousand NIBC CDRs at a price of EUR 9.25). In relation to that co-investment the Statutory Board members were granted 184 thousand matching shares (CRDRs) on a net after-tax basis representing a 1:1 match. Furthermore, the Statutory Board members are entitled to earn additional performance shares (CRDRs). The number of performance shares contained in this one-off variable compensation is in principle uncapped, but the Supervisory Board has the discretion to adjust the ultimate number in the case of unfair or unintended effects. For determining the number of performance shares, a specific formula will be applied by the Supervisory Board upon a change of control. Therefore the conditions attached to the performance shares are recognised as vesting conditions. The matching shares were awarded in 2009 to the Statutory Board with an underlying fair value of EUR 9.25, which was determined by the Supervisory Board, based on an agreed price-to-book ratio observed in the market at grant date based on net asset value. The number of performance shares will be calculated upon a change of control or any other liquidity event as a percentage of the number of matching shares that represents one year’s net base salary at the time of grant, using a pre-agreed formula. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 89 The terms and conditions applicable to these CRDRs are in line with those applicable to the 2008 RDRs, except for the calculation of the fair value at grant date, the vesting period and certain performance conditions. The CRDRs (matching shares) which were awarded to the Statutory Board members in 2009 in relation to their co-investment in NIBC are subject to four-year vesting with one quarter vesting each year, for the first time on 1 January 2010 and will become fully unconditional and vest immediately upon change of control of NIBC Holding. The conditional performance shares will vest immediately upon a change of control or any other liquidity event. NIBC has the discretion to offer new members of the Statutory Board the opportunity to participate in this co-investment programme under the same conditions. This offer was made to Ms. Petra van Hoeken when she joined the Statutory Board on 23 December 2011 and it was accepted by her in January 2012 against a price per CDR of EUR 8.70 being the fair value at that time. On 1 June 2012, Mr. Jeroen van Hessen stepped down from the Statutory Board and his employment ended on 31 December 2012. All non-vested instruments, options and CRDRs (related to the co-investment and to long-term incentive programmes) were forfeited on 31 December 2012. In 2009, a new Long-Term Incentive plan (LTI) was introduced for the Statutory Board members and selected senior management. The LTI is forward looking and will be granted annually. Its main objective is to provide an incentive to achieve a balanced mix of pre-agreed long-term financial and non-financial performance conditions. The LTI is subject to three-year cliff vesting and an additional retention period of two years and will be delivered in the form of CRDRs but, at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, may be delivered in another form. On every vesting date, the applicable tranche of CRDRs converts automatically into CCDRs if the vesting conditions are met. Phantom Share Units In 2010, a new equity-linked reward instrument was introduced as part of the Short-Term Incentive (STI) plan for the Statutory Board members and selected senior management. The short-term compensation in share related awards consists of Phantom Share Units (PSUs) and/or RPSUs. RPSU awards are subject to a three-year vesting with one third vesting each year. All PSUs, whether vested or restricted are subject to a five-year retention period as measured from the date of grant. In 2012, as part of the review of the remuneration policies against the remuneration guidelines of DNB, it was decided to shorten the retention period from a five-year period to a one-year period and to move the vesting date from 1 January to 1 April. The (R)PSU has similar characteristics as the CRDR used for the LTI, such as eligibility for dividend and a value which is tied to movements in the net asset value of NIBC Holding, however from 2012 newly granted RPSUs are not eligible for dividend. This short-term compensation can be converted into cash immediately after the retention period and therefore is recognised as cash-settled. Stock Options NIBC Choice also comprises an employee Option Plan (the Option Plan) which allowed NIBC Holding to grant options to members of its Statutory Board and employees up to a maximum of 5% of its share capital as at 14 December 2005 on a fully diluted basis. The Option Plan was introduced with the intention of further enhancing the attractiveness of converting accumulated rights under the legacy plans into NIBC Choice by granting options to employees who converted their entitlements into DRs. In addition, options were granted to encourage investment of own funds by employees in CDRs and as part of the compensation of senior management and other employees. NIBC may decide to grant further options under the current Option Plan. Each option gives the option holder the right to be issued one CDR. The options are only exercisable by the option holder. Of the options granted on a certain date, 50% vest after three years and the remainder vest after four years from the date of grant and the options granted in 2005 and 2006 have a seven-year exercise 90 Consolidated financial statements Notes period with a possibility for a three-year extension in the case a liquidity event has not yet taken place before the end of the seven-year period, provided that such a period will end no later than 14 December 2015. In 2012, the Statutory Board, after consultation with the Supervisory Board, decided to apply this three-year extension. As a general rule, all unvested and vested out of the money options shall be forfeited for no consideration upon termination of employment of an option holder. However, vested options are exercisable during open periods, provided that the option holder is still employed by NIBC or, if no longer employed by NIBC, during the next open period following termination. An open period generally is the 21-day period following the date of approval of the annual, semi-annual or quarterly results, taking into account NIBC’s internal regulations on private investment transactions. The exercise price of an option is equal to the fair market value of a DR at the date of grant as defined and calculated in accordance with the conditions of administration of the Foundation. This fair market value is based on the changes in NIBC Holding’s net asset value, calculated using a fixed formula, relative to the exercise price of EUR 18.25, which was determined when NIBC first introduced the Option Plan in December 2005. The resulting exercise price at the date of grant for options granted prior to 31 March 2006 ranged from EUR 18.25 in December 2005 to EUR 18.49 in March 2006 per option. Any dividends payable are deducted from the exercise price of an option. The exercise price at the date of grant for options granted in 2006 on or after 31 March 2006 ranged from EUR 19.81 in April 2006 to EUR 20.67 in September 2006. In June 2008, as part of the one-off retention package, 1,492,900 options with a four-year exercise period were granted to selected senior executives and other staff subject to the rules of the existing Option Plan. The exercise price of these options was determined at EUR 9.06. Any dividends payable are deducted from the exercise price of an option. The Statutory Board may allow for a cashless exercise, allowing the holder to convert his options into fewer CDRs than he would otherwise be entitled to, while not having to pay the exercise price. Upon the occurrence of certain corporate events, such as capital adjustments, payment of stock dividends, an issue of shares or recapitalisations, the Statutory Board, following consultation with the Supervisory Board, may adjust the number of options and/or the exercise price as is equitable to reflect the event. In 2012, no new options were granted to employees. Stock option and share plans Options As at year-end 2012, 2,458,592 (2011: 3,038,879) options on CDRs of NIBC Holding were in issue, with a weighted average remaining vesting period of nil years (2011: nil years). Of this total position, 2,421,092 options were vested at 31 December 2012. A requirement for vesting at the vesting date is that the holder is still employed by NIBC Holding or one of its group companies. The weighted average exercise period of the options is 3.0 years (2011: 1.0 years). All options in issue as at 31 December 2012 and as at 31 December 2011 are equity-settled instruments. Weighted average exercise price Options outstanding (in numbers) (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN OPTION RIGHTS OUTSTANDING: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 3,038,879 3,607,268 13.06 13.22 Granted Exercised (311,300) (185,850) 8.28 8.56 Forfeited (268,987) (382,539) 14.50 13.43 Expired BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2,458,592 3,038,879 13.17 13.06 OF WHICH VESTED AT 31 DECEMBER 2,421,092 2,468,179 13.16 13.95 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 91 The average fair value per option at grant date was EUR 5.51. In 2012, 311,300 options were exercised into CDRs. All option holders opted for the cash-less exercise. As a consequence, the holder converted his options into fewer CDRs than he would otherwise be entitled to, while not having to pay the exercise price. At year-end the conversion of 75,400 exercised options into 13,038 CDRs was still pending. Common Depositary Receipts As at year end 2012, 2,775,057 (2011: 2,993,187) CDRs were issued to employees. Of the position as at year end 2012, 9,191 which is 0.3% of CDRs are considered cash-settled (2011: 10,465 and 0.3%); the remaining 99.7% is considered equity-settled. In the case an employee has the right to demand cash settlement against their fair value, the CDRs are considered cash-settled (as opposed to equity-settled). In 2012, a fully discretionary offer was made to current and former employees to sell their CDR holdings to a certain threshold with a maximum of 10%. Main reason was to reduce administrative and handling expenses by reducing the number of (small) holders of CDRs. Statutory Board members were not eligible for this offer. Depositary Receipt awards Fair value at balance sheet date (in numbers) (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN COMMON DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2,993,187 2,749,722 Granted Investments from own funds 17,242 Exercised (options) 48,203 16,327 Vesting of RDRs 49,090 249,748 CDRs repaid (332,665) (22,610) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2,775,057 2,993,187 8.40 8.70 OF WHICH RELATES TO INVESTMENT FROM OWN FUNDS AT 31 DECEMBER 1,185,478 1,280,112 Restricted Depositary Receipts As at year-end 2012, nil (2011: 49,090) RDRs had been issued to employees, with a weighted average remaining vesting period of nil years (2011: nil). A requirement for vesting at the vesting date is that the holder is still employed by NIBC or one of its group companies. Of the position as at year-end 2011, no RDRs were considered cash-settled (2011: nil), but all RDRs were considered equity-settled. Depositary Receipt awards Weighted average fair value at grant date (in numbers) (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN RESTRICTED DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 49,090 303,623 13.65 13.65 Granted Exercised Forfeited (4,785) 19.68 Vested into CDRs (49,090) (249,748) 13.65 12.39 Expired BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 49,090 13.65 Conditional Common Depositary Receipts As at year-end 2012, 146,272 (2011: 81,083) CCDRs had been issued to Statutory Board members. Of the position as at year-end 2012, no CCDRs were considered cash-settled (2011: nil), but all CCDRs were considered equity-settled. 92 Consolidated financial statements Notes At year-end 2012, 24,648 (2011: nil) CCDRs were in issue to Statutory Board members related to the LTI scheme for the performance year 2009 for which the three-year cliff vesting period ended 1 January 2012. The Supervisory Board reviewed the agreed long-term financial and non-financial performance conditions and concluded that all criteria were met, consequently all LTI 2009 CRDRs have fully vested into CCDRs at 1 January 2012. The vested instruments have an additional retention period of two years. Furthermore the vested instruments need to be held until a liquidity event takes place to ensure alignment with the shareholders. Conditional Common Depositary Weighted average fair value at Receipt awards (in numbers) grant date (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN CONDITIONAL COMMON DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 81,083 45,948 9.25 9.25 Vesting of one-off matching shares awarded in 2009 on investment from own funds 40,541 45,947 9.25 9.25 Vesting of one-off performance shares awarded in 2009 Vesting of Long Term Incentive shares awarded in 2009 24,648 9.25 Forfeited (10,812) 9.25 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 146,272 81,083 9.25 9.25 The fair market value per CCDR is calculated based on price-to-book ratios observed in the market at grant date based on net asset value, without taking into account expected dividends. The fair value at balance sheet date was EUR 8.40. Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts At year-end 2012, 92,519 (2011: 282,929) were in issue to employees, including 55,080 (2011: 81,083) CRDRs which were in issue to Statutory Board members related to their personal co-investment in 2009 and 2012 in NIBC Holding CDRs, with a weighted average remaining vesting period of 0.5 years (2011: 1.0 years). These CRDRs are subject to four-year vesting with one quarter vesting each year on 1 January, for the first time on 1 January 2010 and 1 January 2013 (2012 investment) provided that the holder is still employed by NIBC prior to the vesting date. These CRDRs will become fully unconditional and vest immediately upon change of control of NIBC Holding. The number of performance shares is dependent on certain performance targets, and will be calculated upon a change of control event as a percentage of the number of matching shares that represents one year’s net base salary at the time of grant. For reporting purposes, the number of performance shares for the combined Statutory Board is estimated at nil CRDRs, based on NIBC’s long-term forecast and taking into account price-to-book ratios observed in the market. Depending on the assumptions applied, this number can vary over time. The conditional performance shares will vest immediately upon a change of control of NIBC Holding. Of the position as at year-end 2012, no CRDRs were considered cash-settled (2011: nil), but all CRDRs were considered equitysettled. The three-year cliff vesting period of a total of 45,115 CRDRs under the LTI 2010 ended 1 January 2013. The Supervisory Board reviewed the agreed long-term financial and non-financial performance conditions. The financial performance conditions (60%) were not met. The non-financial performance conditions (40%) were met in full. The Supervisory Board therefore awarded a vesting of 40% of the LTI 2010 CRDRs, which have fully vested at 1 January 2013. Consequently 60% of the LTI 2010 forfeited. The vested instruments have an additional retention period of two years. Furthermore the vested instruments need to be held until a liquidity event takes place to ensure alignment with the shareholders. An interim re-measurement of the LTI 2011 (performance period 2011 2013) was done. The number of CRDRs which are expected to vest on 1 January 2014 was re-estimated at 40% of the maximum number. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 93 At year-end 2012, 15,315 (2011: 73,146) CRDRs were in issue to Statutory Board members related to the LTI scheme for the performance years 2010/2011, with an estimated weighted average remaining vesting period of 0.5 years (2011: 1.0 years). Conditional Restricted Depositary Weighted average fair value at grant date Receipt awards (in numbers) (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN CONDITIONAL RESTRICTED DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 282,929 289,418 9.31 9.25 One-off matching shares (CRDRs) awarded in 2012 on investment from own funds 17,242 8.70 One-off performance shares (CRDRs) re-estimated 2012/ awarded in 2009/2012 (49,332) 19,470 9.25 9.25 Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts re-estimated 2012/ awarded based on LTI scheme in 2011/2010 (55,765) 64,651 9.41 9.56 Forfeited (37,365) (44,663) 9.32 9.31 Vested into conditional CDRs (65,189) (45,947) 9.25 9.25 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 92,519 282,929 9.21 9.31 The fair market value per CRDR is calculated based on price-to-book ratios observed in the market at grant date based on net asset value, without taking into account expected dividends. The fair value at balance sheet date was EUR 8.40. Phantom Share Units As at year end 2012, 229,685 (2011: 211,420) PSUs had been issued to employees. The total outstanding position is considered cash-settled. Weighted average fair value Phantom Share Units (in numbers) at grant date (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN PHANTOM SHARE UNITS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 211,420 91,383 9.10 9.56 Granted 85,116 120,037 8.40 8.75 Vesting of RPSUs 31,287 9.56 Exercised (98,138) 9.56 Forfeited BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 229,685 211,420 8.71 9.10 The fair market value per PSU is calculated based on price-to-book ratios observed in the market at grant date based on net asset value, without taking into account expected dividends. The fair value at balance sheet date was EUR 8.40. 94 Consolidated financial statements Notes Restricted Phantom Share Units As at year end 2012, 272,022 (2011: 231,576) RPSUs had been issued to employees. The total outstanding position is considered cash-settled. Restricted Phantom Share Units Weighted average fair value (in numbers) at grant date (in EUR) 2012 2011 2012 2011 CHANGES IN RESTRICTED PHANTOM SHARE UNITS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 231,576 101,904 9.05 9.56 Granted 80,896 137,308 8.41 8.70 Vesting of RPSUs (31,287) 9.56 Exercised Forfeited (9,163) (7,636) 9.28 9.56 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 272,022 231,576 8.79 9.05 The fair market value per RPSU is calculated based on price-to-book ratios observed in the market at grant date based on net asset value, without taking into account expected dividends. The fair value at reporting date was EUR 8.40. With respect to all instruments relating to NIBC Choice (CDRs, RDRs, CCDRs, CRDRs, options and deferred cash), an amount of EUR 2 million was expensed through personnel expenses in 2012 (2011: EUR 4 million), of which EUR 2 million (2011: EUR 2 million) refers to cash-settled instruments (deferred cash and vested PSUs) and nil (2011: EUR 2 million) to equity-settled instruments. With respect to the cashsettled instruments, the amount expensed during the vesting period through the income statement is based on the number of instruments originally granted outstanding at balance sheet date, their fair value at balance sheet date, the vesting period and estimates of the number of instruments that will be forfeited during the remaining vesting period. The liability in the balance sheet with respect to cash-settled instruments is EUR 5 million (2011: EUR 5 million). With respect to the equity-settled instruments (CDRs, RDRs, CCDRs, CRDRs and options), the amount expensed during the vesting period through the income statement is based on the number of instruments granted outstanding at balance sheet date, their fair value at grant date, the vesting period and estimates of the number of instruments that will be forfeited during the remaining vesting period. In the current account position with NIBC Holding, an amount of EUR 34 million payable is included (2011: EUR 34 million) relating to NIBC Choice. This is a result of recharges from NIBC Holding to its subsidiaries with respect to NIBC Choice (equity-settled instruments). The recharge is accounted for upon vesting of the granted equity settled NIBC Choice instruments. In view of IFRS 2, NIBC has a receivable in the current account position with NIBC Holding for the capital contribution of EUR 50 million (2011: EUR 51 million) in relation to the share-based payments programme granted by NIBC Holding. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 95 9 Other operating expenses IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Other operating expenses 50 62 Other operating expenses of non-financial companies included in the consolidation 8 15 Fees of the external auditor 2 2 60 79 FEES OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Audit of financial statements 2 2 2 2 The fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to NIBC and its consolidated group entities by accounting firms and external auditors as referred to in Section 1(1) of the Dutch Audit Firms Supervision Act (Dutch acronym: Wta), as well as by Dutch and foreign-based accounting firms, including their tax services and advisory groups. 10 Depreciation and amortisation IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Property, plant and equipment 6 6 Property, plant and equipment of non-financial companies included in the consolidation 4 Intangible assets 4 9 10 19 AMORTISATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Trademarks and licenses 1 4 Customer relationships 2 3 Other intangibles 1 2 4 9 The amortisation of intangible assets relates to the non-financial companies included in the consolidation. 96 Consolidated financial statements Notes 11 Impairments of financial assets IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 IMPAIRMENTS Loans classified at amortised cost 45 67 Debt investments classified at amortised cost 8 5 Debt investments classified at available-for-sale 1 54 72 REVERSALS OF IMPAIRMENTS Loans classified at amortised cost (8) (19) Debt investments classified at amortised cost Debt investments classified at available-for-sale (2) (5) (10) (24) Other 1 (4) 45 44 Further details on accrued interest income on impaired financial assets can be found in note 2. Impairments of financial assets reclassified in 2008 following the IAS 39 amendments, both after reclassification and before reclassification (assuming the reclassification in 2008 had not been made) is displayed in the following table (negative amounts represent losses): For the period ended 31 December 2012 2011 After Before After Before IN EUR MILLIONS reclassification reclassification reclassification reclassification Impairments of financial assets (18) (11) (5) (6) 12 Tax IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Current tax 21 14 Deferred tax (13) (13) 8 1 Further information on deferred tax is presented in note 33. The actual tax charge on NIBC’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the basic tax rate, as follows: IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 TAX DIFFERENCES CAN BE ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: PROFIT BEFORE TAX 81 68 Tax calculated at the nominal Dutch corporate tax rate of 25.0% (2011: 25.0%) 20 17 Impact of income not subject to tax (13) (12) Impact of expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1 (1) Effect of different tax rates in other countries (1) (1) Result final tax assessment previous years 1 (2) 8 1 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE 9.4% 1.5% Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 97 The impact of income not subject to tax mainly relates to income from equity investments and investments in associates, in which NIBC has a stake of more than 5%, being income that is tax exempt under Dutch tax law. The current tax expense related to non-financial companies included in the consolidation is EUR 1 million (2011: nil). NIBC Holding N.V. is the parent company of NIBC Bank N.V., NIBC Investments N.V. and NIBC Investment Management N.V., which are all part of the same fiscal entity. 13 Result attributable to non-controlling interests IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Result attributable to non-controlling interests (1) (1) The non-controlling interests reflect third-party participations in investment funds (formerly) controlled by NIBC and in non-financial companies (formerly) included in the consolidation controlled by NIBC. 14 Cash and balances with central banks (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Cash and balances with central banks 1,604 2,430 1,604 2,430 The amounts included in cash and balances with central banks are available on demand. Cash and balances with central banks included EUR 1,557 million on the current account balance held with DNB (2011: EUR 101 million current account and an overnight deposit of EUR 2,270 million). The mandatory reserve deposits at DNB required under its minimum reserve policy amounted to EUR 56 million (2011: EUR 108 million). The fair value of this balance sheet item does not materially deviate from its face value, due to the shortterm nature of the underlying assets. 98 Consolidated financial statements Notes 15 Due from other banks (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Current accounts 535 624 Deposits with other banks 1,588 1,480 2,123 2,104 DUE FROM OTHER BANKS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Receivable on demand 535 624 Cash collateral placements posted under CSA agreements 1,474 1,398 Not receivable on demand 114 82 2,123 2,104 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DUE FROM OTHER BANKS NOT RECEIVABLE ON DEMAND IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 98 53 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 5 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 7 25 Longer than five years 4 4 114 82 There were no subordinated loans outstanding due from other banks in 2012 and 2011. The fair value of this balance sheet item does not materially deviate from its face value due to the shortterm nature of the underlying assets and the credit quality of the counterparties. No impairments were recorded in 2012 and 2011 on the amounts due from other banks at amortised cost. An amount of EUR 1,474 million (2011: EUR 1,398 million) related to cash collateral given to third parties and was not freely available to NIBC. NIBC transacted several reverse repurchase transactions with third parties. The related disclosures are included in note 46 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets. 16 Loans (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Loans to corporate entities 7,309 7,479 Guaranteed by public authorities 34 38 7,343 7,517 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF LOANS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 331 564 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 396 487 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 3,766 3,107 Longer than five years 2,850 3,359 7,343 7,517 THE MOVEMENT IN IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 130 153 Additional allowances 45 67 Write-offs (28) (71) Amounts released (8) (19) Unwinding of discount adjustment (7) (3) Other (including exchange differences) 6 3 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 138 130 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 99 On 1 July 2008 following the IAS 39 amendments, an amount of EUR 79 million of the impairments related to the available-for-sale loans was reclassified as loans at amortised cost. The corresponding total amount of loans in the available-for-sale category net of impairments has been reclassified to the loans at amortised cost category as at 1 July 2008. The cumulative impairments at 31 December 2012, related to the available-for-sale loans reclassified to the loans at amortised cost category on 1 July 2008, amounted to EUR 78 million (2011: EUR 86 million). If NIBC had fair valued the loans classified at amortised cost using the valuation methodology applied to loans designated as available-for-sale as per 31 December 2012, then the carrying amount would have decreased at the balance sheet date by EUR 117 million (2011: EUR 90 million). This decrease would reflect both changes due to interest rates and credit spreads. NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets. The maximum credit risk exposure including undrawn credit facilities arising on loans at amortised cost amounted to EUR 8,496 million (2011: EUR 8,307 million). The total amount of subordinated loans in this item amounted to EUR 252 million in 2012 (2011: EUR 254 million). As per 31 December 2012, EUR 34 million (2011: EUR 38 million) was guaranteed by the Dutch State. The following table presents the fair value and carrying amount of financial assets reclassified as of 1 July 2008 to loans at amortised cost: Fair value on Carrying amount Fair value as per date of as per 31 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS reclassification December 2012 2012 Loan portfolio reclassified from available-for-sale category 1,639 1,625 1,536 The effective interest rates on financial assets reclassified into loans at amortised cost as at the date of reclassification 1 July 2008 fell approximately into the following range: IN % Range Loan portfolio reclassified from available-for-sale category 5-9 The following table contains estimates of undiscounted cash flows NIBC expected to recover from the assets reclassified as at 1 July 2008, which were still on the balance sheet as per 31 December 2012: Less than Between one Between two More than IN EUR MILLIONS one year and two years and five years five years Total Loan portfolio reclassified from available-for-sale category 240 274 576 534 1,624 At the reclassification date (1 July 2008), NIBC recognised a total fair value loss in equity of EUR 11 million on assets reclassified. 100 Consolidated financial statements Notes 17 Debt investments (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Debt investments 366 507 366 507 DEBT INVESTMENTS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Listed 334 507 Unlisted 32 366 507 All debt investments are non-government. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEBT INVESTMENTS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 1 1 Longer than three months but not longer than one year Longer than one year but not longer than five years 66 110 Longer than five years 299 396 366 507 THE MOVEMENT IN DEBT INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 507 566 Additions 42 63 Disposals (sale and/or redemption) (185) (128) Impairments (8) (5) Exchange differences and amortisation 10 11 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 366 507 THE MOVEMENT IN IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON DEBT INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 21 16 Additional allowances 8 5 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 29 21 If NIBC had fair valued the debt investments classified as amortised cost using the valuation methodology applied to debt investments at held for trading or available-for-sale as per 31 December 2012, the carrying amount would have decreased at the balance sheet date by EUR 59 million (2011: EUR 113 million). This decrease would reflect both changes due to interest rates and credit spreads. NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets. The following table presents the fair value and carrying amount of financial assets reclassified as of 1 July 2008 to debt investments at amortised cost: Fair value on Carrying amount Fair value as per date of as per 31 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS reclassification December 2012 2012 DEBT INVESTMENTS RECLASSIFIED FROM: Held for trading category 400 257 201 Available-for-sale category 65 60 57 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 101 The effective interest rates on financial assets reclassified into debt investments at amortised cost as at the date of reclassification 1 July 2008 fell approximately into the following ranges: IN % Range DEBT INVESTMENTS RECLASSIFIED FROM: Held for trading category 5 20 Available-for-sale category 5-8 The following table contains estimates of undiscounted cash flows NIBC expected to recover from the assets reclassified as at 1 July 2008, which were still on the balance sheet as per 31 December 2012: Less than Between one Between two More than IN EUR MILLIONS one year and two years and five years five years Total DEBT INVESTMENTS RECLASSIFIED FROM: Held for trading category 22 27 186 388 623 Available-for-sale category 3 4 11 81 99 18 Securitised loans (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Loans to corporate entities 611 613 611 613 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF THE SECURITISED LOANS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 1 3 Longer than three months but not longer than one year Longer than one year but not longer than five years 610 610 Longer than five years 611 613 THE MOVEMENT IN SECURITISED LOANS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 613 614 Disposals (sale and/or redemption) (2) (1) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 611 613 If NIBC had fair valued the securitised loans classified at amortised cost using the valuation methodology applied to loans designated as available-for-sale as per 31 December 2012, then the balance sheet amount would have decreased at the balance sheet date by EUR 41 million (2011: EUR 53 million). The fair value reflects movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets. The maximum credit risk exposure including undrawn credit facilities arising on securitised loans at amortised cost amounts to EUR 611 million (2011: EUR 613 million). No impairments were recorded in 2012 and 2011 on securitised loans at amortised cost. 102 Consolidated financial statements Notes 19 Equity investments (available-for-sale) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Equity investments 49 66 49 66 All of these equity investments are unlisted. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN EQUITY INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 66 72 Additions 2 2 Disposals (sales and/or capital repayments) (9) (9) Changes in fair value (10) 1 Impairments (1) Exchange differences 1 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 49 66 THE MOVEMENT IN IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 61 67 Additional allowances 1 Write-offs (9) Exchange differences (1) 2 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 60 61 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 103 20 Debt investments (available-for-sale) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Debt investments 985 887 985 887 DEBT INVESTMENTS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Government-guaranteed 5 Other debt investments 985 882 985 887 DEBT INVESTMENTS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Listed 908 706 Unlisted 77 181 985 887 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEBT INVESTMENTS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 99 86 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 132 161 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 261 342 Longer than five years 493 298 985 887 THE MOVEMENT IN DEBT INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 887 1,190 Additions 626 278 Disposals (sale and/or redemption) (545) (571) Changes in fair value 19 (19) Impairment amounts released 1 5 Exchange differences (3) 4 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 985 887 The changes in fair value in the previous table reflect movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN IMPAIRMENTS ON DEBT INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 18 23 Additional allowances 1 Amounts released (2) (5) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 17 18 The following table presents the fair value and carrying amount of financial assets reclassified as of 1 July 2008 to debt investments at available-for-sale: Fair value on Carrying amount Fair value as per date of as per 31 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS reclassification December 2012 2012 Debt investments reclassified from held for trading category 24 4 4 104 Consolidated financial statements Notes The effective interest rates on financial assets reclassified into debt investments at available-for-sale as at the date of reclassification 1 July 2008 fell approximately into the following range: IN % Range Debt investments reclassified from held for trading category 13 26 The following table contains estimates of undiscounted cash flows NIBC expected to recover from the assets reclassified as at 1 July 2008, which were still on the balance sheet as per 31 December 2012: Less than Between one Between two More than IN EUR MILLIONS one year and two years and five years five years Total Debt investments reclassified from held for trading category 7 5 22 21 55 21 Loans (designated at fair value through profit or loss) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Loans to corporate entities 515 998 515 998 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF LOANS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 13 5 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 21 17 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 314 808 Longer than five years 167 168 515 998 THE MOVEMENT IN LOANS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 998 1,074 Additions 1 10 Disposals (518) (91) Changes in fair value 30 (2) Exchange differences 4 7 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 515 998 The changes in fair value in the previous table reflect movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. Interest income from loans is recognised in interest and similar income based on the effective interest rate. Fair value movements excluding interest are recognised in net trading income. The portion of fair value changes in 2012 included in the balance sheet amount (designated at fair value through profit or loss) as at 31 December 2012 relating to the movement in credit spreads amounted to EUR 30 million debit (2011: EUR 2 million credit), being an increase in the balance sheet carrying amount. The maximum credit risk exposure including undrawn credit facilities amounted to EUR 515 million (2011: EUR 717 million). Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 105 22 Residential mortgages own book (designated at fair value through profit or loss) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Residential mortgages own book 3,675 3,185 3,675 3,185 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES OWN BOOK IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 33 20 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 24 15 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 41 36 Longer than five years 3,577 3,114 3,675 3,185 THE MOVEMENT IN RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES OWN BOOK MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 3,185 4,429 Additions (including transfers from consolidated SPEs) 1,269 27 Disposals (sale and/or redemption, including replenishment of consolidated SPEs) (864) (1,251) Changes in fair value 85 (20) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 3,675 3,185 The changes in fair value in the previous table reflect movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. Interest income from residential mortgages own book is recognised in interest and similar income based on the effective interest rate. Fair value movements excluding interest are recognised in net trading income. The maximum credit exposure including committed but undrawn facilities was EUR 3,681 million (2011: EUR 3,190 million). 23 S ecuritised residential mortgages (designated at fair value through profit or loss) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Securitised residential mortgages 4,512 5,560 4,512 5,560 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF SECURITISED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 1 1 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 3 2 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 17 22 Longer than five years 4,491 5,535 4,512 5,560 THE MOVEMENT IN SECURITISED RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 5,560 5,338 Additions 527 750 Disposals (sale and/or redemption including transfers to own book) (1,625) (569) Changes in fair value 50 41 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 4,512 5,560 106 Consolidated financial statements Notes At 31 December 2012 the balance sheet carrying amounts for residential mortgages own book and securitised residential mortgages include a total revaluation adjustment of EUR 450 million debit (2011: EUR 314 million debit) related to both interest rates and credit spreads and EUR 164 million credit (2011: EUR 152 million credit) related to mortgage savings amounts. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets, the revaluation adjustment related to interest rates is compensated in the balance sheet in derivative financial assets and liabilities. The changes in fair value in the previous table reflect movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. Interest income from securitised residential mortgages is recognised in interest and similar income at the effective interest rate. Fair value movements (excluding interest) are recognised in net trading income. At 31 December 2012, securitised residential mortgages in the amount of EUR 4,512 million (2011: EUR 5,560 million) were pledged as collateral for NIBC’s own liabilities (see note 49 Assets transferred or pledged as security). The maximum credit exposure was EUR 4,512 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: EUR 5,560 million). The portion of fair value changes in 2012 included in the balance sheet amount relating to the movement in credit spreads on residential mortgages own book (see note 22 Residential mortgages own book) and securitised residential mortgages amounted to EUR 36 million credit at 31 December 2012 (2011: EUR 131 million credit), being a reduction in the balance sheet carrying amount. The aggregate difference yet to be recognised in the income statement between transaction prices at initial recognition and the fair value determined by a valuation model on both residential mortgages own book (see note 22 Residential mortgages own book) and securitised residential mortgages at 31 December 2012 amounted to a liability of EUR 25 million (2011: EUR 26 million). Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 107 24 Debt investments at fair value through profit or loss (including trading) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Held for trading 49 58 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 75 106 124 164 All debt investments are non-government. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 DEBT INVESTMENTS HELD FOR TRADING CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Listed 40 50 Unlisted 9 8 49 58 DEBT INVESTMENTS DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Listed 75 96 Unlisted 10 75 106 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEBT INVESTMENTS DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less Longer than three months but not longer than one year 23 31 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 45 67 Longer than five years 7 8 75 106 THE MOVEMENT IN DEBT INVESTMENTS DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 106 476 Additions 8 Disposals (sale and/or redemption) (33) (368) Changes in fair value 2 (10) Exchange differences BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 75 106 The changes in fair value in the previous table reflect movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. The portion of fair value changes in 2012 included in the balance sheet amount (designated at fair value through profit or loss) relating to the movement in credit spreads amounted to EUR 3 million debit (2011: nil), being an increase in the balance sheet carrying amount. Interest income from debt investments is recognised in interest and similar income at the effective interest rate until the date of reclassification. Fair value movements excluding interest have been recognised in net trading income. 108 Consolidated financial statements Notes 25 Equity investments (including investments in associates) (designated at fair value through profit or loss) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Investments in associates 196 237 Other equity investments 19 21 215 258 There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associates to transfer funds to the investor in the form of cash dividends or repayment of loans. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 237 255 Additions 20 13 Disposals (66) (60) Changes in fair value 5 29 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 196 237 All of these investments in associates are unlisted. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN OTHER EQUITY INVESTMENTS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 21 14 Additions 1 11 Disposals (1) (10) Changes in fair value (2) 6 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 19 21 The other equity investments are unlisted. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 109 26 Derivative financial instruments IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS Derivative financial assets held for trading (trading portfolios) 3,120 2,968 Derivative financial assets held for trading (other portfolios) 522 689 Derivative financial assets used for hedging 275 292 3,917 3,949 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (trading portfolios) 3,643 3,548 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (other portfolios) 383 418 Derivative financial liabilities used for hedging 20 34 4,046 4,000 110 Consolidated financial statements Notes Derivative financial instruments held for trading (trading portfolios) at 31 December 2012 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 3,892 5,877 55,480 65,249 3,038 3,589 Interest rate options (purchase) 45 22 482 549 4 Interest rate options (sale) 45 19 495 559 7 3,982 5,918 56,457 66,357 3,042 3,596 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Currency/cross-currency swaps 791 791 35 1 791 791 35 1 OTHER DERIVATIVES (INCLUDING CREDIT DERIVATIVES) OTC PRODUCTS: Other swaps 62 62 43 46 62 62 43 46 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (trading portfolios) 3,982 5,918 57,310 67,210 3,120 3,643 Derivative financial instruments held for trading (trading portfolios) at 31 December 2011 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 11,567 9,232 56,385 77,184 2,901 3,469 Interest rate options (purchase) 55 207 534 796 8 Interest rate options (sale) 21 107 504 632 9 11,643 9,546 57,423 78,612 2,909 3,478 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Currency/cross-currency swaps 705 4 709 56 59 705 4 709 56 59 OTHER DERIVATIVES (INCLUDING CREDIT DERIVATIVES) OTC PRODUCTS: Other swaps 62 62 2 10 Other options (purchase) 42 42 1 Other options (sale) 42 42 1 146 146 3 11 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (trading portfolios) 11,643 10,251 57,573 79,467 2,968 3,548 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 111 Derivative financial instruments held for trading (other portfolios) at 31 December 2012 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 102 1,333 12 1,447 475 347 102 1,333 12 1,447 475 347 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest currency rate swaps 17 15 870 902 43 4 Other currency contracts 603 603 3 13 620 15 870 1,505 46 17 OTHER DERIVATIVES (INCLUDING CREDIT DERIVATIVES) OTC PRODUCTS: Credit default swaps (guarantees given) 50 50 1 Credit default swaps (guarantees received) 201 201 Other OTC products 17 4 21 1 18 17 255 272 1 19 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (other portfolios) 739 1,348 1,137 3,224 522 383 Derivative financial instruments held for trading (other portfolios) at 31 December 2011 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 1,713 1,058 13,073 15,844 435 367 1,713 1,058 13,073 15,844 435 367 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Forward rate agreements 60 60 1 1 Interest currency rate swaps 525 469 880 1,874 226 3 Other currency contracts 895 895 29 1,480 469 880 2,829 227 33 OTHER DERIVATIVES (INCLUDING CREDIT DERIVATIVES) OTC PRODUCTS: Credit default swaps (guarantees given) 50 50 1 1 Other OTC products 14 10 4 28 26 17 14 10 54 78 27 18 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (other portfolios) 3,207 1,537 14,007 18,751 689 418 112 Consolidated financial statements Notes Derivative financial instruments used for hedging at 31 December 2012 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTED FOR AS FAIR VALUE HEDGES OF INTEREST RATE RISK OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 78 292 5,071 5,441 266 20 Interest currency rate swaps 10 10 9 TOTAL DERIVATIVES USED FOR HEDGING 78 292 5,081 5,451 275 20 Derivative financial instruments used for hedging at 31 December 2011 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTED FOR AS FAIR VALUE HEDGES OF INTEREST RATE RISK OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 1,430 342 5,444 7,216 286 34 Interest currency rate swaps 27 27 6 TOTAL DERIVATIVES USED FOR HEDGING 1,430 342 5,471 7,243 292 34 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk The following table discloses the fair value of the swaps designated in fair value hedging relationships: IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Fair value pay fixed swaps (hedging assets) assets Fair value pay fixed swaps (hedging assets) liabilities (20) (34) (20) (34) Fair value pay floating swaps (hedging liabilities) assets 275 292 Fair value pay floating swaps (hedging liabilities) liabilities 275 292 The average remaining maturity (in which the related cash flows are expected to enter into the determination of profit or loss) is four years (2011: three years). Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 113 Hedging activities Portfolio fair value hedge of plain vanilla funding According to NIBC’s Hedging Policy, NIBC should not be exposed to interest rate risk from its fixed rate plain vanilla funding activities above certain limits prescribed by the Asset & Liability Committee (ALCO). Consequently, NIBC uses interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk arising on this fixed rate funding. To mitigate any accounting mismatches, NIBC has defined a portfolio fair value hedge for the fixed rate plain vanilla funding and corresponding hedging transactions. The hedged risk is the benchmark interest rate (interbank offered rates up to one year and swap rates for periods longer than one year) for the currency in question. The net fair value of the derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in these relationships at 31 December 2012 was EUR 20 million debit (2011: EUR 24 million debit). The loss on the hedging instruments was EUR 1 million (2011: loss of EUR 1 million). The gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were EUR 1 million (2011: nil). Differences between the results recognised on the hedging instruments and hedged items can be explained by hedge ineffectiveness. Portfolio fair value hedge of fixed rate retail deposits According to NIBC’s Hedging Policy, NIBC should not be exposed to interest rate risk from its fixed rate retail deposit activities above certain limits prescribed by the ALCO. Consequently, NIBC uses interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk arising on this fixed rate funding. To mitigate any accounting mismatches, NIBC has defined a portfolio fair value hedge for the retail deposits with a contractual duration longer than two years and the corresponding hedging transactions. The hedged risk is the benchmark interest rate (interbank offered rates up to one year and swap rates for periods longer than one year) for the currency in question. The net fair value of the derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in these relationships at 31 December 2012 was EUR 108 million debit (2011: EUR 56 million debit). The gains on the hedging instruments were EUR 44 million (2011: gain of EUR 45 million). The losses on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were EUR 40 million (2011: loss of EUR 42 million). Differences between the results recognised on the hedging instruments and hedged items can be explained by hedge ineffectiveness. Micro fair value hedge of plain vanilla funding According to NIBC’s hedging policy, NIBC should not be exposed to interest rate and foreign exchange risk from its fixed rate plain vanilla funding activities above certain limits prescribed by ALCO. Consequently, NIBC uses cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk arising on this fixed rate funding. To mitigate any accounting mismatches, NIBC has defined a micro fair value hedge for fixed rate plain vanilla funding and corresponding hedging transactions. The hedged risk is the benchmark interest rate (interbank offered rates up to one year and swap rates for periods longer than one year) for the currency in question. The net fair value of the derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in these relationships at 31 December 2012 was EUR 144 million debit (2011: EUR 203 million debit). The losses on the hedging instruments were EUR 10 million (2011: gain of EUR 17 million). The gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were EUR 11 million (2011: loss of EUR 8 million). Differences between the results recognised on the hedging instruments and hedged items can be explained by hedge ineffectiveness. 114 Consolidated financial statements Notes Portfolio fair value hedge of loans According to NIBC’s hedging policy, NIBC should not be exposed to interest rate risk from its corporate loan activities above certain limits as set by ALCO. Consequently, NIBC uses interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk arising from these fixed rate loans. To mitigate any accounting mismatches, NIBC has defined a portfolio fair value hedge for the fixed rate loan and corresponding hedging transactions. The hedged risk is the benchmark interest rate (interbank offered rates up to one year and swap rates for periods longer than one year) for the currency in question. The net fair value of the derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in these hedge relationships at 31 December 2012 was EUR 11 million credit (2011: EUR 14 million credit). Losses on the hedging instruments were nil (2011: loss of EUR 2 million). The gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were EUR 3 million (2011: gain of EUR 3 million). Differences between the results recognised on the hedging instruments and hedged items can be explained by hedge ineffectiveness. Micro fair value hedge of the Liquidity portfolio debt investments According to NIBC’s hedging policy, NIBC should not be exposed to fair value interest rate risk from its fixed rate debt investments held in the Liquidity portfolios above certain limits prescribed by ALCO. Consequently, NIBC uses interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk arising on this fixed rate debt investments. To mitigate any accounting mismatches, NIBC has defined a micro fair value hedge for fixed rate debt investments and corresponding hedging transactions. The hedged risk is the benchmark interest rate (interbank offered rates up to one year and swap rates for periods longer than one year) for the currency in question. The net fair value of the derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments in these relationships at 31 December 2012 was EUR 6 million credit (2011: EUR 10 million credit). The gains on the hedging instruments were EUR 2 million (2011: gain of EUR 2 million). The losses on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were EUR 3 million (2011: loss of EUR 2 million). Cash flow hedges All macro cash flow hedge relationships ceased to exist during 2011 and therefore the related cumulative hedge adjustment as from that date are being amortised over the remaining contractual maturity of the hedged item. The amount that was recognised in equity during the year 2012 was nil (2011: EUR 28 million credit). The amount that was removed from equity and included in the income statement in 2012 was a gain of EUR 29 million net of tax (2011: gain of EUR 11 million). Net investment hedge NIBC hedges part of the currency translation risk arising on its net investments in foreign operations by using foreign currency debt as a hedging instrument. Debt amounting to USD 211 million (2011: USD 203 million) was designated as a hedging instrument, and gave rise to currency gain for the year 2012 of EUR 3 million before tax (2011: loss of EUR 5 million), which was recognised in the translation reserve component of equity. No ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement arising from hedges of net investments in foreign operations. No dividends were paid by foreign operations during the year 2012 (2011: nil), and there were no disposals of foreign operations that were included in the net investment hedge. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 115 27 Investments in associates (equity method) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Investments in associates 10 14 10 14 THE MOVEMENT IN INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 14 18 Purchases and additional payments 1 1 Disposals (3) Share in result of associates (1) 1 Dividend received (4) (3) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 10 14 At the end of 2012 and 2011, all investments in associates were unlisted. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associates to transfer funds to the investor in the form of cash dividends and/or repayment of loans. There is no unrecognised share of losses of an associate, either for the period or cumulatively. See note 52 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates for further details on the investments in associates. The cumulative impairment losses of EUR 10 million did not change in 2012 and 2011. 116 Consolidated financial statements Notes 28 Intangible assets IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Intangible assets 50 52 50 52 INTANGIBLE ASSETS RELATED TO NON-FINANCIAL COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATION MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: Cost 63 61 Accumulated amortisation (13) (9) 50 52 Trademarks Customer IN EUR MILLIONS Goodwill and licences relationships Other intangibles Total THE MOVEMENT IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS TO NON-FINANCIAL COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATION MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2011 64 27 27 4 122 Additions Derecognition following deconsolidation of non-financial companies (32) (15) (14) (61) Amortisation (4) (3) (2) (9) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 32 8 10 2 52 Trademarks Customer IN EUR MILLIONS Goodwill and licences relationships Other intangibles Total THE MOVEMENT IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS TO NON-FINANCIAL COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATION MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2012 32 8 10 2 52 Additions 2 2 Amortisation (1) (2) (1) (4) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 32 7 8 3 50 Amortisation of EUR 4 million (2011: EUR 9 million) was included in the depreciation and amortisation line of the income statement. After derecognition in 2011, NIBC recognised goodwill to an amount of EUR 32 million (2011: EUR 32 million) and other intangible assets to an amount of EUR 18 million (2011: EUR 20 million) on the acquisition of business combinations. The remaining amortisation period for the categories trademarks and licences is seven years and four years for customer relationships. There is no remaining amortisation period for order backlog. Intangible assets pledged as security for liabilities were nil for both 2012 and 2011. Goodwill acquired in business combinations is reviewed in the fourth quarter of the respective financial year for impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairments may have occurred, by comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying amount. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 117 IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 GOODWILL HAS BEEN ALLOCATED TO THE GROUP OF CASH GENERATING UNITS AS FOLLOWS: Non-financial companies included in the consolidation 32 32 32 32 No impairments were recorded in 2012 and 2011 on intangible assets. 29 Property, plant and equipment IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Land and buildings 43 46 Other fixed assets 3 4 46 50 Other fixed assets from non-financial companies included in the consolidation 1 1 1 1 47 51 THE MOVEMENT IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 51 101 Additions 1 8 Additions non-financial companies included in the consolidation 2 Derecognition following deconsolidation of non-financial companies (37) Revaluation 1 (13) Depreciation (6) (10) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 47 51 In 2012, there were no depreciation expenses relating to non-financial companies included in the consolidation (2011: EUR 4 million). IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Land and buildings 45 41 Other fixed assets 12 10 57 51 Other fixed assets from non-financial companies included in the consolidation 3 3 3 3 60 54 NIBC’s land and buildings in own use were last revalued as of 31 December 2011 based on an external appraisal. Buildings in use by NIBC are insured for EUR 70 million (2011: EUR 69 million). Other fixed assets are insured for EUR 31 million (2011: EUR 39 million). Other fixed assets of the non-financial companies included in the consolidation are insured for EUR 1 million (2011: EUR 1 million). At 31 December 2012 and 2011, no property, plant and equipment from the non-financial companies included in the consolidation were pledged as security for liabilities. 118 Consolidated financial statements Notes At 31 December 2012 and 2011, there was no capital expenditure contracted for related to non-financial companies included in the consolidation. No amount was recognised in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment in the course of construction at 31 December 2012 and 2011. 30 Investment property IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Land and buildings 1 27 1 27 In 2012, investment property is insured for EUR 1 million (2011: EUR 13 million). IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN INVESTMENT PROPERTY MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 27 26 Additions resulting from acquisition 1 2 Disposals (26) (1) Changes in fair value (1) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 1 27 At the end of 2012, this balance sheet item included only acquired property of EUR 1 million (2011: EUR 2 million) from work-out and restructuring activities related to residential mortgages. Investment property from the non-financial companies included in the consolidation pledged as security for liabilities is nil (2011: EUR 25 million). Rental income of EUR 1 million (2011: EUR 2 million) was recognised in the income statement. 31 Current tax IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Current tax assets 2 3 2 3 IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Current tax liabilities 9 9 It is expected that the current tax will be settled within 12 months. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 119 32 Other assets IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Accrued interest 1 1 Other accruals and receivables 40 118 Defined-benefit pension asset 1 2 Other assets related to non-financial companies included in the consolidation 50 50 93 169 1. For further explanation, see note 41 Employee benefits. The fair value of this balance sheet item does not materially deviate from its face value, due to the shortterm nature of its related assets. Other assets related to non-financial companies included in the consolidation pledged as security for liabilities were EUR 47 million (2011: EUR 48 million). IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 OTHER ASSETS RELATED TO NON-FINANCIAL COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATION CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Trade receivables (less provisions for doubtful debts) 50 50 50 50 33 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method using a nominal tax rate of 25.0% (2011: 25.0%). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Deferred tax liabilities 18 18 THE AMOUNTS OF DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS, WITHOUT TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THE OFFSETTING OF BALANCES WITHIN THE SAME JURISDICTION, were AS FOLLOWS: Loans (available-for-sale) 1 Debt investments (available-for-sale) 3 9 Tax losses carried forward 28 14 31 24 THE AMOUNTS OF DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES, WITHOUT TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THE OFFSETTING OF BALANCES WITHIN THE SAME JURISDICTION, were AS FOLLOWS: Equity investments (available-for-sale) 2 2 Cash flow hedges 23 31 Property, plant and equipment 6 6 Temporary differences on loans and receivables as a result of internal securitisations 3 31 42 18 Temporary differences on loans and receivables arise as a result of internal securitisations related to SPEs, which are consolidated in the financial statements, but not included in the fiscal unity of NIBC. 120 Consolidated financial statements Notes IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE GROSS MOVEMENT ON THE DEFERRED INCOME TAX ACCOUNT MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 18 34 LOANS (REPORTED AS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE): Fair value remeasurement charged/(credited) to revaluation reserve 1 4 DEBT INVESTMENTS (REPORTED AS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE): Fair value remeasurement charged/(credited) to revaluation reserve 6 (6) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (REPORTED AT FAIR VALUE): Fair value remeasurement charged/(credited) to revaluation reserve (3) EQUITY INVESTMENTS (REPORTED AS AVAILABLE-for-SALE): Fair value remeasurement charged/(credited) to revaluation reserve (8) CASH FLOW HEDGES: Fair value remeasurement charged/(credited) to hedging reserve (8) 7 Temporary differences on loans and receivables as a result of internal securitisations (3) (10) Tax losses carried forward (14) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 18 34 Due to other banks (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Due to other banks 1,026 1,261 1,026 1,261 DUE TO OTHER BANKS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Payable on demand 10 9 Not payable on demand 1,016 1,252 1,026 1,261 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DUE TO OTHER BANKS NOT PAYABLE ON DEMAND IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 340 220 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 3 64 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 508 730 Longer than five years 165 238 1,016 1,252 Interest is recognised in interest expense and similar charges on an effective interest basis. NIBC transacted several repurchase transactions with third parties. The related disclosures are included in note 46 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets. An amount of EUR 274 million (2011: EUR 216 million) related to cash collateral received from third parties. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 121 35 Deposits from customers (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Deposits from customers 8,347 6,644 8,347 6,644 DEPOSITS FROM CUSTOMERS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: On demand 4,282 3,603 Term deposits 4,065 3,041 8,347 6,644 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEPOSITS FROM CUSTOMERS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 5,160 4,066 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 925 763 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 1,693 1,303 Longer than five years 569 512 8,347 6,644 Interest is recognised in interest expense and similar charges on an effective interest basis. 36 Own debt securities in issue (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Bonds and notes issued 4,314 7,096 4,314 7,096 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF OWN DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 2,373 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 220 62 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 4,024 4,588 Longer than five years 70 73 4,314 7,096 The Dutch State has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed payment of all amounts of principal and interest due by NIBC up to EUR 3,311 million (2011: EUR 5,410 million) of the issued notes according and subject to (i) the Rules governing the 2008 Dutch State’s Credit Scheme and (ii) the Guarantee Certificate issued under those Rules in respect of these notes. These Rules and that Guarantee Certificate are available at www.dsta.nl. In 2012, losses of EUR 12 million were realised on the repurchase of own debt securities in issue at amortised cost (2011: loss of EUR 6 million). 122 Consolidated financial statements Notes 37 Debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages (amortised cost) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Bonds and notes issued 4,470 5,416 4,470 5,416 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE RELATED TO SECURITISED MORTGAGES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 6 15 Longer than three months but not longer than one year Longer than one year but not longer than five years 16 Longer than five years 4,448 5,401 4,470 5,416 38 Own debt securities in issue (designated at fair value through profit or loss) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Bonds and notes issued 34 41 34 41 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF OWN DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 11 Longer than three months but not longer than one year Longer than one year but not longer than five years 6 6 Longer than five years 28 24 34 41 The fair value reflects movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these liabilities, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. The contractual amounts of these liabilities to be repaid at maturity, including unpaid but accrued interest at the balance sheet date, amounted to EUR 35 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: EUR 45 million). The portion of fair value changes during 2012 attributable to the movement in credit spreads amounted to nil (2011: EUR 2 million debit, being a reduction in the carrying amount). Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 123 39 Debt securities in issue structured (designated at fair value through profit or loss) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Bonds and notes issued 1,654 1,733 1,654 1,733 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE STRUCTURED IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 25 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 690 701 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 307 326 Longer than five years 657 681 1,654 1,733 The fair value reflects movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these liabilities, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. The contractual amounts of these liabilities to be repaid at maturity, including unpaid but accrued interest at the balance sheet date, amounted to EUR 1,671 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: EUR 1,827 million). The portion of fair value changes during 2012 attributable to the movement in credit spreads amounted to EUR 12 million debit, being a reduction of the carrying amount (2011: EUR 63 million debit). In 2012, gains of EUR 4 million (2011: gains of EUR 6 million) were realised on the repurchase of liabilities with respect to this balance sheet item. 40 Other liabilities IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Accrued interest 3 Other accruals 33 55 Payables 85 59 Other liabilities related to payables of the non-financial companies 38 35 159 149 41 Employee benefits IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Pension benefit obligations 1 Other post retirement obligations Other employee benefits 3 3 Other employee benefits related to non-financial companies 1 1 4 5 124 Consolidated financial statements Notes Pension benefit obligations NIBC operates a number of pension plans covering substantially all employees. The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies, on the basis of contractually agreed tariff rates, or separate trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. NIBC has both defined-benefit and defined-contribution plans. A defined-benefit plan is a plan where the rules specify the benefits to be paid to the members at retirement. These benefits will depend on the number of years of service, the final salary (up to a maximum) upon retirement and the accrual rate of the scheme. Most of the pension plans are definedbenefit plans based on a maximised final pay salary and are funded. A defined-contribution plan is a pension plan under which NIBC each year pays a fixed percentage of the salaries of the members into the scheme. The size of the fund on retirement will be determined by how much was contributed to the scheme and the investment return achieved. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined-benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The defined-benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The latest actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 December 2012. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of highquality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. The assets of the funded plans are held independently of NIBC’s assets in separate trustee administered funds. Accumulated actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions in excess of the greater of 10% of the value of plan assets or 10% of the defined-benefit obligation are charged or credited to the income statement over the employees’ expected average remaining working lives. For defined-contribution plans, NIBC pays contributions directly into the member’s scheme. NIBC has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 125 IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Present value of funded obligations 242 212 Fair value of plan assets 232 203 DEFICIT FOR FUNDED PLANS 10 9 Unrecognised actuarial gains/(losses) (9) (5) Subordinated loan to trustee-administered fund 1 (3) (3) (2) 1 At 31 December 2012, the defined-benefit pension asset was reported under Other assets (note 32). IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN THE PRESENT VALUE OF FUNDED PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 212 197 Current service cost 6 6 Interest cost 10 9 Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligations 20 6 Benefits paid (6) (6) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 242 212 THE MOVEMENT IN THE FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 203 183 Expected return on plan assets 9 8 Actuarial gains/(losses) 17 12 Employer and employee contributions 9 6 Benefits paid (6) (6) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 232 203 PLAN ASSETS ARE COMPRISED AS FOLLOWS: Equities 58 50 Bonds 163 156 Cash 14 Subordinated loan to trustee-administered fund 1 (3) (3) 232 203 1. NIBC has advanced a subordinated loan (interest charge: 0%) for an amount of EUR 3 million (2011: EUR 3 million) to the trusteeadministered fund (NIBC’s Pension Fund). There will be no repayment of this loan until the fund has reached a solvency ratio of 150%. The expected return on plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy. Expected yields on fixed-interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date. Expected returns on equity investments reflect longterm real rates of return experienced in the respective markets. In 2012, the actual return on plan assets was EUR 26 million gain (2011: EUR 20 million gain). 126 Consolidated financial statements Notes IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PERSONNEL EXPENSES IN THE INCOME STATEMENT were AS FOLLOWS: Current service cost 6 6 Interest cost 9 9 Expected return on plan assets (9) (8) Amortisation of net (gain)/losses (1) 6 6 THE MOVEMENT IN THE LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 1 1 Total expense – as above 6 6 Employer contributions (9) (6) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER (2) 1 IN % 2012 2011 THE PRINCIPAL ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED WERE AS FOLLOWS: Discount rate 3.75 4.50 Expected return on plan assets 3.75 4.50 Future salary increases, excluding career developments 2.25 2.25 Future pension increases 1.00 1.50 Price inflation 2.00 2.00 For the mortality assumptions, NIBC used the generation tables ‘AG Prognosetafel 2012-2062’ from the Actuarial Association, with a correction for salary category ‘High’. The amounts for the current annual period and previous four annual periods for the pension benefit obligations are disclosed in the following table: IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 LIABILITY RECOGNISED IN the BALANCE SHEET AT END OF YEAR Present value of obligation 242 212 197 176 159 Fair value of plan assets 232 203 183 166 153 DEFICIT/(SURPLUS) 10 9 14 10 6 Unrecognised actuarial (loss)/gain (9) (5) (10) (5) 1 Subordinated loan to trusteeadministered fund (3) (3) (3) (3) (3) Present value of unfunded obligation Unrecognised past service cost Unrecognised transition amount Adjustment for limit on net asset (2) 1 1 2 4 IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised) IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised) requires that actuarial gains and losses arising from defined-benefit pension schemes are recognised in full. Previously NIBC deferred these over the remaining average service lives of the employees (the ‘corridor’ approach). From 1 January 2013, in accordance with amendments to IAS 19, the balance sheet will fully reflect the pension liability or asset, including any previously unrecognised actuarial losses or gains. As at 31 December 2012 there were unrecognised actuarial losses of EUR 7 million (net of tax). In addition, NIBC will recognise interest expense or income on the net pension liability or asset, rather than the expected return on the plan assets and interest cost on the plans’ benefit obligation. NIBC will no longer recognise the amortisation of unrecognised actuarial gains or losses. Had NIBC applied this Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 127 method in 2012 no gains or losses would have been recognised in the income statement. Given these amendments the charge for 2012 would have been equal under the amended standard and a charge of EUR 2 million (net of tax) would have been recognised in OCI. Therefore this amendment has an insignificant impact on the financial position of NIBC at the first application date 1 January 2013 and furthermore the classification of the different pension plans will not alter. According to the amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits a defined-benefit pension liability should be recognised directly in Common Equity Tier-1. Due to the recognition of the defined-benefit pension liability as from 1 January 2013 up to EUR 7 million (net of tax) the Core Tier-1 ratio will be adversely affected by 0.07%. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE MOVEMENT IN THE OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 3 3 Increase Releases BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 3 3 Other employee benefit obligations of EUR 3 million at 31 December 2012 are related to payments to be made in respect of other leave obligations (2011: EUR 3 million). These obligations are short-term in nature and therefore valued at nominal value. In 2012, EUR 1 million was related to employee benefit obligations of the non-financial companies included in the consolidation (2011: EUR 1 million). 42 Subordinated liabilities amortised cost IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Subordinated loans qualifying as Tier-1 capital 46 48 Other subordinated loans 37 37 83 85 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: One year or less 25 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 25 Longer than five years but not longer than ten years 1 Longer than ten years 58 59 83 85 All of the above loans are subordinated to the other liabilities of NIBC. EUR 46 million (2011: EUR 48 million) qualifying as Tier-1 capital is subordinated to other subordinated loans. These securities are perpetual securities and may be redeemed by NIBC at its option after ten years with the prior approval of DNB. Interest expense of EUR 5 million was recognised on subordinated liabilities during the year 2012 (2011: EUR 5 million). In 2012, no gains were realised on the repurchase of liabilities with respect to this balance sheet item (2011: gain of EUR 12 million). 128 Consolidated financial statements Notes 43 Subordinated liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Subordinated loans qualifying as Tier-1 capital 144 138 Other subordinated loans 120 158 264 296 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: One year or less Longer than one year but not longer than five years 40 39 Longer than five year but not longer than ten years 4 Longer than ten years 224 253 264 296 The fair value reflects movements due to both interest rate changes and credit spread changes. As NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these liabilities, the movement due to interest rate changes is compensated with results on financial derivatives. The contractual amounts of these liabilities to be repaid at maturity, including unpaid but accrued interest at the balance sheet date, amounted to EUR 388 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: EUR 437 million). The portion of fair value changes during 2012 attributable to the movement in credit spreads amounted to EUR 29 million debit, being a reduction of the carrying amount (2011: EUR 49 million debit). All of the above loans are subordinated to the other liabilities of NIBC. EUR 144 million (2011: EUR 138 million) qualifying as Tier-1 capital is subordinated to other subordinated loans. These securities are perpetual securities and may be redeemed by NIBC at its option after ten years with the prior approval of DNB. Interest expense of EUR 20 million was recognised on subordinated liabilities during the year 2012 (2011: EUR 31 million). In 2012, losses of EUR 4 million were realised on the repurchase of liabilities with respect to this balance sheet item (2011: gain of EUR 3 million). Fair value of liabilities Debt securities in issue structured, own debt securities in issue designated at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial liabilities are valued at fair value through profit or loss. All other liabilities are valued at amortised cost. For these other liabilities, except for own debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and securities in issue related to securitised mortgages classified at amortised cost, the carrying amount is considered to approximate the fair value because these liabilities are either short-term, have assets pledged as security against them or a combination of both. The carrying amount of own debt securities in issue classified at amortised cost amounted to EUR 4,314 million (2011: EUR 7,096 million), and the fair market value amounted to EUR 4,144 million (2011: EUR 6,903 million). The carrying amount of subordinated liabilities classified at amortised cost amounted to EUR 84 million (2011: EUR 85 million), and the fair market value amounted to EUR 81 million (2011: EUR 86 million). The fair values of these items are calculated by applying a benchmark curve reflecting current spreads for repurchasing debt securities and reflecting current spreads for issuing new debt securities. The carrying amount of debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages classified at amortised cost amounted to EUR 4,470 million (2011: EUR 5,416 million), and the fair market value amounted to EUR 4,287 million (2011: EUR 5,100 million). NIBC has not had any defaults of principal, interest or redemption amounts during either 2012 or 2011 on its liabilities. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 129 44 Shareholder’s equity The ultimate controlling company is New NIB Limited, a company incorporated in Ireland. Share capital IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Paid-up capital 80 80 80 80 2012 2011 THE NUMBER OF AUTHORISED SHARES IS SPECIFIED AS FOLLOWS: Number of authorised shares 1 183,597,500 183,597,500 Number of shares issued and fully paid 2 62,586,794 62,586,794 Par value per A-share 1.28 1.28 Par value per preferent share (B,C,D, E1-E3) 1.00 1.00 Par value per preferent share (E4) 5.00 5.00 1. The authorised capital amounts to EUR 214.9 million and is divided into 110,937,500 A shares of EUR 1.28 nominal value each, 72,600,000 of different classes of preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 1.00 each and 60,000 of preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 5.00 each. 2. The shares issued and fully paid consist of A-shares. Other reserves IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 OTHER RESERVES are COMPRISED of: Share premium 238 238 Hedging reserve 66 89 Revaluation reserve loans (available-for-sale) (4) Revaluation reserve equity investments (available-for-sale) (2) 7 Revaluation reserve debt investments (available-for-sale) (8) (26) Revaluation reserve property, plant and equipment 18 18 312 322 Share Hedging Revaluation IN EUR MILLIONS premium reserve reserves Total BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2011 238 67 13 318 Net result on hedging instruments 22 22 Revaluation (net of tax) (18) (18) TOTAL RECOGNISED DIRECTLY THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN EQUITY 22 (18) 4 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 238 89 (5) 322 Share Hedging Revaluation IN EUR MILLIONS premium reserve reserves Total BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2012 238 89 (5) 322 Net result on hedging instruments (23) (23) Revaluation (net of tax) 13 13 TOTAL RECOGNISED DIRECTLY THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN EQUITY (23) 13 (10) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 238 66 8 312 130 Consolidated financial statements Notes Share premium The proceeds from rights issues and options exercised received net of any directly attributable transaction costs and less the nominal value are credited to share premium. Hedging reserve This reserve comprises the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge (net of tax) as well as the net investment hedge effect on foreign entities (net of tax). Revaluation reserve equity investments (available-for-sale) This reserve comprises changes in the fair value of available-for-sale equity investments (net of tax). IAS 39 The impact of the application of amendments to IAS 39 on certain elements of shareholder’s equity (revaluation reserves of loans and receivables, debt investments and financial assets) can be explained as follows: Revaluation reserve loans (available-for-sale) NIBC would have been recognised in the revaluation reserve in equity a total fair value gain of EUR 11 million on financial assets reclassified out of the available-for-sale category into the loans and receivables category related to loans reclassified as per 1 July 2008. Revaluation reserve debt investments (available-for-sale) NIBC recognised in the revaluation reserve in equity a total fair value loss of EUR 1 million on financial assets reclassified out of the available-for-sale category into the loans and receivables category related to debt investments reclassified as per 1 July 2008. Revaluation reserve financial assets reclassified into available-for-sale category In 2012 and 2011, no transfers to impairment expense with a fair value loss were recognised in the revaluation reserve in shareholder’s equity on financial assets reclassified out of trading into the availablefor-sale category. NIBC chose to reclassify (as of 1 July 2008) certain financial assets that were no longer held for the purpose of selling in the near term as permitted by the amendment to lAS 39 and IFRS 7. In NIBC’s judgement, the deterioration in the world’s financial markets was an example of a rare circumstance applicable on the date of reclassification. Had NIBC determined that the market conditions during 2008 did not represent a rare circumstance or that NIBC did not have the intention and ability to hold the financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity, and had NIBC therefore not reclassified the financial assets, a net of tax gain of EUR 36 million (2011: net of tax loss of EUR 13 million) would have been recognised in the income statement and an incremental net of tax gain of EUR 5 million (2011: net of tax gain of EUR 5 million) would have been recognised in the revaluation reserve in equity in 2012 due to changes in fair value. For all reclassifications, the reason for applying the amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 is alignment to best market practice. For more details, see notes 2, 5, 11, 16, 17 and 20. Revaluation reserve property, plant and equipment This reserve comprises changes in fair value of land and buildings (net of tax). Retained earnings Retained earnings reflect accumulated earnings less dividends accrued and paid to shareholders and transfers from other reserves. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 131 45 Fair value of financial instruments IFRS 7 requires specific disclosures for financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. The disclosure of each class of financial assets and liabilities within a three-level hierarchy, referring to the respective basis of fair value measurement is as follows: nn Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (level 1); nn Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) (level 2); and nn Inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) (level 3). For an explanation of the fair value measurement hierarchy, reference is made to the accounting policies section on fair value estimation. The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 within the fair value hierarchy based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Fair value of financial instruments at 31 December 2012 IN EUR MILLIONS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2012 FINANCIAL ASSETS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE Equity investments Unlisted 49 49 Debt investments 981 4 985 981 53 1,034 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Loans 515 515 Residential mortgages own book 3,675 3,675 Securitised residential mortgages 4,512 4,512 Debt investments 124 124 Equity investments (including investments in associates) 215 215 Derivative financial assets held for trading 3,642 3,642 Derivative financial assets used for hedging 275 275 12,743 215 12,958 13,724 268 13,992 IN EUR MILLIONS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2012 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Own debt securities in issue 34 34 Debt securities in issue structured 1,654 1,654 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading 4,026 4,026 Derivative financial liabilities used for hedging 20 20 Subordinated liabilities 264 264 5,998 5,998 132 Consolidated financial statements Notes Fair value of financial instruments at 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011 FINANCIAL ASSETS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE Equity investments Unlisted 66 66 Debt investments 879 8 887 879 74 953 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Loans 998 998 Residential mortgages own book 3,185 3,185 Securitised residential mortgages 5,560 5,560 Debt investments 164 164 Equity investments (including investments in associates) 258 258 Derivative financial assets held for trading 3,657 3,657 Derivative financial assets used for hedging 292 292 13,856 258 14,114 14,735 332 15,067 IN EUR MILLIONS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Own debt securities in issue 41 41 Debt securities in issue structured 1,733 1,733 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading 3,966 3,966 Derivative financial liabilities used for hedging 34 34 Subordinated liabilities 296 296 6,070 6,070 Financial instruments recorded at fair value The following is a description of the determination of fair value for financial instruments that are recorded at fair value using either quoted prices or valuation techniques. These incorporate NIBC’s interpretation of valuation assumptions (qualitative) that a market participant would consider when valuing the instruments. Financial assets available-for-sale Equity investments (unlisted) level 3 The fair value of investments in equity funds is determined based on the net asset value reported by the managers of these funds. These net asset values are analysed for reasonableness, so as to ascertain that the reported net asset value has been appropriately derived using proper fair value principles as part of a robust process. To approximate the fair value at the reporting date, the net asset value is adjusted, where appropriate, for factors such as subsequent capital contributions and fund distributions, movements in exchange rate and subsequent changes in the fair value of the underlying investee companies, where these are known to NIBC. The fair value of equity investments is established by applying capitalisation multiples to maintainable earnings. Maintainable earnings are estimated based on the normalised last twelve months’ Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA). Capitalisation multiples are derived from the enterprise value and the normalised last twelve months EBITDA at the acquisition date. On each reporting date, the capitalisation multiple of each equity investment is compared against those derived from the Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 133 publicly available enterprise value and earnings information of traded peers, where these can be identified. Peer capitalisation multiples are normalised for factors such as differences in regional and economic environment, time lags in earnings information and one-off gains and losses. The resulting enterprise value is adjusted for net debt, non-controlling interests, illiquidity and management incentive plans to arrive at the fair value of the equity. Debt investments level 2 For the determination of fair value at 31 December 2012, NIBC used market-observable prices (including broker quotes), interest rates and credit spreads derived from market-verifiable data. NIBC has determined the fair value in a consistent manner over time, ensuring comparability and continuity of valuations. Debt investments level 3 For the level 3 debt investments, NIBC uses valuation models that apply discounted cash flow analysis that incorporates both observable and unobservable data. Observable inputs include interest rates and collateral values; unobservable inputs include assumptions regarding credit spreads and market liquidity discounts. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Loans level 2 In an active market environment, these assets are marked-to-market by applying market bid quotes observed on the secondary market. The quotes received from other banks or brokers and applied in the marked-to-market process are calibrated to actual market trades whenever possible. In certain instances, where the market is inactive, a discounted cash flow model is used based on various assumptions including market interest rates, market credit spread levels and assumptions regarding market liquidity, where relevant. Additional pricing reference points have been obtained by collecting spreads using primary transactions that are comparable with the relevant loans. Residential mortgages (own book and securitised) level 2 NIBC determines the fair value of residential mortgages (both those NIBC holds in its own warehouse and those NIBC has securitised) by using a valuation model developed by NIBC. To calculate the fair value, NIBC discounts expected cash flows (after expected prepayments) to present value using inter-bank zerocoupon rates, adjusted for a spread that principally takes into account the credit spread risk of the mortgages and uncertainty relating to prepayment estimates. In the absence of observable primary Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) transactions, NIBC has used observed offered mortgage rates as a benchmark to determine credit spreads as from 2008 up to 2011. On the basis of the available data on RMBS spreads and offered mortgage rates, NIBC concluded in the second half of 2012 that the use of RMBS spreads provides the best estimate of the credit spread that would be inherent in a hypothetical exit transaction at the balance sheet date motivated by normal business considerations. The RMBS spread is determined by collecting RMBS spreads from publicly issued Dutch RMBStransactions. The discount spread is derived by adding related RMBS costs to the RMBS spread. Sensitivity analysis carried out on the prepayment rates used in the valuation model of the residential mortgages showed that the variability in these rates does not have a significant impact on the total value of the Residential Mortgage portfolio. 134 Consolidated financial statements Notes Debt investments level 2 For the determination of fair value at 31 December 2012, NIBC applied market-observable prices (including broker quotes), interest rates and credit spreads derived from market-observable data. NIBC has determined fair value in a consistent manner over time, ensuring comparability and continuity of valuations. Equity investments (including investments in associates) level 3 For the valuation method, reference is made to the section on equity investments (unlisted) at availablefor-sale. Derivatives financial assets and liabilities (held for trading and used for hedging) level 2 Derivative products valued using a valuation technique with market-observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps, currency swaps, credit default swaps and foreign exchange contracts. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include swap models using present value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange rates, credit spread levels and interest rate curves. Credit derivative valuation models also require input as to the estimated probability of default and recovery value. There were no transfers between the levels during 2012 and 2011. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (including trading) Own liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss level 2 This portfolio was designated at fair value through profit or loss and is reported on the face of the balance sheet under the following headings: nn Own debt securities in issue (financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss); nn Debt securities in issue structured (financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss); and nn Subordinated liabilities (financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss). Debt securities in issue structured consist of notes issued with embedded derivatives that are tailored to specific investors’ needs. The return on these notes is dependent upon the level of certain underlying equity, interest rate, currency, credit, commodity or inflation-linked indices. The embedded derivative within each note issued is fully hedged on a back-to-back basis, such that effectively synthetic floating rate funding is created. Because of this economic hedge, the income statement is not sensitive to fluctuations in the price of these indices. In the case of debt securities in issue structured and subordinated liabilities, the fair value of the notes issued and the back-to-back hedging swaps is determined using valuation models developed by a third party employing Monte Carlo simulation, lattice valuations or closed formulas, depending on the type of embedded derivative. These models use market-observable inputs (e.g. interest rates, equity prices) for valuation of these structures. For each class of own financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, the expected cash flows are discounted to present value using interbank zero-coupon rates. The resulting fair value is adjusted for movements in the credit spread applicable to NIBC issued funding. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 135 The following table shows a reconciliation of the opening and closing amount of level 3 financial assets and liabilities which are recorded at fair value: Total gains/ (losses) Total gains/ At recorded in (losses) Transfers At 31 1 January the income recorded in from level 1 December in eur millions 2011 statement equity Purchases Sales Settlements and level 2 2011 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Equity investments 72 7 1 2 (16) 66 Debt investments 3 5 8 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Equity investments (including investments in associates) 268 39 24 (73) 258 343 51 1 26 (89) 332 Total gains/ (losses) Total gains/ At recorded in (losses) Transfers At 31 1 January the income recorded from level 1 December in eur millions 2012 statement in equity Purchases Sales Settlements and level 2 2012 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Equity investments 66 33 (9) 2 (43) 49 Debt investments 8 1 (3) (2) 4 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Equity investments (including investments in associates) 258 2 22 (67) 215 332 36 (9) 24 (113) (2) 268 The total impact on level 3 financial instruments included in the income statement for the period were: IN EUR MILLIONS Realised gains Unrealised gains 2012 Total gains/(losses) included in the income statement 58 (22) 36 IN EUR MILLIONS Realised gains Unrealised gains 2011 Total gains/(losses) included in the income statement 14 37 51 136 Consolidated financial statements Notes The following table shows the impact on the fair value of level 3 instruments of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions by class of instrument: For the period ended 31 December 2012 2011 Effect of Effect of reasonably reasonably possible possible Carrying alternative Carrying alternative IN EUR MILLIONS amount assumptions amount assumptions AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Equity investments (unlisted) 49 2 66 3 Debt investments 4 8 1 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Debt investments Equity investments (including investments in associates) 215 11 258 13 In order to determine the reasonably possible alternative assumptions, NIBC adjusted key unobservable valuation technique inputs as follows: nn For equity investments, the material unobservable input parameters such as capitalisation multiple, that are applied to the maintainable earnings to determine fair value are adjusted by 5%; and nn For the debt investments, NIBC adjusted the weighted average calculated model price by 100 basis points as a reasonably possible alternative outcome. The primary unobservable input in the calculated model price is the applicable credit spread. 46 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets NIBC has a programme to borrow and lend securities and to sell securities under agreements to repurchase (‘repos’) and to purchase securities under agreements to resell (‘reverse repos’). The securities lent or sold under agreements to repurchase are transferred to a third party and the bank receives cash in exchange, or other financial assets. The counterparty is allowed to sell or repledge those securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements in the absence of default by the bank , but has an obligation to return the securities at the maturity of the contract. These transactions are conducted under terms based on the applicable ISDA Collateral Guidelines. If the securities increase or decrease in value, the bank may in certain circumstances, require, or be required, to pay additional cash collateral. NIBC has determined that it retains substantially all the risks and rewards of these securities and therefore has not derecognised them. In addition, it recognises a financial liability for cash received as collateral. Similarly NIBC may sell or repledge any securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, but has an obligation to return the securities and the counterparty retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. Consequently the securities are not recognised by the bank, which instead records a separate asset for the cash collateral given. NIBC transacted several repurchase transactions with third parties, in which notes amounting to a notional of EUR 323 million (with a fair value at 31 December 2012 of EUR 411 million) were transferred from NIBC to third parties at 31 December 2012 in exchange for deposits of EUR 384 million advanced to NIBC at 31 December 2012 for periods ranging from six months up to four years. NIBC conducts these transactions under terms agreed Global Master Repurchase Agreements. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 137 Assets not derecognised in their entirety In prior years, NIBC transferred certain financial assets to securitisation vehicles it did not control. NIBC has determined that as a consequence of providing clean up calls (call option to purchase the loans if the principal outstanding of all notes in the securitisation vehicles is less than 10% of the principal amount) not substantially all risks and rewards were transferred, consequently NIBC continues to recognise these financial assets and related liabilities to the extent of its continuing involvement. For further details see the following table: For the period ended 31 December 2012 Carrying amount Carrying amount IN EUR MILLIONS Asset Related liability Loans at fair value through profit or loss 65 Debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages (amortised costs) 65 For the period ended 31 December 2012 Carrying amount of IN EUR MILLIONS assets before transfer Loans at fair value through profit or loss 65 For further explanation reference is made to the Critical accounting estimates and judgements section Securitisations and Special Purpose Entities. 47 Commitments and contingent assets and liabilities At any time, NIBC has outstanding commitments to extend credit. Outstanding loan commitments have a commitment period that does not extend beyond the normal underwriting and settlement period of one to three months. Commitments extended to customers related to mortgages at fixed-interest rates or fixed spreads are hedged with interest rate swaps recorded at fair value. These commitments are designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. NIBC provides financial guarantees and letters of credit to guarantee the performance of customers to third parties. These agreements have fixed limits and generally extend for a period of up to five years. Expirations are not concentrated in any period. The contractual amounts of commitments (excluding residential mortgage commitments of EUR 6 million at 31 December 2012 (2011: EUR 5 million) which in these financial statements are measured at fair value through profit or loss) and contingent liabilities are set out in the following table by category. In the table, it is assumed that amounts are fully advanced. The amounts for guarantees and letters of credit represent the maximum accounting loss that would be recognised at the balance sheet date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted. 138 Consolidated financial statements Notes IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 CONTRACT AMOUNT Committed facilities with respect to corporate loan financing (including investment management loans) 1,153 1,428 Capital commitments with respect to equity investments 43 67 Guarantees granted 95 104 Irrevocable letters of credit 34 4 1,325 1,603 These commitments and contingent liabilities have off-balance sheet credit risk because only commitment/ origination fees and accruals for probable losses are recognised in the balance sheet until the commitments are fulfilled or expire. Many of the contingent liabilities and commitments will expire without being advanced in whole or in part. Therefore, the amounts do not represent expected future cash flows. Details of concentrations of credit risk including concentrations of credit risk arising from commitments and contingent liabilities as well as NIBC’s policies for collateral for loans are set out in note 54. Legal proceedings There were a number of legal proceedings outstanding against NIBC at 31 December 2012. No provision has been made, as legal advice indicates that it is unlikely that any significant loss will arise. 48 Business combinations No new business combinations were acquired in the year ended 31 December 2012 and 2011. At 31 December 2012, NIBC has the potential obligation to sell a minority stake (less than 10%) in Olympia Nederland Holding B.V. to a third party. No material gain or loss is expected on this disposal. 49 Assets transferred or pledged as security IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 ASSETS HAVE BEEN PLEDGED AS SECURITY IN RESPECT OF THE FOLLOWING LIABILITIES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES: LIABILITIES Due to other banks / Own debt securities in issue 1,575 1,627 Debt securities in issue related to securitised loans and mortgages 4,470 5,416 Derivative financial liabilities 1,474 1,398 7,519 8,441 DETAILS OF THE CARRYING AMOUNTS OF ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERAL ARE AS FOLLOWS: ASSETS PLEDGED Debt investments / Residential mortgages own book 1,995 2,142 Securitised loans and mortgages 5,123 6,173 Cash collateral (due from other banks) 1,474 1,398 8,592 9,713 As part of NIBC’s funding and credit risk mitigation activities, the cash flows of selected financial assets are transferred or pledged to third parties. Furthermore, NIBC pledges assets as collateral for derivative transactions. Substantially all financial assets included in these transactions are residential mortgages, other loan portfolios, debt investments and cash collateral. The extent of NIBC’s continuing involvement in these financial assets varies by transaction. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 139 With respect to assets utilised as collateral, the total portfolio eligible for use to collateralise funding amounted to EUR 4.5 billion (2011: EUR 4.9 billion), including assets already utilised as collateral. As of 31 December 2012, the excess cash liquidity of NIBC was EUR 1.6 billion (2011: EUR 2.3 billion), consisting of EUR 1.5 billion (2011: EUR 2.3 billion) cash placed with DNB and EUR 0.1 billion (2011: nil) placed overnight with the Dutch Government. 50 Assets under management NIBC provides collateral management services, whereby it holds and manages assets or invests funds received in various financial instruments on behalf of customers. NIBC receives fee income for providing these services. Assets under management are not recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. NIBC is not exposed to any credit risk relating to such placements, as it does not guarantee these investments. At 31 December 2012, total assets held and managed by NIBC on behalf of customers were EUR 1,082 million (2011: EUR 1,175 million). 51 Related party transactions Transactions involving NIBC’s shareholders Significant related party transactions executed in 2012 and 2011 are the following: At 31 December 2012, NIBC had EUR 307 million of net exposure (assets minus liabilities) to its parent and to entities controlled by its parent entity (2011: EUR 389 million). The interest received and paid on this exposure was at arm’s length. In June 2006, the general partner of J.C. Flowers II LP (together with its sister vehicle, ‘Flowers Fund II’), an investment fund managed by an affiliate of J.C. Flowers & Co., accepted a USD 100 million capital commitment from NIBC. The management fee and the profits interest otherwise payable by limited partners in such fund were waived with respect to the investment by NIBC. In addition, NIBC will receive a portion of (i) the profits interest payable to an affiliate of J.C. Flowers & Co. by investors in Flowers Fund II, and (ii) the management fee payable to J.C. Flowers & Co. by Flowers Fund II, in each case, based on the percentage of aggregate capital commitments to Flowers Fund II represented by the capital commitment of NIBC. During both 2012 and 2011, NIBC’s commitment was fully drawn. In 2012 and 2011, NIBC did not earn fees relating to this transaction. In June 2009, NIBC made a commitment of USD 10 million to ‘Flowers Fund III’ an investment fund managed by an affiliate of J.C. Flowers & Co. At 31 December 2012, the remaining undrawn commitment in this facility was USD 6 million. Fees paid to NIBC related to these asset management activities were nil for both 2012 and 2011. Transactions related to associates As at 31 December 2012, NIBC had EUR 56 million of loans advanced to its associates (2011: EUR 59 million). In addition to net interest income on these loans, NIBC did not earn fees from these associates in 2012 and 2011. In June 2007, NIBC launched the NIBC European Infrastructure Fund I, (which was NIBC’s first third-party equity fund) with a final close in August 2008. Total commitments to the fund amount to EUR 347 million, of which EUR 247 million is committed by four third-party investors and EUR 100 million by NIBC. The fund invests in infrastructure projects mainly in Western Europe. NIBC realised a gain from its investment in the fund in 2012 of EUR 1 million (2011: gain of EUR 1 million) and 140 Consolidated financial statements Notes earned fees of EUR 3 million (2011: EUR 4 million). In NIBC’s financial statements, this fund is classified as an associate at fair value through profit or loss. In September 2008, NIBC launched the NIBC European CMBS Opportunity Fund. Of the total committed fund size of EUR 64 million, EUR 49 million is committed by third-party investors and EUR 15 million by NIBC. The fund invests in structured commercial real estate in Western Europe. NIBC’s income from this fund in 2012 was nil (2011: EUR 1 million income). In NIBC’s financial statements, this fund is classified as an associate at fair value through profit or loss. In 2012, NIBC paid fees relating to the servicing of its online retail savings programme NIBC Direct to Welke Beheer B.V. of EUR 3 million (2011: EUR 3 million). NIBC’s equity stake in Welke Beheer B.V. is 15%. In NIBC’s financial statements, this entity is classified as an associate (equity method), as NIBC has significant influence. Transactions related to key employees All transactions with key employees are reported in the tables in note 53 Remuneration of Statutory Board members and Supervisory Board members. Loan from NIBC to the Pension Fund At the balance sheet date, NIBC had advanced a subordinated loan (interest charge: 0%) for an amount of EUR 3 million (2011: EUR 3 million) to the trustee-administered fund (NIBC’s Pension Fund). There will be no repayment of this loan until the fund has reached a solvency ratio of 150%. 52 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates IN % Country SUBSIDIARIES OF NIBC BANK N.V. NIBC Bank Ltd 100 Singapore Parnib Holding N.V. 100 The Netherlands Counting House B.V. 100 The Netherlands B.V. NIBC Mortgage-Backed Assets 100 The Netherlands NIBC Principal Investments B.V. 100 The Netherlands Olympia Nederland Holding B.V. 100 The Netherlands IN EUR MILLIONS Operating Net IN % Country Assets Liabilities income result ASSOCIATES (DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS) 0-50 The Netherlands 2,466 1,898 458 (50) In view of the control exercised by the government over the policy of NIBC’s wholly-owned associate De Nederlandse Participatie Maatschappij voor de Nederlandse Antillen N.V., this company has not been treated as a subsidiary. The list of participating interests and companies for which statements of liability have been issued has been filed at the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 141 53 Remuneration of the Statutory Board members and Supervisory Board members Remuneration of the Statutory Board members The Supervisory Board reviewed NIBC’s remuneration policy in 2012 and amended it. The review took into account all relevant regulations and guidelines: the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Dutch Banking Code, the DNB Principles on Sound Remuneration Policies (DNB Principles), including additional guidance of DNB towards the implementation of the DNB Principles and the Committee of European Banking Supervisors Guidelines on Remuneration Policies and Practices (CEBS Guidelines). In 2012 DNB assessed the remuneration policy of NIBC and concluded that it was in line with the DNB Principles. In response to social developments and further regulatory changes, the Supervisory Board decided to further amend the remuneration policy for the Statutory Board early 2012. This resulted in an even more sustainable and long-term remuneration policy. The amendment includes eliminating short-term variable compensation altogether and strengthening the existing long-term compensation element. In view of current legislation, the Supervisory Board is not able to grant any variable compensation for as long as NIBC has not repaid all outstanding state guaranteed funding. Regular annual remuneration In 2012, the average number of members of the Statutory Board appointed under the articles of association was 5.0 (2011: 4.5). For the total regular annual remuneration costs (including pension costs) for members and former members of the Statutory Board, appointed under the articles of association, reference is made to note 8 Personnel expenses and share-based payments. On 1 June 2012 Mr. van Hessen stepped down as Statutory Board member and his employment ended on 31 December 2012. Base salary and short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) As of 1 January 2012, base salary for the Chairman is determined at EUR 800,000 gross per annum, whilst the base salary for members is determined at EUR 500,000 gross per annum. As of 1 January 2012, all short-term variable compensation has been eliminated. 142 Consolidated financial statements Notes Table 1 IN EUR 2012 2011 THE BREAKDOWN OF THE AMOUNTS OF COMPENSATION AWARDS IN CASH PER MEMBER AND FORMER MEMBER OF THE STATUTORY BOARD IS AS FOLLOWS: Mr. Jeroen Drost, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman Base salary 800,000 741,667 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) TOTAL CASH COMPENSATION 800,000 741,667 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen, Chief Financial Officer, Vice-Chairman Base salary 500,000 441,667 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) TOTAL CASH COMPENSATION 500,000 441,667 mr. rob ten heggeler, member Base salary 500,000 441,667 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) TOTAL CASH COMPENSATION 500,000 441,667 Ms. Petra van Hoeken, Chief Risk Officer, Member 1 Base salary 500,000 11,363 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) TOTAL CASH COMPENSATION 500,000 11,363 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen, Former Member 2 Base salary 500,000 441,667 Severance payment 500,000 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) total cash compensation 1,000,000 441,667 Mr. Jan Sijbrand, Former Member 3 Base salary 216,667 Short-term incentive compensation (cash bonus) TOTAL CASH COMPENSATION 216,667 1. Joined NIBC and appointed as a member of the Statutory Board on 23 December 2011. 2. Mr. Jeroen van Hessen stepped down as a member of the Statutory Board on 1 June 2012 and his employment ended at 31 December 2012. Base salary 2012 relates to the period up to the end of employment. 3. Mr. Jan Sijbrand, former Chief Risk Officer, stepped down as a member of the Statutory Board on 30 June 2011 and his employment ended with effect from the same date. Base salary 2011 relates to the period up to the end of employment. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 143 Short-term incentive compensation (deferred cash bonus) As of 1 January 2012, all short-term variable compensation is eliminated. Table 2 IN EUR 2012 2011 THE BREAKDOWN OF THE AMOUNTS OF DEFERRED SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION AWARDS IN CASH PER MEMBER AND FORMER MEMBER OF THE STATUTORY BOARD IS AS FOLLOWS: Mr. Jeroen Drost Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen Mr. Rob ten Heggeler Ms. Petra van Hoeken Mr. Jeroen van Hessen Mr. Jan Sijbrand Short-term incentive compensation (Phantom Share Units) As of 1 January 2012, all short-term variable compensation is eliminated. Table 3 IN EUR 2012 2011 THE BREAKDOWN OF THE AMOUNTS OF SHORT-TERM COMPENSATION SHARE-RELATED AWARDS (PHANTOM SHARE UNITS) PER MEMBER AND FORMER MEMBER OF THE STATUTORY BOARD IS AS FOLLOWS: Mr. Jeroen Drost Number of phantom share units Fair value of short-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen Number of phantom share units Fair value of short-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Mr. Rob ten Heggeler Number of phantom share units Fair value of short-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Ms. Petra van Hoeken Number of phantom share units Fair value of short-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Mr. Jeroen van Hessen Number of phantom share units Fair value of short-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Mr. Jan Sijbrand Number of phantom share units Fair value of short-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Other remuneration elements The other remuneration elements of the Statutory Board members consist of car and other expense allowances, mortgage subsidy, dividend compensation on conditionally granted share rewards and other emoluments. 144 Consolidated financial statements Notes Table 4 IN EUR 2012 2011 THE BREAKDOWN OF THE AMOUNTS OF OTHER REMUNERATION ELEMENTS PER MEMBER AND FORMER MEMBER OF THE STATUTORY BOARD IS AS FOLLOWS: Mr. Jeroen Drost 151,234 140,906 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 75,941 66,850 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 94,644 67,040 Ms. Petra van Hoeken 42,128 683 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 91,733 76,184 Mr. Jan Sijbrand 21,448 Long-term incentive compensation (Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts) As of 1 January 2012 the maximum long-term incentive is 70% of base salary for the CEO, 60% for members of the Managing Board responsible for commercial activities and 40% for the CFO and CRO. If any LTI is conditionally granted, this will be in the form of 66.67% CRDRs and 33.33% cash. The LTI is conditional upon the achievement of performance conditions, is forward-looking and is subject to a threeyear performance period and an additional three-year pro-rated deferral period. The Supervisory Board has agreed a set of six long-term performance conditions. Two are financial performance conditions and have a weight of 60% (average return on equity and average impairment level). Four are non-financial performance conditions and have a weight of 40% (employee engagement, client satisfaction for corporate as well as consumer clients and diversity). These are aligned with the overall corporate targets. The final LTI grant depends on the degree to which the agreed performance criteria have been met. In view of current legislation, the Supervisory Board is not able to grant any variable compensation until NIBC has repaid all outstanding state guaranteed funding. The three-year cliff vesting period of a total of 19,459 CRDRs under the LTI 2010 ended 1 January 2013. The Supervisory Board reviewed the agreed long-term financial and non-financial performance conditions. The financial performance conditions (60%) were not met. The non-financial performance conditions (40%) were met in full. The Supervisory Board therefore awarded a vesting of 40% of the LTI 2010 CRDRs, which have fully vested at 1 January 2013. Consequently 60% of the LTI 2010 forfeited. The vested instruments have an additional retention period of two years. Furthermore the vested instruments need to be held until a liquidity event takes place to ensure alignment with the shareholders. An interim re-measurement of the LTI 2011 (performance period 2011 2013) was done. The number of CRDRs which is expected to vest on 1 January 2014 was re-estimated at 40% of the maximum number. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 145 Table 5 IN EUR 2012 2011 THE LONG-TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS/RE-ESTIMATED AWARDS PER MEMBER AND FORMER MEMBER OF THE STATUTORY BOARD ARE AS FOLLOWS 1: Mr. Jeroen Drost Number of conditional restricted depositary receipts (10,721) 8,787 Fair value of long-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) (100,804) 84,000 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen Number of conditional restricted depositary receipts (6,126) 5,021 Fair value of long-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) (57,600) 48,000 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler Number of conditional restricted depositary receipts (6,126) 5,021 Fair value of long-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) (57,600) 48,000 Ms. Petra van Hoeken Number of conditional restricted depositary receipts Fair value of long-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) Mr. Jeroen van Hessen Number of conditional restricted depositary receipts (10,210) 5,021 Fair value of long-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) (95,999) 48,000 Mr. Jan Sijbrand Number of conditional restricted depositary receipts Fair value of long-term incentive at date of grant (in EUR) 1. The above figures are presented on an after tax basis at the date of grant. All of the 2012 figures relate to a re-estimate of LTI grants awarded in previous years. Pension costs Table 6 IN EUR 2012 2011 THE AMOUNTS OF PENSION COSTS PER MEMBER AND FORMER MEMBER OF THE STATUTORY BOARD ARE AS FOLLOWS: Mr. Jeroen Drost 119,675 111,024 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 106,237 94,542 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 77,375 68,950 Ms. Petra van Hoeken 77,282 1,744 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 93,480 83,469 Mr. Jan Sijbrand 33,993 As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, no loans, advance payments or guarantees had been provided to Statutory Board members. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members relates to their position within NIBC Holding and NIBC Bank. 146 Consolidated financial statements Notes Table 7 IN EUR 2012 2011 MEMBERS Mr. W.M. van den Goorbergh 1 96,500 96,500 Mr. D.R. Morgan 71,500 86,500 Mr. A.A.G. Bergen 1 66,500 66,500 Mr. M.J. Christner 55,000 40,000 Mr. C.H. van Dalen 55,000 55,000 Mr. N.W. Hoek 50,000 50,000 Mr. A. de Jong 51,500 51,500 Sir M.C. McCarthy 1/2 34,333 51,500 Ms. S.A. Rocker 50,000 50,000 Mr. D.K.M. Rümker 1/3 66,500 66,500 Mr. A.H.A. Veenhof 50,000 50,000 Mr. J.C. Flowers 4 6,667 1. In line with Dutch tax regulations, the VAT on the total remuneration payable to these Supervisory Board members increased from 19% to 21%. 2. Sir M.C. McCarthy stepped down as a member of the Supervisory Board as of 1 September 2012. 3. Mr. D.K.M. Rümker stepped down as a member of the Supervisory Board as of 31 December 2012. 4. Mr J.C. Flowers nomination was adopted in the Extraordinary Meeting of Shareholders on 29 October 2012. The remuneration amounted of the Supervisory Board members consist of annual fixed fees and committee fees. As at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, no loans, advance payments or guarantees have been provided to Supervisory Board members. Depositary receipts Common Depositary Receipts The following tables show the holdings by members of the Statutory Board: NUMBER OF COMMON DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (GRANTED) 2012 2011 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 13,063 12,454 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 53,973 58,264 NUMBER OF COMMON DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (INVESTMENT FROM OWN FUNDS) 2012 2011 Mr. Jeroen Drost 75,676 75,676 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 42,433 42,433 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 43,244 43,244 Ms. Petra van Hoeken 17,242 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 37,359 41,510 On 1 June 2012, Mr. Jeroen van Hessen stepped down from the Statutory Board. After this date Mr. van Hessen was given the same opportunity as other employees to participate in the offer to sell his CDR holdings with a maximum of 10%. Restricted Depositary Receipts The following table shows the holdings by members of the Statutory Board: NUMBER OF RESTRICTED DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS 2012 2011 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 609 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 1,707 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 147 Conditional Common Depositary Receipts The following tables show the holdings by members of the Statutory Board: NUMBER OF CONDITIONAL COMMON DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (VESTED ONE-OFF MATCHING SHARES) 2012 2011 Mr. Jeroen Drost 56,757 37,838 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 24,325 16,217 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 32,433 21,622 Ms. Petra van Hoeken Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 8,109 5,406 NUMBER OF CONDITIONAL common DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (LTI) 2012 2011 Mr. Jeroen Drost 9,081 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 5,189 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 5,189 Ms. Petra van Hoeken Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 5,189 The three-year cliff vesting period of a total of 24,648 CCDRs under the LTI 2009 ended 1 January 2012. The Supervisory Board reviewed the agreed long-term financial and non-financial performance conditions and concluded that all criteria were met, consequently all LTI 2009 CRDRs had fully vested into CCDRs at 1 January 2012. The vested instruments have an additional retention period of two years. Furthermore the vested instruments need to be held until a liquidity event takes place to ensure alignment with the shareholders. Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts ESTIMATED NUMBER OF CONDITIONAL RESTRICTED DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (LTI) 2012 2011 Mr. Jeroen Drost 7,147 26,949 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 4,084 15,399 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 4,084 15,399 Ms. Petra van Hoeken Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 15,399 The three-year cliff vesting period of a total of 19,459 CRDRs under the LTI 2010 ended 1 January 2013. The Supervisory Board reviewed the agreed long-term financial and non-financial performance conditions. The financial performance conditions (60%) were not met. The non-financial performance conditions (40%) were met in full. The Supervisory Board therefore awarded a vesting of 40% of the LTI 2010 CRDRs, which have fully vested at 1 January 2013. Consequently 60% of the LTI 2010 were forfeited. The vested instruments have an additional retention period of two years. Furthermore the vested instruments need to be held until a liquidity event takes place to ensure alignment with the shareholders. An interim re-measurement of the LTI 2011 (performance period 2011 2013) was done. The number of CRDRs which is expected to vest on 1 January 2014 is re-estimated at 40% of the maximum number. 148 Consolidated financial statements Notes Conditional Restricted Depositary Receipts One-off co-investment As a result of personal investments by the Statutory Board members in 2009 matching shares were granted to the Statutory Board members in 2009, in the form of CRDRs with an after-tax value equal to the value of the personal investment made. In addition to the matching shares, the Statutory Board members can earn performance shares (CRDRs), subject to a service condition (continuous employment) and the realisation of predetermined performance conditions. For the number of CRDRs reference is made to the following tables. NIBC has the discretion to offer new members of the Statutory Board the opportunity to participate in this co-investment programme under the same conditions. This offer was made to Ms. Petra van Hoeken when she joined the Statutory Board on 23 December 2011 and it was accepted by her in January 2012 against a price per CDR of EUR 8.70 being the fair value at that time. The following table shows the holdings by members of the Statutory Board: NUMBER OF CONDITIONAL RESTRICTED DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (ONE-OFF MATCHING SHARES) 2012 2011 Mr. Jeroen Drost 18,919 37,838 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 8,108 16,216 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 10,811 21,622 Ms. Petra van Hoeken 17,242 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 5,405 The matching shares are subject to four-year vesting with one quarter vesting each year, the first such vesting having occured on 1 January 2010, but they will immediately vest upon a change of control of NIBC Holding, in which case they (i) will become fully unconditional and (ii) be legally transferred. The following table shows the holdings by members of the Statutory Board: estimated NUMBER OF CONDITIONAL RESTRICTED DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (PERFORMANCE SHARES) 2012 2011 Mr. Jeroen Drost 23,143 Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 13,225 Mr. Rob ten Heggeler 13,225 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 13,225 Ms. Petra van Hoeken The performance shares will only vest upon a change of control of NIBC Holding and the attainment of an annual compounded hurdle rate. The number of performance shares that vest is based on a predetermined formula, however the Supervisory Board has the discretion to adjust the number of performance shares that will vest in the case of unfair or unintended effects. For reporting purposes, the number of performance shares for the combined Statutory Board is estimated at nil CRDRs, based on NIBC’s long-term forecast and taking into account price-to-book ratios observed in the market. Depending on the assumptions applied, this number can vary over time. The conditional performance shares will vest immediately upon a change of control of NIBC Holding. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 149 Options Information on the options outstanding and the movements during the financial year of options held by members of the Statutory Board as at 31 December 2012: Transferred Outstanding from Outstanding Average as at 31 unvested as at 31 Average fair value December options in Forfeited in December Exercise option at NUMBER OF VESTED OPTIONS 2011 2012 2012 2012 price grant date Expiry date Mr. Kees van Dijkhuizen 60,000 60,000 14.37 6.00 2015 Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 182,056 25,000 207,056 12.90 5.43 2015 Transferred Outstanding from Outstanding Average as at 31 unvested as at 31 Average fair value December options in Forfeited in December Exercise option at NUMBER OF UNVESTED OPTIONS 2011 2012 2012 2012 price grant date Expiry date Mr. Jeroen van Hessen 25,000 (25,000) 8.28 3.65 2015 At the expiry date of the options (14 December 2012), the maturity of the vested options could be extended once by three years. In 2012 the Statutory Board, after consultation with the Supervisory Board, decided to apply this three-year extension. 150 Consolidated financial statements Notes 54 Credit risk This section includes all financial assets subject to credit risk. Non-credit obligations fall under other risk types, such as market risk, and equity is subject to investment risk. The following portfolios that contain credit risk have been identified: nn Corporate/Investment Loans; nn Residential Mortgages; nn Debt Investments; nn Cash Management; and nn Derivatives. The Debt Investments portfolio is further subdivided into debt from financial institutions and corporate entities and securitisations. 54-1 Credit risk exposure breakdown per portfolio IN EUR MILLIONS 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 CORPORATE/ INVESTMENT LOANS 8,923 9,642 Corporate loans 8,750 9,410 Investment loans 173 232 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES 8,187 8,745 DEBT INVESTMENTS 1,346 1,412 Debt from financial institutions and corporate entities 601 707 Securitisations 745 705 CASH MANAGEMENT 2,188 3,030 DERIVATIVES 1 3,916 3,880 TOTAL 24,560 26,709 1. Positive replacement values. Table 54-1 presents the maximum credit risk exposure per portfolio, without taking collateral or any other credit risk reduction into consideration. For all portfolios except derivatives, this is generally the total commitment of NIBC, which also includes off-balance sheet commitments such as guarantees and undrawn credit lines. Only the positive replacement values for derivatives are shown, without netting and without any potential future exposure add-on. The figures in table 54-1 are not directly comparable to the figures on the balance sheet. Corporate and investment loans include off-balance sheet exposures and exclude exposures from NIBC Bank to NIBC Holding. Residential mortgages are recognised on the balance sheet under residential mortgages own book and securitised residential mortgages. Debt investments (securitisations) differ from the figure on the balance sheet due to partial offsetting of risk exposure with liabilities to the same counterparties. The main difference in the cash figures is due to collateral posting on credit risk differences for derivatives/repos. Sold securitised loans of around EUR 468 million are excluded from the corporate loans as NIBC does not have risk on them. The retained notes (EUR 143 million) are included in the exposure. Both were included in the Annual Report of 2011. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 151 Corporate loans Corporate loan distribution The industry sectors shown in tables 54-2 and 54-3 are based on NACE classification and as such, do not strictly follow the internal NIBC sector organisation that is presented in the risk management chapter, although a large overlap exists. NACE is the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (in French: Nomenclature Statistique des Activités Économiques dans la Communauté Européenne), an EU industry standard classification system specifying eleven industry sectors. The overview mapping NACE codes with NIBC reporting sectors on NIBC’s website contains a detailed breakdown of the NACE codes allocated to NIBC’s exposures. Tables 54-2 and 54-3 display a breakdown of the Corporate Loan portfolio among regions and industry sectors, at year-end 2012 and 2011. While the Corporate Loan portfolio decreased by EUR 660 million in 2012 to EUR 8,750 million, the portfolio distribution remained relatively stable compared to 2011 with the exception of the industry sector financial services. The exposure in this sector decreased significantly, mainly because a collateralised loan to an investment-grade financial institution of EUR 400 million was not utilised at year-end 2012. In line with the trend observed in 2011, the relative weight of the Netherlands diminished slightly, mainly in favour of Germany, one of NIBC’s core growth markets. The corporate loan portfolio outside Europe decreased to 17% of the total exposure at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 19%). 54-2 Corporate loan exposure per industry sector and region, 31 December 2012 CommerWholesale/ TOTAL Infracial Real Financial Retail/ ManuAgriculture (IN EUR IN % struc­ture Estate Shipping Oil & Gas Services Leisure facturing Services TMT1 & Food Other TOTAL Millions) The Netherlands 4 10 2 1 3 3 2 3 1 1 0 30 2,564 Germany 4 11 1 2 2 2 1 0 0 23 2,050 United Kingdom 15 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 18 1,576 Rest of Europe 2 4 3 1 0 1 1 0 12 1,087 Asia / Pacific 6 2 0 0 8 715 North America 0 3 2 0 0 5 404 Other 0 2 2 4 354 TOTAL 25 21 18 12 6 5 5 5 2 1 0 100 8,750 TOTAL (in EUR millions) 2,190 1,941 1,521 1,015 483 467 446 446 150 85 6 8,750 1 Telecommunication, Media and Technology. 54-3 Corporate loan exposure per industry sector and region, 31 December 2011 CommerWholesale/ TOTAL Infracial Real Financial Retail/ ManuAgriculture (IN EUR IN % struc­ture Estate Shipping Oil & Gas Services Leisure facturing Services TMT1 & Food Other TOTAL Millions) The Netherlands 3 10 1 1 8 3 2 3 1 1 33 3,061 Germany 3 9 0 3 1 2 1 0 0 19 1,752 United Kingdom 14 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 17 1,615 Rest of Europe 2 0 4 2 0 1 1 1 1 0 12 1,159 Asia / Pacific 8 2 0 10 923 North America 0 3 2 0 0 0 5 493 Other 0 2 2 4 407 TOTAL 22 19 18 10 11 6 5 6 2 1 100 9,410 TOTAL (in EUR millions) 2,112 1,774 1,718 965 1,008 529 468 530 183 123 9,410 1 Telecommunication, Media and Technology. 152 Consolidated financial statements Notes Basel II and credit approval process NIBC employs an internally-developed methodology under the Basel II Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) approach for quantifying the credit quality of its Corporate Loan portfolio. The Basel II AIRB approach for NIBC’s exposure classes was adopted by NIBC and approved by NIBC’s regulatory authority, the DNB in 2008. In line with Basel II regulations, the methodology consists of three elements: nn CCR, reflecting the PD of the borrower. The default definition is in line with the Basel II definition1; nn LGD, defined as an anticipated loss element that expresses the potential loss in the event of default, which takes into account the presence and the value of collateral; and nn EAD, which is the amount that is expected to be outstanding at the moment a counterparty defaults. The PDs, LGDs and EADs that are calculated through NIBC’s internal models are used for the calculation of expected loss (EL) and Basel II/Pillar 1 regulatory capital (RC). Economic capital (EC), risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC), limit setting and stress testing are additional areas which make use of these parameters, although the values and methodologies for both EC and stress testing differ from those employed in Pillar 1. PDs, LGDs and EADs are also used in the Basel II solvency report to the regulator. Annual backtests of the internal rating framework are carried out to assess the quality and the performance of the models. The internal CCRs and LGDs are also benchmarked periodically with the scales of external rating agencies. NIBC enforces strict separation of responsibilities with respect to its internal rating methodologies and rating process, model development, model validation and internal audit. The roles and responsibilities of each department involved are explicitly set out in internal policies and manuals, also in conformity with the stipulations of Basel II on model governance. All approvals of individual credit proposals are granted after the Credit Risk Management department (CRM) or the Financial Markets Credit Risk department (FMCR) have made a credit risk assessment and have analysed proposals by taking into consideration, among others, aggregate limits set per country, per industry segment, and per individual counterparty. The total one obligor exposure and related exposure are also taken into account. Individual credit and transaction proposals are then approved in the Transaction Committee (TC). Proposals, credit reviews and amendments of smaller scale can be approved by CRM, for corporate counterparties, or FMCR, for non-corporate counterparties. All counterparties and, subsequently, all facilities, are reviewed at least once a year. 1. According to the Basel II definition, a default is determined at the borrower level. A default is indicated by using a 9 or 10 rating in NIBC’s internal rating scale. A default is considered to have occurred with respect to a particular obligor when either or both of the two following events have taken place: i) The bank considers that the obligor is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the banking group in full, without recourse by the bank to actions such as realising security (if held); ii) The obligor is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation to the banking group. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 153 Credit ratings NIBC uses an internal through-the-cycle CCR rating scale, which consists of 10 grades (1-10) and a total of 22 notches. The CCRs 9 and 10 are assigned to counterparties that have already defaulted and therefore carry a PD of 100%. The weighted average CCR of the non-defaulted clients remained stable at 6+ with an average PD of 2.4% at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 2.4%). The credit quality in terms of CCRs remained concentrated in the 5 and 6 categories (BB and B categories in external rating agencies’ scales). Graph 54-4 shows the distribution of the drawn and undrawn corporate loan exposure per CCR. The numbers on the horizontal axis refer to NIBC’s internal rating scale, whereas the letters in parentheses refer to the equivalent rating scale of Standard & Poor’s. NR stands for not rateable, which was a negligible portion of the corporate loans (0.2% at 31 December 2012; 0.7% at 31 December 2011). NR is assigned to entities, for which NIBC’s corporate rating tools were not suitable at the time of rating. 54-4 Drawn and undrawn corporate loan exposure per CCR rating IN % 2012 Drawn 2012 Undrawn 2011 Drawn 2011 Undrawn 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1-3 4 5 6 7 8 9-10 NR (AAA/AA/A) (BBB) (BB) (B) (CCC) (CC/C) (D) Collateral and LGD NIBC’s internal LGD scale consists of 7 grades (A-F) and 10 notches, each of which represents a different degree of recovery prospects and loss expectations. LGD ratings are facility-specific. Weighted average LGD remained stable at B-2 with an average LGD of 16.0% at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 16.1%). The weighted average is calculated for non-defaulted loans. Graph 54-5 shows the distribution of drawn and undrawn corporate loan exposures per LGD. The letters on the horizontal axis refer to NIBC’s LGD grades and notches, whereas the numbers in parentheses refer to the loss percentage assigned to each LGD rating. NR was negligible (0.3% of corporate loans at 31 December 2012; 0.3% at 31 December 2011). Note that the corporate loan exposure of graph 54-5 refers to non-defaulted exposure as the LGD is a measure of anticipated loss for facilities of a non-defaulted counterparty. Once a counterparty enters default, the impairment amount becomes a more meaningful measure of the loss. Tables 54-9 and 54-10 provide more information on impairment amounts. 154 Consolidated financial statements Notes 54-5 Drawn and undrawn non-defaulted corporate loan exposure per LGD rating IN % 2012 Drawn 2012 Undrawn 2011 Drawn 2011 Undrawn 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 A-1+ A-2 B-1 B-2 B-3 C-1 C-2 D E F NR (2.5%) (7.5%) (12.5%) (18%) (25%) (33%) (42.5%) (55%) (70%) (90%) Although NIBC’s corporate loan exposures are concentrated in sub-investment grade CCRs, this is counterbalanced by the fact that nearly all loans have some form of collateralisation. As a result, NIBC’s LGDs are concentrated in those LGD categories which correspond to recoveries in the range of 80% and 90%, which are relatively high for the banking industry. A loan or derivative exposure is deemed to be collateralised, fully or partly, if such assets are legally pledged in support of the loan and the derivative exposure. The most significant types of collateral securing the loan and derivatives portfolios are tangible assets, such as real estate, vessels, rigs, floating production, storage & offloading (FPSO) units and equipment. Exposures in the shipping and oil & gas sectors are primarily secured by moveable assets such as vessels and drilling vessels. The portfolio of commercial real estate is primarily collateralised by mortgages on financed properties. Collateral value is estimated using third-party appraisers, whenever possible, or valuation techniques based on common market practice. For example, loan-to-value ratios are regularly tested and vessels are appraised semi-annually by external parties. Other commercial exposures are, to a large extent, collateralised by assets such as inventory, debtors, and third-party credit protection (e.g. guarantees). Arrears The total arrears in the Corporate Loan portfolio increased in 2012 to 1.9% of total exposure at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 1.1%). An overview of the amounts in arrear per arrear bucket is provided in tables 54-6 and 54-7. The exposure amounts refer to drawn and undrawn amounts of those facilities with an arrear, whereas the outstanding amounts refer to the drawn amounts only. The amounts in arrear are the actual amounts overdue at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 respectively. The column labelled ‘Impairment Amount’ includes on-balance sheet impairment amounts only (31 December 2012: EUR 128 million; 31 December 2011: EUR 111 million). The inclusion of Incurred but not Reported (IBNR) impairment amounts on the line with no payment in arrear brings the total impairment amount for 31 December 2012 to EUR 134 million (31 December 2011: EUR 115 million). Tables 54-9 and 54-10 provide more information on impairment amounts. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 155 54-6 Corporate loan amounts in arrear, 31 December 2012 Exposure Outstanding Amount in arrear % of % of On% of OnImpairment IN EUR MILLIONS TOTAL Exposure TOTAL Balance TOTAL Balance Amount AGE OF PAYMENT IN ARREAR 15 days 61 0.7% 52 0.7% 8 0.1% 4 6 30 days 31 60 days 61 90 days 26 0.3% 24 0.3% 1 0.0% 4 SUBTOTAL LESS THAN 90 DAYS 87 1.0% 76 1.0% 9 0.1% 8 Over 90 days 220 2.5% 220 2.9% 159 2.1% 56 No payment in arrear 8,443 96.5% 7,214 96.1% 0 0.0% 70 TOTAL 8,750 100.0% 7,510 100.0% 168 2.2% 134 54-7 Corporate loan amounts in arrear, 31 December 2011 Exposure Outstanding Amount in arrear % of % of On% of OnImpairment IN EUR MILLIONS TOTAL Exposure TOTAL Balance TOTAL Balance Amount AGE OF PAYMENT IN ARREAR 15 days 19 0.2% 12 0.1% 0 0.0% 0 6 30 days 17 0.2% 17 0.2% 11 0.2% 0 31 60 days 15 0.2% 15 0.2% 0 0.0% 6 61 90 days 76 0.8% 76 1.0% 1 0.0% 5 SUBTOTAL LESS THAN 90 DAYS 127 1.4% 120 1.5% 12 0.2% 11 Over 90 days 473 5.0% 455 5.7% 91 1.1% 31 No payment in arrear 8,810 93.6% 7,401 92.8% 0 0.0% 73 TOTAL 9,410 100.0% 7,976 100.0% 103 1.3% 115 NIBC applies a threshold for determining whether a loan carries a non-material arrear. If the total arrear on facility level is lower than EUR 25 thousand per facility, the age of the payment in arrear is below 30 days and the counterparty has not defaulted, then the arrear is considered insignificant; the exposure is therefore regarded as not having an arrear. If arrears fall below the threshold, the exposure is placed on the ‘no payment in arrear’ line on tables 54-6 and 54-7. The application of this threshold does not influence the total arrears, which amounted to EUR 168 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 103 million). At 31 December 2012, the total arrears considered insignificant were EUR 17,849 (31 December 2011: 21,745). Graph 54-8 displays the rating distribution of the exposure amounts (expressed as the sum of drawn and undrawn amounts) of all loans with an amount in arrear. The total exposure amount at 31 December 2012 was EUR 307 million (31 December 2011: EUR 600 million) and the total drawn amount at 31 December 2012 was EUR 296 million (31 December 2011: EUR 575 million). The reduction was driven mainly by a successful restructuring. 156 Consolidated financial statements Notes 54-8 Distribution of drawn and undrawn amounts with an arrear per rating category IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 Drawn 2012 Undrawn 2011 Drawn 2011 Undrawn 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 4 (BBB) 5 (BB) 6 (B) 7 (CCC) 8 (CC/C) 9/10 (D) Impairment amounts The Corporate Loan portfolio is reviewed by credit officers and CRM, who monitor the quality of counterparties and the related collateral. Formal assessment of the entire portfolio takes place on a quarterly basis. All existing impairments are reviewed as well. NIBC calculates an impairment amount by taking various factors into account, particularly the available collateral securing the loan and the corporate derivative exposure, if present. The loss amount is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows. If collateral is present, then the present value of the future cash flows reflects the foreclosure of collateral. More information on the method impairments are calculated is included in the Accounting Policies section. NIBC determines a default at counterparty level, whereas an impairment amount is taken at facility level. When a default occurs, the entire exposure and outstanding amount of the borrower are classified as defaulted. If, however, an impairment amount is taken on a facility, only the exposure amount of that particular facility is classified as impaired. In 2012, fewer write-offs occurred (EUR 28 million) than in 2011 (EUR 71 million). Impairments increased and amounted to EUR 134 million at year-end 2012 (year-end 2011: EUR 115 million). Tables 54-9 and 54-10 display an overview of the impairments at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, subdivided in regions and industry sectors, respectively. The column labelled ‘Exposure’ includes both drawn and undrawn amounts. 54-9 Impairment per region 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Impaired Impairment Impaired Impairment IN EUR MILLIONS Exposure Exposure Amount Write-offs Exposure Exposure Amount Write-offs The Netherlands 2,564 237 60 4 3,061 199 48 64 Germany 2,050 13 7 9 1,752 17 7 2 United Kingdom 1,576 68 27 1,615 74 30 Rest of Europe 1,087 34 22 1,159 33 13 Asia/Pacific 715 55 12 923 0 0 5 North America 404 15 0 15 493 14 13 Other 354 0 0 407 0 0 IBNR Corporate Loans 6 4 TOTAL 8,750 422 134 28 9,410 337 115 71 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 157 54-10 Impairment per industry sector 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Impaired Impairment Impaired Impairment IN EUR MILLIONS Exposure Exposure Amount Write-offs Exposure Exposure Amount Write-offs Infrastructure 2,190 7 3 2,112 7 4 Commercial Real Estate 1,941 196 44 1,774 154 28 Shipping 1,521 86 30 15 1,718 37 22 5 Oil & Gas 1,015 965 Financial Services 483 33 5 1,008 34 9 36 Wholesale/Retail/ Leisure 467 9 7 529 4 1 24 Manufacturing 446 7 4 468 10 6 6 Services 446 57 26 12 530 66 32 TMT 150 27 9 1 183 25 9 Agriculture & Food 85 0 0 0 123 0 0 Other 6 IBNR Corporate Loans 6 4 Total 8,750 422 134 28 9,410 337 115 71 Corporate loans without impairments or arrears At 31 December 2012, the size of the corporate loan exposure carrying neither impairments nor arrears equalled EUR 8,223 million or 94% of the total Corporate Loan portfolio (31 December 2011: EUR 8,553 million or 91%). Graph 54-11 displays the distribution of exposure amounts without impairments or arrears, at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. Of this exposure 93% is rated in CCR categories 4, 5 and 6 (BBB, BB and B categories in external rating agencies’ scales). NR represents a negligible part of the portfolio (31 December 2012: 0.2% of all loans without impairments or amounts in arrear; 31 December 2011: 0.7%). 54-11 Distribution of exposure amount without impairments or arrears per rating category IN % 2012 2011 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1(AAA) 2 (AA) 3 (A) 4 (BBB) 5 (BB) 6 (B) 7 (CCC) 8 (CC/C) 9/10 (D) NR Country risk Country risk is the likelihood that a country will not service its external debt obligations and reflects the risk that a country will not honour its external liabilities due to political, social, economic or financial turmoil. Country risk can potentially be an important cause of increased counterparty default risk since a large number of individual debtors could default at the same time. NIBC did not experience any counterparty defaults from this risk in 2012. NIBC has no sovereign debt exposure. 158 Consolidated financial statements Notes NIBC’s policy is to minimise country risk by monitoring the following elements: nn Gross country exposure: As a rule, NIBC allocates exposure to the country in which the borrower’s cash flows are generated or where the asset physically is operated. Gross country exposure is defined as the aggregate maximum exposure (both drawn and undrawn) to all borrowers or guarantors in a given country. NIBC also monitors future gross country exposure if, for example assets are contractually relocated to another country in the future; nn Net country exposure: Net country exposure is the gross country exposure modified to take into account the value of certain moveable assets, such as vessels, rigs, FPSO units and lease and other receivables that secure loans to borrowers in a given country, as well as corporate guarantees. After applying a valuation formula, the fair market value of such collateral is deducted per facility from the gross exposure under all lending facilities in a given country, in order to generate the net country exposure; and nn Country limits: A country limit system is maintained to manage country risks by net country exposure for certain countries. In general, NIBC does not apply a country limit to the member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Some notable exceptions to this include Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal, for which specific limits apply. For non-OECD countries, an assessment is made to advise the TC regarding the size of a country limit. Investment loans Investment loans are originated and monitored separately from the Corporate Loan portfolio. Investment loans are typically unsecured subordinated loans that contain equity characteristics such as attached warrants or conversion features. As such, investment loans typically carry a higher risk profile than corporate loans. Examples of these loans include mezzanine loans, convertible loans and shareholder loans. The investment loan can be divided into indirect investments and direct investments. Indirect investments are investments made through funds set up and managed by NIBC (NIBC Funds) that are controlled by NIBC and thus consolidated into the financial statements of NIBC. Direct investments are all other investments. Direct investments are approved by the Investment Committee (IC) of NIBC. Indirect investments are approved by the investment committees of the NIBC Funds, subject to the investment guidelines stipulated in the fund agreements between the manager of the NIBC Fund and the investors. Avedon Capital partners, a spin-off from NIBC since 2011, manages the NIBC Growth Capital Fund II and the equity funds NIBC Merchant Banking Fund IA and IB. Avedon Capital Partners is fully independent from NIBC, in line with market requirements for governance of third-party funds. Investment officers monitor the quality of counterparties in the portfolio on a regular basis. On a quarterly basis, the entire Investment Loan portfolio is assessed for impairment. All existing impairments are reviewed. Impairments of indirect investments are determined by the manager of the NIBC Fund. All impairments are reviewed and approved by the IC. The total size of the investment loans at 31 December 2012 was EUR 173 million (31 December 2011: EUR 232 million), of which 95% was drawn (31 December 2011: 93%). In line with the characteristics of the asset class, investment loans typically carry riskier internal CCRs and often a higher LGD than corporate loans. At 31 December 2012, the weighted average counterparty credit rating of non-defaulted investment loans remained at an internal rating 6 (31 December 2011: 6) in NIBC’s internal rating scale (equivalent to B in external rating agencies’ scales). Tables 54-12 and 54-13 display a breakdown of investment loans per region and industry sector, respectively, at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 159 54-12 Breakdown of investment loans per region 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS Exposure % Exposure % The Netherlands 119 69% 173 74% United Kingdom 14 8% 55 24% Rest of Europe 40 23% 4 2% TOTAL 173 100% 232 100% 54-13 Breakdown of investment loans per industry sector 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS Exposure % Exposure % Financial Services 113 66% 45 19% Wholesale/Retail/Leisure 38 22% 106 46% Agriculture & Food 14 8% TMT 4 2% Manufacturing 2 1% 2 1% Services 2 1% 3 1% Commercial Real Estate 21 9% Other 55 24% TOTAL 173 100% 232 100% Arrears The amounts in arrear as percentage of exposure decreased for the investment loans from 3% at year-end 2011 to 1% at year-end 2012. 54-14 Investment loan amounts in arrear, 31 December 2012 Exposure Outstanding Amount in arrear % of % of On% of OnImpairment IN EUR MILLIONS TOTAL Exposure TOTAL Balance TOTAL Balance Amount AGE OF PAYMENT IN ARREAR Over 90 days 2 1.1% 2 1.1% 2 1.0% 2 No payment in arrear 171 98.9% 163 98.9% 0 0.0% 1 TOTAL 173 100.0% 165 100.0% 2 1.0% 3 54-15 Investment loan amounts in arrear, 31 December 2011 Exposure Outstanding Amount in arrear % of % of On% of OnImpairment IN EUR MILLIONS TOTAL Exposure TOTAL Balance TOTAL Balance Amount AGE OF PAYMENT IN ARREAR 15 days 2 0.9% 2 0.9% 1 0.3% 0 Over 90 days 7 3.1% 7 3.3% 7 3.5% 6 No payment in arrear 223 96.0% 207 95.8% 0 0.0% 9 TOTAL 232 100.0% 216 100.0% 8 3.8% 15 160 Consolidated financial statements Notes Impairment amounts At 31 December 2012, impairments on investment loans amounted to EUR 3 million (31 December 2011: EUR 15 million). Table 54-16 shows the breakdown of impairments and write-offs in industry sectors at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. The column labelled ‘Exposure’ includes both drawn and undrawn amounts, and the column labelled ‘Impairment Amount’ refers to drawn amounts of impaired facilities. All impairments and write-offs occurred in the Netherlands. 54-16 Impairment per industry sector 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Impaired Impairment Impaired Impairment IN EUR MILLIONS Exposure Exposure Amount Write-offs Exposure Exposure Amount Write-offs Financial Services 113 45 Wholesale/Retail/Leisure 38 106 5 5 Agriculture & Food 14 14 1 TMT 4 Manufacturing 2 2 0 Services 2 2 2 3 Commercial Real Estate 21 11 10 Other 55 TOTAL 173 16 3 0 232 16 15 0 At 31 December 2012, the investment loans that carried neither impairments nor past-due amounts equalled EUR 157 million or 91% of total (31 December 2011: EUR 214 million or 92% of total). Residential mortgages The composition of the Residential Mortgage portfolio at year-end 2012 and at year-end 2011 is displayed in Table 54-17. 54-17 Breakdown of Residential Mortgage portfolio IN EUR MILLIONS 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Dutch Own Book portfolio 3,324 2,759 Dutch Securitised portfolio 4,512 5,560 German Own Book portfolio 351 426 TOTAL 8,187 8,745 Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio The Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio contains loans that were originated by business partners (insurance companies, mortgage chains and service providers), based on prescribed underwriting criteria. Servicing and administration of the mortgage portfolio is outsourced to third-party servicers. At 31 December 2012, 27% of the Residential Mortgage portfolio (31 December 2011: 28%) had a Dutch government guarantee (NHG guarantee) in accordance with the general terms and conditions set by the Stichting Waarborgfonds Eigen Woningen (WEW, Social Housing Guarantee Fund). A large part of the Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio has been securitised. In most cases, NIBC has retained junior notes and other positions related to these securitisation programmes. These securitisation programmes are consolidated on NIBC’s balance sheet. The total amount of the retained positions at 31 December 2012 was EUR 461 million (31 December 2011: EUR 600 million). Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 161 Risk governance In order to control the credit risk in the origination of residential mortgages, an acceptance policy framework was formulated to screen residential mortgage applications. Acceptance depends on the following underwriting criteria: nn Conformity with the Code of Conduct on Mortgage Credits of the Dutch Bankers Association; nn A check of an applicant’s credit history with the Dutch National Credit Register (Bureau Krediet Registratie or BKR), a central credit agency used by financial institutions in the Netherlands, which records five years of financial commitments and negative credit events; nn Mortgage loans are secured by first-ranking mortgage rights; nn Properties are occupied by the owner; nn Other criteria, such as type of property, maximum Loan-To-Market Value (LTMV) and maximum Loan-to-Income (LTI); and nn Underwriting criteria for mortgages with an NHG guarantee are set in accordance with the general terms and conditions set by the WEW. The WEW finances itself by a one-off up-front charge to the borrower as a percentage of the principal amount of the mortgage loan. The NHG guarantee covers losses on the outstanding principal, accrued unpaid interest, and disposal costs, caused by foreclosure. Following the elections in the Netherlands in September 2012, the government announced new measures for the Dutch housing market. The main ones are: nn Mortgage tax relief for existing home-owners will be reduced from a maximum 52% for the highest incomes to 38%, in equal steps of 0.5% over 28 years; nn As of January 2013, new mortgages must have a principal repayment component (at least on an annuity basis) over the lifetime of the loan, with a maximum of 30 years, to be eligible for interest tax relief; nn The LTMV will be gradually reduced from 106% in 2012 to 100% in 2018; nn To encourage activity in the housing market, the transfer tax on residential property will be permanently reduced to 2%; and nn Prohibition on commission payments from the originator to the advisor. In February 2013, it became possible to take out a second mortgage loan of up to 50% of the market value of the property. This second loan can be used to repay a part of the first loan. The maturity of this loan can be more than 30 years and the interest on it will not be tax deductible. Management of loans in arrear In order to control the credit risk in the Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio, NIBC has established standardised procedures to manage all loan amounts in arrear. All amounts in arrear are managed in-house. This ensures a dedicated team focused on minimising losses. The Arrears Management team is also responsible for collecting remaining debts, managing fraud cases and visiting clients and properties that serve as collateral. When amounts in arrear occur, the borrower receives four letters in the first month and is contacted four times by phone. Depending on the outcome of these contacts, a customer-specific approach is used per borrower. The Arrears Management team has to submit all loans in default to the Arrears Management Committee, for further approval by management. The Arrears Management Committee includes members from Risk Management, Operations, Portfolio Management and the Arrears Management team. NIBC bids for own foreclosed properties at auctions to ensure the proceeds are at arm’s length and periodically buys these properties. This is performed through a subsidiary of NIBC; Vredezicht 102 B.V. Table 54-18 shows the arrears overview of the total Dutch Residential mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. Loans carrying an arrear at year-end 2012 had increased compared to year-end 2011. 162 Consolidated financial statements Notes 54-18 Arrears overview, Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio IN % 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 No payment in arrear 95.8 97.5 0-30 days 2.2 1.4 31-60 days 0.8 0.4 61-90 days 0.3 0.2 Over 90 days 0.9 0.5 TOTAL 100 100 TOTAL (IN EUR MILLION) 7,836 8,319 Risk measurement As of 1 January 2008, NIBC’s rating methodology for residential mortgages received approval from the DNB to use the AIRB approach for calculating solvency requirements and reporting to the DNB. The calculation of PD, LGD and EAD is performed by an internally-developed Basel II AIRB model, which has been in use since 2006. This AIRB model is periodically assessed by the DNB to ensure that minimum requirements are met. The PD estimates are dependent on a variety of factors, of which the key factors are debt-to-income and loan-to-value ratios. Minor factors that play a role in the PD estimates are several other mortgage loan characteristics, borrower characteristics and payment performance information. The PD scale is based on a continuous scale ranging from 0-100%. The LGD estimates are based on a downturn scenario comparable to the downturn in the Dutch mortgage market in the 1980s. In this case, the indexed collateral value is stressed in order to simulate the proceeds of a sale or foreclosure of the collateral. The stress is dependent on the location and the absolute value of the collateral. Together with cost and time-to-foreclosure assumptions, an LGD is derived. The LGD estimate also takes into account whether a mortgage loan has an NHG guarantee, for which the LGD estimate will be lower in comparison to a mortgage loan without the NHG guarantee. The LGD estimate is also based on a continuous scale. The validation of these estimates is performed on historical data and is carried out annually. For the PD and LGD, the estimates are backtested against realised defaults and realised losses. In this way it is ensured that the model functions correctly in a changing economic environment. Table 54-19 shows the PD distribution of the Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. A PD of 100% means that a borrower is more than 90 days in arrears. Mortgages without amounts in arrear all carry PDs below 2%. 54-19 PD allocation of Dutch residential mortgages Own book Dutch mortgages Securitised Dutch mortgages IN % 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 PROBABILITY OF DEFAULT <= 1% 93.4 96.4 95.7 97.6 1-2% 1.8 0.6 0.5 0.1 2-5% 0.9 0.9 0.6 1.0 5-99% 2.9 1.4 2.4 0.9 100% 1.0 0.7 0.8 0.4 TOTAL 100 100 100 100 TOTAL (IN EUR MILLION) 3,324 2,759 4,512 5,560 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 163 Risk mitigation and collateral management Credit losses are mitigated in a number of ways: nn The underlying property is pledged as collateral; nn 21% of the Dutch Own Book portfolio and 32% of the Securitised portfolio are covered by the NHG programme; and nn For the part of the Dutch portfolio that has been securitised, credit losses higher than the retained positions, excess spread and reserve accounts are attributable to investors in the securitisation programmes. For the portfolio not covered by the NHG programme, the underlying property is the primary collateral for any mortgage loan granted, though savings and investment deposits may also serve as additional collateral. An indicator for potential losses, taking into account indexation of house prices and seasoning, is achieved by calculating the Loan-to-Indexed-Market-Value (LTIMV). The indexation is made by using the Kadaster index, which is based on market observables. The Kadaster (national property register) is a public government register of real estate and their vested rights (e.g. ownership and mortgages). This register contains transaction data as well as CBS (Statistics Netherlands) data, which are used to construct a pricing index. Graphs 54-20 and 54-21 show a breakdown of the LTIMV for the total Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. LTIMV for all categories remained relatively stable between the two years. Only 18% of the total portfolio has an LTIMV above 100%. For the remainder of the portfolio, the indexed collateral value is less than or equal to the nominal loan balance outstanding. 54-20/21 LTIMV of Dutch Residential Mortgage portfolio PERCENTAGE 4 NHG-guaranteed 11 6 >=0% and <40% 7 27 7 28 >=40% and <50% >=50% and <60% 9 10 >=60% and <70% >=70% and <80% 6 >=80% and <90% 9 8 10 >=90% and <100% 5 8 7 >=100% and <110% 7 10 10 10 >=110% 31 December 2012 (EUR 7,836 million) 31 December 2011 (EUR 8,319 million) German Residential Mortgage portfolio The German Residential Mortgage portfolio amounted to EUR 351 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 426 million). The majority of this portfolio was acquired from third parties via two portfolio purchases. The purchased portfolios contain highly seasoned loans with low LTMV. Due to data protection regulations, the German Residential Mortgage portfolio is divided into so-called ‘consent’ and ‘non-consent’ borrowers, depending on whether the borrower has agreed to disclose his personal data. The servicing and administration of the ‘consent’ portfolio of German Residential Mortgages is fully insourced, including arrears management, while the ‘non-consent’ portfolio is outsourced to third-party servicers; foreclosure management is fully outsourced to the latter. The German Residential Mortgage portfolio was designated in 2011 as an exit portfolio, therefore no new originations took place in 2012. 164 Consolidated financial statements Notes In order to manage the credit risk of the German Residential Mortgage portfolio, NIBC has standardised procedures to manage all loan amounts in arrear. The arrear process starts directly by means of countered direct debits, i.e. when a direct withdrawal from the borrower’s account fails. The Arrears Management team contacts the customer to get insight into the reason for being in arrear. They claim the outstanding amount with a letter sent every two weeks. In case of private insolvency or payment in arrear beyond 90 days, responsibility is taken over by a special servicer. Table 54-22 displays an overview of the payments in arrear at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 for the German Residential Mortgage portfolio. It is market practice in Germany to start the foreclosure procedure after being more than six months in arrear (180 days) and the foreclosure procedure takes, on average, around two years. Special Servicing Cancelled Loans are loans for which the contract has been legally terminated by the lender and are being handled by the special servicer. At 31 December 2012, only 50 loans had been transferred to special servicing, from a total portfolio of approximately 3,600 mortgages. 54-22 Arrears overview, German Residential Mortgage portfolio IN % 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 No payment in arrear 93.1 93.6 0-30 days 1.5 1.5 31-60 days 0.8 0.7 61-90 days 0.2 0.5 Over 90 days 0.9 0.6 Special Servicing Cancelled Loans 3.5 3.1 TOTAL 100 100 TOTAL (IN EUR MILLION) 351 426 As is the case in the Netherlands, the underlying property is the primary collateral for any mortgage loan granted. The majority of mortgage loans in Germany contain an annuity debt profile, leading to a lower outstanding balance during the lifetime of the loan. Debt investments NIBC defines credit risk in debt investments as issuer risk, which is the credit risk of losing the principal amount on products such as bonds. Issuer risk is calculated based on the book value. This portfolio does not contain any sovereign risk exposures. Risk monitoring and measurement Risk is controlled by setting single issuer limits and, in some cases, programme limits. All single issuer limits are approved by the TC or by delegated authority to the FMCR department. Apart from single issuer limits, risk is also monitored by assessing credit spread risk. Both sensitivity analysis (basis point values, BPV) and Value at Risk (VaR) numbers are used. Note 55 on Market Risk contains more information on these variables. In the remainder of this section, the exposure has been divided into the following two sub-portfolios: nn Debt from financial institutions and corporate entities; and nn Securitisations. Debt from financial institutions and corporate entities NIBC invests in debt (bonds) issued by financial institutions and corporate entities. The size of this subportfolio was reduced in the course of 2012 by 15% to EUR 601 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 707 million). The credit profile of this portfolio improved in 2012 through increased investments in covered bonds. Of the total exposure, 40% (31 December 2011: 23%) was covered bonds. The remaining 60% (31 December 2011: 77%) was senior unsecured debt. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 165 The amount of EUR 601 million at 31 December 2012 represents the maximum credit risk exposure, without taking into account the presence of any collateral that could be repossessed in case of default. The portfolio did not contain any credit default swap (CDS) exposures. 54-23 Debt from financial institutions and corporate entities, 31 December 2012 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB ≤B NR Total Financial institutions 150 38 355 35 6 584 Corporate entities 17 0 17 TOTAL 150 38 355 52 0 0 7 601 54-24 Debt from financial institutions and corporate entities, 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB ≤B NR Total Financial institutions 72 113 383 42 6 616 Corporate entities 68 11 12 91 TOTAL 72 113 451 53 0 0 18 707 At both 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, the portfolio of debt from financial institutions and corporate entities had no impairments and exhibited no arrears. Securitisations NIBC has been an active participant on the securitisation market in the past decade, both as an originator and investor in securitisations. Tables 54-25 and 54-26 present an overview of NIBC’s total securitisation exposure resulting from its activities as investor in securitisations. The exposure relating to NIBC’s activities as an originator can be split into exposures related to consolidated and non-consolidated securitisations. If a securitisation programme is consolidated on NIBC’s balance sheet, the exposure to the underlying collateral is excluded from the securitisation exposure and included in the total exposures presented in note 54 on credit risk in the corporate loans or residential mortgages sections. NIBC’s total exposure as an originator to consolidated securitisations was EUR 604 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 744 million). NIBC distinguishes two Securitisation sub-portfolios: the portfolio of Western European securitisations and the Liquidity Investments portfolio. NIBC’s total securitisation exposure (investor and non-consolidated originator) increased to EUR 745 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 705 million), mainly due to increased investments in the Liquidity Investments portfolio. Investments in the Liquidity Investments portfolio and divestments in the Western European Securitisations improved the credit profile of this portfolio significantly. The portfolio of investments in Western European securitisations contains NIBC’s investor securitisations in Western Europe as well as all investments in NIBC’s own non-consolidated securitisations. All investments in NIBC’s own securitisations are subject to approval from both FMCR and Finance. The total amount of the portfolio of investments in Western European decreased to EUR 403 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 530 million). The Liquidity Investments portfolio was set up to invest part of NIBC’s excess liquidity in the securitisation market. Investments are limited to AAA rated RMBS transactions backed by Dutch collateral and are eligible to be pledged as collateral with the European Central Bank (ECB). Apart from the strict mandate, each investment is pre-approved by FMCR. Exposure in this portfolio increased to EUR 342 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 175 million). 166 Consolidated financial statements Notes 54-25 Exposure to securitised products, 31 December 2012 BOOK VALUE, IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB <BB Total EU ABS 1 0 3 4 EU CDO 10 33 41 19 12 23 138 EU CMBS 14 26 19 24 14 17 114 EU RMBS 13 20 54 37 10 13 147 TOTAL WESTERN EUROPEAN SECURITISATIONS 37 80 114 80 36 56 403 NL RMBS AAA Liquidity portfolio 342 342 TOTAL SECURITISATION EXPOSURE 379 80 114 80 36 56 745 54-26 Exposure to securitised products, 31 December 2011 BOOK VALUE, IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB <BB Total EU ABS 1 4 3 7 EU CDO 2 29 60 29 28 30 178 EU CMBS 29 31 30 16 28 12 147 EU RMBS 18 47 38 40 7 50 198 TOTAL WESTERN EUROPEAN SECURITISATIONS 49 109 131 85 63 94 530 NL RMBS AAA Liquidity portfolio 175 175 TOTAL SECURITISATION EXPOSURE 224 109 131 85 63 94 705 Geographic distribution of securitisations Graph 54-27 presents the distribution of the Securitisations portfolio by geographic region at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. NIBC allocates exposure to a region based on the geographic location in which the cash flows are generated. The geographic distribution illustrates that the majority of these assets are located in Western Europe, mainly in the Netherlands (49%) and the United Kingdom (19%). The graph further shows that NIBC’s exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal is limited and had decreased to EUR 45 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 55 million). Approximately 85% of this exposure is investment grade exposure. NIBC had no exposure in Greece at 31 December 2012 or 2011. 54-27 Distribution of securitisations per region, 31 December 2012 (EUR 745 million) and 31 December 2011 (EUR 705 million) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 The United Spain Germany Ireland Portugal Italy Rest of North Asia/Pacific Netherlands Kingdom Europe America Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 167 Impairments on securitisations The majority of the Securitisations portfolio is reported at amortised cost or available for sale for accounting purposes and the respective assets are subject to a quarterly impairment analysis. Total impairments increased to EUR 47 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: EUR 39 million). Securitisations without impairments Table 54-28 presents the rating breakdown of securitisation exposure that did not carry an impairment amount at 31 December 2012 (EUR 727 million). The total amount of securitisations without impairments at 31 December 2011 was EUR 693 million. 54-28 Distribution of securitisation exposure without impairments per rating category, 31 December 2012 BOOK VALUE, IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB ≤B Total SECURITISATION EXPOSURE WITHOUT IMPAIRMENTS 379 80 115 79 36 38 727 Cash management NIBC is exposed to credit risk as a result of cash management activities. In 2012, NIBC’s risk management framework for cash management continued its conservative attitude, taking into account the vulnerable financial markets. Risk monitoring and measurement NIBC places its excess cash with the DNB/Dutch State Treasury Agency and with a selected number of investment-grade financial institutions. A monitoring process is in place within the FMCR department for the approved financial institutions. Cash management exposures can be collateralised through reverse repo transactions or unsecured through interbank deposits and current accounts. Correspondent banking and third-party account providers Apart from the exposure in cash management, NIBC holds foreign currency accounts at correspondent banks and also utilises third-party account providers for internal securitisations. Exposures As displayed in table 54-29, at 31 December 2012 NIBC’s total cash was EUR 2,188 million (31 December 2011: EUR 3,030 million). The change in cash was mainly a result of the redemptions and buy-backs of government-guaranteed funding. At 31 December 2012, EUR 1,604 million of the cash was held at DNB and EUR 543 million at financial institutions while the remaining EUR 41 million related to securitisation-related liquidity facilities (corporate entities). 54-29 Cash, 31 December 2012 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB ≥ Total Cash and balances with central banks 1,604 1,604 Financial institutions 2 52 486 3 543 Corporate entities 31 10 41 TOTAL 1,637 52 496 3 2,188 168 Consolidated financial statements Notes 54-30 Cash, 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB ≥ Total Cash and balances with central banks 2,430 2,430 Financial institutions 17 122 421 560 Corporate entities 40 40 TOTAL 2,487 122 421 0 3,030 At year-end 2012, EUR 1,474 million cash collateral has been excluded from the cash management exposure (year-end 2011: EUR 1,352 million) as this amount is restricted cash that relates to derivatives or repos with a negative fair value and can be netted with these negative exposures. Cash accounts of Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV) are also excluded as these amounts are not at risk for NIBC. At both 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, this portfolio carried no impairments and no arrears. Credit risk in derivatives Credit risk in derivatives is the risk of having to replace the counterparty in derivative contracts. NIBC’s credit risk in derivatives can be split into exposures to financial institutions and corporate entities. NIBC’s policy is to minimise this risk. NIBC only enters into OTC contracts with financial institutions that are investment grade or with corporate entities where the exposure is secured by some form of collateral. Risk monitoring and measurement Credit risk in derivatives is based on the marked-to-market value and Potential Future Exposure (PFE) of the derivative. The PFE reflects a potential future change in marked-to-market value during the remaining lifetime of the derivative contract. For financial institutions, separate limits for credit risk are in place, based on the external rating. For corporate clients, NIBC enters into a derivative transaction as part of its overall relationship with the client. The credit approval process for these derivatives is closely linked with the credit approval process of the loan. Limit-setting proposals for both financial institutions and corporate counterparties are reviewed in the TC. For financial institutions, collateral postings under a CSA are taken into account. For corporate counterparties, both the loan and derivative are treated as a single package whereby the derivative often benefits from the security/collateral supporting the loan exposure. Exposures Tables 54-31 and 54-32 display NIBC’s exposures from credit risk in derivatives allocated across the rating class of the underlying counterparty. Exposure is the sum of the positive marked-to-market value of derivative contracts, excluding the effect of netting and collateral exchange. The total derivative exposure excluding netting and collateral remained stable between year-end 2012 (EUR 3,916 million) and year-end 2011 (EUR 3,880 million). 54-31 Derivative exposure excluding netting and collateral, 31 December 2012 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC CC D NR Total Financial institutions 69 2,681 214 2,963 Corporate entities 40 329 272 253 15 0 40 4 953 TOTAL 40 69 2,681 543 272 253 15 0 40 4 3,916 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 169 54-32 Derivative exposure excluding netting and collateral, 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC CC D NR Total Financial institutions 204 2,816 6 0 3,026 Corporate entities 247 291 189 36 0 88 3 855 TOTAL 204 2,816 253 291 189 36 0 88 3 3,880 Collateral To the extent possible, NIBC attempts to limit credit risk arising from derivatives. NIBC enters into bilateral collateral agreements with financial institutions to mitigate credit risk in OTC derivatives by means of CSAs. Positive marked-to-market values can be netted with negative marked-to-market values and the remaining exposure is mitigated through bilateral collateral settlements. Accepted collateral is mainly cash collateral, which is usually exchanged on a daily basis. The primary counterparties in these CSAs are large international banks with ratings of A or higher. NIBC generally carries out daily cash collateral exchanges to account for changes in the market value of the contracts included in the CSA. Terms and conditions of these CSAs are in line with general International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) credit support documents. Collateral from CSAs significantly decreases the credit exposure on derivatives, as presented in table 54-33 at 31 December 2012 and in table 54-34 at December 2011. 54-33 Derivative exposure including netting and collateral, 31 December 2012 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC CC D NR Total Financial institutions 1 63 0 64 Corporate entities 323 272 252 15 0 40 4 906 TOTAL 0 1 63 323 272 252 15 0 40 4 970 54-34 Derivative exposure including netting and collateral, 31 December 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS AAA AA A BBB BB B CCC CC D NR Total Financial institutions 47 59 6 112 Corporate entities 247 293 186 36 0 88 3 853 TOTAL 0 47 59 253 293 186 36 0 88 3 965 Valuation of corporate derivatives (credit value adjustment) CVAs are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the risk of default of the counterparty. In essence, CVA represents an estimate of the discounted expected loss on an OTC derivative during the lifetime of a contract. It is applied to all OTC derivative contracts, except for those that benefit from a strong collateral agreement where cash collateral is regularly exchanged, mitigating credit risk. In practice, this means that CVAs are only applied to OTC derivative contracts that generate credit risk on corporate (i.e. non-financial) counterparties. In line with market practice, the CVA of a derivative contract is calculated at the counterparty level as the sum of the present value of the expected loss estimated over the lifetime of all outstanding OTC derivative contracts that generate credit risk. This requires the application of PD and LGD estimates to the EE profile. The EE profile estimate takes into account repayments of notional amounts and the time to maturity. PD and LGD estimates are based on internal CCR and LGD ratings due to the absence of a credit market for most of NIBC’s corporate counterparties. The CVA is sensitive to changes in credit quality of the counterparties as well as to changes in interest rates. Based on the current composition of the portfolio, the CVA, in general, reduces when interest rates rise. 170 Consolidated financial statements Notes Arrears NIBC applies a threshold for determining whether a derivative carries a non-material arrear. The criteria for this threshold are the same as for the portfolio of corporate loans. If amounts in arrear fall below the threshold, they are considered insignificant and are therefore excluded. The application of the threshold does not influence the total arrears for 2012 and 2011. For both years, the total arrears that is considered insignificant is below EUR 100 thousand. Table 54-35 displays an overview of the arrears for corporate derivatives at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 as well as the exposures (marked-to-market values) that these arrears refer to. There were no amounts in arrear for derivatives with financial institutions. As shown in Table 54-35, at 31 December 2012, a marked-to-market exposure of EUR 22 million carried an arrear of EUR 9 million (31 December 2011: exposure of EUR 40 million with an arrear of EUR 12 million). 54-35 Arrears overview, corporate derivative exposure 2012 2011 IN EUR MILLIONS Exposure (MtM)1 Amount in arrear Exposure (MtM)1 Amount in arrear AGE OF PAYMENT IN ARREAR 15 days 11 1 3 1 6 30 days 31 60 days 2 0 61 90 days 18 1 SUBTOTAL LESS THAN 90 DAYS 11 1 23 2 Over 90 days 11 8 17 10 No payment in arrear 931 815 TOTAL 953 9 855 12 1. MtM: Marked-to-Market value. 55 Market risk NIBC defines market risk as the current and prospective threat to its earnings and capital as a result of movements in market prices. Market risk, therefore, includes price risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, both within and outside the Trading book. For fixed-income products, market risk also includes credit spread risk, which is the risk due to movements of underlying credit curves. The predominant market risk drivers for NIBC are interest rate risk and credit spread risk. Risk monitoring and measurement Interest BPV, credit BPV, interest VaR, credit VaR and total VaR measures are calculated on a daily basis and reviewed by the Market Risk department: nn Interest and credit BPV measure the sensitivity of the market value to a change of one basis point in each time bucket of the interest rate and credit spread, respectively. BPV as displayed in the tables below represents the sensitivity of the market value to a one-basis-point, parallel upward shift of the underlying curve. A negative amount represents a loss, a positive amount represents a gain; nn The interest VaR, credit spread VaR and total VaR measure the threshold value, which daily marked-tomarket losses with a confidence level of 99% will not exceed, based on four years of historical data for weekly changes in interest rates, credit spreads and both simultaneously. For the Trading portfolio, additional VaR scenarios based upon daily historical market data are used, both for limit-setting as well as for the calculation of the capital requirement. VaR as displayed in the tables below is always represented as a positive number, indicating a potential loss; and nn As future market price developments may differ from those that are contained by the four-year history, the risk analysis is complemented by a wide set of scenarios, including scenarios intended as stress testing and vulnerability identification, both based on historical events and on possible future events. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 171 Limits are set on all the indicators (BPV and VaR, interest, credit and total). The limits and utilisation are reported to the ALCO once every two weeks. Any significant breach of market risk limits is reported to the CRO on a daily basis. The income statement for the Trading portfolio is also monitored daily. Exposures Interest rate risk in the Trading portfolio The Trading portfolio only consists of books, which from a regulatory perspective fall under the market risk treatment. These books only contain interest rate derivatives (swaps, futures and interest options). The overall market risk in this portfolio is limited, as is evidenced by the actual level of the VaR. For the whole portfolio a VaR limit of EUR 2.25 million applies. During 2012, there has not been a single excess in the VaR limit. 55-1 Key risk statistics of the Trading portfolio 2012 2011 IN EUR THOUSANDS Interest rate BPV Interest rate VaR Interest rate BPV Interest rate VaR Max 1 (111) 1,337 202 3,321 Average (36) 691 (2) 1,358 Min 2 0 231 0 451 YEAR-END (7) 243 (41) 628 1. Max: value farthest from zero. 2. Min: value closest to zero. The portfolio is used for facilitating derivative transactions with corporate clients. Activities comprise short-term (up to two years) interest position taking, money market and bond futures trading and swap spread position taking. Basis risk, cross currency spread risk and interest rate spread risk between positions in swaps and bond futures are also taken into account in the VaR. Interest rate risk in the Mismatch portfolio NIBC concentrates the strategic interest rate risk position of NIBC in the Mismatch portfolio. This portfolio exclusively contains swap positions with which a view on future interest rate developments is taken. During 2011, both EUR and USD mismatch positions were offset with opposite transactions (i.e. they were effectively closed), thus significantly reducing NIBC’s market risk position. In light of the low interest rate environment NIBC did not reopened a mismatch position in 2012. 55-2 Key risk statistics of the USD Mismatch portfolio 2012 2011 IN EUR THOUSANDS Interest rate BPV Interest rate VaR Interest rate BPV Interest rate VaR Max 1 (25) 435 (253) 5,081 Average (17) 321 (195) 3,937 Min 2 (11) 196 (20) 372 YEAR-END (11) 210 (20) 375 1. Max: value farthest from zero. 2. Min: value closest to zero. 172 Consolidated financial statements Notes 55-3 Key risk statistics of the EUR Mismatch portfolio 2012 2011 IN EUR THOUSANDS Interest rate BPV Interest rate VaR Interest rate BPV Interest rate VaR Max 1 (35) 168 (425) 5,704 Average (12) 126 (278) 3,468 Min 2 (10) 96 (13) 156 YEAR-END (10) 96 (13) 156 1. Max: value farthest from zero. 2. Min: value closest to zero. Interest rate risk in Banking book Apart from the Trading portfolio and the Mismatch portfolio, interest rate risk is also present in the following (henceforth collectively referred to as ‘Banking book’): nn Corporate Treasury Book; nn Debt Investments portfolio; and nn Residential Mortgage portfolio. The Corporate Treasury Book contains the funding activities of NIBC and the Corporate and Investment loan portfolios. The interest rate risk in the Debt Investments portfolio appears mainly in the Securitisations portfolio. The interest rate risk on the Residential Mortgage portfolio is hedged within small facilitating limits. Tables 55-4 and 55-5 illustrate in EUR the interest rate sensitivity for EUR, USD and GBP in the trading, mismatch and banking books at year-end 2012 and 2011. For other currencies, interest rate risk is minimal. Interest rate risk in the Banking Book is either related to fixings in the short-end of the curve (mainly in the three-month and six-month buckets) or the usage of a dedicated model for the interest rate risk of ondemand savings. 55-4 Interest rate statistics, 31 December 2012 BPV IN EUR THOUSANDS Trading Mismatch Banking Total EUR (10) (3) 90 77 USD 12 (18) 17 11 GBP (9) 0 19 10 Other 0 0 4 4 TOTAL (7) (21) 130 102 55-5 Interest rate statistics, 31 December 2011 BPV IN EUR THOUSANDS Trading Mismatch Banking Total EUR (36) (6) 60 18 USD 4 (27) (54) (77) GBP (9) 0 9 0 Other 0 0 6 6 TOTAL (41) (33) 21 (53) Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 173 Currency risk Apart from certain investments by NIBC in funds managed by NIBC, all of NIBC’s positions in foreign currencies, including those of subsidiaries, are hedged by either funding these investments in the appropriate foreign currency or by hedging the exposures using cross-currency swaps or foreign exchange contracts. The main exposures in foreign currencies for NIBC are USD, GBP and JPY. As a result of its policy, NIBC does not actively maintain open currency positions other than translation exposures arising from future income in foreign currencies. The Finance department determines NIBC’s currency positions on a monthly basis and reports these to Risk Management. When currency positions exceed NIBC’s small facilitating foreign currency exposure limits, NIBC reduces its positions by FX spot or FX forward transactions. The total open foreign currency position, by nominal amount, is generally around EUR 25 million, in accordance with historical figures over the last few years. 56 Liquidity risk NIBC defines liquidity risk as the inability of NIBC to fund its assets and meet its obligations as they become due, at acceptable cost. Maintaining a sound liquidity and funding profile is one of NIBC’s most important risk management objectives. NIBC analyses its funding profile by mapping all assets and liabilities into time buckets that correspond to their maturities. Based on projections prepared by the business units and reviewed by Risk Management, and the current asset and liability maturity profiles, several liquidity stress tests are prepared and presented once every two weeks to the ALCO, in order to create continuous monitoring of the liquidity position. Assumptions One of the stress scenarios, the market-wide stress test, assumes a world-wide liquidity shortage in which no new market funding can be attracted by NIBC. Furthermore, it is assumed that assets cannot be sold, but that they can only be made liquid by making them eligible for collateralised and ECB funding. In addition, the following assumptions are made: nn In order to maintain NIBC’s business franchise, it is assumed that new corporate loan production continues at a level where the current books are maintained constant; nn Conservative assumptions with respect to for example collateral cash outflows (payments from CSAs) and drawdowns of undrawn commitments are made; and nn A one notch downgrade is assumed. The projection of NIBC’s liquidity in this way is necessarily a subjective process and requires management to make assumptions about, for example, the fair value of eligible collateral and potential outflow of cash collateral placed by NIBC with derivative counterparties. In light of these projections, NIBC is confident that sufficient liquidity is available to meet maturing obligations over the next 12 months. Maturity calendar consolidated balance sheet The following tables present the cash flows payable by NIBC in respect of non-derivative financial liabilities and assets relevant for liquidity risk by the remaining contractual maturities at 31 December. The amounts disclosed in the tables for the non-derivative financial liabilities are contractual undiscounted cash flows. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are therefore restated to nominal amounts. The estimated interest cash flows related to the liabilities are reported on a separate line item. The financial assets relevant for managing liquidity risk are based on the fair value (discounted cash flows) for those assets which are classified at fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale. 174 Consolidated financial statements Notes The differences between the table and the stress scenario are caused mainly by the following items that are included in the stress scenario analysis but not in the maturity calendar of the consolidated balance sheet: nn New asset production; nn Collateralised funding capacity of internal securitisations and individual bonds; and nn Conservative assumptions with respect to possible cash outflows (e.g. CSA collateral, callable funding). 56-1 Liquidity maturity calendar, 31 December 2012 Due Due between between Due within three and one Payable on three twelve and five Due after IN EUR MILLIONS Not dated demand months months years five years Total Liabilities (undiscounted cash flows) FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT AMORTISED COST Due to other banks 10 340 3 508 165 1,026 Deposits from customers 4,282 878 925 1,693 569 8,347 Own debt securities in issue 220 4,024 70 4,314 Debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages 6 16 4,448 4,470 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Own debt securities in issue 6 27 33 Debt securities in issue structured 75 310 1,273 1,658 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other liabilities 159 159 Current tax 9 9 Deferred tax Employee benefits 4 4 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES Amortised cost 25 58 83 Fair value through profit or loss 42 338 380 TOTAL LIABILITIES (excluding derivatives) 4,292 1,224 1,407 6,612 6,948 20,483 Estimated contractual interest cash flows 48 185 547 1,263 2,043 TOTAL LIABILITIES (excluding derivatives, including estimated contractual interest rate cash flows) 4,292 1,272 1,592 7,159 8,211 22,526 TOTAL ASSETS RELEVANT FOR MANAGING LIQUIDITY RISK AT FAIR VALUE (excluding derivatives and interest cash flows) 1,845 2,139 600 719 5,091 11,881 22,275 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 175 56-2 Liquidity maturity calendar, 31 December 2011 Due Due between between Due within three and one Payable on three twelve and five Due after IN EUR MILLIONS Not dated demand months months years five years Total Liabilities (undiscounted cash flows) FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT AMORTISED COST Due to other banks 9 220 64 730 238 1,261 Deposits from customers 3,603 463 763 1,303 512 6,644 Own debt securities in issue 2,373 62 4,588 73 7,096 Debt securities in issue related to securitised mortgages 15 5,401 5,416 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS (INCLUDING TRADING) Own debt securities in issue 11 6 26 43 Debt securities in issue structured 24 82 339 1,369 1,814 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other liabilities 149 149 Current tax Deferred tax 18 18 Employee benefits 1 4 5 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES Amortised cost 25 60 85 Fair value through profit or loss 37 388 425 TOTAL LIABILITIES (excluding derivatives) 3,612 3,106 1,121 7,050 8,067 22,956 Estimated contractual interest cash flows 101 274 907 1,080 2,362 TOTAL LIABILITIES (excluding derivatives, including estimated contractual interest rate cash flows) 3,612 3,207 1,395 7,957 9,147 25,318 TOTAL ASSETS RELEVANT FOR MANAGING LIQUIDITY RISK AT FAIR VALUE (excluding derivatives and interest cash flows) 1,872 3,054 764 918 5,071 12,874 24,553 176 Consolidated financial statements Notes Liquidity maturity calendar derivatives The following tables present the derivative financial instruments that will be settled on a net basis by relevant maturity classes based on the contractual maturity date at 31 December 2012 and 2011. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. 56-3 Liquidity maturity calendar of derivatives, 31 December 2012 Between three Less than months and One to Five years IN EUR MILLIONS three months one year five years or more Total DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING Interest rate derivatives (net settled) Inflow 496 743 2,791 1,763 5,793 Outflow (370) (754) (2,885) (1,281) (5,290) Credit derivatives Inflow 1 1 2 Outflow (1) (2) (11) (14) DERIVATIVES USED FOR HEDGING FX forward (gross settled) Inflow Outflow Interest rate derivatives (net settled) Inflow 23 86 277 29 415 Outflow (15) (77) (260) (38) (390) TOTAL INFLOW 519 830 3,069 1,792 6,210 TOTAL OUTFLOW (386) (833) (3,156) (1,319) (5,694) 56-4 Liquidity maturity calendar of derivatives, 31 December 2011 Between three Less than months and One to Five years IN EUR MILLIONS three months one year five years or more Total DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING Interest rate derivatives (net settled) Inflow 912 2,041 4,551 2,194 9,698 Outflow (822) (2,022) (4,570) (1,495) (8,909) Credit derivatives Inflow 1 1 3 5 Outflow (1) (1) DERIVATIVES USED FOR HEDGING FX forward (gross settled) Inflow 963 33 996 Outflow (996) (33) (1,029) Interest rate derivatives (net settled) Inflow 18 72 289 49 428 Outflow (21) (85) (298) (65) (469) TOTAL INFLOW 1,894 2,147 4,843 2,243 11,127 TOTAL OUTFLOW (1,839) (2,140) (4,869) (1,560) (10,408) Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 177 Liquidity maturity calendar off-balance sheet The following table shows the contractual maturity of NIBC’s contingent liabilities and commitments. Each undrawn loan or capital commitment is included in the time band containing the earliest date it can be drawn down. For issued financial guarantee contracts, the maximum amount of the guarantee is allocated to the earliest period in which the guarantee could be called. 56-5 Liquidity maturity calendar off-balance sheet, 31 December 2012 Between Less than three three months and One to Five years IN EUR MILLIONS months one year five years or more Total CONTRACT AMOUNT Committed facilities with respect to corporate loan financing 1,153 1,153 Capital commitments 43 43 Guarantees granted 95 95 Irrevocable letters of credit 34 34 1,325 1,325 56-6 Liquidity maturity calendar off-balance sheet, 31 December 2011 Between Less than three three months and One to Five years IN EUR MILLIONS months one year five years or more Total CONTRACT AMOUNT Committed facilities with respect to corporate loan financing 1,428 1,428 Capital commitments 67 67 Guarantees granted 104 104 Irrevocable letters of credit 4 4 1,603 1,603 57 Capital management Overview It is NIBC’s policy to maintain a strong capital base, to meet regulatory capital requirements at all times and to support the development of its business by allocating capital efficiently. Allocation of capital to the business is based on an EC approach. EC is the amount of capital which NIBC allocates as a buffer against potential losses from business activities, based upon its assessment of risks. The EC that NIBC allocates to each business is based on the assessment of risk of its activities. It differs from Basel II regulatory capital as in certain cases, NIBC assesses the specific risk characteristics of its business activities in a different way from the regulatory method. Total regulatory capital however, in combination with a minimum benchmark Tier-1 ratio does form a limit to the maximum amount of EC that can be allocated to the business. Comparing the risk-based EC of each business to its profit delivers a RAROC for each business. EC and RAROC are key tools in NIBC’s capital allocation and usage process, assisting in allocating shareholder’s equity as efficiently as possible, based on expectations of both risks and return. Usage of EC is assessed once every two weeks in the ALCO. The ALCO resets the maximum allocation level of EC to and within each business, taking into account business expectations, NIBC’s desired risk profile and the regulatory requirements. 178 Consolidated financial statements Notes Methodology NIBC uses the business model of each activity as the basis for determining the EC approach. If the business model of an activity is trading, distribution or investing for a limited period, a market risk approach based upon VaR and scaled to a one-year horizon is used to calculate the EC usage. A business model based on ‘buy-to-hold’ or investing to maturity leads to a credit risk approach being applied, based upon estimations of PD and LGD. Add-ons for operational risk and country risk are also calculated. Furthermore, NIBC allocates EC for business risk, reputation risk and model risk on a group-wide level. The EC approach differs from the regulatory approach in which only the trading books are assigned a market risk approach. In the regulatory framework, activities that are not trading but have a business model based on distribution or investment for a limited period are often assigned a credit risk approach, following Basel II regulations or regulatory industry practice, whereas in the EC framework NIBC applies a market risk approach similar to that of the trading activities. Risks and EC are monitored accordingly. The main differences between the EC capital and regulatory framework come from the Residential Mortgage portfolio, the Securitisations portfolio and NIBC’s interest rate mismatch position. EC is determined by a market risk approach for these activities. The regulatory approach is either a credit risk approach (residential mortgages and securitisations) or is not part of the Basel II Pillar 1 at all (mismatch position). Capital allocation NIBC allocates EC to all its business activities in the form of limits set by the ALCO and calculates the amount of EC usage of each business based on the risk of its activities: nn For the Corporate Loan portfolio, NIBC calculates EC usage by means of a credit risk approach largely based upon the Basel II regulatory capital formula and an add-on for concentration risk; nn For the Debt Investments and Trading portfolios, the Residential Mortgage portfolio and the interest rate mismatch position, NIBC uses a market risk approach to determine EC usage. EC usage for these portfolios is calculated using VaR, calculated with four years of historical data and scaled to a one-year horizon; and nn For the Investment loans, NIBC calculates EC usage by applying a credit approach based upon the Basel II regulatory capital formula. NIBC uses fixed percentages for the equity investments. Basel II regulatory capital The objective of Basel II is to improve the capital adequacy of the banking industry by making it more responsive to risk. Basel II is structured on three pillars: nn Pillar 1 describes the capital adequacy requirements for three risk types; credit risk, market risk and operational risk; nn Pillar 2 describes the additional supervisory review and evaluation process (SREP), where regulators analyse the internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) of the individual banks. Since the end of 2011, DNB also analyses the internal liquidity adequacy assessment process (ILAAP); and nn In Pillar 3 the required risk reporting standards are displayed, supporting additional market discipline in the international capital markets. Under Basel II and subject to approval from the regulator, banks have the option to choose between various approaches, each with a different level of sophistication in risk management, ranging from ‘standardised’ to ‘advanced’. For credit risk, NIBC adopted the AIRB approach as further specified in Basel II for its corporate and retail exposure classes and is in the process of including institutions. NIBC started using the AIRB approach at 1 January 2008. A small residue of exposures is measured on the standardised approach. For market risk, NIBC adopted an internal model VaR approach. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 179 For measuring operational risk, NIBC adopted the standardised approach. The basis for Pillar 2 is NIBC’s ICAAP, which is NIBC’s self-assessment of risks not captured by Pillar 1. Pillar 3 is related to market discipline and complements the operation of Pillars 1 and 2, aiming to make banks more transparent. NIBC publishes its Pillar 3 disclosures on its website. The following table displays the composition of regulatory capital as at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. NIBC complies with DNB’s Basel II capital requirements, which formally require a maximunm Tier-1 ratio of 4% and a BIS ratio of 8%. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 TIER-1 Called-up share capital 80 80 Share premium 237 237 Eligible reserves 1,367 1,361 Net profit after proposed dividend 53 28 Non-controlling interests 1 Regulatory adjustments (251) (74) CORE TIER-1 CAPITAL1 1,487 1,633 Innovative hybrid Tier-1 capital 46 47 Non-innovative hybrid Tier-1 capital 230 233 TOTAL TIER-1 CAPITAL 1,763 1,913 TIER-2 Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on available-forsale equities 17 27 Qualifying subordinated liabilities Undated loan capital 36 36 Dated loan capital 103 158 Regulatory adjustments (56) (74) TOTAL TIER-2 CAPITAL 100 147 TOTAL BIS-CAPITAL 1,862 2,060 1. Adjusted to European Banking Authority (EBA) definition. This definition of capital comprises the highest quality capital instruments. 180 Table of contents Company financial statements Company income statement 182 Company statement of comprehensive income 183 Company balance sheet 184 Company statement of changes in shareholder’s equity 186 Company accounting policies 187 Notes to the company financial statements 1 Cash and balances with central banks 188 2 Due from other banks 188 3 Loans and receivables 189 4 Interest-bearing securities 190 5 Equity investments 191 6 Participating interests in group companies 192 7 Other participating interests 192 8 Property, plant and equipment 193 9 Assets held under financial lease 193 10 Derivative financial instruments 194 11 Prepayments and accrued income 199 12 Due to other banks 200 13 Deposits from customers 200 14 Debt securities 201 15 Other liabilities 201 16 Provisions 202 17 Subordinated liabilities amortised cost 202 18 Subordinated liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 203 19 Shareholder’s equity 203 20 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets 205 21 Commitments and contingent assets and liabilities 205 22 Assets pledged as security 206 23 Assets under management 206 24 Related party transactions 206 25 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 206 26 Financial risk management 206 27 Number of employees 206 28 Remuneration 206 29 Profit appropriation 207 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 181 Company income statement for the year ended 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 Results of participating interests after tax 6 153 42 Other results after tax (80) 26 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 73 68 182 Company financial statements Company statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 2011 Tax Tax charge/ charge/ IN EUR MILLIONS Before tax (credit) After tax Before tax (credit) After tax PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 81 8 73 71 3 68 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Net result on cash flow hedging instruments (30) (7) (23) 28 6 22 Revaluation loans and receivables 4 1 3 14 3 11 Revaluation equity investments (10) (1) (9) 1 1 Revaluation debt investments 24 6 18 (25) (6) (19) Revaluation property, plant and equipment 1 1 (13) (3) (10) TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (11) (1) (10) 5 1 4 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 70 7 63 76 4 72 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 183 Company balance sheet before profit appropriation, at 31 December IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 Assets Cash and balances with central banks 1 1,604 2,430 Due from other banks 2 2,378 2,405 Loans and receivables Guaranteed by public authorities 3 34 38 To the private sector 3 13,784 13,096 Interest-bearing securities 4 1,666 1,888 Equity investments 5 4 3 Participating interests in group companies 6 632 494 Other participating interests 7 1 1 Property, plant and equipment 8 12 14 Assets held under financial lease 9 15 15 Derivative financial instruments 10 4,771 4,801 Prepayments and accrued income 11 48 63 TOTAL ASSETS 24,949 25,248 184 Company financial statements IN EUR MILLIONS NOTE 2012 2011 Liabilities Due to other banks 12 1,178 1,327 Deposits from customers 13 11,185 8,503 Debt securities 14 5,993 8,861 Other liabilities 15 79 95 Derivative financial instruments 10 4,332 4,254 Provisions 16 4 18 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES Amortised cost 17 83 85 Fair value through profit or loss 18 264 296 TOTAL LIABILITIES 23,118 23,439 SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY Share capital 19 80 80 OTHER RESERVES Share premium 19 238 238 Hedging reserve 19 66 89 Revaluation reserve 19 8 (5) Retained earnings 1,385 1,361 Net profit 73 68 Interim dividend paid (19) (22) TOTAL PARENT SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY 1,831 1,809 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY 24,949 25,248 Contingent liabilities 21 128 107 Irrevocable facilities 21 1,068 1,268 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 185 Company statement of changes in shareholder’s equity Attributable to parent shareholder DistribuTotal tion shareShare Other Retained Net charged to holder’s IN EUR MILLIONS capital reserves 1 earnings profit profit equity BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2011 80 318 1,329 76 (22) 1,781 Transfer of net profit 2010 to retained earnings 54 (76) 22 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 4 68 72 Capital contribution share-based payments Dividend paid 2 (22) (22) (44) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 80 322 1,361 68 (22) 1,809 Attributable to parent shareholder DistribuTotal tion shareShare Other Retained Net charged to holder’s IN EUR MILLIONS capital reserves 1 earnings profit profit equity BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2012 80 322 1,361 68 (22) 1,809 Transfer of net profit 2011 to retained earnings 46 (68) 22 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 (10) 73 63 Capital contribution share-based payments Dividend paid 2 (22) (19) (41) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 80 312 1,385 73 (19) 1,831 1. Other reserves include share premium, hedging reserve and revaluation reserves. 2. Ordinary interim and final dividend paid in 2012 and 2011 to equity holder. 186 Company Accounting policies Basis of preparation Summary of significant The principal accounting policies applied in the accounting policies preparation of the company financial statements Except as set forth below, the accounting policies are set out in the consolidated financial statements. applied in the company financial statements are the These policies have been consistently applied to all same as those for the consolidated financial the years presented, unless otherwise stated. Where statements. necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform to changes in presentation in the Investments in subsidiaries current year. Subsidiaries, as defined in the section summary of significant accounting policies in the basis of The company financial statements have been consolidation of subsidiaries (in the notes to the prepared in accordance with the legal requirements consolidated financial statements), are measured at for financial statements contained in Title 9, Book 2 net asset value. Net asset value is determined by of the Netherlands Civil Code. NIBC applies the measuring the assets, provisions, liabilities and provisions in Section 362, paragraph 8, Title 9, income based on the accounting policies used in Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code that make it the consolidated financial statements. The possible to prepare the company financial company’s share of its subsidiaries’ profits or losses statements in accordance with the accounting is recognised in the income statement. Its policies (including those for the presentation of movement in reserves is recognised in reserves. financial instruments as equity or liability) used in its consolidated financial statements. If losses of group companies that are attributable to the company exceed the carrying amount of the The company financial statements are presented in interest in the group company (including separately euros rounded to the nearest million. The euro is presented goodwill, if any, and including other the functional and presentation currency of NIBC. unsecured receivables), further losses are not Under Section 402 of Title 9, Book 2 of the recognised unless the company has incurred Netherlands Civil Code, it is sufficient for the obligations or made payments on behalf of the company’s income statement to present only the group company to satisfy obligations of the group income of group companies and other income and company. In such a situation, NIBC recognises a expenses after income tax. provision up to the extent of its obligation. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 187 Notes to the company financial statements 1 Cash and balances with central banks IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Cash and balances with central banks 1,604 2,430 1,604 2,430 The amounts included in cash and balances with central banks are available on demand. Cash and balances with central banks included EUR 1,557 million on the current account balance held with DNB (2011: EUR 101 million current account and an overnight deposit of EUR 2,270 million). The mandatory reserve deposits at DNB required under its minimum reserve policy was EUR 56 million (2011: EUR 108 million). The fair value of this balance sheet item does not materially deviate from its face value, due to the shortterm nature of the underlying assets. 2 Due from other banks IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Current accounts 230 310 Deposits with other banks 1,568 1,432 Due from group companies 580 663 2,378 2,405 DUE FROM OTHER BANKS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Receivable on demand 810 973 Cash collateral placements posted under CSA agreements 1,474 1,398 Not receivable on demand 94 34 2,378 2,405 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DUE FROM OTHER BANKS NOT RECEIVABLE ON DEMAND IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 78 5 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 5 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 7 25 Longer than five years 4 4 94 34 There were no subordinated loans outstanding due from other banks in 2012 and 2011. The fair value of this balance sheet item does not materially deviate from its face value due to the shortterm nature of the underlying assets and the credit quality of the counterparties. Other than from group companies, NIBC does not have receivables from other participating interests. No impairments were recorded in 2012 and 2011 on the amounts due from other banks. 188 Company financial statements Notes An amount of EUR 1,474 million (2011: EUR 1,398 million) relates to cash collateral given to third parties and is not freely available to NIBC. NIBC transacted several reverse repurchase transactions with third parties. The related disclosures are included in note 20 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets. 3 Loans and receivables IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Loans amortised cost 6,530 7,399 Loans fair value through profit or loss 867 1,424 Guaranteed by public authorities 34 38 Group companies amortised cost 6,387 4,273 13,818 13,134 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF LOANS AND RECEIVABLES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 2,983 2,880 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 613 475 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 5,229 4,418 Longer than five years 4,993 5,361 13,818 13,134 THE MOVEMENT IN IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND RECEIVABLES MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 121 148 Additional allowances 35 63 Write-offs (28) (69) Amounts released (9) (19) Unwinding of discount adjustment (7) (3) Other (including exchange differences) 5 1 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 117 121 On 1 July 2008, following the IAS 39 amendments, an amount of EUR 74 million of the impairments related to the available-for-sale loans were reclassified to the loans category at amortised cost. The total amount of loans in the available-for-sale category net of impairments was reclassified to the loans category at amortised cost as at 1 July 2008. The impairments at 31 December 2012, related to the available-for-sale loans reclassified to the loans category at amortised cost on 1 July 2008, amounted to EUR 69 million (31 December 2011: EUR 86 million). If NIBC had fair valued the loans classified as amortised cost using the valuation methodology applied to loans designated as available-for-sale as per 31 December 2012, then the carrying amount would have decreased at the balance sheet date by EUR 150 million (2011: EUR 93 million) excluding group companies. This decrease would reflect both changes due to interest rates and credit spreads. NIBC hedges its interest rate risk from these assets. The maximum credit risk exposure including undrawn credit facilities arising on loans at amortised cost amounts to EUR 7,632 million (2011: EUR 8,702 million), excluding the group companies. The total amount of subordinated loans in this item was EUR 91 million in 2012 (2011: EUR 96 million), of which no amounts (2011: EUR 1 million) has been guaranteed by the Dutch State. No subordinated loans are included with respect to group companies. As per 31 December 2012, EUR 34 million (2011: EUR 38 million) was guaranteed by the Dutch State. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 189 For the impact of the reclassifications following IASB amendments ‘IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurements’ on the income statement and on shareholder’s equity, see notes to the consolidated financial statements 2012 of NIBC. Impairment losses of loans at available-for-sale are defined as the difference between the fair value of loans that exhibit indicators of impairment and original cost. Impairment losses of loans at amortised cost are measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. As a policy, NIBC does not provide loans to its executives. 4 Interest-bearing securities IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Amortised cost 560 843 Available-for-sale 985 887 Fair value through profit or loss 72 100 Held for trading 49 58 1,666 1,888 The previous table displays the IFRS accounting treatment of interest-bearing securities. All interestbearing securities are non-government. All held for trading interest-bearing securities are listed. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES AT AMORTISED COST, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Listed 1,494 1,590 Unlisted 123 240 1,617 1,830 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES AT AMORTISED COST, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 100 87 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 155 191 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 369 516 Longer than five years 993 1,036 1,617 1,830 THE MOVEMENT IN INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES AT AMORTISED COST, AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 1,830 2,299 Additions 733 692 Disposals (sale and/or redemption) (955) (1,143) Impairments and changes in fair value 6 (27) Exchange differences 3 9 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 1,617 1,830 Subordinated assets included in interest-bearing securities amounted to EUR 4 million (2011: EUR 12 million). 190 Company financial statements Notes Interest-bearing securities do not include assets issued and bought by NIBC for market making purposes. Any such assets are eliminated from the balance sheet. Interest income from interest-bearing securities and other fixed-income instruments is recognised in interest and similar income at the effective interest rate. Fair value movements (excluding interest) are recognised in net trading income. The portion of fair value changes in 2012 included in the balance sheet amount (designated at fair value through profit or loss) at 31 December 2012 relating to the movement in credit spreads amounted to EUR 1 million debit, being an increase in the carrying amount of the asset (2011: EUR 1 million credit). If NIBC had fair valued the interest-bearing securities classified as amortised cost, then the balance sheet amount would have decreased at the balance sheet date by EUR 59 million (2011: EUR 113 million). This decrease reflects both changes due to interest rates and credit spreads. In 2012, impairments on interest-bearing assets amounted to EUR 6 million (2011: nil). As at 1 July 2008, certain debt investments from the available-for-sale and held for trading category were reclassified to debt investments at amortised cost. For the impact of the implementation of IASB amendments ‘IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurements’ on the income statement and on shareholder’s equity, see notes to the consolidated financial statements of NIBC. 5 Equity investments IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Available-for-sale 3 Fair value through profit or loss 1 3 4 3 EQUITY INVESTMENTS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Listed Unlisted 4 3 4 3 THE MOVEMENT IN EQUITY INVESTMENTS AT AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 7 Disposals (sale and/or capital repayments) (6) Gains/(losses) from changes in fair value 3 (1) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 3 THE MOVEMENT IN IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON EQUITY INVESTMENTS AT AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 8 Write-offs (8) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER THE MOVEMENT IN EQUITY INVESTMENTS DESIGNATED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 3 3 Gains/(losses) from changes in fair value (2) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 1 3 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 191 Impairment losses for equity investments at available-for-sale are defined as the difference between the fair value of equity investments that exhibit indicators of impairment and original cost. 6 Participating interests in group companies IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Participating interests in group companies 632 494 632 494 THE MOVEMENT IN PARTICIPATING INTERESTS IN GROUP COMPANIES MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 494 761 Purchases and investments Disposals (1) Revaluation (10) (2) Dividend received (312) Results of group companies 153 42 Exchange differences (4) 5 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 632 494 The group companies are unlisted. Participating interests in group companies are accounted for at net asset value. NIBC Bank Ltd included in group companies is a registered credit institution in Singapore. 7 Other participating interests IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Other participating interests 1 1 1 1 Other participating interests are accounted for at net asset value. On the balance sheet dates at the end of 2012 and 2011, all other participating interests were unlisted. The other participating interests are not registered as credit institutions. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of other participating interests to transfer funds to the investor in the form of cash dividends, or repayment of loans. There is no unrecognised share of losses of other participating interests, both for the period and cumulatively. There were no movements in other participating interests in 2012 and 2011. 192 Company financial statements Notes 8 Property, plant and equipment IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Land and buildings (in own use) / lease hold improvements 9 10 Other fixed assets 3 4 12 14 THE MOVEMENT IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 14 14 Additions 1 8 Revaluations 1 (3) Depreciation (4) (5) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 12 14 THE ACCUMULATED DEPRECATION IN PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Land and buildings (in own use) / leasehold improvements 14 11 Other fixed assets 11 10 25 21 For information about insurance of property, plant and equipment please refer to note 29 of the consolidated financial statements. There is no property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities. There were no contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. The fair value of land and buildings (in own use) does not materially deviate from its carrying amount. NIBC’s land and buildings in own use were last revalued as of 31 December 2011 based on an external appraisal carried out in December 2011. 9 Assets held under financial lease IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Assets held under financial lease 15 15 15 15 THE MOVEMENT IN ASSETS HELD UNDER FINANCIAL LEASE MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 15 21 Impairments (5) Depreciation (1) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 15 15 Assets held under financial lease are pledged as security for liabilities to group companies. There were no contractual commitments for the acquisition of assets held under financial lease at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 193 10 Derivative financial instruments IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS Derivative financial assets held for trading (trading portfolios) 3,838 3,682 Derivative financial assets held for trading (other portfolios) 658 827 Derivative financial assets used for hedging 275 292 4,771 4,801 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (trading portfolios) 3,929 3,795 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (other portfolios) 383 425 Derivative financial liabilities used for hedging 20 34 4,332 4,254 194 Company financial statements Notes Derivative financial instruments held for trading (trading portfolios) at 31 December 2012 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Forward rate agreements Interest rate swaps 4,332 7,402 69,375 81,109 3,741 3,859 Interest rate options (purchase) 45 23 482 550 4 Interest rate options (sale) 45 19 495 559 7 4,422 7,444 70,352 82,218 3,745 3,866 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Currency/cross-currency swaps 791 791 35 1 791 791 35 1 OTHER DERIVATIVES (INCLUDING CREDIT DERIVATIVES) OTC PRODUCTS: Other swaps 74 74 58 62 Other options (purchase) Other options (sale) 74 74 58 62 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (TRADING PORTFOLIOS) 4,422 7,444 71,217 83,083 3,838 3,929 Derivative financial instruments held for trading (trading portfolios) at 31 December 2011 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Forward rate agreements Interest rate swaps 11,972 12,468 70,878 95,318 3,615 3,716 Interest rate options (purchase) 55 207 534 796 7 Interest rate options (sale) 21 107 504 632 1 9 12,048 12,782 71,916 96,746 3,623 3,725 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Currency/cross-currency swaps 705 4 709 56 59 705 4 709 56 59 OTHER DERIVATIVES (INCLUDING CREDIT DERIVATIVES) OTC PRODUCTS: Other swaps 62 62 2 10 Other options (purchase) 42 42 1 Other options (sale) 42 42 1 146 146 3 11 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (TRADING PORTFOLIOS) 12,048 13,487 72,066 97,601 3,682 3,795 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 195 Derivative financial instruments held for trading (other portfolios) at 31 December 2012 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 1,502 1,836 12,225 15,563 610 365 1,502 1,836 12,225 15,563 610 365 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Forward rate agreements Interest currency rate swap 17 15 870 902 44 4 Other currency contracts 603 603 3 13 620 15 870 1,505 47 17 OTC PRODUCTS: Credit default swaps (guarantees given) 50 50 1 Credit default swaps (guarantees received) 200 200 Other OTC products 4 4 1 254 254 1 1 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (OTHER PORTFOLIOS) 2,122 1,851 13,349 17,322 658 383 Derivative financial instruments held for trading (other portfolios) at 31 December 2011 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 2,588 1,468 15,542 19,598 595 388 2,588 1,468 15,542 19,598 595 388 CURRENCY DERIVATIVES OTC PRODUCTS: Forward rate agreements 60 60 1 1 Interest currency rate swap 525 469 880 1,874 226 3 Other currency contracts 894 894 30 1,479 469 880 2,828 227 34 OTC PRODUCTS: Credit default swaps (guarantees given) 50 50 1 1 Credit default swaps (guarantees received) Other OTC products 20 4 24 4 2 20 54 74 5 3 TOTAL DERIVATIVES HELD FOR TRADING (OTHER PORTFOLIOS) 4,067 1,957 16,476 22,500 827 425 196 Company financial statements Notes Derivative financial instruments used for hedging at 31 December 2012 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTED FOR AS FAIR VALUE HEDGES OF INTEREST RATE RISK OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 78 292 5,071 5,441 266 20 Interest currency rate swaps 10 10 9 78 292 5,081 5,451 275 20 DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTED FOR AS CASH FLOW HEDGES OF INTEREST RATE RISK OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps TOTAL DERIVATIVES USED FOR HEDGING 78 292 5,081 5,451 275 20 Derivative financial instruments used for hedging at 31 December 2011 Notional amount with remaining life of Between Less than three three months and More than IN EUR MILLIONS months one year one year Total Assets Liabilities DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTED FOR AS FAIR VALUE HEDGES OF INTEREST RATE RISK OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps 1,430 342 5,444 7,216 286 34 Interest currency rate swaps 27 27 6 1,430 342 5,471 7,243 292 34 DERIVATIVES ACCOUNTED FOR AS CASH FLOW HEDGES OF INTEREST RATE RISK OTC PRODUCTS: Interest rate swaps TOTAL DERIVATIVES USED FOR HEDGING 1,430 342 5,471 7,243 292 34 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 197 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk The interest rate risk of financial assets with a fixed-interest rate classified at available-for-sale or at amortised costs are hedged with interest rate swaps under which NIBC pays a fixed rate and receives floating rates. Fair value hedge accounting is applied to these hedge relationships. Interest rate swaps under which NIBC pays a floating rate and receives a fixed rate are used in fair value hedges of fixed-interest rate liabilities (as far as not held for trading purposes or designated at fair value through profit or loss). The following table discloses the fair value of the swaps designated in fair value hedging relationships: IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Fair value pay fixed swaps (hedging assets) assets Fair value pay fixed swaps (hedging assets) liabilities (20) (34) (20) (34) Fair value pay floating swaps (hedging liabilities) assets 275 292 Fair value pay floating swaps (hedging liabilities) liabilities 275 292 Cash flow hedges of interest rate risk All macro cash flow hedge relationships ceased to exist during 2011 and therefore the related cumulative hedge adjustments as from that date are amortised over the remaining contractual maturity of the hedged item. The average remaining maturity (within which the related cash flows are expected to enter into the determination of profit and loss) is four years (2011: four years). 198 Company financial statements Notes 11 Prepayments and accrued income IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Accrued interest 1 Defined-benefit pension asset 1 2 Current tax 2 4 Deferred tax 4 Accrued income and prepayments 40 58 48 63 1. For further specification of the defined-benefit pension asset please refer to note 41 Employee benefits of the consolidated financial statements. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE AMOUNTS OF DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS, WITHOUT TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THE OFFSETTING OF BALANCES WITHIN THE SAME JURISDICTION, WERE AS FOLLOWS: Loans to customers 1 Debt securities 3 9 Tax losses carried forward 28 14 31 24 THE AMOUNTS OF DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES, WITHOUT TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION THE OFFSETTING OF BALANCES WITHIN THE SAME JURISDICTION, WERE AS FOLLOWS: Equity investments 1 Cash flow hedges 23 31 Property, plant & equipment 3 3 Temporary differences as a result of internal securitisations 4 27 38 4 (14) IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE GROSS MOVEMENT ON THE DEFERRED INCOME TAX ACCOUNT MAY BE SUMMARISED AS FOLLOWS: BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY (14) (26) LOANS (REPORTED AS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE): Fair value remeasurement (charged)/credited to revaluation reserve (1) (3) DEBT INVESTMENTS (REPORTED AS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE): Fair value remeasurement (charged)/credited to revaluation reserve (6) 6 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (REPORTED AT FAIR VALUE): Fair value remeasurement (charged)/credited to revaluation reserve 2 CASH FLOW HEDGES: Fair value remeasurement (charged)/credited to hedging reserve 8 (7) Temporary differences as a result of internal securitisations 3 9 Tax losses carried forward 14 5 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 4 (14) Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 199 12 Due to other banks IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Due to other banks 1,178 1,327 1,178 1,327 DUE TO OTHER BANKS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Payable on demand 173 180 Not payable on demand 1,005 1,147 1,178 1,327 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DUE TO OTHER BANKS NOT PAYABLE ON DEMAND IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 339 220 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 35 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 501 719 Longer than five years 165 173 1,005 1,147 Interest is recognised in interest expense and similar charges on an effective interest basis. NIBC transacted several repurchase transactions with third parties. The related disclosures are included in note 20 Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets. An amount of EUR 274 million (2011: EUR 216 million) related to cash collateral received from third parties. 13 Deposits from customers IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Deposits from customers 11,185 8,503 11,185 8,503 DEPOSITS FROM CUSTOMERS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Certificates of deposits Due to customers 11,185 8,503 11,185 8,503 DEPOSITS FROM CUSTOMERS CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Payable on demand 4,274 3,603 Not payable on demand 6,911 4,900 11,185 8,503 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEPOSITS FROM CUSTOMERS NOT PAYABLE ON DEMAND IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 3,283 2,235 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 1,085 763 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 1,958 1,387 Longer than five years 585 515 6,911 4,900 Interest is recognised in interest expense and similar charges on an effective interest basis. The balance sheet item included EUR 3,197 million (2011: EUR 2,106 million) in respect of deposits from customers to group companies. The balance sheet item includes all non-subordinated liabilities other than debt securities and amounts owed to credit institutions. 200 Company financial statements Notes 14 Debt securities IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Bonds and notes issued amortised costs 4,792 7,546 Bonds and notes issued fair value through profit or loss 1,074 1,158 Fair value hedge adjustment on amortised cost bonds and notes issued 127 157 5,993 8,861 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF DEBT SECURITIES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: Three months or less 1 2,411 Longer than three months but not longer than one year 295 146 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 4,941 5,526 Longer than five years 756 778 5,993 8,861 The Dutch State has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed the due payment of all amounts of principal and interest due by NIBC for EUR 3,311 million (2011: EUR 5,410 million) of the issued notes according and subject to (i) the Rules governing the 2008 Dutch State’s Credit Scheme and (ii) the Guarantee Certificate issued under those Rules in respect of these notes. These Rules and that Guarantee Certificate are available at www.dsta.nl. The balance sheet item includes debentures and other negotiable fixed-income debt investments, other than subordinated items. 15 Other liabilities IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Accruals 31 53 Payables 21 22 Finance lease liabilities 19 20 Current tax 8 79 95 Finance lease liabilities The lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in event of default. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 201 IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF THE GROSS FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: One year or less 2 2 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 8 8 Longer than five years 16 18 26 28 THE PRESENT VALUE OF THE FINANCIAL LEASE LIABILITIES CAN BE CATEGORISED AS FOLLOWS: Gross financial lease liability 26 28 Future finance charge of finance leases (7) (8) 19 20 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF THE PRESENT VALUE OF FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: One year or less 2 2 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 6 6 Longer than five years 11 12 19 20 At the end of 2012, NIBC had leased land and buildings. The annual lease payments (related to the financial lease) are EUR 4.5 million (2011: EUR 4.5 million). The remaining contractual term of the finance lease contract(s) is six years. 16 Provisions IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Deferred tax 14 Employee benefits 4 4 4 18 For further specification of the defined-benefit pension asset please refer to note 41 Employee benefits of the consolidated financial statements. The movement in deferred tax is disclosed in note 11 Prepayments and accrued income. 17 Subordinated liabilities amortised cost IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Subordinated loans qualifying as Tier-1 capital 46 48 Other subordinated loans 37 37 83 85 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: One year or less 25 Longer than one year but not longer than five years 25 Longer than five years but not longer than ten years 1 Longer than ten years 58 59 83 85 All of the above loans are subordinated to the other liabilities of NIBC. EUR 46 million (2011: EUR 48 million) qualifying as Tier-1 capital is subordinated to other subordinated loans that rank pari passu. 202 Company financial statements Notes These securities are perpetual securities and may be redeemed by NIBC at its option after ten years with the prior approval of the DNB. Interest expense of EUR 5 million was recognised on these subordinated liabilities during the year 2012 (2011: EUR 5 million). The subordinated liabilities reflect seven transactions (2011: seven transactions), of which the largest three total EUR 67 million (2011 largest three: EUR 68 million). 18 S ubordinated liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Subordinated loans qualifying as Tier-1 capital 144 138 Other subordinated loans 120 158 264 296 THE LEGAL MATURITY ANALYSIS OF SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES IS ANALYSED AS FOLLOWS: One year or less Longer than one year but not longer than five years 40 39 Longer than five years but not longer than ten years 4 Longer than ten years 224 253 264 296 All of the above loans are subordinated to the other liabilities of NIBC. EUR 144 million (2011: EUR 138 million) qualifying as Tier-1 capital is subordinated to other subordinated loans that rank pari passu. These securities are perpetual securities and may be redeemed by NIBC at its option after ten years with the prior approval of the DNB. Interest expense of EUR 20 million was recognised on these subordinated liabilities during the year 2012 (2011: EUR 31 million). The subordinated liabilities reflect nine transactions (2011: nine transactions), of which the largest three total EUR 159 million (2011 largest three: EUR 200 million). 19 Shareholder’s equity The ultimate controlling company is New NIB Limited, a company incorporated in Ireland. Share Capital IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 Paid-up capital 80 80 80 80 2012 2011 THE NUMBER OF AUTHORISED SHARES IS SPECIFIED AS FOLLOWS: Number of authorised shares 1 183,597,500 183,597,500 Number of shares issued and fully paid 2 62,586,794 62,586,794 Par value per A-share 1.28 1.28 Par value per (B,C,D,E1-E3) preference share 1.00 1.00 Par value per (E4) preference share 5.00 5.00 1. The authorised capital amounts to EUR 214.9 million and is divided into 110,937,500 A-shares of EUR 1.28 nominal value each, 72,600,000 of different classes of preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 1.00 each and 60,000 of preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 5.00 each. 2. The shares issued and fully paid consist of A-shares. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 203 Other reserves IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 OTHER RESERVES ARE COMPRISED OF: Share premium 238 238 Hedging reserve cash flow hedges 66 89 Revaluation reserve loans (available-for-sale) (4) Revaluation reserve equity investments (available-for-sale) (2) 7 Revaluation reserve debt securities (available-for-sale) (8) (26) Revaluation reserve property, plant and equipment 18 18 312 322 Share Hedging Revaluation IN EUR MILLIONS premium reserve reserve Total BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2011 238 67 13 318 Net result on cash flow hedging instruments 22 22 Revaluation of loans and receivables (net of tax) 11 11 Revaluation of equity investments (net of tax) (1) (1) Revaluation of debt securities (net of tax) (18) (18) Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (net of tax) (10) (10) TOTAL RECOGNISED DIRECTLY THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN EQUITY 22 (18) 4 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 238 89 (5) 322 Share Hedging Revaluation IN EUR MILLIONS premium reserve reserve Total BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2012 238 89 (5) 322 Net result on cash flow hedging instruments (23) (23) Revaluation of loans and receivables (net of tax) 3 3 Revaluation of equity investments (net of tax) (9) (9) Revaluation of debt securities (net of tax) 18 18 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment (net of tax) 1 1 TOTAL RECOGNISED DIRECTLY THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN EQUITY (23) 13 (10) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2012 238 66 8 312 If NIBC had not reclassified financial assets in 2008, additional fair value gains recognised for the year 2012 in the income statement and additional gains recognised in the revaluation reserve in shareholder’s equity would have amounted to a net of tax gain of EUR 36 million (2011: net of tax loss of EUR 13 million) and a net tax gain of EUR 3 million (2011: net of tax gain of EUR 7 million) respectively. Impairment charges would have amounted to nil for these assets that were reclassified out of available-for-sale into loans and receivables. For more information, see note 45 of the consolidated financial statements. Information on NIBC’s solvency ratios is included in the risk management section of this Annual Report. At 31 December 2012, retained earnings and net profit attributable to the parent shareholder includes unrealised fair value changes on residential mortgages (own book and securitised), on certain non-listed trading assets, on derivatives related to residential mortgages (own book and securitised) and to these nonlisted trading assets, on associates designated at fair value through profit or loss and on liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. With respect to unrealised fair value gains arising on these instruments, a legal reserve has been established of EUR 241 million (2011: EUR 305 million) that is included in other reserves. At the balance sheet date, for associates accounted for based on net equity method, no further legal reserve has been established for both 2012 and 2011. At the balance sheet date, the legal reserve for currency translation differences was nil for both 2012 and 2011. 204 Company financial statements Notes Including the revaluation and hedging reserves displayed in note 44 of the consolidated financial statements, total legal reserves at 31 December 2012 amount to EUR 325 million (2011: EUR 419 million). 20  epurchase and resale agreements and R transferred financial assets For a specification of the Repurchase and resale agreements and transferred financial assets, we refer to note 46 of the consolidated financial statements. 21 Commitments and contingent assets and liabilities At any time, NIBC has outstanding commitments to extend credit. Outstanding loan commitments have a commitment period that does not extend beyond the normal underwriting and settlement period of one to three months. Commitments extended to customers relating to mortgages at fixed-interest rates or fixed spreads are hedged with interest rate swaps recorded at fair value. These commitments are designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. NIBC provides financial guarantees and letters of credit to guarantee the performance of customers to third parties. These agreements have fixed limits and generally extend for a period up to five years. Expirations are not concentrated in any period. The contractual amounts of commitments (excluding residential mortgages commitments which are measured at fair value through profit or loss) and contingent liabilities are set out in the following table by category. In the table, it is assumed that amounts are fully advanced. The amounts for guarantees and letters of credit represent the maximum accounting loss that would be recognised at the balance sheet date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted. IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 2011 CONTRACT AMOUNT: Undrawn facilities and capital commitments 1,068 1,268 Guarantees and letters of credit 128 107 1,196 1,375 In 2012 and 2011, there were no guarantees to group companies. These commitments and contingent liabilities have off-balance sheet credit risk because only commitment/ origination fees and accruals for probable losses are recognised in the balance sheet until the commitments are fulfilled or expire. Many of the contingent liabilities and commitments will expire without being advanced in whole or in part. Therefore, the amounts do not represent expected future cash flows. Details of concentrations of credit risk including concentrations of credit risk arising from commitments and contingent liabilities as well as NIBC’s policies for collateral for loans are set out in note 54 of the consolidated financial statements. Guarantees within the meaning of Section 403, Title 9 of Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code have been given on behalf of De Nationale Maatschappij voor Industriële Financieringen B.V., PARNIB Holding N.V. and B.V. NIBC Mortgage Backed Assets. A complete list of the companies on behalf of which NIBC has given guarantees within the meaning of Section 403, Title 9 of Book 2, of the Netherlands Civil Code has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Declaration of joint and several liability has also been made to the respective monetary authorities of DNI Inter Asset Bank N.V. and NIBC Bank Ltd. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 205 NIBC is, together with other group companies and participating interests, a member of one fiscal entity NIBC Holding N.V. Besides NIBC Bank N.V. and NIBC Holding N.V., the principal other members are B.V. NIBC Mortgage Backed Assets, Parnib Holding N.V., Vredezicht ‘s-Gravenhage 110 B.V. and NIBC Principal Investments Mezzanine B.V. 22 Assets pledged as security For a specification of the assets pledged as security, please refer to note 49 of the consolidated financial statements. 23 Assets under management NIBC provides collateral management services, whereby it holds and manages assets or invests funds received in various financial instruments on behalf of the customer. NIBC receives fee income for providing these services. Assets under management are not recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. NIBC is not exposed to any credit risk relating to such placements, as it does not guarantee these investments. At 31 December 2012, the total assets held by NIBC on behalf of customers were EUR 1,082 million (2011: EUR 1,175 million). 24 Related party transactions For a specification of the related party transactions, we refer to note 51 of the consolidated financial statements. 25 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates For a specification of the principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, we refer to note 52 of the consolidated financial statements. 26 Financial risk management Please refer to notes 54 to 57 of the consolidated financial statements, for NIBC’s risk management policies. 27 Number of employees The number of FTEs decreased from 645 at 31 December 2011 to 612 at 31 December 2012. 28 Remuneration For the remuneration of the Statutory Board members and Supervisory Board members, we refer to notes 8 and 53 of the consolidated financial statements. At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, there were no receivables outstanding with current and former members of the Statutory Board and Supervisory Board. 206 Company financial statements Notes 29 Profit appropriation The profit appropriation is included in Other information. The Hague, 5 March 2013 Managing Board Jeroen Drost, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Kees van Dijkhuizen, Vice-Chairman, Chief Financial Officer Rob ten Heggeler, Chief Client Officer Petra van Hoeken, Chief Risk Officer Supervisory Board Mr. W.M. van den Goorbergh, Chairman Mr. D.R. Morgan, Vice-Chairman Mr. A.A.G. Bergen Mr. M.J. Christner Mr. C.H. van Dalen Mr. J.C. Flowers Mr. N.W. Hoek Mr. A. de Jong Ms. S.A. Rocker Mr. A.H.A. Veenhof Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 207 208 Table of contents Other information Auditor’s Report 210 Profit Appropriation 212 Contact Information 213 Principal Subsidiaries and Offices 213 Key Figures 214 Corporate Responsibility Reporting Scope 215 Corporate Responsibility Assurance Report 217 Abbreviations 219 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 209 Auditor’s report Independent auditor's report To: the general meeting of shareholders of NIBC Bank N.V. Report on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2012 of NIBC Bank N.V., the Hague as set out on pages 46 to 207. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2012, the consolidated income statement, the statement of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The company financial statements comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2012, the company income statement for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information. Managing Board’s responsibility The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Managing Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., Thomas R. Malthusstraat 5, 1066 JR Amsterdam, P.O. Box 90357, 1006 BJ Amsterdam, The Netherlands T: +31 (0) 88 792 00 20, F: +31 (0) 88 792 96 40, www.pwc.nl ‘PwC’ is the brand under which PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180285), PricewaterhouseCoopers Belastingadviseurs N.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180284), PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory N.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180287), PricewaterhouseCoopers Compliance Services B.V. (Chamber of Commerce 51414406), PricewaterhouseCoopers Pensions, Actuarial & Insurance Services B.V. (Chamber of Commerce 54226368), PricewaterhouseCoopers B.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180289) and other companies operate and provide services. These services are governed by General Terms and Conditions (‘algemene voorwaarden’), which include provisions regarding our liability. Purchases by these companies are governed by General Terms and Conditions of Purchase (‘algemene inkoopvoorwaarden’). At www.pwc.nl more detailed information on these companies is available, including these General Terms and Conditions and the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase, which have also been filed at the Amsterdam Chamber of Commerce. 210 Other Information Auditor’s report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of NIBC Bank N.V. as at 31 December 2012, and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Opinion with respect to the company financial statements In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of NIBC Bank N.V. as at 31 December 2012, and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2: 393 sub 5 at e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination whether the Report of the Managing Board, to the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as required under Section 2: 392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Further we report that the Report of the Managing Board, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements as required by Section 2: 391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. Amsterdam, 5 March 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original signed by R.E.H.M. van Adrichem RA Page 2 of 2 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 211 Other Information Profit appropriation Profit appropriation List of Principal Participating Interests of NIBC NIBC Bank Ltd., Singapore 100% Parnib Holding N.V., The Hague 100% Counting House B.V., The Hague 100% B.V. NIBC Mortgage Backed Assets, The Hague 100% NIBC Principal Investments B.V., The Hague 100% Olympia Nederland Holding B.V., The Hague 100% Profit appropriation IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 Result available for shareholder's distribution 73 73 IN EUR MILLIONS 2012 Interim dividend paid 2012 19 Proposed final dividend 2012 20 Transferred to retained earnings 34 73 Subsequent events On 1 February 2013, the State of the Netherlands nationalised SNS Reaal N.V. by means of expropriation of all related equity and subordinated debt. Furthermore the State of the Netherlands has imposed a EUR 1 billion one-time levy on Dutch banks to be paid in 2014 to share the costs of the SNS Reaal N.V. nationalisation. NIBC’s share is estimated to be between EUR 15 million and EUR 20 million. The profit appropriation is determined in accordance with Article 45 of the Articles of Association of NIBC Bank N.V., which can be found on our website. 212 Other Information Contact information Contact information Our website, www.nibc.com, offers a wide range of information about NIBC, financial information, corporate information, corporate calendar, press releases and sustainability information. The information on the website is available in English, Dutch and German. Financial information (annual reports, full-year and half-year results releases and trading updates) is available in English. To receive press releases and other NIBC news, please subscribe to our e-mail service by sending an e-mail to info@nibc.com. Questions and Remarks We invite all stakeholders to ask questions and share their remarks. nn General questions and remarks can be addressed to Corporate Communications, telephone +31 70 342 56 25 / e-mail info@nibc.com; nn Questions and remarks related to bond investments can be addressed to Debt Investor Relations, telephone +31 70 342 98 36 / e-mail info@nibc.com; nn Questions and remarks related to corporate responsibility can be addressed to the CSR department, e-mail csr@nibc.com; nn Questions and remarks related to NIBC Direct can be addressed to info@nibcdirect.com; and nn NIBC’s and NIBC Direct’s complaints procedures can be found on www.nibc.com/policy-regulations and www.nibcdirect.nl/klachtenprocedure. Principal Subsidiaries and Offices The Netherlands Singapore NIBC Bank N.V. / NIBC Holding N.V. NIBC Bank Ltd Carnegieplein 4 1 Finlayson Green # 15-01 2517 KJ The Hague, the Netherlands Singapore 049246 P.O. Box 380 Republic of Singapore 2501 BH The Hague, the Netherlands Telephone + 65 6 538 07 36 Telephone + 31 70 342 54 25 Fax + 65 6 538 25 10 Fax + 31 70 365 10 71 United Kingdom Belgium NIBC Bank N.V. NIBC Bank N.V. 125 Old Broad Street, 11th Floor Wetenschapsstraat 41 London EC2N 1AR, United Kingdom 1040 Brussels, Belgium Telephone + 44 207 375 77 77 Telephone + 32 2 235 88 0 Fax + 44 207 588 64 83 Fax + 32 2 235 88 09 Germany NIBC Bank N.V. Main Tower, Neue Mainzer Strasse 52 D-60311 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Telephone + 49 69 5050 65 50 Fax + 49 69 5050 21 83 Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 213 Other Information Key figures Key figures 2012 2011 2010 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Shareholder’s equity (EUR millions) 1,832 1,810 1,803 Group capital base (EUR millions) 2,179 2,191 2,291 Loans to customers (EUR millions) 8,469 9,128 8,693 Residential mortgages (EUR millions) 8,187 8,745 9,767 Balance sheet total (EUR millions) 26,242 28,554 28,014 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Operating income (EUR millions) 272 282 323 Operating expenses (EUR millions) 146 170 163 Net profit attributable to parent shareholder (EUR millions) 73 68 76 SOLVENCY INFORMATION Risk weighted assets (EUR billions) 9.7 11.8 13.2 Core Tier-1 ratio 15.3% 13.8% 12.9% Tier-1 ratio 18.1% 16.2% 14.5% BIS ratio 19.1% 17.5% 15.8% Leverage ratio (debt/equity) 13.3 14.8 14.5 EARNINGS RATIOS Return on equity 4.0% 3.8% 4.5% Cost-to-income ratio 54% 60% 50% Dividend payout ratio 53% 65% 58% OTHER INFORMATION Assets under management for third parties (EUR billions) 1.1 1.2 1.7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FIGURES Number of FTEs end of year 627 664 669 Male/female ratio 70%/30% 70%/30% 71%/29% Male/female ratio top management 90%/10% 91%/9% 91%/9% Absenteeism 2.1% 2.7% Employee Engagement 85% 86% 85% NPS score Corporate Banking clients 12% 25% NIBC Direct customer survey score 7.4 7.8 % of new corporate clients screened against sustainability policy framework 100% 100% 50% Number of project finance transactions closed in line with Equator Principles 16 20 Na CO2 emissions (tonnes) 2,343 2,461 3,383 % of carbon emissions compensated 100% 100% 100% 214 Other Information Corporate responsibility reporting scope Corporate responsibility reporting scope This Annual Report is an integrated report. We Accountability and reporting standards have chosen to combine all our financial, economic, Our Corporate Responsibility figures are prepared social and environmental information into one in accordance with the reporting criteria and document because all these factors are integral to guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). NIBC’s strategy and operations. We have applied GRI level B+ (self-declared) and the Financial Services Sector Supplement, with no The corporate responsibility figures (all nonexceptions. The GRI matrix and glossary of financial data) for this report were gathered via a definitions can be found in the appendices available questionnaire. The Corporate Social Responsibility on our website. department collected the information from different departments within NIBC and Figure relating to our carbon footprint include the consolidated it to represent the bank as a whole. following estimates or extrapolations: These departments include Finance, Risk Management, Compliance, Facilities & Services, nn Our natural gas use in the UK is an estimate Human Resources, Corporate Social Responsibility, based on the number of FTEs according to Corporate Communications, Corporate Secretariat Milieubarometer Guidelines, as we do not have and Legal. access to an itemised invoice for our gas use. Energy consumption related to short-haul Scope flights is calculated based on an average of 450 Unless specified otherwise, this Annual Report kilometres per single flight; includes figures and information for nn As we receive an invoice for the whole building, NIBC Bank N.V. (including all international offices, we estimate our natural gas and electricity use in and 100% subsidiaries established by NIBC for our our Belgium office based on the number of business purposes). In the Key Figures section, the square metres we occupy in the total building; absenteeism rate and the NIBC Direct customer nn To calculate energy consumption in Germany, satisfaction score relate to our office in The Hague we use estimates based on annual electricity and only. city heating bills, as the invoicing period does not match NIBC’s reporting period; NIBC continues to be a signatory to the UN Global nn The calculation of our carbon dioxide emissions Compact. This Annual Report contains details on is made by the Climate Neutral Group. For this, our progress regarding the 10 Global Compact the Climate Neutral Group principally uses the principles. conversion factors of the CO2 Performance Ladder of the Stichting Klimaatvriendelijk Criteria Aanbesteden en Ondernemen (SKAO The content of this Annual Report and the selection Independent Foundation for Climate-Friendly of performance indicators are based on the Procurement and Business); and following criteria: nn In 2012, SKAO changed the conversion factors for the calculation of carbon emissions from 1. Assessment of materiality. We report on NIBC’s green energy sources. 98.5% of NIBC’s total strategy and the elements that we have energy use is from green energy sources and identified as most relevant for us as a company total energy use decreased 11% in 2012. and for our stakeholders. Please see our However as a result of these different conversion materiality matrix for an overview of these factors, this is not reflected in the carbon elements; and footprint. 2. Legal and regulatory requirements. For NIBC, the principal regulatory requirements are We compensate our carbon footprint by purchasing contained in the Dutch Corporate Governance Gold Standard carbon credits from the Climate Code and the Banking Code. Please see the Neutral Group. Corporate Governance chapter for more details. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 215 Re-statement of information from earlier Such an external assessment is a logical step on our reports path towards ever greater transparency. At the same Equator Principle transactions: four project finance time, we have opted for a gradual phased approach transactions were incorrectly included in NIBC’s that takes account of the time and cost impact on 2011 Equator Principles report. Closer review of the our organisation. Going forward, we will continue actual closing date of the project revealed that the to take further steps on transparency and assurance. signing of the project documentation in 2011 was PwC’s assurance work is performed in accordance subject to conditions. These were fulfilled in 2012, with the ISAE 3000 standard. leading to the final close. We have decided to include these four project finance transactions in NIBC’s Internal Audit department plays an the 2012 Annual Report and to remove them from important role in the assurance of our data. On an the 2011 Annual Report. ongoing basis, this department monitors and audits NIBC’s financial and operational processes as part Assurance of our three lines of defence risk management Corporate Responsibility figures are as relevant to model. For more information, please see the Risk NIBC as financial data. For this reason, we have Management chapter. engaged PwC to provide limited assurance on the Corporate Responsibility figures in our Key Figures table (see page 214). PwC has not performed review procedures on any other corporate responsibility information in this Annual Report. These key figures were determined through a materiality analysis of which indicators are the most relevant for NIBC and our stakeholders. We therefore decided to ask PwC to provide assurance on these specific data. 216 Other Information Corporate responsibility assurance report Corporate responsibility assurance report Limited assurance report To: the Managing Board of NIBC Bank N.V. Engagement and responsibilities We have been engaged by the Managing Board of NIBC Bank N.V. (hereafter: NIBC) to review the Key Corporate Responsibility (CR) Figures as included in the Key Figures Table on page 214 in the 2012 Annual Report of NIBC (hereafter: the Annual Report). Review procedures focus on obtaining limited assurance in which the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, therefore obtaining less assurance than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of the Key CR Figures. We are responsible for providing an assurance report on the Key CR Figures. Reporting criteria NIBC developed its reporting criteria on the basis of the G3.1 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reporting criteria as developed by NIBC contain certain inherent limitations which may influence the reliability of the information as explained on pages 215 and 216 in the Annual Report. We consider the reporting criteria to be relevant and sufficient for our examination. Scope and work performed We have conducted our examination in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Assurance Standard 3000 ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information’. The following information in the Report is outside the scope of our engagement:  We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of prospective information, such as targets, expectations and ambitions with regard to the Key CR Figures.  As this is the first year that the Key CR Figures are examined, comparative figures concerning previous years have not been examined by us. Our most important review procedures were:  assessing the acceptability of the reporting policies and consistent application of this, such as assessment of the reasonableness of estimates made by management;  reviewing the systems and processes for data gathering, internal controls and processing of information, such as the aggregation process of data to the information as presented in the Key CR Figures table;  reviewing internal and external documentation to determine whether the Key CR Figures are adequately substantiated. PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V., Thomas R. Malthusstraat 5, 1066 JR Amsterdam, P.O. Box 90357, 1006 BJ Amsterdam, The Netherlands T: +31 (0) 88 792 00 20, F: +31 (0) 88 792 96 40, www.pwc.nl ‘PwC’ is the brand under which PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180285), PricewaterhouseCoopers Belastingadviseurs N.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180284), PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory N.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180287), PricewaterhouseCoopers Compliance Services B.V. (Chamber of Commerce 51414406), PricewaterhouseCoopers Pensions, Actuarial & Insurance Services B.V. (Chamber of Commerce 54226368), PricewaterhouseCoopers B.V. (Chamber of Commerce 34180289) and other companies operate and provide services. These services are governed by General Terms and Conditions (‘algemene voorwaarden’), which include provisions regarding our liability. Purchases by these companies are governed by General Terms and Conditions of Purchase (‘algemene inkoopvoorwaarden’). At www.pwc.nl more detailed information on these companies is available, including these General Terms and Conditions and the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase, which have also been filed at the Amsterdam Chamber of Commerce. Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 217  evaluating the consistency of disclosures regarding the Key CR Figures in the Annual Report. We believe that the information we have obtained from our examination is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Conclusion Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to conclude that the Key CR Figures, in all material respects, are not correctly prepared in accordance with NIBC’s reporting criteria as set out on pages 215 and 216 in the Annual Report. Use of this report This assurance report relates to NIBC’s performance with regard to Key CR Figures only. Therefore it should not be taken as assurance relating to the overall CR performance of NIBC during the reporting year. Amsterdam, 5 March 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. Original signed by R.E.H.M. van Adrichem RA Page 2 of 2 218 Other Information Abbreviations Abbreviations ACC A  udit and Compliance Committee FMCR/RP&R  inancial Markets Credit Risk and Risk F AFM Autoriteit Financiële Markten Policy & Reporting (Authority for the Financial markets) Foundation Stichting Administratiekantoor NIBC AIRB Advanced Internal Ratings Based Holding ALCO Asset & Liability Committee FPSO Floating production, storage & offloading ALM/MR Asset & Liability Management and FTEs Full-time equivalents Market Risk IASB International Accounting Standards Board BKR Bureau Krediet Registratie (Dutch IBNR Incurred but not Reported National Credit Register) IC Investment Committee BPV Basis Point Value ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment C&C Compliance & Corporate Social process Responsibility IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards CCDRs Conditional Common Depositary ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment Receipts process CCR Counterparty credit rating IMF International Monetary Fund CDO Collateralised Debt Obligation ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives CDRs Common Depositary Receipts Association CDS Credit Default Swaps LGD Loss given default CEBS Committee of European Banking LTI Long-term incentive Supervisors Guidelines on Lti Loan-to-Income Remuneration Policies and Practices LTIMV Loan-to-Indexed-Market-Value CEO Chief Executive Officer LTMV Loan-to-Market-Value CFO Chief Financial Officer MtM Marked-to-Market CGUs Cash-generating units NACE Statistical Classification of Economic CMBS Commercial Mortgage-Backed Activities in the European community Securities NHG Guarantee Dutch government mortgage guarantee CRDRs Conditional Restricted Depository NIBC NIBC Bank N.V. Receipts NIBC Funds Funds set up and managed by NIBC CRO Chief Risk Officer NIBC Holding NIBC Holding N.V. CRM Credit Risk Management NPS Net Promoter Score CSA Credit Support Annexes NPAP New Product Approval Process CSR Corporate Social Responsibility OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation DNB De Nederlandsche Bank (Dutch and Development Central Bank) ORM Operational Risk Management DNB Principles Dutch Central Bank Principles on OTC Over The Counter Sound Remuneration Policies PD Probability of default DRs Depositary Receipts PFE Potential Future Exposure EAD Exposure at Default PSUs Phantom Share Units EBA European Banking Authority RAC Risk-Adjusted Capital EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, RAROC Risk-adjusted return on capital Depreciation and Amortisation RC Regulatory Capital EC Economic Capital RDA Restructuring & Distressed Assets EC Employees’ Council Management ECB European Central Bank RDRs Restricted Depositary Receipts ECC Engagement and Compliance Repos Securities sold subject to repurchase Committee agreements EE Expected Exposure Reverse repos Securities purchased under agreements to EL Expected Loss resell EP Equator Principles RMBS Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities EU European Union RMC Risk Management Committee Annual Report 2012 NIBC Bank N.V. 219 RNC  emuneration and Nominating R Committee RPC Risk Policy Committee RPSUs Restricted Phantom Share Units RPTC Related Party Transaction Committee RWA Risk Weighted Assets SPE Special Purpose Entities SPV Special Purpose Vehicles SREP Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process STI Short-term incentive compensation TC Transaction Committee VaR Value at Risk WEW Stichting Waarborgfonds Eigen Woningen (Social Housing Guarantee Fund) 220 Annual Report 2012 Layout and production by: Cascade – visuele communicatie, Amsterdam, the Netherlands Written by: Stampa Communications, Amsterdam, the Netherlands and London, United Kingdom Photography by: Annabel Oosteweeghel Fotografie, Noordwijk, The Netherlands NIBC Bank N.V. Carnegieplein 4 2517 KJ The Hague The Netherlands www.nibc.com Disclaimer Presentation of information This annual report (Annual Report) of NIBC Bank N.V. (NIBC) is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS-EU). Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements in this Annual Report are not historical facts and are ‘forward-looking’ statements that relate to, among other things, NIBC’s business, result of operation, financial condition, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events, future revenues and/or performance, capital expenditures, financing needs, plans or intentions, as well as assumptions thereof. These statements are based on NIBC’s current view with respect to future events and financial performance. Words such as ‘believe’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘predict’, ‘project’, ‘could’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘plan’, ‘forecast’, ‘target’ and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve uncertainties and are subject to certain risks, including, but not limited to (i) general economic conditions, in particular in NIBC’s core and niche markets, (ii) changes in the availability of, and costs associated with, sources of liquidity such as interbank funding, as well as conditions in the credit markets generally, including changes in borrower and counterparty creditworthiness (iii) performance of financial markets, including developing markets, (iv) interest rate levels, (v) credit spread levels, (vi) currency exchange rates, (vii) general competitive factors, (viii) general changes in the valuation of assets (ix) changes in law and regulations, including taxes (x) changes in policies of governments and/or regulatory authorities, (xi) the results of our strategy and investment policies and objectives, (xii) the consequences of a potential (partial) break-up of the Euro zone and/or its currency and (xiii) the risks and uncertainties as addressed in this Annual Report, the occurrence of which could cause NIBC’s actual results and/or performance to differ from those predicted in such forward-looking statements and from past results. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. NIBC does not undertake any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Neither do NIBC nor any of its directors, officers or employees make any representation, warranty or prediction that the results anticipated by such forward-looking statements will be achieved, and such forward-looking statements represent, in each case, only one of many possible scenarios and should not be viewed as the most likely or standard scenario. www.nibc.com NIBC Bank N.V. Carnegieplein 4 2517 KJ The Hague The Netherlands Phone: +31 70 342 54 25
