Andersson Elffers Felix Communication on Progress 2012 UN Global Compact Utrecht, 30 April 2013 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012.doc Andersson Elffers Felix bv Maliebaan 16 | postbus 85198 | 3508 AD Utrecht | telefoon 030 236 3030 | telefax 030 236 3070 | kvk 30096560 | mail@aef.nl Andersson Elffers Felix Content 1 Introduction and statement of continued support 3 2 Human Rights 5 3 Labour 7 4 Environment 10 5 Anti-Corruption 15 6 Contribution to Society 16 7 Conclusions: We want more 17 Andersson Elffers Felix 1 Introduction and statement of continued support The UN Global Compact In January 2010 Andersson Elffers Felix (AEF) joined the UN Global Compact and committed to its ten principles concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption: Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2) make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4) the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5) the effective abolition of child labour; and 6) The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8) undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9) encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This document constitutes our second annual Communication on Progress (COP). Our first COP, published in 2011, outlined our company policy regarding the principles and reported on the measures taken in the four areas. In this COP, we repeat our commitment, report on progress made and on some changes in our business affecting our exposure. Who we are and what we do Andersson Elffers Felix (AEF) is a strategy and organizational consultancy firm, established in 1982 in Utrecht, the Netherlands. AEF is one of the leading Dutch consultancy firms in the public and semi-public domain. It prides itself on a combination of a thorough understanding of subject matter and strong functional, organizational expertise. AEF values quality above quantity. A strategy of slow growth has enabled AEF to focus on the quality of work, development of expertise and strengthening a strong client-base. It has also enabled AEF to weather the recent economic downturn. AEF has developed into a mid-sized consultancy firm with a staff of around 36 consultants. We are proud of our ability to develop creative, innovative and tailor-made solutions for strategic issues, rather than offer standard models and methodologies. AEF always aims at working in close collaboration with the client to find solutions for policy and management issues touching upon the strategic positioning of the organisation. p3 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix We recognize that, to be active in the politically-driven public sector, a close involvement of our consultants with the issues at hand is a critical factor in the successful execution of our projects. We therefore actively encourage and facilitate involvement in society. Many of our consultants perform valuable functions in the cultural sector and in voluntary and non-governmental organizations. We want more We remain strongly committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. They, almost by default, form an integral part of our company philosophy and organizational culture. As a midsized consulting company mainly operating in The Netherlands, where most of these principles are enforced by law, it is relatively easy to live up to the requirements of supporting the UN Global Compact. As a provider of consultancy services for government and public sector, our supply chain is quite short. Our main resource is knowledge, our assets are our employees, our reputation and our ability to change. We believe in a pro-active and positive approach to the principles of the UNGC. Instead of merely not violating any of the principles and ‘checking the boxes’, we want to actively promote them as a core aspect of our work. Hence, we implement and respect the principles not only in our business, but they also have an impact on our clients in the public sector. That results in a two-tiered approach: we support the Global Compact principles by improving our internal work processes and company policies as well as actively encouraging the ten principles externally through our core business, consultancy work. An eleventh principle: Contribution to Society In addition to the ten UNGC principles, an additional conviction forms the core of our business: 11) Businesses contribute to society. AEF has a long tradition of discriminating its acceptance of regular projects on the basis of a positive answer to the question: ‘does this project make a difference in society?’ That is our main goal, our main criterion. And projects – change programmes, innovative policy conception and execution – are our main asset to achieve that. AEF can make its most effective contribution to society through contributing to projects with its knowledge and experience. This is actively reflected in the fact that AEF carries out a number of pro bono projects every year. Projects concern issues in the cultural sector, social arena or even to support principled business enterprise. For example, AEF has developed an educational program (JINC), which enables students from low-rated primary schools to do internships for a day at businesses in their city. AEF associates commonly participate in pro bono activities outside of their regular working hours, often in political parties, on the boards of cultural establishments or volunteer work in a social setting. Yours sincerely, Aris van Veldhuisen Managing Partner Utrecht, 30 April 2013 p4 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights are rights to which all humans are inherently entitled. While the views on what specific human rights constitute occasionally diverge, several declarations of human rights have found wide acceptance internationally. For us, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and the European Convention on Human Rights (1950) and its five protocols (1952, 1963, 1963, 1963, 1966) are the most relevant and we express our utmost support for them. We believe that by the nature of our business we can actively contribute to supporting the two principles. For example, according to art. 25.1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, “everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” By delivering good work to the public sector we can increase its capacity to ensure the protection and advancement of human rights. As management consultants, by strengthening and improving the organisational capacities of organisations that work towards these goals, we can have a valuable impact on the human rights situation in the world. Human rights in our markets AEF works mainly in the Netherlands. While being a highly developed country, signatory to the relevant conventions on human rights and internationally respected for its high human rights standards, the Netherlands still face some criticism. According to the Human Rights Watch World Report 2013: “[T]he Dutch national ombudsman and the CPT criticized conditions in immigration detention. The CPT expressed concern over families with children being detained for longer than the 28-day maximum permitted by law. They urged the government to only detain children in exceptional circumstances and without locking them in cells.” (Human Rights Watch World Report 2013, p. 436) AEF is very active in the public safety and immigration/integration sector. Over the past years, we have carried our several assignments for the improvement of organisational capacities and processes for government agencies in this sector, for example for the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND), the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (COA) and the Legal Aid Board. Apart from government agencies we have also carried out several projects for NGOs that work in this field, such as Refugee Services Netherlands. Given that Human Rights Watch still sees human rights concerns in this area, we believe that there is still a lot of work to be done in this sector. By continuing our contribution to projects in this field and keeping human rights concerns in mind, we aim to take these concerns off the list. Being ranked 7th out of 169 on the Human Development Index, The Netherlands have a high standard of living. We nevertheless believe that continuous improvement in the public sector can ensure “the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family” is granted to everyone. We see our task in this country in maintaining and improving p5 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix the various systems in place that safeguard this basic human right. By advising on health care, housing, education and social services in the Netherlands, we try to do so through our work. Examples in 2012 included: Via the non-profit network “Sports and Business” we helped the municipally of Amsterdam making a bid for the 2016 European Athletics Championships; Via the same network we helped the Olympic Stadium in Amsterdam with a new business plan; We carried out several projects to ensure and improve the functioning of health care organisations; We carried out several projects to ensure and improve the functioning of child protection organisations. Outside of our projects Aside from carrying out regular projects, many of our consultants are active in less developed countries, often supporting local non-profit organisations by providing consulting expertise. Not only does this allow us to have a real impact in these regions, we also benefit from exploring a new market and broadening our network. Our consultants benefit as well. Not only do they carry out these projects by their own request, we also believe that this is a unique opportunity for personal development. At a glance: measures and progress • Regular projects as part of our core business. Small steps to maintain or increase the human rights situation in our market. • Carried out several projects in 2012 with only expenses charged. p6 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix 3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We fully support the Global Compact principles in the area of labour. Not only are these principles enshrined in Dutch and European law. As a consultancy advising on organisational matters it is also vital for us to be on the forefront of development in this area and serve as a role model for our clients. In order to attract and retain talent, we need to create a work environment that our employees like to work in and that caters to their individual needs. Each employee is assigned a mentor in the company that helps him or her to identify possibilities for professional and personal development and serves as a contact point for any problems the employee might encounter. Requests for sabbaticals or changes in FTE are usually granted and pregnancy (or paternal) leave is never considered a problem. We believe that it is of utmost importance that our employees have a healthy work-life balance, which includes spending enough time with their families. This is facilitated by flexible working hours, flexible work spaces and equipping every consultant with a mobile phone and a notebook, so they can independently choose where to do their work. Training Training forms an essential part of our company culture. We actively encourage our employees at all levels to follow training courses in areas they feel they need to develop. We take pride in investing in the personal and professional development of our staff wherever possible and value personal initiative for self-development. We usually cover all expenses for trainings. Over the past years, we have continuously increased the funds made available for training programmes. Freedom of association Our employees are free to establish and join organisations of their own choice, given these do not violate the law or pursue unethical goals. We actively encourage involvement in political and non-profit organisations. As of 2010, about half of our consultants are active in such organisations, most of them offering their professional expertise free of charge for charitable purposes. Personal involvement ranges from board membership in museums, theatres, and art foundations over educational and health organisations to organisations promoting the welfare of children. Next to that, many of our consultants are also active in professional associations. We uphold the right to collective bargaining by regularly supporting works councils for contraexpertise assignments. Discrimination and diversity AEF is committed to not discriminating on the grounds of sex (including pregnancy and maternity), marital status (including civil partnership status), gender reassignment, disability, race, age, sexual orientation, religion/belief, trade union membership or non-membership, or status as a fixed-term or part-time worker. p7 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix Due to the evolution of the company from a small to a medium-sized company over the past 25 years, with most of the employees being recruited from our own network, the employee base has been biased towards being largely Dutch in its origin and predominantly male in the top positions. Having recognized the need for change, we have in recent years taken measures to create a more diverse employee base. Arrangements have been made to facilitate part-time work at senior and partner level. Now 20% of the partners are female, compared to 10% in 2008. As the graph below shows, we are approaching a more and more levelled off male-female ratio over the different positions within the company. Our ultimate goal in this area is to approximate a 50/50 ratio across all levels. Percentage of women at AEF, 2008-2012 Average age of AEF consultants across the different positions, 2008-2012 p8 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix A further issue that needed to be addressed was age bias among the top positions within the company. Partner positions were held by consultants with an average age of 50 in 2008. With the inclusion of younger consultants to partner status, the average age in these positions dropped to 49 years in 2012. At a glance: measures and progress • Facilitation of part-time work at partner level • Active promotion of women to top positions in the company. Now 20% of the partners are women, compared to 10% in 2009. Challenges for the future We aim to further increase the percentage of women at the top and approximate a 50/50 ratio of women and men across the different positions within the company. In the coming years, we will try and create a more diverse body of consultants that better reflects the population of the Netherlands, and larger cities in particular. p9 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix 4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses are asked to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses are asked to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AEF cares deeply about the environment and is committed to sustainability, the seventh Millennium Development Goal. As we are a service provider whose product is knowledge, our impact on the environment is lower than that of companies in other industries. Nevertheless, there are three areas in which we have a clear impact on the environment. These are: Mobility Purchasing Office infrastructure Mobility The nature of our work requires our employees to travel. While internally a lot of meetings are held through conference calls and meetings ‘half-way’, some projects require actual face-to-face meetings with clients. We have made some general arrangements to reduce the amount of kilometres travelled per year and to make travelling more environmentally friendly. In order to reduce the amount of kilometres travelled, working from home is actively stimulated. All consultants receive a mobile phone and a company notebook with which they can access the interand intranet at any time. Smart allocation of projects aims to reduce travel by taking into account where the consultants work and live, so the amount of unnecessary travel is reduced. Within projects, we try to make use of efficient logistics, including meeting half-way. Several measures have been taken to make travelling that is necessary more environmentally friendly. All consultants are eligible for a year pass for public transport, including trains, trams and buses. For appointments in Utrecht, where out main office is located, we have several company bicycles available. Our employees are also encouraged to make use of rental bikes that are available at most train stations in the Netherlands. We try to keep the amount of lease cars as low as possible. Junior and regular consultants account for only 10% of the (business) car usage at AEF. This concerns in particular jobs at locations with no or very limited public transport accessibility, for which two lease cars are made available. Only from senior level onwards, the provision of personal lease cars is made possible. With a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we have introduced a policy that all new lease cars must bear energy labels A or B. Due to running leasing contracts, improvements in this area are only possible when the old contracts expire. The figure below illustrates the effect of this policy: 93% of our lease cars bore energy label A or B in 2010, compared to 37% and 10% in 2010 and 2008, respectively. p 10 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix Energy labels AEF lease cars 2008-2012 We estimate that with 665,894 km travelled by car in 2012 our CO2 emissions originating from car travel are 119 tons in that year. That is roughly 30% less than in 2009, when our consultants travelled 947,725 km by car (171 tons CO2). Due to the strategic re-evaluation and our retreat from international business our regular air travel has reduced to virtually zero. However, in 2012 AEF celebrated its 30th anniversary with a trip to Istanbul. Therefore the number of air travel kilometres was a little higher compared to other years. Distances travelled 2009-2012 (km) p 11 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix CO2 emissions 2009-2012 in tons (estimates) Purchasing Another area in which we can take action to reduce our impact on the environment is purchasing. We choose our equipment on the basis of its operational lifespan and energy label. After depreciation, the lifespan of the equipment is extended by giving it away to social institutions or our employees. An obvious factor in protecting the environment is paper consumption. We only buy FSC certified paper that is bleached with the lowest possible environmental impact. Our goal is to be, where possible, a paperless office. Employees are encouraged to only print if necessary. In 2008, our annual paper consumption was at 1,219,756 sheets. With the introduction of double-sided printing as standard setting of our printers we have managed to reduce the annual paper consumption by half, to 640,796 sheets in 2010 and to 421,875 sheets in 2012. Annual paper consumption 2008-2012: sheets of paper used per year p 12 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix Another factor to consider is energy consumption. In 2011-2012, AEF has used 112.963 kW/h of energy. Compared to the period 2009-2010 (105,615 kW/h), this is a 7% increase. However, this has to be put into relation with the increase in workforce of about 12% in the same period of time. When related to the increase in workforce, the increase in energy consumption goes down to 2%. This is nevertheless a point that will still require extra attention from our side in the coming year. Annual energy consumption for the periods 2009-2010 and 2011-2012 in kW/h We aim to reduce our energy consumption by continuing to purchase only products that meet the newest energy standards. Furthermore, we have switched our energy provider in order to use only green energy. We try to reduce emissions by only buying local, organic and seasonal food. We buy our fruit from a retailer that focusses on ecologically responsible farming, for instance by planting a tree in Malawi for every sold fruit basket. Office infrastructure AEF is based at a city location with optimal public transport accessibility, both for employees and visitors. The current building has been carefully renovated and extended according to the latest sustainability standards in 2000. Energy efficient timer-based heating was installed and natural ventilation is applied. Sustainability was the basis for the choice of building materials, and the office has been constructed to innovatively use land without damaging planting on the ground level. The architect has received the Schreuder Prize for underground construction. We use flexible workstations that help exploit the available space efficiently. Only 35 workstations are needed for 60 employees. Furniture is bought based on sustainability principles. At a glance: measures and progress • Continuous improvement of lease car energy labels to A and B. Currently 93% of our lease cars bear labels A or B, as opposed to 37% in 2010. • CO2 compensation for all travel by car and flight. • Reduction of paper consumption: We introduced double-sided printing as standard settings for all our printers. Paper consumption went down by about 70%. p 13 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix Challenges for the future Several challenges remain for the coming year. We will try to reduce our energy consumption. In 2013, we will also conclude on whether or not own renewable energy creation is feasible for us. p 14 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix 5 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our approach to anti-corruption We take integrity very seriously and work against all forms of corruption. We take a two-pronged approach to anti-corruption. Firstly, we make sure not to be involved in corrupt practices ourselves or accidentally facilitate corruption. Secondly, we actively fight corruption in all its forms by carrying out projects aimed at integrity and anti-corruption. Transparency is an important measure to fight corruption. Our consultants are required to disclose any involvement in activities that would constitute a conflict of interest. We are audited every year by an independent auditor and publish our annual results online and in a year book. Furthermore, we are ISO 9001:2000 certified. Reputation is one of our biggest assets, and we cannot afford being involved in scandals, mistrust or fraud. Clients choose us for a large part due to our reputation, and corruption would be a flaw that is not easily excused. We are member of the Dutch Council of Management Consultants (ROA – Raad van Organisatie Adviesbureaus) that is committed to following a strict code of ethics which includes not being involved in any form of corruption. A breach of this code would result expulsion from the council and in serious reputational damage, much to the cost of our business. Not only in terms of reputation, but also legally any corruption would be extremely harmful for our business. Some clients, for example the European Commission, before contract signature require evidence that the contractor “has not been the subject of a judgement which has the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a criminal organisation or any other illegal activity detrimental to the European Union’s financial interests”. In other words, being caught engaging in corrupt practices would mean that no business could be done with these clients. We also actively work against corruption. One of our managing partners has written a PhD on fraud in the Dutch construction sector and developed the code of conduct on integrity for that sector and for the Dutch umbrella organisation of housing corporations. For the Dutch market we do not consider it necessary to take additional measures. Since 2006, we are active in Ghana to combat document fraud. For the Ghana Immigration Service we assisted with the introduction of a new process for the disbursement of official travel documents. As a result, the amount of document fraud cases in Ghana has significantly decreased. The Fraud Expertise Centre that was created at the end of the programme serves as a role model in Africa. Currently South Africa is also in the process of establishing such a centre. At a glance: measures and progress • Awareness-raising for consultants working in non-domestic markets • Carried out a project in Ghana for the prevention of and fight against document fraud p 15 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix 6 Contribution to Society “Principle 11”: Businesses should contribute to society The eleventh principle As stated in the introduction, we believe there should be an eleventh principle, namely that all businesses should contribute to society. Our core question to be asked before beginning new projects is: “does this make a difference in society?” – only when the answer is positive, we carry out that project. Clearly, there is some overlap with the other principles. Projects – or any business, for that matter – that contribute to one of the ten principles are also covered by the eleventh principle. But there are other ways of contributing to society, outside of the ten principles. Helping to strengthen social cohesion in local communities or supporting organisations with socially responsible goals are but two examples. AEF is pleased to report that all of our regular projects have met the criterion of positive contribution to society this year. In addition, we have carried out projects outside of our main business. We have carried out several assignments free of charge or at reduced rates for the arts and culture sector and organisations in the social arena. Last year, we have for example supported the Dutch Film Festival (NFF), located in Utrecht, by calculating its economic value and drawing up a strategic plan on how to capitalize that value. AEF actively encourages and facilitates personal involvement of its employees in political and non-profit organisations. About half of our consultants have next to their work at AEF filled in functions at such organisations this year. At a glance: measures and progress • Continued “contribution to society” test for all projects • Carried out several pro bono and reduced rate projects • Active encouragement and facilitation of personal involvement of employees in society Challenges for the future In the coming years we want to further develop and expand our activities outside of our mainstream business. Considering that our main strengths lie in organisational change programmes and innovative policy conception and execution, we want to increase our positive impact on society by doing exactly what we are good at. This is where we see our biggest potential for change. p 16 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx Andersson Elffers Felix 7 Conclusions: We want more Progress and challenges We are content to have made progress in all four areas the Global Compact addresses. Through our core business we were able to address human rights and anti-corruption issues, and adjustments of our own work processes and company policies have yielded improvements in our labour situation and our impact on the environment. We will continue to pursue our two-tiered approach to the principles of the Global Compact to further advance in these areas. However, new challenges emerge and there is still room for improvement regarding the issues that have already been addressed this year. The expansion to new markets offers great opportunities for improving the situation in all four areas of the Global Compact, but at the same time bears risks for all of them, too. The different standards that prevail in some of these markets require a different approach than we are used to in Europe. Additionally, business in markets that are further away from our main office will inevitably lead to more travel and thus have a negative impact on the environment. High levels of corruption in some of the new markets might also be a risk for conducting business there. On the other hand, we can bring in our expertise to tackle these problems by carrying our projects directed at these issues. We operate at the upper scale of what is feasible in the national market. In terms of human rights in our established market, much depends on the political climate. While we will continue to work for the advancement of human rights, our actual impact can be limited (or boosted) by the political climate we are acting in. While we still feel the need to proactively pursue policies aimed to encourage female progression and at reflecting the ethnic composition of our society, we have made great improvements in the labour situation at our company. With respect to the environment, we have almost reached the limits of what is feasible in our established market. AEF has a strong, zero-tolerance anti-corruption policy in place and actively carries out projects to promote integrity and develop codes of conduct. We want more. In light of our high standards regarding the ten principles in the national market, we feel that adjusting business processes even more is not enough and not feasible. Considering our strength in organisational questions and the ability to develop, implement and execute change processes and policies, we feel that this is where our additional contribution may lie. Doing projects outside of our regular realm and diving into areas that need further development will be a challenge for the coming years, also with different financial implications. We need to aggregate the work we already do to understand its impact, and on that basis develop new strategies and measures to bring about real change – for our own society as well as others. Next steps We believe we should do what we can do best: give advice to public and semi-public sector organisations to ensure they have the capacity to address the issues that are covered by the ten UN Global Compact principles and our own eleventh principle. Progress in this realm will require aggregation of our current work to understand its impact. We aim to more actively engage with stakeholders about the UN Global Compact. Among others, we want to utilize the Global Compact Local Network in the Netherlands to exchange ideas and get insights especially in addressing the challenges in our new markets. p 17 UA46/ungc aef cop 2012 2.0.docx
