报告说明 Introduction （一）报告范围 i. Scope of the Report 报告的组织范围 ：本报告以中国工商银行股份有限公司为主体部分， Organizational scope of the Report: This Report is primarily about Industrial and 涵盖全集团。 Commercial Bank of China Limited, covering the whole group. Reporting period: January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2012 报告的时间范围 ：2012 年 1 月 1 日至 2012 年 12 月 31 日。 Reporting cycle: Annual. 报告的发布周期 ：本报告为年度报告。 ii. Preparation Principle of the Report （二）报告编制原则 This Report is prepared with reference to the Sustainable Development 本报告参照全球报告倡议组织《可持续发展报告指南（GRI 3.1）》及 Reporting Guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.1) and the Financial 金融服务业相关补充指引、联合国全球契约十项原则等标准要求编 Services Sector Supplemental Guidelines, the Ten United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principle and meets the requirements set out in the Opinions concerning 写，同时满足中国银监会《关于加强银行业金融机构社会责任的意见》、 Enhancing the Social Responsibility of Banking and Financial Institutions issued by China Banking Regulatory Commission, the Guidelines for Corporate 中国银行业协会《中国银行业金融机构企业社会责任指引》、上海证 Social Responsibility of Chinese Banking and Financial Institutions released 券交易所《上海证券交易所上市公司环境信息披露指引》和《公司履 by China Banking Association, the Guidelines of Shanghai Stock Exchange for Environmental Information Disclosure of Listed Companies promulgated by the 行社会责任的报告》编制指引的相关要求。 Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Guideline for the Preparation of the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility . （三）报告数据说明 iii. Data in the Report 报告中的财务数据摘自 2012 年度按国际财务报告准则编制的财务 Financial data in the Report are from the 2012 financial statements which were 报表，该财务报表经安永华明会计师事务所独立审计。其他数据以 prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards and audited by Ernst & Young; other data are primarily in relation to year 2012, while 2012 年为主，部分包括以前年度数据。本报告中所涉及货币金额以 others are related to previous years. Unless otherwise stated, financial and other 人民币作为计量币种，特别说明的除外。 data in the Report are in RMB. iv. Assurance Approach of the Report （四）报告保证方式 The Board of Directors and all the directors of the Bank undertake that the 本公司董事会及全体董事保证本报告内容不存在任何虚假记载、误导 report contains no false record, misleading statement or material omission, and 性陈述或重大遗漏，并对其内容的真实性、准确性和完整性承担个 assume individual and joint and several liabilities to the authenticity, accuracy and completeness of the information in this report. Meanwhile, Ernst & Young 别及连带责任。同时，安永华明会计师事务所按照《国际鉴证业务第 is engaged to assure the Report in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance 3000 号 ：历史财务信息审计或审阅以外的鉴证业务》对本报告进行 Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and provide an independent assurance report. 了独立第三方鉴证。 （五）报告发布形式 v. Release and Interpretation of the Report 报告以印刷版和网络在线版两种形式发布。网络在线版可在本公司网 The Report is released both in hardcopies and online. The online version is available at the Bank's website at www.icbc.com.cn, www.icbc-ltd.com. This 站查阅（网址 ：www.icbc.com.cn，www.icbc-ltd.com）。本报告以中 Report is published both in Chinese and English. Should there be any discrepancy 英文两种文字出版，在对两种文本的理解上发生歧义时，请以中文文 between the Chinese and the English versions, the Chinese version shall prevail. 本为准。 （六）联系方式 vi. Contact 中国工商银行股份有限公司战略管理与投资者关系部 Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations Department Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited 地址 ：北京市西城区复兴门内大街 55 号 邮政编码 ：100140 Address: No. 55 Fuxingmennei Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, 电话 ：86-10-66105183 100140, PRC Tel: 86-10-66105183 传真 ：86-10-66106336 Fax: 86-10-66106336 E-MAIL ：csr@icbc.com.cn E-mail: csr@icbc.com.cn 01 董事长致辞 03 Chairman's Statement 05 行长致辞 07 President's Statement 10 回眸 2012 10 2012 Highlights 11 关键数据 11 Key Data 13 社会责任战略与管理 14 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 15 公司概况 16 Overview of ICBC 17 公司简介 18 Company Profile 19 公司治理 20 Corporate Governance 21 责任理念 22 Responsibility Concepts 21 利益相关方参与 22 Stakeholders Participation 25 责任管理 26 Responsibility Management 25 社会评价 26 Social Recognition 27 价值银行 28 Value Creator 29 助力实体经济 30 Boosting the Real Economy 31 支持新兴产业 32 Supporting the Emerging Industries 33 促进区域协调 34 Promoting the Regional Coordination 33 支持中小企业 34 Supporting the Small and Medium Enterprises 39 加大“三农”服务 40 Reinforcing the Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers Services 43 服务保障性住房 44 Serving the Construction of Low-income Housing 45 支持民族经济 46 Supporting the National Economy 47 品牌银行 48 Brand Builder 49 提升客户服务 50 Promoting Customer Services 55 加强全球履责 56 Strengthening Global CSR Practice 59 建立一流品牌 60 Building up First-class Brands 63 绿色银行 64 Green Bank 65 推行绿色信贷，建设生态文明 66 Promoting Green Credit and Constructing Ecological Civilization 73 构筑绿色渠道，推广电子银行 74 Building Green Channels and Promoting E-banking 75 培养节能意识，倡导绿色办公 76 Raising the Awareness of Energy Conservation and Advocating Green Office 77 爱护绿色家园，助力环保公益 78 Cherishing the Green Home and Boosting Environmental Protection Cause 81 诚信银行 82 Creditworthy Bank 83 消费者权益保护 84 Protection of Customers' Rights and Interests 89 投资者关系管理 90 Improvement of Investor Relations Management 91 责任采购 92 Procurement 91 知识产权保护 92 Protection of Intellectual Property Rights 93 反金融犯罪 94 Anti-financial Crime 97 和谐银行 98 Harmonious Bank 99 规范用工管理，保障员工权益 100 Standardizing Recruitment Management, Protecting Employees' Rights and Interests 99 重视员工诉求，听取民主意见 100 Paying Attention to the Needs of Employees, Taking Reasonable Advice 101 关注职业发展，引领员工成长 102 Concerning about Employees' Career Development, Caring for Their Growth 101 营造温馨氛围，致力人文关爱 102 Creating Comfortable Working Environment, Dedicating to Giving Humanistic Care to Its People 105 推进文化融合，打造和谐队伍 106 Boosting Cultural Integration, Building Harmonious Team 107 爱心银行 108 Charity Bank 109 定点扶贫 110 Targeted Poverty Alleviation 113 社会公益 114 Public Welfare 117 支持文教体育事业 118 Supporting Culture, Education and Sports 121 志愿者活动 122 Volunteer Activities 123 海外公益 124 Overseas Public Welfare 127 未来展望 128 Outlook 131 社会责任独立鉴证报告 132 Independent Assurance Statement 133 GRI 索引 134 GRI Index 139 全球契约十项原则对照表 140 Table of Social Responsibility Performance Contrast with the Ten UNGC Principle 141 读者意见反馈表 142 Readers Feedback Form 董事长致辞 Chairman' s Statement 董事长 姜建清 Chairman of the Board of Directors Jiang Jianqing 1 2 大商无算，利民为先。2012 年，在复杂的经济金融形势下， 安全、稳定的经营发展环境；我们注重企业文化建设，实施 我们坚持科学发展，将履行社会责任作为推动经济发展、 人才兴行战略，推进国际化人才项目，建立了规范有序、公 促进社会进步的根本途径，视为建设生态文明、优化产业 正合理、互利共赢、和谐稳定的劳动关系，为员工提供了多 结构的必由之路；我们把握时代脉搏，将实现可持续发展 通道的职业发展路径，形成了企业和职工利益共享机制。 作为心系社情民意、明确诉求担当的不竭动力，视为激发 企业活力、凝聚全球共识的坚强力量；我们立足社会全局， 面对世界经济一体，我们加强国际对话增进互信。2012 年， 将打造企业公民作为对责任时代民意呼唤的积极响应，视 我们贯彻国家对外开放战略，稳步拓展海外机构布局，境 为谋划改善民生的长远之计。 外网络已延伸至 39 个国家和地区，分支机构总数达 383 家， 形成了横跨亚、非、拉、欧、美、澳六大洲的全球服务网络， 面对经济形势变化，我们围绕国计民生握筹布画。2012 年， 成为境外机构覆盖范围最广的中资银行；我们加快全球产 我们完善公司治理，强化资本约束，加强风险管理，营造 品线纵深发展，积极推进人民币国际化业务，通过 FOVA 了安全稳定的经营发展环境，走出了资产质量优、资本效 系统的全覆盖，成为首家实现信息系统全球一体化延伸的 率高、盈利可持续的发展道路；我们结合经济周期特征， 中国银行，努力为有条件参与国际竞争的企业提供多元化 顺应经济转型方向，科学优化信贷结构，支持了新型工业化、 的金融服务；我们尊重东道国人文和社会的差异性与多样 信息化、城镇化、农业现代化发展，确保了小微企业、新农村、 性，通过共同的经营理念与企业精神，提高员工对跨国文 县域经济等实体经济领域的资金投向；我们专注自身发展 化的认知，树立了扎根当地、惠及民生的国际形象。 优势，丰富客户服务体验，增强价值创造能力，成为市值、 盈利、客户存款、贷款、品牌价值等多项指标全球第一、 回首工商银行 29 年的改革发展历程，我们积累的不仅仅是 公司治理完善、风险抵御能力强的优秀上市公司，昂首步 17 万亿资产、13.6 万亿的客户存款，我们获得的不仅仅是 入世界领先大银行之列。 438 万公司客户、3.93 亿个人客户的支持，我们赢得的不 仅仅是 42 万员工、94 万投资人的信任，更重要的是我们 面对资源约束趋紧，我们致力生态文明转型发展。2012 年， 传承了“服务客户、回报股东、成就员工、奉献社会”的 我们深入推进绿色信贷，建立环境问责机制，严格执行一 责任文化和企业使命，遵循了“诚实守信、稳健合规、创 票否决，从严把握信贷准入，把环境保护作为稳增长扩内需、 新进取、敬业奉献”的价值取向和行为模式，树立了“以 调结构转方式的重要引擎和关键抓手，支持了绿色发展、 人为本、以民为先、以和为贵、以责为上”的道德准则和 循环发展、低碳发展；我们完善绿色服务渠道，丰富电子 精神追求。2012 年，我们在国内商业银行中率先加入联合 渠道产品，推进柜面业务分流，捕捉绿色发展商机，电子 国“全球契约”，开辟了一个让世界了解中国的窗口，创 银行业务占比达到了 75.1% 的历史高点，加快了向信息化 造了一个加强与国际社会交流合作的平台，也让我们向具 银行的转变；我们大力弘扬生态文明，创新节能减排机制， 有责任竞争力的全球企业公民更迈进了一步。 培养员工环保意识，倡导绿色生活方式，促进了资源节约型、 环境友好型社会建设，用可持续发展的金融模式践行了绿 潮平两岸阔，风正一帆悬。“十八大”为我们描绘了今后 色银行承诺。 十年乃至更长时期的发展蓝图，站在 2013 年这个面向未来 的时代新起点，尽管国际政治经济金融环境仍将发生深刻 面对人文金融呼唤，我们坚持以人为本、饮水思源。2012 年， 变化，但股东的期许、客户的嘱托、社会的希冀、员工的 我们坚持自身公益理想，激发公众心灵共鸣，广泛传递爱 企盼，都将让我们在奋斗和坎坷的前行中，收获拼搏和胜 心能量，在救灾赈济、扶危救困、敬老爱幼、环境保护等 利的喜悦。激情与汗水成就了历史，智慧与坚韧铸就着未来。 领域中竭尽所能，形成了共荣共享的价值观念；我们连续 我们将以开放的姿态丰富经营智慧，以积极的举措解决社 18 年实施定点扶贫，创新开展“六大扶贫工程”，改善当 会问题，在发展中促转变，在转变中谋发展，为实现经济、 地生活条件，帮助群众脱贫致富；我们支持文化教育事业， 社会、环境协调发展和实现生产发展、生活富裕、生态良 致力普及金融知识，增强风险防范意识，以公益慈善助力 好的目标而努力，为推进生态文明、建设美丽中国、推动 民生改善；我们实施服务提升战略，注意倾听公众诉求， 全球可持续发展做出应有的贡献。 完善社会监督平台，成立了业内首家消费者权益保护办公 室，维护了金融消费者的合法权益；我们倡导诚信立业理念， 恪守现代商业伦理，提升员工廉洁从业意识，营造了和谐、 董事长：姜建清 2013 年 3 月 27 日 董事长致辞 Chairman' s Statement Prosperous business relies on more than commercial established an environment accountability mechanism. We gains and always prioritizes public interests. In 2012, strictly carried out the one-ballot veto principle to control under complicated economic and financial conditions, credit access, adopted environmental protection as the we insisted on development in a scientific manner, important engine and key support for steady growth and upholding the fulfilment of our social responsibilities as an expansion of domestic demand, structure adjustment and indispensable course to promote economic development transformation of development mode, as well as supporting and social progress, and the only way to establish a civilized green development, recycling development and low carbon environment and upgrade industrial structure. We grasped development. We improved our green service channels, the pulse of the times and held sustainable development enriched electronic channel products, diverted some as the perennial force behind our identification with the counter-based services, and captured green development community's public opinions and aspirations, and behind opportunities. The proportion of transactions handled via the stimulus for enterprise vitality and reaching global electronic banking reached a new high of 75.1%, which consensus. Based on overall social conditions, we treated sped up our transformation to an IT-based bank. We carried good corporate citizenship as our response to the society's forward ecological civilization and made innovations to the appeal in the era of responsibility and a long-term plan to energy conservation and emission reduction mechanism. improve people's welfare. Besides, we raised employees' awareness of environmental protection, advocated a green life, stepped up efforts In the face of changing economic conditions, we made in building a resource-saving and environment-friendly plans revolving around the national economy and people's society, and committed ourselves to be a green bank welfare. In 2012, we improved corporate governance, through a sustainable financial model. strengthened capital constraint, and enhanced risk management. We created the environment for safe and In the face of the appeal for humanistic finance, we stable operation and development, and carved out a insisted on people-oriented thinking and never forgot road of superb asset quality, high capital efficiency and what makes us today. In 2012, we stuck to our own ideal sustainable profit. Taking into account the characteristics of benefiting the community, aroused the resonance of economic cycle and following the direction of economic of the public, and spread the power of love. We did our transformation, we improved our credit structure, best in disaster relief, helping the poor and saving the supported modern industrialization, informatization, troubled, respecting the old and caring for the young, urbanization and agricultural modernization, and ensured and protecting the environment, and formed the value capital application towards such areas of the real economy of sharing honor and prosperity. We have continued as small and micro enterprises, new countryside and targeting poverty alleviation for 18 years, carried out the regional economy. We focused on our own development innovative Six Poverty Alleviation Projects , improved local advantages, enriched customer service experience, livelihood, and helped the public to get rid of poverty and and enhanced value creation ability. Through all these become richer. We supported cultural and educational efforts, we became a leading listed company ranking undertakings, committed ourselves to popularizing the first globally in terms of such benchmarks as market financial knowledge and enhancing the awareness of risk capitalization, profit, customer deposits, lending and brand prevention, and improved public welfare through public value and boasting sound corporate governance and charity. We implemented service enhancement strategy, strong risk resistance ability, and stepped into the rank of paid attention to public appeal, and improved the social the world's leading banks. supervision platform by setting up the first Consumer Protection Office in the industry, and protected the legal In the face of tightening resource constraints, we were rights and interests of financial consumers. We advocated committed to transformation in ecological civilization the philosophy of operation with good faith, adhered development. In 2012, we pushed forward green credit and to modern business ethics, improved staff awareness of 3 4 honest practice, and created a harmonious, safe and stable and compliant, innovative and enterprising, committed operational development environment. We emphasized the and dedicated , and built the code of ethics and spiritual fostering of corporate culture, adopted the strategy of our pursuit of being humanity-oriented, putting people first, development relying on talents, and promoted programs valuing harmony, stressing responsibility . In 2012, we of the internationalization of talents. We also fostered were the first domestic commercial bank to join the United fair, reasonable, harmonious and stable labor relations Nations Global Compact (UNGC), opening a window for the which bring mutual benefits. We provided employees with world to know China and creating a platform to strengthen multiple career development paths, and formed a benefit communication and cooperation with the international sharing mechanism between the Bank and the employees. community. It also allows us to take one step forward to become a global corporate citizen with competitive edge in In the face of global economic integration, we strengthened responsibility. international dialogue to enhance mutual trust. In 2012, we carried out the government's opening up strategy, The waters are broad at full tide, and the sail is hanging and steadily expanded our platform of overseas entities high before the wind. The 18th National People's Congress to extend to 39 countries and regions with a total of 383 of the CPC has painted for us the blueprint for the coming branches, forming a global service network across Asia, ten years or even a longer period. Standing now in 2013 Africa, Latin America, Europe, America and Australia, which is a starting point for a new era, despite the ongoing becoming the Chinese bank with the largest overseas profound changes in international political, economic and network . We quickened the ver tical development financial environment, the shareholders' and employees' of our global product lines, actively promoted RMB expectations, clients' trust and society's hope will let us reap internationalization operations, and became the first the joy from the struggle and victory following a bumpy Chinese bank which has accomplished the global struggling process. Passion and sweat make history, while integration of its information system through the complete wisdom and tenacity shape the future. We will be open coverage of FOVA system. We worked hard to offer to business wisdom, and take positive measures to solve diversified financial services to companies involved in social problems. We will promote changes in development international competition. We respected diverse nature and seek development in changes, in our efforts to of the host country's community and society, through the target coordinated economic, social, environmental and common operating philosophies and enterprise spirit, production development, affluent life and good ecology. we improved employees' understanding of multinational We will make due contributions to promote ecological culture and set up an international image that is rooted in progress, build beautiful China, and propel global the local community and benefits local people. sustainable development. Looking back on ICBC's reform over the past 29 years, what we have accumulated is more than the RMB17 trillion assets and more than RMB13.6 trillion customer deposits, we have gained more than the support of 4.38 million corporate Chairman: Jiang Jianqing customers and 393 million personal customers, and what March 27, 2013 we have earned is more than the trust of 420,000 employees and 940,000 investors. What is more important is that, we have inherited this culture of responsibility and corporate mission of excellent services to clients, maximum returns to shareholders, real success for our people, great contribution to society , followed the value orientation and behavior pattern of being honest and trustworthy, steady 行长致辞 President' s Statement 行长 杨凯生 President Yang Kaisheng 5 6 2012 年是我行增强可持续发展能力，提升消费者保护和 支持生态文明建设，饮水思源反哺社会 服务水平，绿色银行建设又上新台阶的一年。我们以战 我们努力践行“绿色银行”、“爱心银行”，从经营和 略思维和前瞻眼光，自觉将发展战略与全面建成小康社 生活的方方面面支持生态文明建设，投身公益事业。 会和全面推进生态文明建设的要求相适应，与回报客户、 2012 年，本行加强绿色信贷制度建设，发布了 54 个行业 股东、员工、社会的责任相结合，在建设最盈利、最优秀、 （绿色）信贷政策；充分依托科技领先优势，构筑绿色 最受尊重的国际一流现代金融企业的道路上又迈出了坚 渠道，推广电子银行，电子银行业务占比创 75.1% 的历 实的一步。 史新高；倡导绿色办公 , 年均减少办公用纸 1.5 亿张。我 们热忱反哺社会，积极投入赈灾扶贫、文化教育、社区 致力稳健健康发展，创造长期综合价值 服务等社会公益。 我们始终坚持稳健经营，积极稳妥应对挑战，加快自身 经营转型，持续创造长期回报。2012 年，本行资产规 国际化再上新台阶，引领“走出去”新突破 模达 175,422 亿元，实现净利润 2,387 亿元，分别增长 我们稳步推进国际化战略，实现了国际化发展的大跨越。 13.3% 和 14.5%，平均总资产回报率和加权平均权益回报 2012 年末，本行境外网络覆盖 39 个国家和地区，分支机 率分别达 1.45% 和 23.02%，资本充足率达 13.66%，不良 构总数达 383 家，成为境外机构网络覆盖范围最广的中 贷款率下降至 0.85%，拨备覆盖率提高至 295.55%，每股 资银行；境外机构的经营能力持续增强；累计支持“走 社会贡献值 2.13 元。 本行为投资者和社会提供了长期稳 出去”项目 70 个，融资总额达 152 亿美元，境内国际结 定的贡献和回报。 算又创历史新高，跨境人民币业务领跑同业。 积极优化信贷布局，助力实体经济发展 以人为本和谐发展，致力员工人文关怀 我们坚持金融服务实体经济和转型发展的本质要求，提 我们以员工为本行发展的根本，关注员工职业成长， 高信贷资源配置效率，进一步巩固了信贷结构调整成效。 致力员工人文关怀，注重民族团结和文化融合，努力 2012 年，本行保持信贷适度和均衡增长，境内分行人民 实现员工与企业的共同成长。2012 年，女性员工比例 币贷款新增 8,672 亿元，增长 12.3%；坚持信贷结构调整 49.5%，少数民族员工占比 5.3%。本行紧密围绕人才强行 方向，先进制造业、战略性新兴产业、现代服务业、文 战略，建立健全“纵向可进退、横向可交流”的职业发 化产业等四大产业贷款占境内公司贷款余额较年初提升 展新机制；完成各类培训 3.6 万期，279 万人次，人均受 6.7 个百分点；强化对重点县支行和涉农机构的信贷资源 训约 10.6 天。 倾斜配置力度，涉农贷款余额增长 20.23%；促进区域协 调发展，加大对中西部和东北地区的信贷投放，对其贷 2013 年，将是我行推进第三个三年规划的关键之年。我 款增速高于全行平均贷款增速 1.4 个百分点。 们将认真贯彻十八大“全面建成小康社会、全面深化改 革开放”的要求，主动适应国内外经济金融形势的新变化， 加强消费者权益保护，创新提升客户服务 充分用好金融杠杆，大力推进生态文明建设，积极支持 我们加快推进服务提升战略，狠抓不规范经营治理及客 和服务实体经济发展，不断推进健康可持续发展，履行 户体验改善，投诉数量显著下降。2012 年，本行积极开 大行使命，共建和谐美丽中国。 展“满意在工行”主题活动，全面推动服务改进，有 116 家网点入选中国银行业协会千佳名单，连续三年同业排 名第一；在国内率先成立了消费者权益保护办公室，并 制定了全行消费者权益保护制度，完成新版服务价目表等 收费文件和合同的梳理和对外发布工作，从保护消费者权益 角度引导产品和服务合理定价，稳妥高效处理各类客户纠纷 行长：杨凯生 维权事件；开展各类金融消费者知识教育活动 5 万余次。 2013 年 3 月 27 日 行长致辞 President' s Statement 2012 is the year in which we have strengthened the of credit structure adjustment, and facilitated loans in sustainable development capabilities, enhanced our advanced manufacturing industry, strategic emerging consumer rights protection and service standards, and industries, modern service industry and culture industry, advanced the building of green bank. With our forwardup 6.7percentage points to the proportion against the total looking and strategic view, we matched our healthy domestic loans over the beginning of the year. We continued and sustainable development to the requirements of to increase more credit to key county regions' sub-branches building a well-off society in all respects and advanced the and agriculture-related institutions, with agriculture-related construction of the ecological civilization. We immersed loans increased by 20.23%. We supported cross region ourselves in our responsibility to return to customers, balanced development, increased credit support to Central shareholders, employees, and society. We have made and Western China, with a loan growth of 1.4 percentage another great step in building the Bank into a global points higher than the average of the Bank. leading bank with the best profitability, performance and prestige. Strengthening consumer rights protection, innovating and upgrading services Maintaining healthy development, creating long-term value for shareholders We acceletated the implementation of service improvement strategy, strengthened the control of non-compliance We have always stuck to sound operation, actively operations and improvement of customer experiences. responded to challenges, sped up our own business In 2012, we actively promoted the event of Feel Satisfied transformation, and created long-term returns continuously. with ICBC , advanced the service improvement activities, In 2012, the Bank's total assets reached RMB17,542.2 and had 116 outlets listed on the 1,000 Best Banks by the billion, with a net profit of RMB238.7 billion, up 13.3% and China Banking Association, the most among banks for the 14.5% respectively, ROA and ROE hit 1.45% and 23.02% past three consecutive years. We set up the first Consumer respectively, CAR registered at 13.66%, and NPL ratio fell Protection Office among Chinese banks, and formulated to 0.85%, allowance to NPL rose to 295.55%, and social the regarding internal policies, rationalized and published contribution value was RMB2.13 per share. The bank has documentation of new fee-charging and service contracts created long-term returns and contributions to investors with the goal of protection of consumers and reasonable and society. pricing, dealt with all kinds of customer disputes efficiently. We actively held over 50,000 various financial education Ac tively optimizing credit por tfolios, driving the activities for the customers. development of real economy Supporting the advance of ecological civilizaiton, rewarding We stuck to the fundamental requirements of serving the and serving society real economy and development transformation, improved the efficiency of credit allocation and enhanced the effect We strove to practise Green Bank and Charity Bank , of credit structure adjustment. The Bank maintained supported the construction of the ecological civilization moderate and balanced credit growth. In 2012, domestic in every business aspect and daily life. In 2012, the Bank branches of the Bank extended new loans of RMB867.2 stepped up efforts in formulating green credit policies, billion, an increase of 12.3%. We stuck to the direction issued (green) credit policy for 54 sectors. Leveraged 7 8 our leading IT capabilities, we built green channels, Year of 2013 will be crucial for the implementation of and advocated electronic banking, e-transactions now the third Three-Year plan. We will conscientiously carry accounted for a new record of 75.1% of all the transactions out the requirements of building a well-off society in processed. We advocated green office, reduced paper all respects, deepening reform and opening up by 18th useage by 150 million pieces per year. We fur ther National Congress of the CPC, take initiatives to adapt to emphasized rewarding and serving society, dedicated new changes in both global and domestic economic and ourselves to disaster and poverty relief, education and financial environment, and fully leverage on finance to community service. strongly advance the construction of ecological civilization, actively support and serve the development of real Elevating internationalization to a new level, leading the economy, continually promote healthy and sustainable breakthrough of globalization development, fulfil our responsibilities as a major bank, and contribute to building beautiful China. We executed our internationalization strategy steadily and realized a large leap. In 2012, our overseas network covered 39 country and regions, with total units of 383, making us the largest Chinese bank in overseas outlets coverage. The performance and operation kept strengthening. We have supported 70 outbound projects accumulatively, total financing amounted to USD 15.2 billion, and hit a new record of international settlement volume domestically, kept the leading position of cross-border RMB business among peers. People-oriented harmonious development, humanistic care for employees We regarded employees as the fundmental to our d e ve l o p m e n t , c a re d a b o u t o u r e m p l oye e c a re e r development, committed ourselves to the humanistic care for employees, emphasized national unity and cultural integration, and kept on realizing common growth of both employees and our business. In 2012, female employees represented 49.5% of all staff and members of ethnic minorities represented 5.3%. The Bank focused President: Yang Kaisheng on the strategy of success with the talents, established and enhanced the mechanism of mobility in both vertical March 27, 2013 and horizontal career development. The Bank completed 36,000 various training programs for total 2.79 million trainees, 10.6 day per person in average. 监事长 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors 监事长 赵林 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors Zhao Lin 9 10 回眸 2012 2012 Highlights 责任领域 责任绩效 Field of responsibility Award granter 完善社会责任工作机制，深化社会责任工作内涵；连续第五年在全行范围举办社会责任专题培训班， 加强责任管理 传播了社会责任理念，增强了社会责任认知。 Enhancing responsibility The Bank improved its social responsibility working mechanism and deepened the connotation of social management responsibility work. It has held special training courses on social responsibility across the Bank for five consecutive years, which spread ideas and enhanced awareness of social responsibilities. 加入联合国全球契约，成为国内首家加入该组织的商业银行，并受邀出席全球契约中日韩网络会议； 再次入选恒生可持续发展指数成份股，树立了良好的国际形象。 推进国际接轨 The Bank joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), being the first domestic commercial bank to Promoting international join this organization, and was invited to attend the network conference among China, Japan and South communication Korea. ICBC was once again included as a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series, which helped it build up a good international image. 报告期内，本行境内分行新增人民币贷款 8,672 亿元，增幅为 12.3%；中西部和东北地区分行贷款增 支持实体经济 幅高于全行贷款平均增幅 1.4 个百分点。 Supporting the real During the reporting period, domestic branches of the Bank extended new RMB loans of RMB867.2 billion, economy an increase of 12.3%. The growth rate of new loans in Central and Western China and Northeastern China was 1.4 percentage points higher than the average of the whole bank. 中小微型企业在公司贷款户中占比 92%，贷款余额 42,312 亿元，较年初增加 5,595 亿元；涉农贷款余 助力民生改善 额增长 20.23%。 Helping to improve Small, medium and micro enterprises accounted for 92% of the Bank' s corporate loan customers, and the people' s wellbeing loan balance registered RMB4,231.2 billion, an increase of RMB559.5 billion over the year beginning. The balance of agriculture-related loans increased by 20.23%. 全行环境友好及环保合格客户数量和贷款余额占全部境内公司客户数量及贷款余额的比例均保持在 建设生态文明 99.9% 以上；投向绿色经济领域贷款余额合计为 5,934 亿元。 Promoting ecological The number of environment-friendly and environment-compliant customers and their proportion in the progress total loan balance accounted for above 99.9% of all the domestic customers and their loan balance. The balance of loans extended to green economy sectors totaled up to RMB593.4 billion. 国内率先成立了消费者权益保护办公室；开通了“投诉举报专线电话”，并建立了抽查督导、监测分析、 维护客户权益 全行通报等机制。 Protecting The Bank led the way to set up Consumer Protection Office. They also opened hotline for complaint and customers' rights reporting , and established mechanisms for sample inspection and supervision, monitoring and analysis and Bank-wide criticizing. 致力以人为本 报告期末，本行共有员工 427,356 人，当年新创就业岗位 14,665 个；完成各类培训 3.6 万期，人均受训约 10.6 天。 Committed to being At the end of the reporting period, the Bank had 427,356 employees, and 14,665 new jobs were created in the people-oriented year. The Bank completed 36,000 trainings of all kinds, providing an average of 10.6 days of training per person. 本行全年公益事业投入 4,098 万元；近三年，通过志愿者活动形式累计捐款 2,112 万元，受助人数近 热心公益事业 66 万人次。 Devoted to public The Bank invested RMB40.98 million in public good undertakings in the whole year. In the past three years, good undertakings the Bank accumulatively donated RMB21.12 million in the form of voluntary programs, and the number of donees amounted to nearly 660,000. 关键数据 Key Data 2012 2011 2010 净利润 2,387 2,084 1,660 Net profit 纳税总额 1,061 919 695 Ratal 现金分红 709 642 Cash dividend 平均总资产回报率 1.45% 1.44% 1.32% Return on average assets 加权平均权益回报率 23.02% 23.44% 22.79% Return on weighted average equity 资产总额 175,422 154,769 134,586 Total assets 贷款总额 88,037 77,889 67,905 Total loans 客户存款 136,429 122,612 111,456 Customer deposits 营业收入 5,297 4,706 3,807 Operating income 不良贷款率 0.85% 0.94% 1.08% NPL ratio 不良贷款余额 746 730 732 NPL balance 拨备覆盖率 295.55% 266.92% 228.20% Allowance to NPL 资本充足率 Capital adequacy ratio 13.66% 13.17% 12.27% 核心资本充足率 10.62% 10.07% 9.97% Core capital adequacy ratio 绿色经济领域贷款 Loans to green economy sectors 电子银行业务量占比 Proportion of business volume % 75.1% 70.1% 59.1% of E-banking 11 12 环境类指标 Environmental indicators 单位 Unit 2012 2011 2010 办公用纸量 张 Piece 9,722,000 11,095,400 10,666,300 Office paper consumption 办公耗电量 千瓦时 KWH 18,307,906 17,675,573 11,814,560 Office power consumption 锅炉燃气量 立方米 Cubic meter 417,671 404,544 318,479 Boiler gas consumption 锅炉蒸汽耗水量 吨 Ton 4,836 4,885 3,972 Boiler water consumption 社会类指标 Social indicators 单位 Unit 2012 2011 2010 小微企业贷款余额 Loans to small and micro 亿元 RMB100 million 18,401 16,901 enterprises 每股社会贡献值 元 RMB yuan 2.13 1.76 1.34 Social contribution per share 员工总数 人 Person 427,356 408,859 397,339 Total number of employees 女性员工比例 % 49.5% 48.8% 48.2% Proportion of female employees 少数民族员工占比 Proportion of employees from % 5.3% 5.2% 5.2% ethnic groups 人均培训天数 天 / 人 Day/person 10.6 8.2 8.2 Average training days per person 公益捐赠 万元 RMB10 thousand 4,098 3,920 6,252 Charitable donations 注 1：办公耗电量、办公用纸量、锅炉燃气量、锅炉蒸汽耗水量为本行总部数据。 注 2：2011 年本行总行本部大楼二期开始投入使用，人员和办公面积大幅增加。报告期内，本行通过各种办法有效控制能耗增长。 注 3：每股社会贡献值 = 基本每股收益 +（纳税额 + 职工费用 + 利息支出 + 公益投入总额）/ 期末总股本。 Note1： Office power consumption, Office paper consumption and Boiler gas consumption includes statistics only from the headoffice of the Bank. Note2： In 2011, the second phase of the Head Office Building of the Bank came into operation, and the employees and office area sharply increased. During the reporting period, the Bank controlled energy consumption effectively by applying different methods. Note3： Social contribution per share = Basic earnings per share + (ratal + staffcosts + interest expense + total input in public welfare)/total equity at the end of the period. 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 公司概况 Overview of ICBC 公司简介 Company Profile 公司治理 Corporate Governance 责任理念 Responsibility Concepts 利益相关方参与 Stakeholders Participation 责任管理 Responsibility Management 社会评价 Social Recognition CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 姜建清董事长出席五四青年节表彰活动 Chairman Jiang Jianqing attended the Awarding Ceremony for the Youth Day 公司概况 公司文化 使命：提供卓越金融服务——服务客户、回报股东、成就员工、奉献社会 愿景：建设最盈利、最优秀、最受尊重的国际一流现代金融企业 价值观：工于至诚，行以致远 基本价值取向：诚信、人本、稳健、创新、卓越 基本理念 ：发展理念、效益理念、风险理念、服务理念、品牌理念、团队理念、 人才理念、学习理念 企业形象：您身边的银行，可信赖的银行 15 16 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 社会责任战略与管理 Value Creator 价值银行 Brand Builder 品牌银行 杨凯生行长应邀在人民网介绍本行为社会公众提供金融服务的情况 President Yang Kaisheng was invited to introduce ICBC's practice for providing financial services to clients at People internet company Green Bank 绿色银行 Overview of ICBC Creditworthy Bank Corporate culture 诚信银行 Mission: Excellent for you Excellent services to clients, Maximum returns to shareholders, Real success for our people, Great contribution to society Vision: A global leading bank with the best profitability, performance and prestige Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Value: Integrity leads to prosperity Charity Bank 爱心银行 Basic dimensions of Value: Integrity, Humanity, Prudence, Innovation and Excellence Basic philosophies: Philosophies regarding development, benefit, risks, services, brand, team work, competent persons and learning 未来展望 Outlook Brand image: A reliable bank that's always by your side 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 公司简介 中国工商银行成立于 1984 年 1 月 1 日，总部在北京。 道，向 438 万公司客户和 3.93 亿个人客户提供广泛的金 2005 年 10 月 28 日整体改制为股份有限公司。2006 年 融产品和服务，基本形成了以商业银行为主体，跨市场、 10 月 27 日成功在上海证券交易所和香港联合交易所同 国际化的经营格局，并在绝大多数商业银行业务领域保 日挂牌上市，开创了证券市场中 A 股和 H 股同步发行上 持国内市场领先地位。本行始终坚持“以客户为中心、 市的先河，并一举创造了 28 项世界之最，被媒体和业界 服务创造价值”的宗旨，持续提升金融服务水平，品牌 誉为“世纪招股”。 内涵不断丰富，努力使“您身边的银行，可信赖的银行” 的品牌形象深入人心，成为全球最具价值的金融品牌。 通过持续努力和稳健发展，本行已经迈入世界领先大银 行行列，成为全球市值、盈利、客户存款、贷款和品牌 本行坚持履行经济责任与社会责任的有机统一，在支持 价值第一的上市银行。本行拥有优质的客户基础、多元 经济社会发展、保护环境和资源、支持社会公益等方面 的业务结构、强劲的创新能力和市场竞争力，通过约 1.7 树立了负责任的大行典范，多次被评为“中国最受尊敬 万家境内机构、383 家境外机构和遍布全球的 1,630 家境 银行”、“最具责任感企业”。 外代理行以及网上银行、电话银行和自助银行等分销渠 17 18 Company Profile Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China was incorporated customer deposits, lending and brand value. The Bank on January 1, 1984 with headquarters in Beijing. The Bank boasts an excellent customer base, a diversified business of Social Responsibility was wholly restructured to a joint-stock limited company structure, strong innovation capabilities and market on October 28, 2005. On October 27, 2006, the Bank was competitiveness. The Bank provides extensive financial listed on both the Shanghai Stock Exchange and The products and services for 4.38 million corporate customers Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, becoming the and 393 million personal customers by virtue of its service first company publicly offering A shares and H shares network consisting of about 17,000 domestic institutions, simultaneously in the securities market, and it topped the 383 overseas institutions and 1,630 correspondent banks Value Creator 价值银行 world in 28 indicators. As a result, the Bank was accredited worldwide, as well as through its distributing channels by media and the banking sector as Centennial Offering . including online banking, telephone banking and selfservice banking. It has basically formed an internationalized Through its continuous endeavor and stable development, trans-market operating structure focusing on commercial the Bank has developed into one of the top large banks banking, and maintained a leading position in the in the world in terms of market capitalization, profit, domestic market in a majority of commercial banking Brand Builder 品牌银行 areas. Upholding the management tenet of focusing on customers and creating value through services , the Bank constantly improves its financial services to enrich its brand connotation. With the brand image of A reliable bank that's always by your side being widely recognized, the Bank has been the most valuable financial brand around the globe. Green Bank 绿色银行 The Bank strives to realize the integration of economic and social responsibilities, establishing the image of a large responsible bank in the aspects of supporting economic and social development, protecting environment and Creditworthy Bank resources, and participating in community services, and has 诚信银行 won the awards of China's Most Respectable Bank and Most Responsible Enterprise for many times. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Charity Bank 爱心银行 未来展望 Outlook 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 公司治理 本行严格遵守营业所在地和上市地的法律法规及相关监管 监事、高管选任和董事会专门委员会调整。董事会认真履 规定，坚持把完善公司治理作为提升发展水平的关键举 行决策和监督职责，监事会积极发挥监督作用，管理层加 措，围绕“建设最盈利、最优秀、最受尊重的国际一流现 大重点领域和关键环节的改革力度，确保了经营计划顺利 代金融企业”的战略愿景，不断完善“三会一层”架构和 完成。报告期内，本行不断完善公司治理制度和机制建设， 工作制度，提升对子公司的治理水平，积极推进战略转型 积极开展公司治理基本制度修订工作，加强授权管理，不 以及经营模式和增长方式的转变，强化风险管理和内部控 断加强全面风险、内审、内控和激励约束机制建设。进一 制，着力改进和提高服务质量，提升核心竞争力，全面促 步提高信息披露质量，在保证全体股东享有同等权利的同 进各项业务健康发展。报告期内，本行荣获香港上市公司 时，注重畅通沟通渠道，确保科学运作、民主决策，积极 商会“2012 年香港公司管治卓越奖”、香港会计师公会 践行企业社会责任。 “最佳企业管治资料披露大奖—H 股板块白金奖”、 上海 证券交易所“2012 年度上市公司信息披露奖”、南开大学 截至报告期末，本行董事会共有董事 16 名，其中执行董 2012 年度“中国最佳上市公司治理奖”等 31 项境内外公 事 4 名，非执行董事 6 名，独立非执行董事 6 名；监事会 司治理重要奖项。 共有监事 7 名，其中股东代表监事 2 名，外部监事 2 名， 职工代表监事 3 名。 报告期内，本行持续优化公司治理架构，稳妥推进董事、 股东大会 报告期内，本行共召开 1 次股东年会和 2 次临时股东大会，审议通过了 14 项议案并听取了 2 项汇报。各 Shareholders' 次会议的召开均履行了相应的法律程序，保证了股东参会并行使权利。本行聘请律师见证了股东大会并 General Meeting 出具了法律意见书。以上股东大会决议公告亦可详见本行网站。 During the reporting period, the Bank convened one annual general meeting and two extraordinary general meeting, at which it deliberated and approved a total of 14 proposals and heard two reports. Each meeting was convened in compliance with relevant legal procedures which assured shareholders' participation and exercise of rights. The Bank engaged lawyers to witness these meetings and issue legal opinions. Detailed resolution announcements of the above meetings can be found on the website of the Bank. 董事会 报告期内，本行共召开董事会会议 14 次，审议通过包括公司发展战略规划、调整董事会专门委员会委员、 Board of Directors 提名董事候选人、财务决算、利润分配等 62 项议案；听取了内部审计计划、风险管理情况等 20 项汇报 During the reporting period, the Bank convened 14 meetings of the Board of Directors, at which it deliberated and approved 62 proposals, including proposals on strategic planning for corporate development, member adjustment of special committees of the Board of Directors, director candidate nomination, final accounts and profit distribution. In addition, it heard 20 reports on internal audit plan, risk management and other issues. 监事会 Board of 报告期内，监事会共召开 7 次会议，审议通过了年度报告、内部控制评价报告、社会责任报告等 19 项议 Supervisors 案，并及时发表独立意见；听取了关于内部控制评价、全面风险管理、内部审计工作等 23 项汇报。 During the reporting period, the Board of Supervisors held seven meetings, at which it reviewed and approved 19 proposals, including proposals concerning annual report, internal control assessment report, social responsibility report and others, and timely expressed independent opinions. The Board of Supervisors heard 23 reports on internal control assessment, comprehensive risk management, internal audit and other issues. 19 20 Corporate Governance Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 In strict accordance with laws, regulations and regulatory requirements corporate governance framework and steadily promoted the selection in places of business and listing, the Bank took the improvement of the and appointment of directors, supervisors and the senior management, corporate governance as a key approach to promote its development. as well as the adjustment of special committees under the Board of of Social Responsibility Centering on the strategic vision of a global leading bank with the best Directors. The Board of Directors performed the decision-making and profitability, performance and prestige , it constantly improved the supervision responsibilities in earnest, the Board of Supervisors played Shareholders' General Meeting, the Board of Directors, the Board of the supervision function actively, and the Management intensified the Supervisor and the Senior Management framework and the working reform in key areas and aspects, thus ensuring the smooth fulfillment of system, lifted the governance level to subsidiaries, actively advanced the business plan. During the reporting period, the Bank kept improving the strategic transformation and the shift of operating and growth the corporate governance system and the mechanism, actively modes, strengthened risk management and internal control, intensified conducted the revision to the fundamental corporate governance improvement of service quality and enhanced core competitiveness system, strengthened the authorization management, and continuously Value Creator 价值银行 to promote the healthy development of various businesses in an allenhanced the internal audit and control of enterprise risks and the round manner. During the reporting period, the Bank bagged 31 major building of the incentive and constraint mechanism. It further lifted corporate governance awards at home and abroad, including the the information disclosure quality, focused on smooth communication 2012 Hong Kong Corporate Governance Excellent Awards conferred channels on the premise of guaranteeing equal rights enjoyed by by the Chamber of Hong Kong Listed Companies, the Best Corporate all shareholders, ensured scientific operation and dynamic decisionGovernance Disclosure Awards 2012 – H Share Category Platinum making, and actively practiced the corporate social responsibility. Award by Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Information Disclosure Award for Listed Companies by Shanghai As at the end of the reporting period, the Board of Directors of the Brand Builder 品牌银行 Stock Exchange, and the China's Best Listed Companies in Corporate Bank consisted of 16 directors, including 4 executive directors, 6 nonGovernance in 2012 by Nankai University etc.. executive directors and 6 independent non-executive directors. The Board of Supervisors consisted of 7 supervisors, namely 2 shareholder During the reporting period, the Bank continuously improved the supervisors, 2 external supervisors and 3 employee supervisors. Green Bank 绿色银行 第一汇报路线 Primary reporting line 股东大会 第二汇报路线 Secondary reporting line Shareholders' General Meeting 董事会 监事会 Board of Directors Board of Supervisors Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 战略委员会 风险管理委员会 提名委员会 薪酬委员会 关联交易控制委员会 审计委员会 监督委员会 Strategy Risk Management Nomination Compensation Related Party Audit Committee Supervision Committee Committee Committee Committee Transactions Control Committee Committee 高级管理层 Senior Management Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 资产负债管理 信用风险管理 财务审查委员会 委员会 委员会 Credit Risk Financial Approval Asset & Liability Management Committee Management Committee Committee 内部审计局 Internal Audit Bureau 信息科技管理 市场风险管理 技术审查委员会 风险管理委员会 委员会 委员会 Technical Approval Risk Management Market Risk Committee Information Technology Charity Bank 爱心银行 Management Committee Committee Management Committee 内部审计分局 操作风险管理 Internal Audit 业务与产品创新 信贷审查委员会 委员会 Sub-bureau 管理委员会 Operational Risk Business & Product Credit Approval Management Innovation Management Committee Committee Committee 未来展望 Outlook 营销及产品部门 风险管理部门 综合管理部门 支持与保障部门 境内分支机构 境外分支机构 Marketing Risk Comprehensive Supporting Domestic Overseas & Product Management Administration Departments Institutions Institutions Departments Departments Departments 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 本行把风险管理作为公司治理的核心内容，完善具有自 治理结构、制度体系、IT 系统与考核机制日益完善，风 身特色的全面风险管理体系，统筹推进巴塞尔新资本协 险计量体系日渐成熟，资本约束与激励机制逐步发挥有 议的实施准备，加强并表风险、国别风险和表外风险管理， 效作用，风险管理水平全面提升。 努力提升各类风险管理技术水准。 本行内部审计以风险控制为主线，以增值服务为宗旨， 报告期内，本行印发了《2012-2014 年风险管理规划》， 以精品审计为抓手，科学创新，较好地履行了内部审计 明确了三年风险管理工作的重点和要求；修订风险管理 在全行公司治理和风险管控体系中的职责。报告期内， 评价、限额、评估办法，确保全面风险管理制度的适用 重点开展了涉及财务效益、信贷业务、集团风险、资金 性和前瞻性；修订《并表管理制度》，搭建集团并表管 市场、境外机构等方面的审计项目，实现了对全行发展 理体系；修订《国别风险管理办法》，完善国别风险评 的主要风险、重要系统和关键业务领域的集中覆盖。 级体系。截至报告期末，本行三大支柱基础建设已完成。 责任理念 中国工商银行的成长与发展源于客户、系于股东、发于 和谐银行、爱心银行六维度深入践行社会责任，努力以 员工、植于社会，赢得利益相关群体的认知和尊重是我 优质的服务赢得客户的信任，以卓越的业绩赢得股东的 们的不懈追求与价值精髓，取得利益相关群体的理解和 青睐，以先进的文化赢得员工的认同，以优异的表现赢 共鸣是我们的坚定信念和行动指南。 得社会的肯定，将“提供卓越金融服务”视为自身使命， 把服务客户、回报股东、成就员工、奉献社会融入到公 我们紧紧围绕“工于至诚，行以致远”的价值观，以企 司的经营战略，刻于企业的发展蓝图，凝练成工行的责 业公民的行为模式为基础，融入金融行业的独特内涵和 任文化，升华为全员的价值追求。 标准，从价值银行、品牌银行、绿色银行、诚信银行、 利益相关方参与 本行努力完善利益相关方的识别和参与机制，建立健全社会责任日常信息披露体系，积极创新社会责任沟通途径，通过交 流对话、共同行动等多种方式，着力搭建社会责任信息交流平台，了解利益相关方期望与诉求，与利益相关方构建战略互 信关系，增进了解、增加共识。 赵林监事长在中国银行业信息科技风险管理会议上致辞 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, Zhao Lin attended and addressed the IT Risk Management Conference of Chinese Banking Sector 21 22 Tak ing risk management as the core of corporate system. As at the end of the reporting period, the building governance, the Bank has improved its comprehensive of the three pillars was completed, governance structure, Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 risk management system with characteristics of its own, regulations, IT system and assessment mechanism were carried forward the preparations for implementing Basel increasingly enhanced, the risk measurement system was of Social Responsibility II, strengthened the management of consolidation risk, more mature, and the capital incentive and constraint country risk and off-balance-sheet risk, and strived to mechanism played a more effective role, indicating an improve the risk management technology. overall enhancement of the Bank' s risk management. During the reporting period, the Bank issued the Risk With the risk control as the focus, value-added services as Management Planning for 2012-2014, which clarifies the the purpose, and quality audit as the breakthrough point, focuses of and requirements for risk management in the internal audit of the Bank has made scientific innovation Value Creator 价值银行 three years. It revised the evaluation method and risk and well performed its duties in corporate governance and limit for risk management, to ensure the applicability and risk management of the Bank. During the reporting period, perception of the comprehensive risk management system. internal audit of the Bank mainly carried out audits on It also revised the Consolidated Management Rules to financial performance, credit business, risks of the Group, build up a consolidated management system at the Group capital market and overseas institutions, covering major level. In addition, the Bank amended its Administrative risks, important systems and key business areas in the Measures for Country Risk, to improve its country risk rating development of the Bank. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Responsibility Concepts The Bank' s growth and development is based on customers, Excellent for you Excellent services to clients, Maximum correlated with shareholders, derived from employees and Green Bank 绿色银行 returns to shareholders, Real success for our people, rooted in the society. Wining the recognition and respect Great contribution to society into its operating strategy, of stakeholders is our unremitting pursue and core value, and embeds it into the blueprint of the Bank, refines it as and to be understood by stakeholders is our firm belief and responsibility culture of ICBC and sublimates it into the guide of action. pursuit of all employees. The Bank focuses on its value of Integrity Leads to Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 Prosperity to continuously improve its social responsibility performance consisting of six dimensions, namely Value Creator, Brand Builder, Green Bank, Creditworthy Bank, Harmonious Bank and Charity Bank, integrating the unique connotation of and standards for the financial industry based on the behavioral pattern required for Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 a corporate citizen. The Bank strives to win the trust of customers with quality services, favor of shareholders with excellent performance, understanding of employees with advanced culture, and recognition of the society with brilliant performance. It integrates its mission, Stakeholders Participation Charity Bank 爱心银行 The Bank has made great efforts to improve its stakeholder identification and participation mechanism, enhance its routine information disclosure system of social responsibility, and actively innovate the methods for communications on social responsibility. The Bank strives to build a communication platform for social responsibility information to get to know expectations and appeals of stakeholders and establish strategic mutual trust with stakeholders to promote mutual 未来展望 understanding, through dialogues, joint actions and other means. Outlook 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 期望与诉求 沟通方式 回应举措 Expectations and appeals Ways of communication Responses of ICBC 促进经济持续、健康发展 政策指引 支持国民经济发展，优化资源 协助公共财政，服务政府发展目标 上报统计报表 配置功能 日常调研、沟通 支持中小企业、三农、民族地 区等民生领域发展，纳税稳定 政府 增长，增加就业机会 Government Policy guidelines; Support the development of Submission of statistical national economy and improve statements; resource allocation; Routine surveys and support the development of SMEs, communications agriculture, rural areas and farmers, and ethnic group areas; Realize stable tax growth and create more jobs 合规经营，公平竞争 监管政策 加强合规管理、诚信经营 维护金融体系稳定 工作汇报 完善公司治理，加强内控建设， 上报统计报表 推进巴塞尔新资本协议实施 监管机构 Regulatory Regulatory policies; Strengthen compliant management authorities Work report; and creditworthy operation; Submission of statistical Improve corporate governance, statements strengthen internal control, and promote the implementation of Basel III 满意的投资回报 股东大会 稳健经营，提高盈利能力，分红 良好的市值水平 公司公告 稳定 充分了解公司经营状况 业绩路演 加强投资者关系管理，及时充分 股东 投资者热线、电邮、传真 披露信息 Shareholders Gain satisfactory returns and market Shareholders’ General Meeting; value; Company announcements; Fully understand the Bank’s Business performance roadshow; operating status Hotlines, emails and faxes for investors 优质便捷的金融产品 座谈会 电子银行业务量同比创新高，优化 满意的金融服务 满意度调查 业务流程，创新产品服务 舒适的业务环境 客服热线 提升服务品质，关注客户体验，升 官方网站、微博 级改造网点 客户 成立消费者权益保护办公室 Customers 23 24 期望与诉求 沟通方式 回应举措 Expectations and appeals Ways of communication Responses of ICBC Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 社会责任战略与管理 公平采购 招投标 公开透明的采购机制 诚信互惠 业务交流合作 坚持平等互利、和谐双赢的业务合作 合作伙伴 定期走访 Partners Bid and tender; Business communication and cooperation; Value Creator Regular visits 价值银行 良好的职业生涯规划和成长机会 职工代表大会 实施人力资源提升项目，完善员工 Brand Builder 完备的权益保障 教育培训 培训体系 品牌银行 员工 员工调研 完善薪酬激励、保险与福利体系 Employees Good career planning and development opportunities; Sound protection of rights and interests Green Bank 绿色银行 关注社区发展 公益活动 开展志愿者活动，扶助弱势群体， 安全、健康的生活环境 社区共建 积极投身公益事业 保证安全运营，普及金融知识，倡 社区 导环境保护 Creditworthy Bank Communities 诚信银行 Pay attention to community development; Safe and healthy living environment Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 关注气候变化，支持低碳经济 节能减排政策及倡议 实施绿色信贷，推广电子银行，拓 倡导节能减排，构建节约型社会 绿色公益活动 展绿色金融渠道 倡导绿色办公，推行责任采购，开 展环保公益活动 Charity Bank 爱心银行 环境 Pay close attention to climatic Policies and proposals on energy Environment change and support low-carbon conservation and emission economy; reduction; Advocate energy conservation and Environment-friendly public welfare emission reduction; activities Establish a conservation-minded society 未来展望 Outlook 社会责任战略与管理 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 责任管理 本行已逐步形成一套成熟的多维度、多层次社会责任管理体系。在董事会和管理层领导下，总行战略管理与投资者关系部 牵头协调社会责任整体工作，统一编制、发布社会责任报告，总行各部室及各分支机构分头组织实施，共同推进社会责任 的履行和落实。 制度建设 Rule formulation 根据企业公民发展趋势以及利益相关方诉求，修订《社会责任信息披露管理办法》，通过制度化管理加强社会责任理念与实际工作的融合。 Based on the trend of corporate citizenship and appeals of stakeholders, the Bank revised the Administrative Measures on Social Responsibility Information Disclosure, to integrate social responsibility concepts into practical work, through institutionalized management. 文化培育 Culture cultivation 连续第五年在全行范围举办社会责任专题培训，针对社会责任理论与实践、全球契约、社会责任报告编写等方面，安排了专家面 授、经验交流以及公益实践，并将课件通过员工网络大学供全行分享。 The Bank has organized special trainings on social responsibility for five consecutive years, and organized face-to-face lectures given by experts, experience exchanges and public welfare activities regarding theories and practices of social responsibility, UNGC, compilation of social responsibility report and other aspects. In addition, the training materials were shared across the Bank through the online employee college. 国际接轨 International development 成功加入联合国全球契约，成为首家加入该组织的国内商业银行，提高了国际声誉和社会影响力；主动参加全球契约中日韩网络 会议，交流银行业社会责任工作实践。 The Bank successfully joined the UNGC, being the first domestic commercial bank to join this organization, which enhanced its international reputation and social influence. In addition, the Bank actively attended the network conference among China, Japan and South Korea, at which it communicated banking sector's working practices in social responsibility. 外部交流 External exchanges 围绕社会责任管理、考核体系建设、公益文化传播等主题，赴中国移动等机构开展社会责任实地调研，增进了业界交流。 Centering on social responsibility management, assessment system improvement and publicity of pubic good activities, the Bank conducted field studies and surveys on social responsibilities in China Mobile Communication Corporation and other institutions, enhancing exchanges with them. 责任报告 Social responsibility report 2007 年以来，本行已连续 6 年发布了社会责任报告，全面、客观地披露本行社会责任理念与绩效。报告已经成为本行加强利益 相关方沟通、传播社会责任理念，完善企业管理模式的重要工具。 Since 2007, the Bank has released social responsibility reports for six consecutive years, which comprehensively and objectively disclosed its concepts and achievements regarding social responsibility. These reports have become an important tool for the Bank to strengthen communications with stakeholders, spread social responsibility concepts and improve enterprise management mode. 社会评价 报告期内，本行在履行社会责任方面的良好表现赢得了社会各界的广泛认可，先后荣获“年度最具社会责任金融机构奖”、 “2012 年度扶贫大使奖”、“新长城教育扶贫突出贡献单位”、“年度最佳公益慈善贡献奖”、“社会责任管理最佳实践奖”、 “促进社会责任发展最佳实践奖”、“十一五全国节能先进集体”等近二十项大奖。 25 26 Responsibility Management Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 The Bank has initially established a multi-dimensional and multi-layer system for social responsibility management. Under the leadership of the Board of Directors and the management, the Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations Department of the of Social Responsibility Head Office coordinated the overall work of social responsibility, formulated and released the corporate social responsibility report in a united manner. Relevant departments of the Head Office and branches were responsible for organizing relevant work and jointly promoted the performance and fulfillment of social responsibility. Value Creator 价值银行 Social Recognition During the reporting period, the Bank obtained widespread recognition on its performance of CSR from all walks of life at home and abroad. The Bank was honored with almost 20 awards concerning CSR, such as Most Socially Responsible Financial Brand Builder Institution Award , 2012 Poverty Alleviation Ambassador Award , Outstanding Contribution Award for New Great Wall Educational Support , Best Charitable Contribution Award , Best Practice Award for Social Responsibility Management , Best 品牌银行 Practice Award for Social Responsibility Promotion and Advanced Unit of Energy Conservation during 11th Five-Year-Plan . Green Bank 绿色银行 Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Charity Bank 爱心银行 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 助力实体经济 Boosting the Real Economy 支持新兴产业 Supporting the Emerging Industries 促进区域协调 Promoting the Regional Coordination 支持中小企业 Supporting the Small and Medium Enterprises 加大“三农”服务 Reinforcing the Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers Services 服务保障性住房 Serving the Construction of Low-income Housing 支持民族经济 Supporting the National Economy CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 价值银行 Value Creator 金融服务经济，金融行业在坚持自身可持续发展的同时，在服务和支持实体经济发展方面发挥了重要作用。报告期内，面 对错综复杂的国际国内经济形势，本行全力支持实体经济平稳健康发展，推动产业结构升级，加大战略性新兴产业支持力 度，促进区域经济平稳协调发展，为利益相关方创造了一流的价值。 助力实体经济 报告期内，本行继续坚持金融服务实体经济发展，保持信贷总量合理均衡增长、保障国家经济平稳协调较快发展的基础上， 加大信贷结构调整力度，通过信贷杠杆推动了经济发展方式转变和经济结构调整。对关系国计民生的重大项目给予合理支 持，同时继续有序支持在建、续建重点项目建设。报告期内，本行境内分行人民币贷款新增 8,672 亿元，增幅为 12.3%。 案例 本行河北分行针对一批产业带动性强的项目资金需求，制定综合金融服务方案，向包括重点区域路网、战略性 新兴产业园区和港口等项目投放贷款 96.86 亿元。 本行安徽分行加快项目衔接和贷款投放进度，支持当地基础设施项目建设，投放贷款 23 亿元；着力推进民生 项目建设，为市政供水、污水处理等公共事业投放贷款超过 7 亿元。 本行湖南分行针对长株潭城市群获批为国家资源节约型和环境友好型社会建设试验区，经济发展迅速驶入快车 道后区域内融资需求的高速增长，主动上门服务，出谋划策，创造性地催生了“两型社会”产业投资基金新模式， 并作为独家主理银行和托管银行，为率先试点的湘潭市产业投资基金提供“财务顾问 + 托管”的综合金融服务。 姜建清董事长在某机械集团生产车间调研 本行信贷支持的福州港罗源湾港区某作业区 Chairman Jiang Jianqing visited the production workshop of a heavy Working area of a bay port area of Fuzhou Port that received the credit machinery group support from the Bank 29 30 Finance serves the economy. Finance played an important role in serving and supporting the real economy while adhering to its own sustainability. In face of the complex economic situations both at home and abroad during the reporting period, the Bank Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 spared no effort to support the steady and healthy performance of the real economy, propel the industrial upgrade, intensify the support for the strategic emerging industries, and promote the steady and coordinated development of the regional of Social Responsibility economies. In this respect, the Bank created the first-class values for all the stakeholders. Boosting the Real Economy During the reporting period, the Bank continued to serve Value Creator 价值银行 the real economy development with financial services. It maintained a reasonable and balanced growth of credit amount and ensured a smooth, coordinated and fast national economy development. Besides, the Bank Brand Builder 品牌银行 strengthened credit structure adjustment and promoted the transformation of economic development patterns and the economic structural adjustment through credit leverage. It provided reasonable suppor t to major projects that would affect national economy and people's livelihood, while continuing to back up construction of key 本行河北分行实地考察某国际展览交易城 Hebei Branch visited international fair and exhibition city Green Bank 绿色银行 projects that were either under construction or expansion. During the reporting period, the new loans of all domestic branches reached RMB867.2 billion, up by 12.3%. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 CASE Hebei Branch designed comprehensive financial solutions to deliver comprehensive financial supports to a batch of key projects in Hebei Province, and offered an accumulated loan of RMB9,686 million to key regional road networks, parks for strategic emerging industries, ports and other projects. Harmonious Bank Anhui Branch expedited the project identification and loan granting. The branch granted a total loan of RMB2.3 billion to support the construction of national infrastructure projects in the local region, and lent over RMB0.7 和谐银行 billion to finance the building of projects relating to people's well-being in municipal water supply, sewage treatment and other public utility areas. After approved to be a national pilot for the construction of an energy-saving and environment-friendly society , Charity Bank 爱心银行 the Changsha-Zhuzhou-Xiangtan city group showed a fast-growing financing demand in order to stake the swift economic development. Hunan Branch actively served the city group, acted as an advisor, and creatively designed the new mode of energy-saving and environment-friendly society for industrial investment funds. Besides, the branch delivered comprehensive financial services integrating financial advisor + trusteeship to the Xiangtan Industrial Investment Fund, which was the pilot of such new mode. 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 案例 本行上海市分行紧密结合长三角地区高等级航道网发展、上海国际航运中心建设，维护上海港作为世界第一 大港的地位，积极支持上海市内河航道整治工程项目，参与银团贷款 7.3 亿元。 本行福建分行为当地码头、港区中转库等项目投入金融资源，大幅度提升了区域基础设施；支持了福建省跨 省区“北粮南运”和粮食进口物流通道无缝化连接，提高了全省粮食安全保障程度，对促进区域粮食产业聚 集发展等具有重要意义。 本行宁波分行坚持“金融服务实体经济发展”的要求，积极实施从传统的“资产拉动型”向“投行引领型”和“商 投互动型”服务转变。报告期内，通过牵头银团贷款、利用理财资金、发展租赁业务，新投放资金 274.7 亿元， 为支持宁波经济发展提供了强有力的金融支持。 支持新兴产业 案例 2012 年，根据国家战略性新兴产业发展规划，本行完善行 本行广东分行和浙江分行围绕当地经济转型升 业信贷政策，建立健全适应战略性新兴产业发展的信贷评审 级的战略机遇，加大对先进制造业、现代服务业、 和管理制度，积极发展新型金融业务，加大对战略性新兴产 文化产业和战略性新兴产业等四大重点市场的 业领域的信贷投放。报告期内，本行先后制定并印发了 54 信贷支持。报告期末，广东分行四大重点市场 个行业信贷政策，基本涵盖了国家确定的七大战略性新兴产 贷款余额达 2,922.5 亿元，其中，支持战略性新 业。为积极支持战略性新兴产业的出口增长，本行对全国重 兴产业客户共 220 余户，贷款余额 107.6 多亿元， 点出口地区及战略性新兴产业聚集地区制定了相关区域信贷 支持文化产业信贷客户近 500 户，近三年累计 政策；进一步细化了贸易融资产品政策，打造出口信贷、工 发放贷款 265.7 亿元；浙江分行四大重点市场贷 程 + 金融、投行 + 贷款等具品牌效应的融资产品，帮助企 款余额达 3,134.01 亿元，较年初新增 609.9 亿元， 业积极拓展海外市场。 占全部公司贷款增量的 146.3%。 天津和谐型大功率机车检修基地项目现场 杨凯生行长深入四川企业调研 Project site of Tianjin Harmony High Power Locomotive Repair Base President Yang Kaisheng visited an enterprise in Sichuan Province 案例 本行天津分行积极支持“天津和谐型大功率机车检修基地”项目，该项目设计总规模满足管辖区内 3,000 台电力 机车保有量的检修任务和年制造 200 台新车规模，项目建成后年产值约 40 亿元，实现了大功率机车的专业化集 中检修，提高了我国机车检修标准和水平，对天津市重型装备制造行业的进步以及经济发展起到推动作用。 31 32 CASE Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Shanghai Branch contributed RMB730 million to a syndicated loan, and actively supported the inland river channel improvement project in Shanghai, in an effort to support the development of the high-grade channel in the Yangtze River Delta and the construction of the of Social Responsibility international shipping center in Shanghai, and keep Shanghai' s position as the world's largest port. Fujian Branch injected financial resources into local ports, transit storages and other local projects, thereby enhancing the regional infrastructures to a large extent. Moreover, the branch supported the north-to-south grain transport project across different provinces and the seamless connection of the grain import logistics channel in Fujian Province, which boosted the grain security level of the whole province and was important to promote the cluster development of the regional grain industry. Ningbo Branch persisted in the requirement that finance serves the real economic development . The branch actively shifted from the Value Creator 价值银行 traditional service type featuring asset pull to the service type featuring the investment banking drive and the commercial-investment interaction .During the reporting period, the branch provided a mighty financial support for the local economic development, and newly granted RMB27,470 million by organizing syndicated loans, leveraging funds from wealth management products and developing the leasing business. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Supporting the Emerging Industries In 2012, in accordance with the development planning of China's realize an annual output value of RMB4 billion, realize the professional strategic emerging industries, the Bank improved the industrial credit concentrated overhaul of high-power locomotives, lift China's policy, established and upgraded the credit review and management locomotive overhaul standard and level, and promote the advance of Green Bank 绿色银行 system that suits the development of the emerging industries, actively the local heavy machinery equipment manufacturing industry and the developed new financial services, and increased the supply of credit to local economic development. strategic emerging industries. During the reporting period, the Bank formulated and published 54 industrial credit policies, basically covering the seven strategic emerging industries confirmed by the State. To actively support the export growth of strategic emerging industries, the bank drew up regional credit policies for the national key export areas Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 and the strategic emerging industrial clusters; it also further refined the policies of trade financing products, created financing products with brand effects, such as export credit, engineering + financing, and investment banking + loans, and helped enterprises to expand overseas markets. Guangdong Branch and Zhejiang Branch grasped the strategic Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 opportunity created by the local economic reshuffle and upgrade, and intensified the credit support for four major areas, including advanced 赵林监事长深入客户生产现场调研 manufacturing, modern services, cultural industry and strategic Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, Zhao Lin visited the clients production site emerging industries. As at the end of the reporting period, Guangdong Branch had a combined loan balance of RMB292.25 billion to the aforesaid key areas, including a loan balance of over RMB10.76 billion with more than 220 customers engaged in the strategic emerging Charity Bank 爱心银行 industries, and a cumulative loan size of over RMB26.57 billion with nearly 500 customers in the cultural industry for the recent three years. Zhejiang Branch kept a consolidated loan balance of RMB313.401 billion with the aforesaid key areas, representing an increase of RMB60.99 billion compared to the beginning of the year and 146.3% of the total corporate loan increment. 未来展望 Outlook Tianjin Branch actively supported the project of Tianjin Harmony High Power Locomotive Repair Base , which was designed to overhaul 本行河南分行支持的某 2X300MW 等级燃气 蒸汽联合循环热电厂开工奠基仪式 3,000 electrical locomotives in the local jurisdiction and produce 2X300MW Gas-steam circular power plant supported by Henan Branch 200 new locomotives every year. After completion, the project will 价值银行 Value Creator 促进区域协调 本行加强信贷政策与区域发展政策的协调配合，进一步 加大对中西部和东北地区经济发展的信贷支持力度。截 至报告期末，本行中西部和东北地区分行各项贷款余额 达 32,284 亿元，较年初增加 14.4%，高于全行贷款平均 增幅 1.4 个百分点，新增贷款 4,064.51 亿元，占全行新增 贷款的 40.05%。 案例 本行甘肃分行紧密结合全省经济社会发展重 王丽丽副行长出席金融市场支持青海经济发展研讨会 Senior Executive Vice President, Wang Lili participated in the seminar for 点，增加信贷投放额度，报告期末，各项贷款 Qinghai's economic development. 增长 17.41%；报告期内累计向电力、公路、 铁路等重点行业投放贷款 246.26 亿元。 本行广西分行大力支持广西“一轴四纵四横” 铁路网络体系建设、湘桂铁路扩能改造工程等 一批重大项目的开工建设，为项目建设提供有 针对性的服务方案，报告期内累计发放项目贷 款（本外币）143.93 亿元，同比多投放 84.94 亿元，比年初增加 25.36 亿元。 本行贵州分行积极支持旅游业重点景区建设 Guizhou Branch actively supported the development of key tourism destinations 支持中小企业 本行建立了完善的中小企业金融服务体系，包括组织机 构、人员队伍、产品体系、政策制度和内部流程。本行 中小企业贷款总量居国内银行业之首。报告期内，本行 进一步加大对中小企业的金融服务力度，加大优势产品 市场推广，满足客户需求。本行“网贷通”业务具有承 诺授信、客户自主操作、资金实时到帐、降低融资成本 等诸多特质，适应小企业“短、频、急”的融资需求， 让客户体验到现代金融的高效、便捷。至报告期末，本 行中小微型企业有贷户在公司贷款户中占比 92%，较年 初增长 11.8%；贷款余额 42,312 亿元，在公司贷款中占 比 72%，较年初增加 5,595 亿元、增长 15.2%。其中：小 本行福建分行调研福建某冷冻食品有限公司 Fujian Branch paid a visit to a frozen food company in Fujian 型微型企业贷款余额 18,400 亿元，较年初增加 1,500 亿元、 增幅 8.9%。 33 34 Promoting the Regional Coordination Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 The Bank strengthened the coordination and cooperation between the credit policy and the regional development policy, and further of Social Responsibility reinforced the credit support for the economic development in the central regions, the western regions and the northeastern regions. As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank kept an aggregate loan balance of RMB3,228.4 billion in the aforesaid regions, representing an increase of 14.4% compared to the beginning of the year and exceeding the average loan growth rate across the Bank by 1.4 percentage points, and newly granted RMB406,451 million Value Creator 价值银行 worth of loans, accounting for 40.05% of the overall loan increment 李晓鹏副行长出席“振兴中原经济区”创新沙龙 throughout the Bank. Senior Executive Vice President, Li Xiaopeng attended the innovation salon for economic development of Central China Economy Zone. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Gansu Branch increased the credit granting to the key areas associated with the economic and social development in Gansu CASE Province. As at the end of the reporting period, 17.41% of the overall loan increment. During the reporting period, the branch lent RMB24,626 million to such key industries as electrical power, road, railway. Guangxi Branch energetically supported the development of the One Axis, Four Vertical & Four Horizontal Railways network system, the Hunan-Guangxi Railway Expansion Project and other significant projects in Guangxi Autonomous Region, and delivered special service solutions to these projects. During the reporting period, the branch cumulatively granted a total project Green Bank 绿色银行 loan of RMB14,393 million in both Renminbi and foreign currencies, representing an increase of RMB8,494 million compared to the prior year and an increase of RMB2,536 million compared to the beginning of the year. Creditworthy Bank Supporting the Small and Medium Enterprises 诚信银行 The Bank is equipped with an adequate financial system serving total corporate loans and an increase of RMB559.5 billion or 15.2% small and medium enterprises, including organizational structure, compared to the beginning of the year. The loan balance of small staff team, product system, policy framework and internal flow. and micro enterprises with outstanding loans reached RMB1,840 The Bank has ranked atop all the Chinese banks by the aggregate billion, an increase of RMB150 billion or 8.9% compared to the size of small and medium enterprise loans. During the reporting beginning of the year. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 period, the Bank further strengthened the financial services for small and medium enterprises, and reinforced the promotion and marketing of advantaged products to satisfy the customer demand. The online revolving loans business of the Bank delivers functions as loan commitment, self-help operation by customer, real-time fund transfer and reduction of financing cost, so it well satisfies Charity Bank 爱心银行 the financing demand of small enterprises featuring short term, high frequency and urgent demand , and delivers an efficient and convenient experience of modern finance to customers. As at the end of the reporting period, small, medium and micro enterprises accounted for 92% of the total corporate loan customers and an 本行辽宁分行调研信贷支持企业 increase of 11.8% compared to the beginning of the year, and the Liaoning Branch paid a visit to an enterprise receiving the credit support loan balance reached RMB4,231.2 billion, accounting for 72% of the from the Bank 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 案例 本行上海分行成功携手宝钢集团，共同开发联接宝钢和工行的国内首家跨系统电子供应链融资系统，通过该 系统，本行可以为宝钢集团在全国范围内近 3 万家经销商和供应商提供便捷的网络融资服务，拓宽了小企业 融资渠道。 本行上海分行信贷支持改造 外滩 22 号旧建筑 Shanghai Branch provided a credit suppor t for the renovation of the old building located on the Bund No. 22 案例 本行四川分行以产品创新为切入点，根据中小企业园区集群特点，年内创新实施 52 项个性化融资方案，因 地制宜推出网贷通、集群联保贷、酒贷通等一系列创新型产品，为企业提供多元化融资渠道，有效破解中小 企业融资担保瓶颈问题，满足了中小企业多样化和个性化的融资需求。截至报告期末，中型企业贷款余额 1,028.79 亿元，比年初增加 57.51 亿元；小企业贷款余额 524.92 亿元，比年初增加 151.50 亿元，分别占全 行贷款净增额的 12.37% 和 40.57%。 案例 本行福建分行为龙岩龙州工业园区设计“龙州工业园区小企业集群联保融资方案”。龙岩分行以福建龙州工 业园区小企业为营销对象，针对园区内小企业因无法提供有效的资产抵（质）押担保导致融资难的情况，量 身定制了龙州工业园区小企业集群联保融资方案。该方案实施后受到园区小企业的一致推崇，取得较好的社 会效应。 案例 本行广东分行为满足小企业贷款“短、频、急”的融资需求，创新开发了“审贷通”远程视频审批系统。 2012 年 3 月，东莞市某橡胶制品有限公司急需贷款 100 万元。但该企业无法提供有效抵押物。本行东莞分 行获悉后，迅速组织支行展开联动调查。调查结果表明，该企业生产经营状况较好，管理制度较为规范，信 誉状况良好，原材料供应、产品销售都有稳定的渠道，有可预见的净现金流入量，第一还款来源有保证，因 此迅速向该企业发放一笔 100 万元、期限 6 个月的免抵押“小额便利贷”，用于补充生产性流动资金，解 决了资金周转紧张的问题，成功帮助企业渡过了难关。 35 36 CASE Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Shanghai Branch successfully developed the first intersystem electronic supply chain of Social Responsibility financing system connecting Baosteel Group and ICBC, the first of its kind in China, hands in hands with Baosteel Group. With the system, ICBC can deliver convenient online financing services to nearly 30,000 dealers and suppliers of Baosteel Group throughout the country, Value Creator 价值银行 thereby providing a broader financing channel 罗熹副行长出席全国小微企业金融服务评优表彰会 for small enterprises. Senior Executive Vice President, Luo Xi participated the Commendation Conference for the Competition of Financial Services to China's Microand-Small Enterprises. Brand Builder 品牌银行 CASE During the reporting period, Sichuan Branch, starting from the product innovation, designed 52 personalized financing solutions based on the features of small and medium enterprise cluster in industrial parks, and launched a series of innovative products, including the online revolving loans, the cluster joint guarantee-backed loans and the alcohol loan express, so as to provide diversified financing channels for corporate financing, which effectively solved the bottleneck problem of financing guarantee for small and medium enterprises, and satisfied their diversified and personalized financing demands. As at the end of the year, the Branch kept a loan balance of RMB102,879 million with Green Bank 绿色银行 the medium enterprises, representing an increase of RMB5,751 million compared to the beginning of the year and accounting for 12.37% of the total net loan increase of the Branch, and recorded a loan balance of RMB52,492 million with the small enterprises, representing an increase of RMB15,150 million compared to the beginning of the year and accounting for 40.57% of the total net loan increase of the Branch. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 Fujian Branch designed the Longzhou Industrial Park Small Enterprise Cluster Joint Guarantee-backed Financing CASE Plan for Longyan Longzhou Industrial Park. In order to win small enterprise customers in Fujian Longzhou Industrial Park, Longyan Branch developed the Longzhou Industrial Park Small Enterprise Cluster Joint Guarantee-backed Financing Plan, a tailor-made financing solution aimed to solve the financing problem of those small enterprises that can' t provide effective asset mortgage (pledge) guarantee in the industrial park. After implementation, the Harmonious Bank solution was warmly welcomed by the small enterprises in the industrial park, and created good social benefits. 和谐银行 CASE Guangdong Branch creatively developed the Loan Review Express, a remote video review system, in order to satisfy the demand of small enterprises for short, frequent and urgent loans. In March, 2012, a rubber products company Charity Bank 爱心银行 in Dongguan City was urgent to borrow a loan of RMB1 million. However, the company couldn't provide an effective mortgage. After learning such situation, Dongguan Branch quickly organized the sub-branches to carry out a collaborative survey. The survey indicated that the company could provide a reliable primary repayment source, considering its good production and operating status, sound corporate governance, good credit standing, stable supply of raw materials, stable product sales channels, and predictable net cash inflow. Therefore, the branch quickly offered a mortgage-free petty convenient loan involving an amount of RMB1 million and a term of 6 months. With the loan, the company replenished its working capital, mitigated its tight cash chain, and successfully tided over the 未来展望 Outlook crisis. 价值银行 Value Creator 案例 本行宁波分行多措并举帮扶小微企业发展，开展了“行领导走访百家企业”、“百名客户经理进千家企业” 等特色活动，加大实地走访频度，年内调研 280 次，走访企业 2,063 家，实地了解并着力解决企业在生产经 营中遇到的困难和问题；深入开展银企对接、帮扶结对及产品推介等专项活动，开展“小微企业请进行”活动， 组织银企座谈会、对接洽谈会近 40 次，对接企业近 800 家，帮助解决难题近 500 个。报告期内，向小微企业 累计发放贷款 654.8 亿元，小微企业贷款余额达到 431.7 亿元。 案例 重庆某百货公司为永川区零售行业龙头企 业，其供应商有几百家，主要为经营服装、 食品、农副产品等的小微企业，同时具有规 模偏小、抵（质）押物缺乏、资金需求较旺 的特点。其中，该公司采用先货后款结算方 式的供应商就有 200 多家，挂账金额大都 在 100 万元以下，挂账周期一般在 2-3 个月， 这些供应商通过传统渠道难以从银行获得 融资。针对上述难题，本行重庆分行为其设 计个性化配套金融服务方案，引导其采用国 内信用证结算方式，解决供应商因无抵（质） 押物难融资的问题。该方案实施后，该公司 通过本行，向其供应商累计开立了国内信 本行北京分行开展小微企业金融服务宣传活动 Beijing Branch promoted financial services for small and micro enterprises 用证 67 笔，本行向 23 户微型企业办理国 内信用证议付 5,316 万元，笔均融资 79 万 元，单笔最小金额仅 6 万元。通过上述方式， 不仅解决了公司供应商融资难题，而且稳固 了购销双方关系，实现了三方共赢。 本行广东分行营业部调研小企业 Banking Department of Guangdong Branch visited a local small enterprise 本行黑龙江分行参加“黑河市中小企业服务平台成立”大会 Heilongjiang Branch participated in the launch ceremony of the Heihe City Small and Medium Enterprise Service Platform 37 38 CASE Ningbo Branch helped the development of small and micro enterprises with diversified measures. The branch Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 hosted a series of personalized events, including the branch leaders' visit to 100 enterprises , and 100 customer of Social Responsibility managers' contact with thousand enterprises . The heads of the institutions at different levels strengthened the on-site survey, and led 280 facts-finding visits. At the same time, the customer managers visited 2,063 enterprises to find and solve the difficulties and problems the enterprises encountered in production and operation. Besides, the branch launched special campaigns, such as the bank-enterprise interaction, the bank-enterprise pair and the product promotion, and opened the door wide to small and micro enterprises. The branch organized nearly 40 forums and fairs, which benefited nearly 800 enterprises, and helped solve about 500 problems. During the reporting period, the branch cumulatively granted loans of RMB65.48 billion to small and micro enterprises, and Value Creator 价值银行 posted a balance of small and micro enterprise loans at RMB43.17 billion. Brand Builder CASE A department store is a leading retailer in Yongchuan District, and has hundreds of suppliers. Most of these 品牌银行 suppliers are small and micro enterprises that specialize in apparels, foods and agricultural products, and feature small size, lack of mortgages (pledges) and robust financing demands. The company buys goods from more than 200 of these suppliers on credit, involving a single amount below RMB1 million and a credit period of 2-3 months in most cases. These suppliers were difficult to access the financing service from banks through the traditional Green Bank 绿色银行 channels. To this end, Chongqing Branch designed a personalized financial service solution, and suggested the company adopt the domestic L/C settlement to solve the financing problem of its suppliers due to the failure to provide mortgages (pledges). After implementation of the solution, the company issued 67 domestic letters of credit to its suppliers via the Bank, and the Bank paid RMB53.16 million to 23 micro enterprises under the domestic letters of credit, involving an average amount of RMB790,000 and a minimum amount of only RMB60,000. The solution solved the financing problem of the company's suppliers, consolidated the business relations between Creditworthy Bank each party, and benefited all three parties. 诚信银行 Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Charity Bank 爱心银行 本行青岛分行开展小微企业金融服务宣传活动 本行江西分行深入安义工业园区调研 Qingdao Branch promoted financial services for small and micro Jiangxi Branch paid a visit to Anyi Industrial Park for in-depth research enterprises 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 加大“三农”服务 本行持续加大对“三农”发展的信贷支持，提升重点涉 案例 农机构的信贷资源倾斜配置力度，有效推动了涉农贷款 本行山东分行专门制定《关于加快重点县域支 的平稳增长。截至报告期末，本行涉农贷款余额比年初 行信贷业务发展的意见》，配套出台业务流 增长 20.23%，较好发挥了大银行在支持“三农”发展中 程、资源配置、渠道建设、激励考核等倾斜措 的表率作用，有力支持了“三农”发展。 施。报告期内累计在县域、乡镇地区新建网点 65 家；新增重点县域、乡镇贷款 181.05 亿元， 本行于 2009 年启动了县支行变革，在积极做好县域现有 余额达到 1,476.19 亿元；新增新农村建设专项 机构网络布局优化调整的基础上，在县域及其下辖乡镇 融资 26 亿元，余额达到 33.9 亿元。 增建营业网点，填补本行在部分县域的服务空白点，对 重点县支行在政策制度、资源配置等方面给予大力倾斜 本行福建分行金融支持福鼎某水产食品有限公 支持，有效增强了本行对县域经济的支持力度和对县域 司。该水产集团从一家乡镇小企业成长为宁德 客户的服务水平。截至报告期末，本行县域机构网点数 市最大的集水产品养殖、加工、出口贸易为一 5,242 家，较年初增加 221 家，增幅 4.4%。 体的工贸企业，也是福鼎市最大的出口创汇龙 头企业，年出口额占全市年度出口额的 70% 以上。企业的跨越发展也带动了福鼎及周边地 区 5,000 多户渔民的增产增收，以及当地以海 案例 截至报告期末，浙江平湖工银村镇银行和重 产品养殖、加工为主的海洋经济的健康发展。 庆璧山工银村镇银行贷款余额分别为 14.5 亿 元和 4.8 亿元。两家村镇银行依托工商银行强 大的市场品牌、科技实力与网络渠道，坚持 “服务民生、服务三农、服务中小”的办行 宗旨和错位竞争、差异发展、特色经营、个 性服务的经营方针，充分发挥新型经营体制、 机制优势，着力将自身打造成切实服务中小 企业和农村经济的新型特色农村金融机构， 取得了良好的经济效益和社会效益。 本行海南分行开展“金融业务进乡村”系列活动 Hainan Branch introduced financial services to rural area 本行信贷支持的福建马岩旅游生态园 本行江苏分行加大“三农”服务 Fujian Mayan Tourism Ecological Farm received the credit support Jiangsu Branch reinforced the Agriculture, Countryside and from the Bank Farmers Services 39 40 Reinforcing the Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers Services Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 The Bank continuously promoted the credit support for Shandong Branch specially formulated the Opinions on of Social Responsibility the development of agriculture, countryside and farmers, Accelerating the Credit Business Development of Key guided the major institutions specializing in the agricultural County Sub-branches, and also carried out the preferential loan business to scale up the allocation of credit resources, policy in business flow, resource allocation, channel and effectively promoted the steady growth of agriculturebuilding, incentive, evaluation and other aspects. During related loans. As at the end of the reporting period, the the reporting period, the branch built a total of 65 outlets balance of agriculture-related loans increased by 20.23% in the counties and towns, granted new loans of RMB18,105 Value Creator 价值银行 compared to the beginning of the year. The Bank played million to the key counties and towns and recorded a loan a good leading role as a large bank in supporting the balance of RMB147,619 million. Meanwhile, the branch development of agriculture, countryside and farmers , newly offered a special financing of RMB2.6 billion used for and effectively backed the development of agriculture, the construction of the new socialist countryside, and had a countryside and farmers . loan balance of RMB3.39 billion. Brand Builder 品牌银行 In 2009, the Bank started the county sub-branch reform. Fujian Branch financially backed a Fujian Fuding Fishing with optimizing and adjusting the distribution of the Food Co., Ltd. The company has grown from a small existing outlet network at the county level, the Bank township enterprise to the largest industrial and trade opened more business outlets in counties and towns under enterprise integrating the breeding, processing and export these counties, thereby extending the financial services to trade of aquatic products in Ningde City. Also, the company these areas. Furthermore, the Bank gave a great preference is the largest local exporter, which contributes more than Green Bank 绿色银行 for the key county sub-branches in policy, resource 70% of the annual export value of Fuding City. With its allocation and other aspects, effectively reinforced the leaping development, the company has promoted the support for the local economic development and enhanced output and income growth of more than 5,000 fishermen the customer services in these areas. As at the end of the in Fuding City and the surrounding areas, and driven the reporting period, the Bank owned 5,242 outlets at the sound development of the local marine economy focusing county level, representing an increase of 221 ones or 4.4% on the breeding and processing of fishing products. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 compared to the beginning of the year. As at the end of the reporting period, Zhejiang Pinghu ICBC Rural Bank Co., Ltd. and Chongqing Bishan ICBC Rural Bank Co., Ltd. recorded a loan balance of RMB1,450 million and RMB480 million respectively. Relying on Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 ICBC' s powerful market brand, IT strengths and network, the two rural banks adhered to the mission of serving people's well-being, serving agriculture, countryside and farmers, and serving small and medium enterprises , and persisted in the operating policy of stagger competition, differential development, specialized operation and personalized service. Besides, they made the most out Charity Bank 爱心银行 of their advantages in the new operating system and mechanism, strived to build themselves into new featured rural financial institutions effectively serving small and 工银租赁支持新疆农业产业化龙头企业 medium enterprises and the rural economy, and attained ICBC Leasing supported a Xinjiang leading agricultural enterprise good economic benefits and social benefits as a result. 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 本行河南分行参加河南某农牧股份有限公司项目奠基仪式 Henan Branch jointed a project foundation stone laying ceremony 案例 本行黑龙江分行为推动建三江垦区建设，积极做好金融服务工作。一是保障春耕生产，累计为 15 家农机合作 社发放贷款 7,505 万元。二是保障秋粮收储。2012 年，以信用或由所在地农场提供保证担保的方式为 8 家水 稻合作社发放流动资金贷款 5.94 亿元。三是创新融资产品，本行向第三方合作机构——信托公司推荐，为农 场设立特定耕地租金收益权信托计划，通过本行发行法人理财产品，募集来的资金投资于该信托计划，累计 为 3 家农场办理财产收益权理财业务 3 亿元。 本行天津分行以新农村（小城镇）贷款为突破口，支农力度不断加大，涉农贷款余额不断增长。报告期内新 支持西青区王稳庄镇、精武镇、北辰区北仓镇、津南区双桥河镇、八里台镇等示范小城镇建设项目。截至报 告期末，小城镇贷款余额超过 100 亿元，对当地经济社会可持续发展做出了应有贡献。 本行陕西分行积极支持农业产业化重点龙头企业。报告期内，信贷支持一家集饲料生产、种猪繁育、商品猪生产、 市场交易、屠宰加工、副产品深加工、生物制品和市场营销的农工贸一体化、生产、加工、销售一条龙的国 家重点龙头企业。项目投产后，不仅可以在当地建立种猪养殖、生猪养殖、生猪屠宰、生猪深加工的全产链， 而且可以为当地农户的生猪养殖提供销售保障。 本行青海分行调研产业化龙头企业 本行江苏分行积极服务水产养殖户 Qinghai Branch paid a visit to a leading enterprise specialized in Jiangsu Branch provided financial services to aquaculture farmers agricultural industrialization 41 42 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 社会责任战略与管理 Value Creator 价值银行 本行江西分行设立的助农取款点及召开金融服务三农暨银社战略合作启动大会 Jiangxi Branch set up a banking outlet for nearby farmers' convenience and held the launch ceremony for financial services oriented to agriculture, countryside and farmers as well as the bank-cooperative strategic partnership Heilongjiang Branch actively offered financial services in support of the building of the Three Rivers Reclamation Area. Brand Builder 品牌银行 CASE Firstly, the branch cumulatively granted a total loan of RMB75.05 million to 15 agricultural machinery cooperatives to support the spring plowing. Secondly, the branch supported the harvest and storage of autumn crops. In 2012, the branch granted a total working capital loan of RMB594 million to 8 rice cooperatives unsecured or guaranteed by the farms where these cooperatives were located. Thirdly, the branch innovated financing products. The branch recommended the farms to third-party partners-trust companies, which launched the trust plans for the right to benefit from the rent of specific farmlands, issued corporate wealth management products via the branch, and invested the fund raised into the trust Green Bank 绿色银行 plans. The branch cumulatively handled the wealth management business involving RMB300 million for three farms based on the property usufruct right. Tianjin Branch kept intensifying the support for agriculture, rural areas and farmers, and increasing the agriculture-related loan balance by offering the loans for the new countryside (small town) constructions. During the reporting period, the branch newly supported the small town pilot construction projects in Wangwenzhuang Town and Jingwu Town of Xiqing Creditworthy Bank District, Beicang Town of Beichen District, and Shuangqiaohe Town and Balitai Town of Jinnan District. As at the end of 诚信银行 the reporting period, the small town loans of Tianjin Branch reached a loan balance above RMB10 billion, and made due contribution to the sustainable economic and social development in the local region. Shaanxi Branch actively supported the leading enterprises specializing in agricultural industrialization. During the reporting period, the branch supported a national leading enterprise specializing in agricultural industrialization, combining agriculture, industry and trade, and integrating feed production, boar breeding, commodity hog production, Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 market trading, slaughtering, processing, deep processing of byproducts, biological products and marketing. After completion, the project could forge an entire industrial chain consisting of boar breeding, live pig raising, live pig slaughtering, and deep processing of live pigs in the local community, and provide sales support for the live pig breeding in the local community. Charity Bank 爱心银行 本行辽宁分行组织的新农村带头人 俱乐部启动仪式 Liaoning Branch hosted the launch ceremony for the New Countryside Pioneers Club 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 服务保障性住房 报告期内，本行认真贯彻落实国家房地产宏观调控政策， 行国家及监管部门差别化住房信贷政策 , 在风险可控的前 积极为各地保障性安居工程建设提供信贷支持和金融服 提下积极发展个人住房贷款业务，支持居民购买首套普 务，履行大型国有商业银行应尽的社会责任。本行已开 通住房。报告期内，本行发放个人住房贷款中，一套房 办的保障性安居工程建设贷款业务包括经济适用住房开 占比 95.45%，二套房占比 4.55%，暂停发放三套房及以 发贷款、限价住房开发贷款、廉租住房建设贷款、城市 上贷款。 棚户区改造贷款和公共租赁住房建设贷款。本行严格执 案例 本行广西分行在报告期内推进多项保障性住房建设项目， 如贷款支持南宁市某二期经济适用房项目。该项目 是南宁市第一个实行招投标选择开发商的经济适用房项目，也是南宁市政府为民办实事的项目之一，目前已陆 续向准购居民推出，可解决 2,990 户低收入家庭的基本居住需求。 本行辽宁分行在报告期先后向辽宁两个房地产企业投放棚户区改造贷款 4.95 亿元，有力地支持了盘锦铁东棚 户区和城北棚户区两个项目改造。同时，为保障两个棚户区改造项目的顺利实施，又为两个项目续贷 5.05 亿元， 最大限度地满足棚户区改造项目在贷款额度和期限上的需求。 报告期内，本行厦门分行为当地最大保障性安居工程项目——某限价房项目，提供 6 亿元的融资额度。该项目 系福建省首个保障性安居工程综合体项目——“洋唐居住区”建设规划之一，总用地面积 78,599 平方米，总 建筑面积 206,992 平方米。 本行陕西分行支持的保障房建设项目 金融支持盘锦老城区棚户区改造现场推进会 The affordable housing project supported by Shaanxi Branch On-site promotion meeting on financial support for the renovation of shantytowns in the old district of Panjin City 43 44 Serving the Construction of Low-income Housing Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank carried out the real personal housing loans respectively. The Bank suspended estate regulation policy of the State in earnest, actively the loans for the third houses and more. of Social Responsibility delivered credit support and financial services to the low-income housing projects in different regions, and performed the due social responsibility as a large stateowned commercial bank. In this respect, the Bank offered development loans for economically affordable housing projects, development loans for price-limited housing Value Creator 价值银行 projects, loans for low-rent housing projects, loans for urban shanty town reconstruction and loans for public renting houses. The Bank strictly executed the differential housing credit policies made by the state and the regulatory authorities, actively developed the personal housing loan business while ensuring the controllable risk, and helped Brand Builder 品牌银行 residents buy their first common houses. During the 本行天津分行支持的安置用房项目 reporting period, loans of the first houses and the second Resettlement housing project supported by Tianjin Branch houses were accounting for 95.45% and 4.55% of the total Green Bank 绿色银行 CASE During the reporting period, Guangxi Branch implemented a number of affordable housing construction projects such as the phase-II project of building the economically affordable houses in Nanning City, which was successfully completed with the loan support. This project is the first affordable housing project of Nanning City subject to the selection of developers by bidding and tendering, and also the first project reflecting Nanning's policy of doing actual deeds for the people. At present, they have been opened to the qualified residents in Creditworthy Bank succession, and the basic housing needs of 2,990 low-income families can be satisfied. 诚信银行 During the reporting period, Liaoning Panjin Branch issued the loans of RMB495 million to two real estate CASE development companies, in succession for the purpose of renovating shantytowns, and effectively supported two Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 projects of renovating shantytowns in Tiedong and Northern part of Panjin City. Meanwhile, to ensure the smooth implementation of the two projects, additional loan of RMB505 million was granted to maximally satisfy the demands of the projects in loan limit and term. Charity Bank 爱心银行 CASE During the reporting period, Xiamen Branch provided the financing limit of RMB600 million for the largest affordable housing project, a price-fixed Housing Project. This project is a part of the construction planning of Yangtang Residence Area , the first affordable housing project complex of Fujian Province. Its total land area is 78,599 square meters, with the total construction area of 206,992 square meters. 未来展望 Outlook 价值银行 Value Creator 支持民族经济 本行历来重视民族地区经济发展，致力于推动民族地区团结，持续改善少数民族地区金融服务，促进民族地区经济健康快 速发展。报告期内，本行紧紧围绕民族地区工业化、城镇化建设步伐，积极支持当地国计民生重大项目的发展，切实解决 当地中小企业及三农融资难问题，为民族地区经济发展提供持续的金融服务。 姜建清董事长接受宁夏回族自治区政府颁发的“中国 阿拉伯国家经贸论坛金融服务顾问”聘书 Chairman Jiang Jianqing accepted the letter of appointment of the “Financial Service Advisor of China-Arab States Economic and Trade Forum” granted by the People' s Government of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 案例 宁夏回族自治区南部山区处于贫困县以下的回 族人口最为集中。近年来，本行宁夏分行累计 新增 15 亿元贷款积极支持生态移民安置企业发 展，有效提升了生态移民安置企业的承载能力 ; 积极拓展以枸杞、羊绒、清真食品等地方特色 产业为主的专业市场，创新开展了以农户联保 形式的个人经营贷款、个人小额贷款，推动地 方特色经济发展。 本行新疆分行围绕自治区经济发展重点 , 以优 质项目贷款为主线，以贸易融资等短期信贷产 品为补充，优化和调整信贷结构，稳步推进信 贷业务的发展，有力推动了民族地区经济发展。 张红力副行长赴西藏分行调研 报告期末，公司贷款余额达 490.68 亿元，较年 Senior Executive Vice President, Zhang Hongli conducted a survey of Tibet Branch 初净增 101.88 亿元，增幅 26.2%。 45 46 Supporting the National Economy Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 The Bank has always attached great importance to the migration and resettlement enterprises. In addition, the of Social Responsibility economic development of ethnic areas, committed to branch actively expanded the specialized markets of local promoting the unity of ethnic areas, and continued to feature industries with regard to wolfberry, cashmere and improve the financial services in the ethnic minority areas Moslem food, and innovated the personal business loan and and promote the healthy and rapid economic development personal loan in the form of farmers' joint guarantee, which in ethnic areas. During the reporting period, focusing on promoted the development of local feature economy. the industrialization and urbanization of ethnic areas, the Value Creator 价值银行 Bank actively supported the development of major projects Xinjiang Branch focused on the economic development concerning the local people's livelihood, effectively solved priorities of the autonomous region, with the quality the financing difficulties of local SMEs, agriculture, farmers project loan as the main line, and trade finance and other and rural areas, and provided the sustainable financial short-term credit products as the supplement, optimized services for the economic development of ethnic areas. and adjusted the credit structure, and steadily promoted the development of credit operations, which vigorously Brand Builder 品牌银行 The Hui people below the poverty line mainly live in the promoted the economic development in ethnic areas. As at southern mountain areas of Ningxia Hui Autonomous the end of the reporting period, the balance of corporate Region. In recent years, Ningxia Branch has totally granted loans reached RMB49,068 million, representing an new loans of RMB1.5 billion to support the development of increase of RMB10,188 million and 26.2% compared to the ecological migration and resettlement enterprises, which beginning of the year. effectively improved the bearing capacity of ecological Green Bank 绿色银行 本行子公司工银租赁支持建设的小湾水 Creditworthy Bank 电站大坝 诚信银行 Dam of the Xiaowan Hydropower Station supported by ICBC Leasing, a subsidiary of the Bank Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Charity Bank 爱心银行 本行内蒙分行支持的内蒙古成吉思汗旅游项目 本行参加阿里地区曲松乡路面硬化项目开工典礼 The Bank participated in the Road Surface Improvement Project in 未来展望 Inner Mongolia Genghis Khan tourism project supported by Inner Outlook Mongolia Branch Qusong Village, Ali Region 品牌银行 Brand Builder 提升客户服务 Promoting Customer Services 加强全球履责 Strengthening Global CSR Practice 建立一流品牌 Building up First-class Brands CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 品牌银行 Brand Builder 提升客户服务 持续改进客户服务 报告期内，本行积极推动“满意在 工行”主题活动，实施标本兼治的 服务改进策略，以改进窗口服务为 重点，以解决突出问题为突破口， 以构建长效工作机制为保障，通过 拓展服务渠道、创新服务手段、优 化业务流程、提高服务效率等措施， 赵林监事长调研上海分行服务工作 全面推动服务改进。全行服务面貌 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, Zhao Lin conducted a survey on the service capability of Shanghai Branch 得到大幅提升，客户体验不断优化。 客户服务渠道进一步拓宽，客户服务更加便捷 报告期内，本行通过新建增设、迁址重装、优化调整等 短信银行、电视银行等新型服务渠道建设，推出手机预 形式，使网点布局更加优化，客户服务更加便捷。截至 约取现、移动生活客户端、移动在线客服、手机银行捐 报告期末，本行共有营业网点 16,718 家，其中财富管理 款和位置营销等新服务，积极利用移动终端功能让客户 中心 268 家、贵宾理财中心 5,028 家、理财网点 8,779 家、 获得更加便捷和时尚的操作体验；在业界率先推出并不 金融便利店 2,643 家，形成了更加科学、完善的客户分层 断拓展短信银行服务，内容涵盖金融信息查询、账户信 服务体系。在各营业网点内，本行进一步加强了无障碍 息查询、转账支付、短信提醒、自助管理 5 大类服务 74 设施建设，完善了员工助残服务规范。在 2012 年中国银 项功能。 行业文明规范服务示范单位评选活动中，本行有 116 家 网点入选中国银行业协会千佳名单，连续三年同业排名 报告期内，本行通过网上银行、电话银行、手机银行、 第一。 自助银行完成的交易笔数占全部交易的比例提高到 75.1%。 同时，本行加大自助设备布放和运营维护的力度，推广 了自助发卡机等新型设备，提高了自助服务对客户的友 好性和吸引力，渠道服务能力不断提升。报告期内，全 行可用 ATM 设备总量突破 7 万台，自助终端数量达到 4.35 万台，POS 设备达到 94 万台。 本行在电话银行服务上继续保持高水平。报告期内，电 话银行 95588 接听率保持在 95% 以上，20 秒电话接听率 保持在 90% 以上，还推出了外呼业务服务，服务内涵进 一步深化，服务价值进一步提升。 开展网点柜员业务技能竞赛活动，提升业务服务能力和效率 The Bank launched the business skill competition for the tellers to develop service capacity and efficiency 为响应客户移动金融服务新需求，本行加快手机银行、 49 50 Promoting Customer Services Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Sustainable improving customer services During the reporting period, the Bank actively carried of Social Responsibility forward the event themed at Feel Satisfied at ICBC , and implemented the service improvement strategy with thorough solutions. The Bank mainly focused on the counter service, and solved prominent problems in order to build a long-acting working mechanism. Moreover, the Bank opened more service channels, created new service Value Creator 价值银行 modes, optimized business flows and increased the service efficiency. As a result, the Bank improved the service in 刘立宪纪委书记在广西分行网点调研 every aspect, lifted the overall service level to a large extent Secretary of Party Discipline Committee, Liu Lixian conducted a survey and continuously optimized the customer experience. of Guangxi Branch Brand Builder 品牌银行 The Bank opened more customer service channels, and delivered more convenient customer services During the reporting period, the Bank further optimized The Bank continuously kept the telephone banking service Green Bank 绿色银行 the outlet distribution and delivered more convenient at a high level. During the reporting period, the telephone services to customers through the building of new outlets, banking hotline 95588 answered more than 95% of the relocations, redecorations, optimizations and adjustments. calls, answered over 90% of the calls within 20 seconds, As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank owned a and launched the outgoing call service. Besides, the total of 16,718 outlets, including 268 wealth management hotline further deepened the service contents and further centers, 5,028 VIP wealth management centers, 8,779 wealth enhanced the service values. Creditworthy Bank management outlets, and 2,643 financial convenience 诚信银行 stores, thereby forming a more scientific and refined To respond to the new customer demands for mobile hierarchical customer service system. At every outlet, the financial services, the Bank moved faster to build the mobile Bank further strengthened the service facilities accessible banking, the short message banking, the TV banking and to the disabled persons, and refined the service standard other new service channels, released such new services as for the disabled persons. During the rating of the model the appointment cash withdrawal on mobile phone, mobile entities with civilized and normative services in the Chinese life client, mobile online customer service, mobile banking Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 banking sector in 2012, 116 outlets of the Bank were donation and position marketing, and delivered a more selected into the list of the top 1,000 institutions prepared convenient and fashionable experience to customers with by China Banking Association, and the Bank ranked top the mobile terminal functions. Moreover, the Bank took the among the peers for three consecutive years. lead in launching and continuously launching the short message banking service, covering 74 functions under five In the meantime, the Bank strengthened the deployment, categories, including financial information inquiry, account Charity Bank 爱心银行 operation and maintenance of the self-service equipment, information inquiry, transfer & payment, short message promoted such emerging equipment as self-service card alert and self-service management. issuing machines, made self-help services more friendly and more attractive to customers, and continuously enhanced The proportion of the transactions completed through the channel service capacity. During the reporting period, internet banking, tellephone banking, mobile banking and the ATMs of the Bank available for use exceeded 70,000 self-service banking in all transactions rose to 75.1% in the units, the quantity of the self-service terminals reached full year. 未来展望 Outlook 43,500 units, and the quantity of the PO S terminals achieved 940,000 units. 品牌银行 Brand Builder 业务流程更加优化，业务办理更加顺畅 本行将业务流程综合改造和优化作为提升网点服务效率 填单服务，实现了近 20 项个人非实时业务集中处理，有 的一项治本工程来推进， 实施了跨部门、跨机构、跨平 效提高了业务处理和服务效率，客户业务办理时间明显 台、跨业务的流程改造和优化。如多次填单、多次授权、 缩短，客户体验明显改善。业务集中处理改革继续深化， 多次打印、多次输密等基层行反映强烈、严重影响客户 本行柜面对公非现金业务集中处理比例达到 97%，业务 和柜员体验的 533 项紧迫性问题全面解决，“一次填单、 集约运营成效进一步显现，业务运营和服务支持水平得 一次输密、一次授权”流程综合改造项目稳步推进，推 到进一步提高。 出了网点排队管理系统，完善了产品预约服务和柜面预 易会满副行长出席全行服务工作推动会 Senior Executive Vice President, Yi Huiman attended the Service Capability Promotion Meeting of the Bank 服务改进长效机制渐趋完善，服务质量监测更加及时高效 结合现代金融服务的新要求和客户需求的新变化，本行 加强了服务制度体系建设，构建起了一套涵盖服务标准、 监督检查、考核评价等方面的服务工作制度框架，为客 柜面对公非现金业务集中处理比例达到 97% 户服务改进打下了坚实的制度基础。本行进一步加强了 营业网点服务规范落实情况的监督和监测，组织开展了 Increased the proportion of 营业网点服务非现场检查活动，推广应用了营业网点服 concentrated non-cash corporate 务质量监测评价系统和排队管理系统，开展了个人客户 transactions at counters to 满意度第三方调查工作，组织了“千名记者进工行，万 篇文章评服务”的活动，调研了全行客户满意度状况， 97% 发掘了影响客户满意度的主要因素，为客户服务改进提 供了数据支撑，夯实了服务工作的基础。 51 52 The Bank further optimized the business flow, and streamlined the business processing Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 The Bank saw the comprehensive flow reengineering the outlet queuing management system, refined the of Social Responsibility and optimization as a fundamental move to enhance the product appointment ser vice and the preliminar y service efficiency of the outlets, and carried out the flow document filling service at the counter, realized the reengineering and optimization across departments, across concentrated processing of nearly 20 personal businesses institutions, across platforms and across businesses. For requiring no real-time processing, and thus effectively example, the Bank solved all the 533 urgent problems that upgraded the business processing and service efficiency. suffered strong complaints from the institutions at the As a result, the Bank obviously reduced the business Value Creator 价值银行 basic level and badly influenced the customer and teller processing time and improved the customer experience. experience, such as repeated document filling, repeated The Bank further deepened the concentrated business authorization, repeated printing and repeated entry of processing, increased the proportion of concentrated passwords, and steadily carried forward the comprehensive non-cash corporate businesses at counters to 97%, flow reengineering project oriented to document filling, further exhibited the effect of the concentrated business password entry and authorization at one time , launched processing, and further enhanced the business operation Brand Builder 品牌银行 and service support. The Bank gradually refined the long-acting service improvement mechanism, and monitored the service quality in a more timely and efficient manner Green Bank 绿色银行 In view of the new requirements created by modern financial services and new dynamics of customer demands, the Bank strengthened the service policy regime, and established a service policy framework covering service standard, supervision, inspection, assessment, appraisal and other areas, thereby paving the way to improve the customer service. The Bank further intensified the supervision and monitored on the execution of service standards in the business outlets, carried out the offsite service inspection on the business outlets, promoted the service quality monitoring & assessment system and the queuing management system in the business outlets, investigated the third-party survey on personal customer satisfaction, organized Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 the campaign of Thousand Journalists Entering ICBC, Ten Thousand Articles Reviewing its Service , surveyed the overall customer satisfaction, and identified the major factors that influenced the customer satisfaction. This has provided a data support for improving the customer service and cementing the service work. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 客户投诉和重复投诉分别下降了 73％和 91% The customer complaints and repeated complaints about the Bank fell down by Charity Bank 爱心银行 73% and 91% respectively 本行安徽分行开展“千名记者进工行，万篇文章评服务”的活动 未来展望 Anhui Branch launched the campaign of Thousand Journalists Entering ICBC, Ten Thousand Articles Reviewing its Services Outlook 品牌银行 Brand Builder 金融创新支持服务提升 报告期内，本行大力加强新产品研发，着力强化服务创新， 致力推进科技创新，不断通过创新推动全行经营转型，提升 服务和发展能力。 在金融资产服务领域，创新推出了第三方支付机构备付金存 管、账户原油、个人账户外汇买卖、外汇买卖双向交易、账 户贵金属转换等产品，研发了无固定期限定投、黄金实物全 回购、积存金延伸兑换功能、金融产品交易撮合等产品服务， 助力了企业和个人客户财产性收入增长，推动了本行由持有 张红力副行长参加贵金属产品发布会 资产大行向管理资产大行转变。 Senior Executive Vice President, Zhang Hongli attended precious metal products launching ceremony 在信贷领域，创新推出了电子供应链商品质押融资、小企业 账户卡循环贷款、个人助业贷款、个人留学贷款、个人家居 报告期内，本行继续举办了产品创新日暨产品体验月活动， 消费贷款、个人文化消费贷款、个人理财产品质押等产品服 通过展示重点创新产品、邀请来宾参观资金交易室、举办产 务，促进了信贷结构调整，有力支持了实体经济发展。 品创新论坛、动员全行开展产品体验营销等活动形式，引导 客户更多地了解、关注和体验本行的产品和服务，进一步拓 在电子银行领域，创新推出了 Android 网上银行、移动生活 宽了客户意见建议的征集渠道，增强了客户对本行专业化程 客户端、手机预约取现、企业网银外汇买卖、火狐 / 谷歌浏 度的直观感受，加深了客户对前沿金融领域知识的认知。活 览器版本网银、短信银行智能应答、自助发卡机等产品服务， 动期间累计有 15 万名客户体验和使用了本行最新产品，客 推动了渠道转型和业务分流，提升了电子化服务水平。 户发来产品体验征文 355 篇。 在支付结算和银行卡领域，创新推出了账户管家、整汇零 取、银医一卡通、JCB 双币信用卡、借贷合一卡、工银安盛 联名卡、金融 IC 卡多功能终端等产品，研发了两卡一账户信 用卡产品，促进了中间业务发展，拓展了新的利润增长点。 在跨境金融服务领域，创新推出了海外 iPhone 手机银行、海 外工银电子密码器、境外联名卡、海外电话银行、个人客户 全球资产管理等产品服务，增强了境外机构内生发展能力， 提升了全球一体化服务水平。 在重点客户和重点区域专属产品领域，创新推出了高端客户 预约理财和定向营销、私人银行专属网银、节节高存款、运 客户在产品创新日活动现场参观交流 通百夫长卡、中小商户移动支付终端等产品，促进了客户结 Customers exchanged views on the Product Innovation Day 构和区域结构的持续优化。 53 54 Improving service supported by financial innovation Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank energetically strengthened the research and development of new products, reinforced the of Social Responsibility service innovation with great efforts, dedicated itself to scientific and technological innovation, and kept promoting the business transformation and upgrading the service and development capacity through innovation. In respect of financial asset service, the Bank creatively launched a Value Creator 价值银行 number of products such as the reserve custody for third-party payment institution, crude oil on account, foreign exchange trading on personal account, two-way foreign exchange trading and switch of Paper Precious Metals, developed the regular investment without fixed term, 易会满副行长出席产品创新日暨产品体验月启动仪式 Senior Executive Vice President, Yi Huiman attended the launching physical gold repurchase, Gold accumulation derived exchange fanction, ceremony of the Product Experience Month in the Product Innovation Day financial product deal making and other product services, boosted Brand Builder 品牌银行 the wealth income growth of both corporate and personal customers, and propelled the transition from a large asset holder to a large asset In respect of cross-border financial service, the Bank creatively released a manager. number of products and services, including the overseas iPhone mobile banking, the overseas ICBC electronic password device, the overseas In respect of credit, the Bank creatively released a string of product co-branded card, the overseas telephone banking and the global asset services such as the pledge financing for electronic supply chain management service for personal customers, which reinforced the Green Bank 绿色银行 commodity, the revolving loan under the small enterprise account endogenous development capacity of the overseas institutions, and card, the personal business loan, the personal overseas study loan, the lifted the global integrated service level. personal household consumer loan, the personal cultural consumption loan and the personal wealth management product pledge, which In respect of exclusive products for key accounts and key regions, the promoted the credit restructuring, and vigorously supported the Bank creatively launched a series of products, including the appointment development of the real economy. wealth management and directed marketing for hi-end customers, the Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 exclusive internet banking for private banking, the Jie Jie Gao Deposit, In respect of e-banking, the Bank creatively released a series of new the American Express Centurion Card, the mobile payment terminal product services such as the Android internet banking, the mobile life for small and medium merchants, and promoted the continuous client, the appointment cash withdrawal on mobile phone, the foreign optimization of the customer structure and the regional structure. exchange trading through the corporate internet banking, the internet banking for the Firefox/Google browsers, the smart response of the In the reporting period, the Bank continued to organize the Product Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 short message banking and the self-service card issuing machine, which Innovation Day and Product Experience Month program. The Bank drove the channel transformation and business diversification from the provided customers with more knowledge and experience concerning traditional channels, and lifted the e-banking service level. the Bank's products and services by showcasing key innovative products, inviting guests to the Treasury Dealing Room, holding product In respect of payment, settlement and bank card business, the Bank innovation forums and carrying out bank-wide product experience and creatively launched such products as the Account Manager, the Lump marketing activities, which further expanded the channels for collecting Charity Bank 爱心银行 Sum Remittance & Withdrawal on Installments, the Bank-Hospital Card, customers' opinions and suggestions, boosted customers' direct the JCB dual-currency credit card, the credit-debit-in-one card, the ICBCexperience of the Bank's professionalism and deepened their knowledge AXA co-branded card, the financial IC card multifunctional terminal, on financial frontiers. During this program, 150,000 customers and developed the credit card featuring two cards in one account, experienced and used the latest products of the Bank and 355 product which promoted the development of the intermediate businesses, and experience articles were received from customers. expanded new profit growth areas. 未来展望 Outlook 品牌银行 Brand Builder 加强全球履责 报告期内，本行积极推动国际化战略，新增覆盖 6 个国 家，主要集中在东欧、南美、中东等新兴空白市场。同时， 建立起 39 个国家和地区 本行增强了亚太、欧美等已覆盖市场的服务能力。截至 分支机构 383 家的全球服务网络 报告期末，本行已建成了覆盖 39 个国家和地区、分支机 构总数 383 家、员工总数近万人的海外服务网络。 Established a global service network covering 39 countries and territories, consisting of 383 institutions 本行通过举办“走出去”企业推介会，“区域内外联动 座谈会”等方式，加强内外联动工作，为企业走出去提 供更好的金融服务。2012 年 7 月，在境外工作会议召开 期间成功套开了重点“走出去”企业内外联动推介会， 针对现阶段“走出去”企业所关注的热点话题进行了业 务推介，为客户与本行境内外机构之间、本行境内外机 构之间以及客户与客户之间的充分沟通和交流搭建了联 动平台，受到参会各方的一致好评。 报告期内，本行强化内外联动，坚持支持和服务实体经 济，主动适应客户多元化跨境金融服务需求，大力拓展 国际贸易融资服务。全年，本行在境内提供进口押汇、 订单融资、出口发票融资、打包贷款等各类国际贸易融 资逾 1,461 亿美元，比上年同期增长 52.2%；国际结算额 19,252 亿美元，其中，境外机构办理 5,343 亿美元。 本行积极发挥金融支持经济发展的核心作用，努力推进 人民币货币体制改革和人民币国际化的进程。2012 年， 本行跨境人民币业务实现量质同升，市场影响力不断提 升。全年境内外机构跨境人民币业务逾 1.5 万亿元。自业 务开办以来，全行跨境人民币业务线成功拓展至 25 家境 外机构，共开立跨境人民币同业往来账户 366 户，跨境 人民币清算网络已覆盖全球 67 个国家和地区，获得老挝人 王丽丽副行长出席墨尔本分行开业庆典仪式并致辞 民币清算行资格，并实现了在伦敦市场上发行首笔人民币 Senior Executive Vice President, Wang Lili attended the opening ceremony of Melbourne Branch CD，全国首笔跨境人民币租赁业务等多项市场第一。 55 56 Strengthening Global CSR Practice Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank actively implemented the strategy of going global, extended the reach to six more of Social Responsibility countries mainly distributed in the emerging markets in the Eastern Europe, the South America and the Middle East. In the meantime, the Bank enhanced its service capacity in the Asia-Pacific Region, Europe, America and other markets where the Bank had established its presence. As at the end of 2012, the Bank had established a overseas service network covering 39 countries and territories, consisting of 383 institutions and nearly 10,000 employees. Value Creator 价值银行 In order to deliver better financial services to enterprises continuously increased the market influence. In the full going global, the Bank hosted the going-global enterprise year, the domestic and overseas institutions conducted over fair, and held the symposium on collaboration inside and RMB1.5 trillion worth of cross-border Renminbi business. outside the region to strengthen the collaboration between Since the launch of the business, the cross-border Renminbi the domestic institutions and the overseas institutions. The business line had successfully expanded to 25 overseas Brand Builder 品牌银行 Bank held the domestic-overseas collaboration fair for key institutions. The Bank opened a total of 366 cross-border going-global enterprises in July, 2012 during the period interbank current accounts in Renminbi, and covered 67 of overseas working meeting. The Bank held a business countries and territories with the cross-border Renminbi promotion activity aimed at the hot topics concerned clearing network. The Bank obtained the qualification for by going-global enterprises at present, and built a the Renminbi clearing bank in Laos, issued the first CD in Renminbi in the London market, completed the first crosscollaboration platform between customers and the Bank' border leasing business in Renminbi in China and made a s domestic and overseas institutions, between the Bank's Green Bank 绿色银行 number of top achievements in the market. domestic and overseas institutions and among customers. The event was unanimously welcomed by participants. During the reporting period, the Bank reinforced the domestic-overseas collaboration, persisted in the concept of serving and supporting the real economy, actively Creditworthy Bank adapted to the customer demands for diverse and 诚信银行 international financial services, and spared no effort to develop the international trade finance service. In 2012. the Bank offered the international trade finance amounted to 2012 年，全行跨境人民币业务 USD146.1billion under import bill advance, order financing, export invoice financing, packing loan and other businesses 逾 1.5 万亿元 domesticly. The figure represented an increase of 52.2% In 2012, the cross-border Renminbi Harmonious Bank compared to the same period of the prior year. The total 和谐银行 international settlement volume reached USD1,925.2 business had reached billion, among which USD534.3 billion was conducted by overseas operations. over RMB 1.5 trillion The Bank actively played its core role in supporting the economic development, and strived to propel the reform of Charity Bank the Renminbi monetary system and the internationalization of Renminbi. In 2012, the cross-border Renminbi business 爱心银行 of the Bank enhanced both in quantity and quality, and 未来展望 Outlook 品牌银行 Brand Builder 本行法兰克福分行自开业以来始终立足于中欧、中德经贸往来，通过对当地市场和国内需求的深入调查，以“走出去”的 中资跨国公司、与中国有业务往来的欧洲企业、境外中小银行等为主要客户，紧密围绕客户需求，通过大力发展贸易融资、 国际结算和欧元清算等业务，为双边贸易提供便利。 本行卡拉奇分行积极支持巴基斯坦支柱性产业的发展，利用在国内的代理行资源，为巴基斯坦棉纱出口企业提供信用证项 下出口单据贴现业务，加快了出口商资金周转。 本 行 万 象 分 行 于 2012 年 6 月 6 日 成 功 获 得老挝国家银行批准代表其行使人民币 清 算 中 心 职 责， 成 为 老 挝 第 一 个、 也 是 目前唯——个老挝国家银行之外的货币清 算银行，老挝境内所有银行、包括老挝国 家银行在内的人民币业务都将由万象分 行进行清算，有力促进了双边贸易往来。 工银欧洲董事长、卢森堡分行总经理被卢森 堡国家元首授予“Order of Merit”最高功绩 勋章。此勋章嘉奖在卢森堡对推动人类经济、 王希全副行长出席华沙分行开业庆典仪式并致辞 社会、和平、文化、慈善公益事业做出杰出 Senior Executive Vice President, Wang Xiquan attended the opening ceremony of Warsaw Branch 贡献的人士。 本行阿姆斯特丹分行与荷兰外商投资局、阿姆斯特丹市政府共同举办中荷企业商务峰会 Amsterdam Branch, Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency, and the Amsterdam Government jointly sponsored the China-Holland Business Summit 57 58 Since its establishment, Frankfurt Branch has always persisted in serving the economic and trade relations between China Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 and Europe and between China and Germany. Based on the thorough survey on the local market and the domestic demand, the branch identified the demand of such major customers as Chinese going-global multinational corporations, European of Social Responsibility enterprises doing business with China, and overseas small and medium banks, and vigorously developed trade finance, international settlement, Euro clearing and other businesses to facilitate the bilateral trade. Value Creator 价值银行 本行巴黎分行获得法国工商会颁发的最 佳国际投资者奖 Paris Branch won the Best International Brand Builder 品牌银行 Investor Award granted by the French Chamber of Commerce and Industry Green Bank 绿色银行 Karachi Branch actively supported the development of this pillar industry in the Pakistan by utilizing the correspondent resources in China to offer the export document discounting business under the letter of credit to Pakistani cotton yarn exporters. This business quickened the fund turnover of the Pakistani exporters, and created more convenience for these exporters. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 On June 6, 2012, the central bank of Laos authorized Vientiane Branch to perform the responsibility of the Renminbi clearing center on behalf of the central bank, so Vientiane Branch became the first Harmonious Bank and the only clearing bank in Laos, excluding the 和谐银行 central bank of Laos, and would undertake the clearing of the Renminbi business of all the banks in Laos, including the central bank of Laos, which vigorously supported the bilateral trade. Charity Bank 爱心银行 Head of Luxembourg granted the Order of Merit , the supreme medal of merit in Luxembourg, to Chairman of ICBC (Europe) and the General Manager of Luxembourg Branch. The medal is granted to people who make outstanding contributions to 工银加拿大荣获投资加拿大优秀企业奖 economy, society, peace, culture and charities in ICBC (Canada) won the Award for An Excellent Enterprise Investing in Canada Luxembourg. 未来展望 Outlook 品牌银行 Brand Builder 建立一流品牌 中国第一零售银行。报告期内，本行通过流程改造、渠道拓展和金融创新，推动服务质量的提升；同时加大社区服务的力度， 推出了一系列便民的服务举措，如代收代付业务、银医一卡通、助学金发放等，取得了良好效果。截至报告期末，本行个 人银行客户达 3.93 亿个，基层营业网点超过 1.3 万个，继续保持中国最大零售银行的市场地位，连续 11 年蝉联《亚洲银行家》 “中国最佳零售银行”和“中国最佳大型零售银行”奖项。 领先的公司与投资银行。报告期内，本行持续推进公司金融业务转型，优化经营结构，积极顺应利率市场化进程，推动公 司金融业务可持续发展。推行全产品营销与综合金融服务，推进商业银行与投资银行业务互动发展，满足客户多样化的金 融服务需求。荣获《环球金融》“中国最佳本地公司银行”称号，银团贷款业务荣获中国银行业协会“最佳业绩奖”和“最 佳交易奖”称号。 优秀的机构业务银行。报告期内，本行加强民生领域金融服务，落实社保基金理事会等客户综合金融服务方案，加快社保卡、 住房公积金联名卡、中央财政授权支付网上银行、海关税费电子支付、预算单位公务卡等业务推广，迅速启动全行统一的社保、 公积金业务综合服务管理系统建设，有效提升民生领域金融服务的专业水平，成功中标“2013-2014 年度中央财政非税收入 收缴代理银行项目”，成为“地方财政国库集中支付电子化项目”首家试点合作银行，以及首家开发公务卡网上还款功能 合作银行。创新同业合作，加快银银平台推广，年末银银平台签约客户达 271 家，有效提升对中小银行的营销服务水平， 支持农村金融发展。 中国最佳结算与现金管理银行。报告期内，本行围绕综合金融资产服务，以现金管理、支付结算、法人营销等各产品线的创新， 带动境内外、本外币业务综合协调发展。全年，本行共提出了 88 个研发项目 , 范围涵盖结算、代理、理财、现金管理、内 部管理等多个条线。截至报告期末，本行对公结算账户 536 万户，实现对公人民币结算量 1,446 万亿元，市场占比均保持 第一。2012 年，本行先后获得《环球金融》颁发的“中国最佳司库 & 现金管理银行”、《财资》颁发的 “中国最佳跨国 & 大型企业财资管理银行” 以及中国中小商业企业协会颁发的“全国支持中小企业发展十佳商业银行”等 10 余奖项。 中国最大的信用卡发卡行。报告期内，本行坚持以创新促服务能力和质量的提升，在信用卡品牌、支付方式和账户管理方 面进行了积极探索，推出了包含多币种信用卡、闪酷卡等一系列的新产品，稳步推进 IC 卡受理环境建设，保障了客户资金 的安全，满足了持卡人金融服务需求。截至报告期末，本行信用卡发卡量达到 7,713 万张，信用卡消费额达到 13,026 亿元， 同比增长 33.4%，信用卡透支余额 2,449 亿元，较年初增加 668 亿元，被 VISA 国际组织、万事达卡国际组织、《银行家》杂志、 《金融理财》杂志等国际机构授予“年度最佳收单业务管理奖”、“年度最佳白金卡表现奖”、“金融产品十佳奖”、“年 度最佳信用卡银行”等奖项。 3.93 亿个人客户 逾 1.3 万个基层营业网点 393 million retail customers over 13,000 outlets 本行银医一卡通产品为社会公众提供医院预约挂号服务 The Bank-Hospital Cards provided hospital booking and registration services to the public. 59 60 Building up First-class Brands Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 No. 1 retail bank in China. During the reporting period, the Bank enhanced the service quality by process transformation, channel expansion and financial innovation, and meanwhile, reinforced the community service and launched a series of service measures for the convenience of people, of Social Responsibility including collection and agency payment service, Medical Moneylink Card and issue of student subsidies, which achieved sound results. As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank owned 393 million retail customers and over 13,000 outlets at the basic level. The Bank maintained its market position as the largest retail bank in China, and won the awards of Best Retail Bank in China and Best Large-Scale Retail Bank in China granted by the Asian Banker for 11 consecutive years. Leading corporate and investment banking. During the reporting period, the Bank continuously promoted the transformation of the corporate Value Creator 价值银行 banking service, improved the business structure, actively adapted to the process of interest rate liberalization, and pushed forward the sustainable development of the corporate banking service. It promoted the all-product marketing and comprehensive financial service to carry forward the interactive development of the commercial banking business and the investment banking business and meet the diversified demands of customers on financial services. The Bank has won the title of Best Domestic Bank in China conferred by Global Finance, and the Best Performance Award and the Best Deal Award by China Banking Association for its syndicated loan business. Brand Builder 品牌银行 An excellent institutional business bank. During the reporting As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank owned 5.36 million period, the Bank enhanced financial services in the field of people's corporate settlement accounts, and realized a corporate settlement livelihood, implemented the integrated financial service plan for volume of RMB1,446 trillion in Renminbi, both ranking the first the National Council for Social Security Fund and other customers, in the market. In 2012, the Bank successively won more than 10 accelerated the promotion of social security card, housing provident awards, including the Best Treasure & Cash Management House fund co-branded card, online banking for authorized central finance in China conferred by Global Finance, the Best Transnational & payments, e-payment of customs and tariff and business cards to Large Enterprise Treasury and Cash Management Bank in China by Green Bank 绿色银行 budget units, quickened the building of the bank-wide integrated The Asset, and China's Top 10 Commercial Banks Supporting SMEs' service management system for social security and provident funds Development by China Association for Small & Medium Commercial and effectively boosted the professional level of financial services Enterprises etc. in the field of people's livelihood. The Bank won the bid of 2013Creditworthy Bank 2014 Banking Agency Collection for Non-tax Items under Central Largest credit card issuer in China. During the reporting period, 诚信银行 Finance , became the first pilot banking partner in the Local the Bank persisted in enhancing service capacity and quality Centralized Treasury Payment Electronization Project and became through innovation, actively explored the credit card brand, the the first banking partner for the development of online business payment mode and the account management mode, released a card repayment function. The Bank also innovated in inter-bank series of new products including multi-currency credit cards and cooperation, accelerated promotion of the bank-to-bank platform Sancore cards, and steadily bettered the environment for IC card Harmonious Bank and signed bank-to-bank platform contracts with 271 customers at services, guaranteeing the safety of customers' assets and satisfying the end of the year, which effectively improved marketing service the financial needs of card holders. By the end of the reporting 和谐银行 towards small and medium-sized banks and supported rural period, the Bank cumulatively issued 77.13 million credit cards, financial development. the consumption amount on the credit cards reached RMB1,302.6 billion, representing an increase of 33.4% compared to the same Best settlement & cash management bank in China. During period of the prior year, and the overdraft of the credit card loans Charity Bank 爱心银行 the reporting period, the Bank drove the coordinated business amounted to RMB244.9 billion, representing an increase of RMB66.8 development both at home and abroad, and in both Renminbi and billion compared to the beginning of the year. The Bank won a host foreign currencies through the innovation of cash management, of awards granted by VISA Inc, MasterCard Worldwide, The Banker, payment, settlement, corporate marketing and other product lines the Financial Money and other international organizations, including in order to deliver comprehensive financial asset services. In the the'Best Acquiring Business Management Award , the Best Platinum full year, the Bank launched 88 research and development projects Card of the Year , the Top 10 Financial Product Award and the Best 未来展望 covering a number of business lines, including settlement, agency, Credit Card Bank of the Year . Outlook wealth management, cash management and internal management. 品牌银行 Brand Builder 中国最佳托管银行。报告期内，本行严格履行托管人职责，提升风控能力，安全保管资产，提供高效营运服务，强化信息 披露管理，坚持产品和服务创新，全年新增托管产品 36 只。报告期内，本行囊获了年度所有重大托管业务相关奖项，累 计获奖达 35 项。 国内一流的养老金管理与服务机构。报告期内，本行建立完善养老金业务制度体系；进一步规范、细化了服务内容；初步 建立远程监测、分行履职检查、总行监管检查“三位一体”的操作风险监测检查管理机制。报告期内，全行共为 34,140 家企事业单位提供养老金管理服务，受托管理养老金基金 512 亿元，管理养老金个人账户 1,168 万户，托管养老金基金 2,293 亿元。 中国最佳资产管理银行。报告期内，本行固定收益产品期限结构进一步优化，股票、股权和外汇类理财产品发行量显著上 升，资本市场类理财产品和国际市场类理财产品规模同比显著增长，加大了定制产品发行力度，定制的个性化理财产品超 过 1,000 亿元，进一步丰富了客户的投资选择。 领先的科技平台支撑服务水平和服务品牌的稳步提升。 报告期内，本行信息系统保持安全平稳运行，全行境内 日均业务量达到 1.797 亿笔，同比增长 9%，境外机构日 34,140 家养老金管理服务客户 均业务量达到了 74 万笔，均创历史新高。报告期内，本 Delivering pension management 行在提升科技系统连续性服务水平、保障自助机具正常 运营、保护客户信息安全以及支持业务产品创新方面均 services to 34,140 enterprises 取得了可喜的成绩。 and non-profit organizations 赵林监事长在香港看望慰问工银亚洲 FOVA 建设项目支持团队。 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, Zhao Lin visited the working team for ICBC(Asia) FOVA system 61 62 Best asset management bank in China. During the Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 reporting period, the Bank further optimized the term structure of the fixed-yield products. The quantity of of Social Responsibility the wealth management products oriented to stocks, equities and foreign exchange rose obviously, the wealth management products oriented to the capital market and the international market grew evidently compared to the same period of the prior year. The Bank strengthened the Value Creator issuance of customized products, and delivered personal wealth management products exceeding RMB100 billion, 价值银行 2012 年 11 月，本行参加北京国际金融博览会 and enriched more choices for customers. In November 2012, the Bank attended Beijing International Financial Exhibition Leading IT platforms bolstered the steady enhancement of the customer service level. During the reporting period, the Brand Builder 品牌银行 information systems of the Bank maintained safe and stable Best custodian bank in China. During the reporting period, operations, the average daily business volume of the Bank the Bank strictly performed the custodian's responsibility, reached 179.7 million transactions domesticly, representing strengthened the risk control capacity, preserved assets an increase of 9% compared to the same period of the prior safety, delivered efficient operating services, reinforced year, and the average daily business volume of the overseas the information disclosure management, and adhered to institutions arrived at 740,000 transactions. Both figures Green Bank 绿色银行 the product and service innovation. The Bank gained 36 created a new record in history. During the reporting new products under custody. During the reporting period, period, the Bank made encouraging achievements in the Bank gained all the important awards relating to the boosting the continuous service level of the IT systems, custody business in the year, and cumulatively won 35 guaranteeing the normal operation of the self-service awards. devices, protecting the information security of customers Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 and supporting the business and product innovation. First-class pension management and service institution in China. During the reporting period, the Bank established and refined the polic y framework for the pension business, further standardized and elaborated the service contents, and preliminarily established the operational Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 risk monitoring, inspection and management mechanism combining remote monitoring, the performance inspection by the branch and the supervisory inspection by the Head 日均业务处理量逾 1.797 亿笔 Office. During the reporting period, the Bank delivered the Average daily transactions reached 179.7 million pension management service to 34,140 enterprises and Charity Bank nonprofit organizations, managed RMB51.2 billion worth of the pension funds, managed 11.68 million personal pension 爱心银行 accounts, and managed RMB229.3 billion worth of the pension funds under custody. 未来展望 Outlook 绿色银行 Green Bank 推行绿色信贷 建设生态文明 Promoting Green Credit and Constructing Ecological Civilization 构筑绿色渠道 推广电子银行 Building Green Channels and Promoting E-banking 培养节能意识 倡导绿色办公 Raising the Awareness of Energy Conservation and Advocating Green Office 爱护绿色家园 助力环保公益 Cherishing the Green Home and Boosting Environmental Protection Cause CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 绿色银行 Green Bank 全球经济社会发展正面临日益严峻的资源环境约束，建设资源节约型、环境友好型社会是人类文明发展的必然方向。本行 努力践行“绿色银行”的发展模式，通过推广绿色金融服务、坚持绿色办公、倡导绿色生活，以实际行动支持生态文明建 设，弘扬社会责任理念，为实现人与自然的和谐与可持续发展做出积极贡献。 推行绿色信贷，建设生态文明 本行将促进环境保护、资源节约、污染治理等作为信贷决策的重要依据，通过合理有效配置信贷资源，最大程度地引导社 会控制并减少资源和环境损耗，在促进经济社会与资源环境协调发展的过程中，实现银行自身的可持续发展。 加强绿色信贷制度建设 2012 年，根据监管机构的指导原则，本行不断完善绿色 信贷政策和制度体系，优化健全绿色信贷分类标准及管 理要求，逐步将绿色信贷贯彻于信贷全流程 , 加强落后产 能企业和涉及重金属污染领域的信贷风险管理，有效推 动了全行信贷结构的“绿色”调整。 在本行 2012 年版《行业（绿色）信贷政策》中，54 个行 业（绿色）信贷政策对公司贷款的覆盖面达到了 85%， 并将重点行业的主要环境污染、资源消耗、节能环保等 绿色信贷核心指标全部纳入行业（绿色）信贷政策，作 本行宁波分行调研当地某节能科技有限公司 Ningbo Branch investigated and surveyed the local energy 为全行必须严格执行的行业绿色信贷标准。 conservation technology company 为有效防范重金属环境污染风险，报告期内，本行印发 了《关于加强防控重金属排放企业信贷风险管理工作的 通知》，进一步加强重金属排放企业的信贷风险管理， 明确了涉及重金属排放的重点行业范围，提升了全行对 重金属排放企业环保风险和政策风险的认识，从严控制 该领域的信贷投放。 报告期内，本行建立健全绿色信贷问责机制，将绿色信 贷指标纳入对各级分支机构的绩效考评指标体系，按季 度对分支机构的环保监测和处理情况进行考核打分，对 监测执行不力且形成风险损失的相关责任人，按照信贷 本行云南分行支持“普达措国家公园”建设 管理要求予以处罚。 Yunnan Branch supported the construction of Pudacuo National Park 65 66 Since global economic and social development is facing increasingly severer resource and environmental constraints, it is inevitable that human civilization will head in the direction of constructing a resource-effective and environment-friendly Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 society. The Bank has always been striving to implement the development model of green bank , to support the ecological conservation and carry forward the idea of social responsibility with actual deeds such as promoting green financial services, of Social Responsibility sticking to the creation of green offices and advocating green living style, and has made great contributions to the harmonious and sustainable development of human and the nature. Promoting Green Credit and Constructing Ecological Civilization Value Creator 价值银行 The Bank will base its credit decisions upon such principles as promoting environment protection, resource conservation and pollution abatement, make outmost efforts to promote social control and reduce resource and environmental losses through reasonable and effective allocation of credit resources, to achieve its own sustainable development by promoting social and economic development in coordination with resources and the environment. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Enhancing construction of the green credit system Green Bank 绿色银行 In 2012, following the guidelines of regulatory authorities, metal contamination, the Bank published the Notice on the Bank made continuous efforts to improve its credit Strengthening the Prevention and Control of Credit Risk of policies and systems, improved classification standards Enterprises Discharging Heavy Metals during the reporting and management requirements of green credit, gradually period, further strengthened the credit risk management Creditworthy Bank applied rules of green credit in all credit procedures, of companies with heavy metals discharge, specified 诚信银行 strengthened credit risk management of companies with key industries with heavy metal discharge, improved outdated capacities and enterprises in industries with the environment-protection and policy risks awareness heavy metal pollution, so as to effectively push forward the throughout the Bank's and had credit extensions to these adjustments to the Bank's credit structure into a green enterprises under strict control. one. Harmonious Bank During the reporting period, the Bank set up a well和谐银行 In the Industry (Green) Credit Policy of the Bank compiled in established green credit accountability mechanism, 2012, there are 54 industry (green) credit policies covering incorporated the green credit indicators into the 85% of corporate loans, and core indicators of green performance evaluation indicator system for its branches credit such as the major environment pollutant, resource and affiliated institutions at all levels, gave quarterly ratings consumption, energy conservation and environment on their performance in environmental protection and Charity Bank 爱心银行 protection in major sectors are all included, serving as response, relevant persons in charge were penalized for the industry green credit standards which shall be strictly failed execution of monitoring and losses induced by risks implemented in the whole bank. according to the credit management requirements. In order to effectively prevent risks from the heavy 未来展望 Outlook 绿色银行 Green Bank 引导行业结构调整 2012 年，本行积极贯彻国家产业政策精神，严格控制产 业符合国家产业政策、环保要求的产业结构优化升级项 能过剩行业信贷投放，促进了全行信贷结构“绿色”调整。 目，促进行业内客户结构优化调整；在国家产业政策和 具体措施包括：修订完善产能过剩行业信贷政策，确定 环保政策的基础上，进一步提高和完善行业绿色信贷标 产能过剩行业为本行信贷限制或谨慎进入类行业，从严 准，对于不符合绿色信贷标准的客户和项目实行一票否 把控“两高一剩”行业的信贷准入；对于产能过剩行业， 决制。 在严格控制行业信贷总量的同时，择优支持行业龙头企 案例 在审查某国企集团授信时，本行注意到，其新收购的有色子公司主要从事有色金属开采和冶炼业务，该国企 集团入主后积极进行业务整合，但整合效应尚未显现。本行综合考虑有色行业的环保风险和该有色子公司具 体成员企业经营情况后，明确提出授信额度不得用于国内以有色冶炼为用途的融资需求，严格贯彻落实“绿 色信贷”要求，防控环保风险。 案例 陕西某公司拟改造原有 10 万吨 / 年颗粒磷铵生产线，另新建一条 10 万吨 / 年粉状磷铵生产线及配套设施。本 行陕西分行审查注意到，“磷铵生产装置”和“20 万吨 / 年以下硫铁矿制酸”为限制类行业，硫磷化工属本 行环保风险防控行业，同时该项目紧邻汉江支流堰河，磷铵和硫酸在生产过程中产生的废水、废气，可能会 对环境造成污染。因此，对该项目予以否决。 本行广西分行深入企业调查废气、废水环保设施施工、投产及排污情况 魏国雄首席风险官出席湖南分行“两型社会”（资源节约型和环境 Guangxi Branch made an in-depth investigation in the construction 友好型）活动 and operation of environmental protection facilities for exhaust gas Chief Risk Officer Wei Guoxiong participated in the “energy-saving and sewage disposal of local enterprises and their pollution discharge. and environment-friendly society” event hosted by Hunan Branch 67 68 Leading the industrial structural adjustments Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 In 2012, the Bank actively put the spirit of the national controlling the total volume of credit loans, preferential of Social Responsibility industry policies into practice, strictly controlled credit supports were given to leading enterprises that meet the extensions to industries with excess capacities and requirements of national industry policies and environment promoted the green adjustments to the credit structure of protection to promote their structural upgrading programs the whole bank by adopting such measures as revising and and optimize client-structure of the industries; on the improving credit policies for sectors with excess capacities, basis of the national industry policies and environmentidentifying industries with excess capacity as industries protection policies, the industry green credit standards Value Creator 价值银行 subject to credit restriction or prudent access, strictly were further strengthened and improved, and a one ballot controlled credit access of industries featured with high veto voting system was implemented so that customers pollution, high energy consumption and excess capacity ; and projects fell short to the green credit standards would for industries with excess capacities, in addition to strictly be overruled by a single veto. Brand Builder 品牌银行 A company in Shaanxi Province int ended CASE CASE to renovate its existing particle ammonium Green Bank 绿色银行 In the investigation in the credit loans phosphate production line with an annual to a state-owned group corporation, the production of 100,000 tons and built a new Bank noticed that it has newly acquired powder ammonium phosphate production a nonferrous subsidiar y which mainly line with an annual production of 100,000 tons specializes in mining and refining nonferrous and supporting facilities. During the credit metals. After the acquisition, it has been review, Shaanxi Branch noticed that ammonium Creditworthy Bank a c t i ve i n b u s i n e s s i nte grat i o n w h i c h , phosphate production devices and sulfuric acid however, illustrated few apparent effects. from iron pyrite with an annual production of 诚信银行 With full consideration of the environmental or less than 200,000 tons fell into the category risks in nonferrous industry and business of restricted industries, sulfur and phosphor circumstances of the subsidiary's affiliated chemical industr y is one of the identified enterprises, the Bank specified that the industries for environmental risk prevention Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 granted line of credit should not be used to and control of the Bank. Meanwhile, the project meet financing needs of domestic nonferrous was located in close proximity to Yanhe River, a refining business and strictly carried out tributary of Hanjiang River. Therefore, the sewage the requirements of green credit so as to and exhaust gas produced in the production of prevent and control environmental risks. ammonium phosphate and sulfuric acid may contaminate the local environment. Hence, credit Charity Bank 爱心银行 loan to the project was vetoed. 未来展望 Outlook 绿色银行 Green Bank 支持绿色经济发展 报告期内，本行坚持资源低耗和环境友好的绿色信贷导 截至报告期末，全行环境友好及环保合格客户数量及贷 向，积极了解国内外同业在可持续领域的先进做法，并 款余额占全部境内公司客户数量及贷款余额的比例均保 逐步消化吸收内化为本行绿色信贷领域政策和制度，引 持在 99.9% 以上。其中，投向生态保护、清洁能源、节 导全行积极支持国家节能重点工程、环境保护重点工程 能减排和资源综合利用等绿色经济领域贷款余额合计为 以及采用先进节能环保技术的升级改造项目，优先支持 5,934 亿元。 客户在新能源、节能环保和资源综合利用等领域的绿色 信贷项目，加大对碳排放、节能等领域的绿色信贷产品 创新力度。 案例 中国节能环保集团公司是国内节能环保领域的龙头企业，目前已形成以清洁能源发电、环保水务、工程承包 和低碳园区等节能环保业务为主，贸易、健康产业等其他业务为辅的发展格局。报告期内，本行北京分行支 持中节能集团环保产业发展的信贷资金已超过 20 亿元。 本行河南分行支持某抽水蓄能电站项目建设 本行广东分行营业部提供融资支持的污水处理项目 A pump storage power station project supported by Henan Branch Guangdong Branch Banking Department provided financing to sewage treatment project 案例 湖南某再生能源电力有限公司主要利用农林废弃物和城市生活垃圾进行发电与销售，是湖南省第一个正式 投产的生物质发电项目，预计年发电 2.4 亿度，节约电煤 10 万吨，减少二氧化碳排放 20 万吨，直接增加 当地农民收入 8,500 万元，经济和社会效益显著。截至报告期末，本行湖南分行累计投入信贷资金 1,500 万元， 有效支持了该公司的运营和发展。 案例 在支持柴达木循环经济试验区内的“龙头”项目——某集团 100 万吨钾肥项目的基础上，为促进客户转变 经济增长方式、走资源综合利用与环境保护的可持续发展道路，本行青海分行积极支持“100 万吨钾肥综 合利用”、“金属镁一体化”等项目建设。截至报告期末，已累计向金属镁一体化项目发放贷款 14.7 亿元 , 其中当年新增贷款 9.2 亿元。 69 70 Supporting the growth of green economy Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank insisted on the more efforts to innovate green credit products in fields like guidiance of resource-effective and environment-friendly carbon emission and energy conservation. of Social Responsibility green credit, actively learnt from advanced practices in sustainable development from industrial peers both at By the end of the reporting period, both the number home and abroad and gradually created its own green of qualified clients of environment-friendly and related credit policies and system to lead the whole bank to outstanding loans accounted for more than 99.9% actively support key national energy conservation and of its total number of domestic corporate clients and environment protection projects and projects of renovating total volume of related outstanding loans, of which the Value Creator 价值银行 and upgrading by bringing in advanced energy saving outstanding loans granted to green economic fields such and environment protection technology. It gave priority as ecological preservation, clean energy, energy saving and to green credit projects in fields such as new energy, emission reduction, and the comprehensive utilization of energy conservation and environment protection, and the natural resources totaled at RMB593.4 billion. comprehensive utilization of natural resources, and made Brand Builder 品牌银行 CASE China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group (CECEP) is a leading domestic enterprise in energy conservation and environmental protection. It boasts a development pattern which mainly specializes in energy conservation and environmental protection businesses such as clean power generation, environment-friendly water Green Bank 绿色银行 utilities, project contracting, and low-carbon industrial parks and supplemented by other businesses such as the trade and health industries. During the reporting period, Beijing Branch offered more than RMB2 billion credit funds to CECEP to support the development of its environmental protection business. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 CASE A renewable energy-based power company in Hunan Province, which mainly utilizes agricultural and forestry wastes and urban household garbage for power generation and sales, is the first biomass power generation project officially came into operation in Hunan, with an estimated annual power generation capacity of 240 million kWh and remarkable social and economic benefits. Each year, it helps to save 100, 000 tons of thermal coal and reduce 200,000 tons of carbon dioxide emission, and directly increases the income of local farmers by RMB85 million. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 By the end of the reporting period, Hunan Branch has cumulatively granted RMB15 million of credit funds to the company, effectively supported its operation and development. Charity Bank 爱心银行 In addition to supporting a leading enterprise in pilot site for circular economy in Qaidam – a potash fertilizer project CASE with an annual production of 1 million tons, Qinghai Branch has been actively supporting the construction of projects such as the comprehensive utilization of 1 million tons potash fertilizer and the integration of magnesium metal in order to drive customers to transform their economic growth mode in pursuit of the sustainable development of the comprehensive utilization of natural resources and environmental protection. By the end of the reporting period, the Bank has granted RMB1.47 billion credit loans cumulatively to the magnesium metal integration project, of which RMB920 未来展望 million were newly extended loans in the report year. Outlook 绿色银行 Green Bank 案例 重庆某综合性科技环保企业是经重庆市政府确定的“城市污水处理技术及项目”牵头企业，主营环保节能产 品开发及自销和服务、环保技术咨询服务、环保“三废”治理工程承包等。公司研发能力在行业内处于领先 水平，产品和技术得到了广泛的应用。报告期内，本行重庆分行为其核定 7.59 亿元授信额度，有力支持了 环保项目发展。 案例 2012 年，本行黑龙江分行为哈尔滨某环保科技公司发放流动资金贷款 3,000 万元，开立保函 76 万元，承兑 汇票 180 万元，向其子公司发放委托贷款 2,000 万元，用于峡山生态经济区、安哥拉共和国生态新城等污水 净化工程，对国内外的环境治理、污水排放起到了促进作用。 案例 江苏某生态农林发展有限公司主营项目包 案例 括名贵苗木、高档水果种植、生态养殖、 本行浙江分行通过行内银团方式向吉林市某 生态旅游观光等。2012 年，本行苏州分行 公司提供了 2,300 万元项目贷款用于 100kt/ 积极支持生态文明建设，加大对农业、园 a 二氧化碳尾气回收项目建设，对于减少大 林绿化的投入力度，为该公司发放项目贷 气污染、保护生态环境具有促进作用。 款 4,000 万元。 本行内蒙古分行支持的风电场项目 The wind power plant project supported by Inner Mongolia Branch 案例 本行天津分行为当地某再生资源公司“废旧五金拆解及深加工项目”提供 1.65 亿元贷款支持。该项目所在 的天津子牙循环经济产业区是目前中国北方最大的再生资源专业化园区，并于 2012 年 12 月升级成为目前 国内唯一一家以循环经济为主导产业的国家级经济技术开发区。该公司作为园区龙头企业，通过引进国际 先进技术和工艺，对废旧金属进行拆解和深加工，有效减轻了废旧重金属对环境造成的污染，环境效益显著。 71 72 CASE A comprehensive technology-based environmental protection company in Chongqing, which has been accredited by Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Chongqing municipal government as a leading enterprise of the urban sewage treatment technology and project , mainly specializes in the development and sales of environmental protection and energy conservation products and services. of Social Responsibility It also provides services such as environmental protection technology consultancy and project contracting of exhaust gas, sewage and waste residue disposal. The company is well ahead of its industrial peers in R&D with its products and technology widely applied. During the reporting period, Chongqing Branch has set its line of credit at RMB759 million, providing strong support to the development of environmental protection projects. Value Creator 价值银行 CASE In 2012, Heilongjiang Branch granted RMB30 million of working capital loans, issued letters of guarantee (L/G) worth RMB760,000 and acceptance drafts worth RMB1.8 million to an environmental protection technological company in Harbin, and granted RMB20 million entrusted loans to its subsidiary for sewage purification projects in Xiashan Mount Ecological Economic Zone and new ecological city in the Republic of Angola, which has played a positive role in environment improvement and sewage discharge control both at home and abroad. Brand Builder 品牌银行 CASE CASE An ecological agriculture and forestr y Green Bank 绿色银行 development company in Jiangsu Province Zhejiang Branch granted RMB23 million mainly specializes in businesses such as p ro j e c t l o a n s i n te r m s o f i nt ra gro u p cultivation of rare seedlings and top grade syndicated loan to a company in Jilin for its fruits, ecological breeding, bioengineering construction of the project of recovering 100 Creditworthy Bank and ecological tourism. In 2012, Suzhou 诚信银行 kt/a carbon dioxide from tail gas, which is of Branch ac tively promoted ecological great significance in reducing air pollution progress, expanded its input in agriculture and protecting ecological environment. and landscaping, and granted loans of RMB40 million to the projects of the company. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 CASE Tianjin Branch granted RMB165 million of loans in support of the waste metal dismantling and further processing project of a local renewable resource company. Tianjin Ziya Industrial District for Circular Economy, where the project is located, is the largest specialized industrial park of renewable resources in northern China. In December 2012, it was upgraded to the Charity Bank 爱心银行 only economic and technological development zone at the national level with circular economy as its predominant industry in China. As the leading enterprise in the Park, the company dismantles and further processes waste metals by introducing internationally advanced technology and workmanship, and has effectively mitigated environment pollution caused by waste heavy metals and produced enormous environmental benefits. 未来展望 Outlook 绿色银行 Green Bank 案例 内蒙古某环保工业发展有限责任公司是一家高科技、高 附加值的大型环保企业，其主要产品为以工业废弃物治 理为目标的环境治理设备和以工业废弃物综合利用为目 标的各类应用产品。本行内蒙古分行为该公司工业废渣 综合利用项目提供项目贷款 4 亿元，不仅节约了资源， 本行内蒙古分行支持建设的内蒙古某环保工业发展公司项目 保护了环境，而且实现了显著的经济效益。 The project of Environmental Protection Industry Development Co., Ltd. supported by Inner Mongolia Branch 构筑绿色渠道，推广电子银行 本行充分依托科技领先优势，推广无纸化、低消耗、高效率的电子银行业务，不断创新渠道和产品、培养客户使用习惯， 电子银行业务量占比逐年攀升。在为客户提供环保、便捷的绿色金融服务的同时，为社会节省了大量易耗资源，减少了碳 排放。 完善电子渠道 报告期内，本行电子银行坚持以客户为中心、以市场为 电子银行分流了大量的柜面业务和服务压力，低碳高效 导向，规模效益与结构质量并重，不断强化创新引领优势， 的特点日益突出。截至报告期末，本行电子银行业务占 各项业务发展创历史佳绩。网上银行交易额突破 300 万 比创 75.1% 的历史新高，电子银行全年办理的业务量相 亿元，同比增长 17.2%；手机银行客户数增幅达 54.5%； 当于替代了 2.3 万个网点、23 万柜员，节约了大量的人 交易离柜率在 50% 和 80% 以上的电子银行个人活跃客户 力和物力，提高了业务处理效率；全行一半以上的基金 占比同比分别提高 7.1 和 4.6 个百分点。 交易和理财产品销售，以及 90% 以上的外汇买卖和账户 贵金属交易均通过电子银行渠道进行。 加快创新步伐 本行依托强大的创新能力和科技研发力量，积极探索信息技 易的各方面需求。 术与金融业融合的发展方向，不断完善包括网上银行、电话 银行、手机银行、短信银行、电视银行等在内的渠道体系， 报告期内，电视银行业务在江苏分行成功试点。为客户提供 快速提升服务供给能力。2012 年，创新推出 50 多项面向客 了账户管理、转账汇款、在线缴费等常用金融服务，使客户 户的创新产品，完善近 300 项产品功能，持续巩固本行电子 在看电视的同时就能轻松完成业务办理，进一步拓展了电子 银行的行业领军地位。 银行服务渠道。 报告期内，本行在业界首家推出短信银行客户端，建立可视 截至 2012 年末，本行已有 26 家境外机构对外开通网银业务， 化的交互服务界面，其丰富的业务种类、流畅的操作体验等 14 家境外机构开通电话银行服务，工银澳门开通手机银行 特点受到客户的好评。目前，短信银行服务内容已涵盖金融 服务，35 家境外机构开通门户网站，电子银行的全球服务 信息查询、账户信息查询、转账支付、短信提醒、自助管理 网络进一步拓宽。 五大类服务 74 项功能，能够满足客户从简单业务咨询到交 73 74 Inner Mongolia Environmental Protection Industry Development Co., Ltd. is a large high-tech and high value-added CASE environmental protection enterprise which mainly specializes in environment improvement equipment for industrial Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 waste disposal and various products for the comprehensive utilization of industrial wastes. Inner Mongolia Branch granted project loans of RMB400 million to this company to support its comprehensive utilization of industrial waste project, which of Social Responsibility not only saved resources and protected environment but also generated noticeable economic benefits. Building Green Channels and Promoting E-banking The Bank fully drew on its leading technological edge to promote paperless, low energy-consumption and highly-efficient Value Creator 价值银行 e-banking businesses. It constantly innovated channels and products, cultivated clients' habits of using e-banking services, and achieved an annually growing volume of e-banking businesses. While providing its clients with environment-friendly and convenient green financial services, it also helps to save plenty of consumable social resources and reduce carbon emissio. Improving electronic channels Brand Builder 品牌银行 During the reporting period, the Bank's e-banking adhered E-banking helps mitigate enormous pressure of counter to the principle of being client and market-oriented, operations and services with its features of low carbon and pursued both economies of scale and the quality of high efficiency becoming increasingly striking. By the end structure, made continuous efforts to enhance its leading of the reporting period, ICBC's share of e-banking business innovation edge and post unprecedented performance hit a new record high of 75.1%. Businesses conducted records in all businesses. Trade volumes of online banking through e-banking were equivalent to transactions Green Bank 绿色银行 services exceeded RMB300 trillion, up by 17.2% compared processed by 230,000 bank tellers of 23,000 outlets, with the same period of last year; the number of its mobile saved plenty of manual labor and material resources and banking clients grew sharply by 54.5%; active individual improved business handling efficiency; more than half e-banking customers with more than 50% and 80% of of fund transactions and sales of wealth management transactions through non-counter channels increased by 7.1 products as well as over 90% of foreign exchange trading and 4.6 percentage points respectively. and account-precious metals transactions were conducted Creditworthy Bank through e-banking channels. 诚信银行 Accelerating innovation in products and services The Bank has been taking full advantages of its strong inquiry, account information inquiry, transfer of payment, innovation capability and scientific & technological R&D SMS reminder and self-service management, which met Harmonious Bank capacity, vigorously explored the direction for the integration various customer needs from simple business consulting to 和谐银行 of information technology and the financial industry, transactions. made continuous efforts to improve its e-banking network comprising of internet banking, telephone banking, mobile During the reporting period, the TV banking pilot program of banking, SMS banking and TV banking, which improved Jiangsu Branch was successfully launched, providing frequently its service capacity rapidly. In 2012, the Bank launched 52 used financial services such as account management, transfer innovative products to customers, improved functions of and remittance, online payment of expenses, etc. so that Charity Bank 爱心银行 nearly 300 products and persistently forged its leading position customers could complete business transactions easily while in e-banking businesses. watching TV, which further expanded service channels of the e-banking. During the reporting period, the Bank took the lead in launching SMS banking services on the user side and set up By the end of 2012, the Bank has launched internet banking visual interactive service interface, which were well received by businesses in 26 overseas institutions, telephone banking 未来展望 customers for its large variety of business and experiences of services in 14 and web portals in 35 overseas institutions Outlook smooth operations. The SMS banking now covers 74 functions which further expanded its global e-banking service network. of services in 5 categories including financial information Besides, it started mobile banking services in its Macao Branch. 绿色银行 Green Bank 加强产品推广 报告期内，本行组织开展“U 盾加短信，安全你我他”和“龙 等渠道，打造 “三位一体”的立体化客户互动平台。 年开通短信认证 工行祝您‘步步高升’”两项有奖营销 2012 年，本行电子银行在平台上开展了 24 期主题鲜明、 活动，吸引客户通过网上银行自助开通使用短信认证的 内容丰富的宣传推广活动，宣传本行业务，普及金融知识， 安全产品。 开展客户安全教育；建立起客服人员与微博粉丝的在线 联动服务机制，解答客户咨询、发布客户热点问答，全 本行积极构建客户服务新型网络渠道，以官方微博“中 年电子银行微博转发量达 163 万次，粉丝数量突破 100 万。 国工商银行电子银行”为纽带，整合短信、微博、网站 案例 报告期内，本行上海分行投产了“易取单” 项目。对公客户可以凭借自身账户所对应的 金融服务卡及密码，在任一回单自助打印终 端上打印回单，降低了操作风险，免去了网 点柜面传统的收发、打印、分类、插箱等一 系列工作环节，节省了柜面人员工作量，发 展了绿色金融服务。 林晓轩首席信息官应邀出席技术大会并推荐本行客户端产品 Chief Information Officer Lin Xiaoxuan was invited to the IT Forum and promoted the Bank' s client side products 培养节能意识，倡导绿色办公 节能降耗，功在当今，利在长远，是一项利国利民利已、 类照明设施进行调查和统计，凡不符合绿色照明要求的， 事关可持续发展的宏伟事业。本行积极实行绿色办公， 要求更换为节能灯具；严格控制夜景照明和办公照明用 鼓励创新节能的减排模式，降低运营能耗，打造环境友 电，调低地下室和车库的照明强度；在开水间摆放剩水 好型的“绿色银行”；注重培养员工的节能环保意识， 回收桶，集中收取暖瓶隔夜水，供保洁使用；鼓励员工 提倡员工从自身做起，营造全行重节能、讲环保的良好 双面打印，减少纸张浪费。 文化氛围。 从 2001 年起，本行开发投产了办公信息化系统，实现了 电子公文、信息文档的无纸化流转，大幅度减少并逐步 取消了纸介质。据不完全统计，自实施办公自动化系统 以来，全行每年可节约用纸（A4）约 1.5 亿张。 本行大力提倡节能降耗，形成“人人谈节约，事事讲成本” 的良好氛围。报告期内，本行严格执行空调运行管理规 工银欧洲节能环保大楼 定，每晚 18 时至次日早 7 时关闭空调系统；积极实施“绿 The energy conservation and environmental protection building of ICBC (Europe) 色照明”工程，组织对全行营业网点、办公场所内外各 75 76 Reinforcing the promotion of products Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank organized two interaction platform. In 2012, the Bank launched 24 lottery marketing campaigns of USB key plus SMS services marketing and promoting campaigns with striking of Social Responsibility secure money in your account and Sign up for SMS themes and rich contents on this platform, advertising its Authentication in the Year of Dragon, Best Wishes for You to businesses, spreading financial knowledge and providing 'Get Further Promoted' , which aimed to attract customers safety education to customers; it also set up an online to use security products with SMS authentication through collaborative service mechanism linking customer service self-service online banking. staff with micro-blog fans, answering inquiries from customers and publishing Q&A hotspots. Throughout the Value Creator 价值银行 The Bank actively built new online customer service year, its e-banking micro-blog were forwarded for 1.63 channels, integrating various channels like SMS, micromillion times, and the number of fans has surpassed 1 blog and website by its official micro-blog ICBC E-banking , million. and built up a three-dimensional trinity of customer Brand Builder 品牌银行 CASE During the reporting period, Shanghai Branch put the project of convenient receipt taking into operation, which enables corporate clients to print their receipts on any self-help receipt printing terminals with their financial service cards and passwords linked to their accounts, which mitigates operational risks, saves a series of traditional procedures of counter businesses such as receiving & dispatching, printing, classifying and so on, reduces the workload of counter bank tellers and boosts the development of green financial services. Green Bank 绿色银行 Raising the Awareness of Energy Conservation and Advocating Green Office Creditworthy Bank Energy saving and consumption reduction, though succeed A4-sized paper each year. 诚信银行 at the present, will bring long-term benefits in future. It is a magnificent course that will benefit the country, its people The Bank vigorously advocated energy saving and and the Bank, and is closely related with sustainable social consumption reduction to cultivate of a sound atmosphere and economic development. The Bank has been actively where keeping the idea of saving in mind, everyone implementing green office, encouraging innovation strives to control cost to the subtlest details . During Harmonious Bank of energy saving and emission reduc tion models, the reporting period, it strictly implemented the air和谐银行 reducing operational energy consumption and forging conditioning management regulations, powered off the airan environment-friendly green bank ; it also pays much conditioning system from 18:00 p.m. to next 7:00 a.m.; it attention to raising the energy saving and environmental actively carried out the green lighting program, organized protection awareness of its staff, encourages the staff investigations and statistics of various lighting facilities in to start from their personal lives, and strives to cultivate and outside the operation sites of all outlets of the bank, Charity Bank 爱心银行 a sound cultural atmosphere with the focus on energy and replaced all facilities that failed to meet the green conservation and environmental protection. lighting requirements with energy saving lighting devices; it strictly controlled nightscape lighting and office lighting, Since 2001, the Bank has launched an office information reduced the brightness in basements and garages; placed system, realized the paperless circulation of electronic residual water recycling buckets in water heater rooms, documents and information files, and greatly reduced collectively amassed the overnight water in thermos bottles and gradually abolished the use of paper. According to for cleaning purpose, and encouraged staff to print on both 未来展望 Outlook incomplete statistics, since the implementation of the office sides of the paper. automation system, it can save about 150 million pieces of 绿色银行 Green Bank 案例 报告期内，本行数据中心（北京）自行研发了会议室成本管理功能，在会议室申请自动化系统的基础上引 入虚拟成本管理理念，形成成本激励约束机制，在提升会议室使用效率、压缩会议时长、精简会议数量、 减少沟通成本等方面取得了较为显著的成果。成本管理系统应用后，平均会议时长较实施前下降了 34%， 会议数量下降了 5%。 案例 本行苏州分行在培训中心率先引入了太阳能设备，以降低煤耗。据不完全统计，自 2012 年更换设备以来， 降低净成本支出 32 万元。 爱护绿色家园，助力环保公益 本行员工和青年志愿者积极投身环保公益，广泛参加义务植树、自然保护、绿色出行等公益活动，以切实行动保护生态环 境、美化生存空间，也向社会公众宣传了环保、健康的生活理念。 积极参加植树造林 本行把植树造林、改善生态环境作为履行企业社会责任 进一步加强了团队协作意识，提升了集体凝聚力和向心 的方式之一，倡导义务植树、绿化美化环境，并积极参 力，并为绿化大连做出贡献。 加共和国部长义务植树活动。2012 年本行总部共植树 3,420 株。 本行江苏分行每年春天组织青年员工开展植树活动，培 养青年环保意识。从 2009 年起在淹城野生动物园选择了 报告期内，本行大连分行组织 90 余名青年员工开展了“绿 一块荒地，建立植树包干区，四年来持续不断。当年的 化浪漫之都”春季植树活动。大家在体验劳动的同时， 荒山坡现在基本被树木覆盖，绿意盎然。 本行福建分行组织开展“绿化漳州大地、建设生态名城”义务植树活动 Fujian Branch organized voluntary tree planting activity with the theme of “Green the Land of Zhangzhou, Build a Well-known Ecological City” 77 78 During the reporting period, the Data Center (Beijing) independently developed the function of meeting room CASE Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 cost control, introduced the idea of virtual cost management on the basis of an automated system for meeting room use application and formed an incentive and constraint mechanism for cost control, which produced of Social Responsibility remarkable results in improving meeting rooms' usage efficiency, shortening meeting duration, simplifying and reducing meetings, and cutting communication costs. Since the application of the cost management system, the bank's average meeting duration has dropped by 34% and the number of meetings has fallen by 5%. CASE Value Creator 价值银行 Suzhou Branch took the lead in introducing solar energy equipment in its training center to reduce coal consumption. According to incomplete statistics, since the equipment replacement in 2012, the branch has cut net cost by RMB320,000. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Cherishing the Green Home and Boosting Environmental Protection Cause The staff of the Bank， together with young volunteers, are actively dedicated themselves to environmental protection cause, participating extensively in various kinds of charity events such as voluntary tree planting, nature conservation and green traveling campaigns, taking actions to protect ecological environment and beautify living space, and promoting the idea of environment-friendly and healthy life style in public. Green Bank 绿色银行 Extensive participation in tree planting activities The bank has always treated planting trees and improving barren land is basically covered by woods, thriving and ecological environment as ways of performing corporate exuberating. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 social responsibility. It promotes planting trees and making the environment more green and beautiful, and actively participated in the Voluntary Tree Planting Activity by Ministers of the Republic. In 2012, the Bank's head office planted 3,420 trees in total. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 During the reporting period, Dalian Branch organized a spring tree planting activity in this City of Green Romance in which more than 90 young staff participated. Through laboring, team spirit among the staff was further enhanced, the collective cohesive and centripetal force was elevated and contributions were made to the greening course of Charity Bank 爱心银行 Dalian. Jiangsu Branch organizes tree planting activities every spring for its young staff to raise their awareness of 本行陕西分行营业部组织开展“我为秦岭添新绿 携手共植碳补林”公 environmental protection. In 2009, it picked a wasteland 益植树活动 The Business Division of Shaanxi Branch launched a charity tree planting in Yancheng Wildlife Park for tree planting. For the past campaign with the theme of “Give the Landscape of Qinling More Green 未来展望 Outlook four years, continuous efforts were made and now the Brush, Make a Concerted Effort to Plant Trees for Low Carbon”. 绿色银行 Green Bank 热心环保公益活动 报告期内，本行共开展环保公益类活动 200 多项，参与人数 8,000 多人次，受助人数超过 1 万人次。 案例 本行数据中心（北京）常年在中心园区内设立专用废旧电池回收箱，带动中心员工以实际行动践行环保义 务，2011 年活动开展以来，累计收集废旧电池共 30 公斤，并主动联系当地废品回收中心进行回收，进一 步提升了员工的环保意识。 案例 报告期内，本行苏州分行参加以“感恩母亲湖， 工银租赁一直关心和支持环保事业，致力于保护生 洁净太湖水”作为主题的鱼悦节活动，通过志愿 物多样性。自 2009 年起至今，工银租赁共认养了北 者们的集体放鱼行动，呼吁全社会一起关注太湖 京植物园 28 棵古树，保护了物种多样性。 水资源，保护太湖水环境，为子孙后代留下一片 美好的碧水蓝天。 工银租赁在北京植物园认养的侧柏古树 本行苏州分行参加“感恩母亲湖，洁净太湖水”鱼悦节活动 An Ancient Chinese arborvitae under the aegis of ICBC Leasing in Beijing Suzhou Branch took part in the “Happy Fish Day” initiative with Botanical Garden the theme of Thanksgiving to the Mother Lake, Purify Water of Taihu Lake” 案例 本行贵州分行为减少员工上下班开车出 行，积极倡导绿色出行，号召步行或坐 公交车辆上下班，并为员工统一办理公 交乘车卡。 本行悉尼分行参加环保志愿者活动 Sydney Branch took part in voluntary environmental protection activity 79 80 Dedication to charity environmental protection events During the reporting period, the Bank totally launched over 200 initiatives of environmental protectionand dedication with Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 more than 8,000 person-time in total, which benefited more than 10,000 person-time. of Social Responsibility CASE The Data Center (Beijing) has placed waste battery recycling bins in the center's park and ICBC Leasing has been giving much care and encouraged its staff to take practical actions to support to the environmental protection cause fulfill their obligation of environmental protection. and dedicated itself to preserving the biological Value Creator 价值银行 Throughout the year, it collected about 30 diversity. Since 2009 till now, it has been committed kilograms of waste batteries and contacted local to the preservation of 28 ancient trees in Beijing recycling center for recycling, which further Botanical Garden to preserve the diversity of enhanced the awareness of environmental species. protection among its staff. Brand Builder 品牌银行 During the reporting period, Suzhou Branch joined the Happy Fish Day activity with the theme of Thanksgiving to the Mother Lake, Purify Water of Taihu Lake in which volunteers collectively set fish free and called on the whole society to care for the water resources of Taihu Lake and protect surrounding environment to leave a wonderful world with clean water and blue sky to future generations. Green Bank 绿色银行 Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 本行湖南分行开展“保护母亲河，共青团在行动”活动，多次组织员工 工银印尼组织员工参加印尼银行家协会举办的“健康行走”活动 在索溪河道两边清理垃圾 ICBC (Indonesia) organized its staff to attend the event of “Healthy Harmonious Bank Hunan Branch launched an activity with the theme of “Youth League in Walk” hosted by the Indonesian Bankers Association 和谐银行 Action of Protecting the Mother River” and organized its staff to collect garbage along the Suoxi Watercourse for several times CASE Charity Bank 爱心银行 Guizhou Branch, in support of green traveling, called on its staff to walk or take a bus to commute between their homes and work places instead of driving cars, and to this end, it collectively applied for public transport cards for its staff. 数据中心（北京）开展“我的一亩责任田”环保活动 未来展望 The Data Center (Beijing) launched an environmental protection initiative “A Tract of Land under My Care” Outlook 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 消费者权益保护 Protection of Customers' Rights and Interests 投资者关系管理 Improvement of Investor Relations Management 责任采购 Procurement 知识产权保护 Protection of Intellectual Property Rights 反金融犯罪 Anti-financial Crime CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 作为经营信用的金融企业，本行始终以“诚信”作为立行之本和固行之基。本行秉承“工于至诚、行以至远”的价值观， 致力消费者权益保护，强化投资者关系管理，积极履行反金融犯罪义务，以“诚信”赢得客户的信赖 , 取得股东的认可， 获得社会的尊重。 消费者权益保护 建设完善消费者权益保护工作机制 为进一步加强不规范经营治理，做好消费者权益保护工作，本行在国内率先成立了消费者权益保护办公室，并制定了全行 消费者权益保护基本文件、指导意见及配套制度，以建立健全金融消费者权益保护长效机制。报告期内，本行印发《关于 加强消费者权益保护工作的通知》，从健全组织管理体系、完善长效工作机制、强化预警分析和监督管理以及加强与监管 部门沟通协调四个方面规划了全行消费者权益保护工作管理体系；拟定了《关于进一步做好消费者权益保护工作的意见》， 进一步明确了文本审核与执行监督、定价审核与服务收费体验评估、客户维权协调、消费者金融知识宣传教育、特殊消费 者群体保护等方面的消费者权益保护基础性工作内容。 对产品进行定价审核与评估分析 报告期内，本行完成新版服务价目表的梳理和对外发布工作。新版价目表对 2009 版收费项目和实际执行的收费项目进行全 面梳理，并以印制手册和门户网站公布方式推出，取得良好社会效应。本行还深入比较分析同业服务收费动态，完善本行 定价策略和定价机制。此外，本行对新推出的产品和服务的定价从平衡银行和消费者利益角度进行审核 , 引导产品和服务合 理定价，如对工银运通百夫长黑金卡和工银运通铂金卡有关定价的审核，对监管机构和外界关注度较高的“房屋抵押登记费”、 “房产评估费”、“代办抵押登记费”等问题，在深入研究相关法律法规和监管规定的基础上，改进了服务项目设置和定价。 李晓鹏副行长前往北京分行网点 调研 2012 年版服务价格目录公 示及执行情况 Senior Executive Vice President, Li Xiaopeng conducted a survey on the publicity and implementation of the Service Price List (2012 version) in outlets of Beijing Branch 83 84 As a financial enterprise that values good faith , ICBC always regards creditworthiness as the basis for operating and consolidating the Bank. Adhere to its value of Integrity Leads to Prosperity , the Bank commits itself to protecting customers' Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 rights and interests, strengthens investor relations management and actively performs the obligation of fighting against financial crimes, thus winning trust of customers, gaining recognition from shareholders and earning respect of the society with of Social Responsibility creditworthiness . Protection of Customers' Rights and Interests Establishing and improving the working mechanism for the protection of customers' rights and interests Value Creator 价值银行 To further strengthen the management of operations that are not in compliance with the laws and regulations and the protection of customers' rights and interests, the Bank took the lead in establishing an office for the protection of customers' rights and interests. Relevant basic documents, guiding opinions and supporting regulations have been formulated for the whole bank, for the purpose of establishing and improving a long-term mechanism for the protection of financial customers' rights and interests. During the reporting period, the Bank issued the Notice on Strengthening the Protection of Customers' Brand Builder 品牌银行 Rights and Interests, to work out a management system by improving the organization and management system and the longterm working mechanism, enhancing the early warning analysis and supervision, and strengthening the communication and coordination with regulatory authorities. Besides, the Opinions on Further Carrying out the Protection of Customers' Rights and Interests was drafted, which further specified basic work regarding the protection of customers' rights and interests, such as review, implementation and supervision of relevant documents, review on pricing and assessment of charging experience, coordination for protecting customers' rights, publicity and education of financial knowledge for customers, and protection of special customer groups. Green Bank 绿色银行 Reviewing, assessing and analyzing the pricing of products Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 During the reporting period, the Bank completed the collation and release of the new service price list, in which, charged items of 2009 and the ones actually applied were collated in an all-around manner. Launched by printed manuals and through the portal site, the new service Harmonious Bank price list achieved sound social effects. Besides, the Bank 和谐银行 made in-depth comparisons and analyses of charges on products and services with those of its counterparts, with a purpose of improving its pricing policies and mechanism. In addition, the Bank reviewed the pricing of new products and services from the perspective of balancing its interests 做好 2012 年版《服务价目表》公示工作 Charity Bank with customers to guide reasonable pricing of products 爱心银行 Make a publicity to the Service Price List (2012 version) and services. For example, it reviewed the pricing of ICBCAmerican Express Centurion Black Gold Card and ICBCevaluation fee , and commissioned mortgage registration American Express Platinum Card. As for the problems fee , the Bank also ameliorated the setting and pricing of concerned by regulatory authorities and the society which bank charges based on the in-depth study of relevant laws, caused by the house mortgage registration fee , property regulations and regulatory requirements. 未来展望 Outlook 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 开展收费项目所涉合同文本的梳理和审核 报告期内，本行对各类收费文件进行了梳理，对于不符 文本 62 个，已基本完成了存量收费文件的梳理工作。同时， 合监管部门规定的、或合同文件与新版服务价目表收费 本行从保护消费者利益的角度出发，结合客户投诉和外 项目不一致的，进行了修订完善或调整废止，年内累计 部检查所反映或暴露的问题，对新拟订的业务规章制度、 梳理完成各类收费业务相关文件 1,537 个，其中包括业务 协议合同、市场推广方案等进行审核，有效防范了新产 制度 726 个，协议文本 579 个，业务凭证 170 个，其他 品或新业务推出后对消费者权益的侵害或危害。 优化业务系统，加强规范经营 报告期内，本行对涉及 12 个业务子系统、607 个项目的中间业务收费名称、参数系统和凭证打印存在的问题进行了深入调研， 并提出了包含 537 个调整项目和内容的中间业务收费系统规范化改造项目需求，通过系统促进中间业务收费与新版价目表 的配套衔接。同时，本行强化了新版价目表执行情况的跟踪监测和调研分析，组织开展新版价目表实施情况与消费者权益 保护专题调研，针对发现的问题督促相关分行和部门进行整改；组织完成新版价目表优化意见的征集、汇总和研究分析， 共收集各类优化调整意见 86 条，并提出了优化调整方案。此外，本行还根据银监会关于整治不规范经营工作的整体部署， 组成 5 个检查组，赴 10 家分行进行了不规范经营专项检查，针对检查发现的问题及时提示各行和有关部门整改。 总行消费者权益保护办公室 Customer Rights Protection Office at the Head Office 一级分行、直属分行消费者权益保 一级分行、直属分行消费者权益保 一级分行、直属分行消费者权益保 护工作牵头管理部门 护工作牵头管理部门 护工作牵头管理部门 ... Customer Rights Protection Customer Rights Protection Customer Rights Protection Office at Tier-one branch Office at Tier-one branch Office at Tier-one branch 二级分行消费者权益保护 二级分行消费者权益保护工 二级分行消费者权益保护工 工作团队 作团队 作团队 ...... Customer Rights Protection Customer Rights Protection Customer Rights Protection Office at Tier-two branch Office at Tier-two branch Office at Tier-two branch 一级支行消费权益保护工 一级支行消费权益保护工作 一级支行消费权益保护工作 作联系人 联系人 联系人 ... Customer Rights Protection Customer Rights Protection Customer Rights Protection Office at Sub-branch Office at Sub-branch Office at Sub-branch • 本行消费者权益保护工作组织架构图 The Organizational Chart of the Bank' s Customer Rights Protection 85 86 Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 个人金融业务 Personal Banking of Social Responsibility 30% 银行卡业务 Bank Card Business 43% 电子银行业务 E-banking 金融市场业务 Financial Market Business 贵金属业务 Precious Metal Business 11% Value Creator 信贷、授信业务 Credit Business 价值银行 4% 其他业务 Other Bussinesses 5% 5% 2% Brand Builder 品牌银行 各业务线文本审核数量分布情况 Distribution Chart of Contracts Reviewed by Business Lines Collating and reviewing contracts concerning charged items Green Bank 绿色银行 During the reporting period, the Bank collated various for the purpose of protection of customers' Rights and documents on bank charges. Documents inconsistent with Interests, ICBC reviewed newly drafted business rules and regulatory requirements, relevant contracts or new service regulations, agreements and contracts, and marketing price list were revised, modified, adjusted or rescinded. plans by taking into consideration customer complaints and Accumulatively 1,537 different documents supporting problems discovered or exposed in external inspections, charged items were collated, including 726 documents on effectively prevented customers' rights and interests from Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 business systems, 579 contracts, 170 business vouchers and infringement or damage after the introduction of new 62 other items . So far, the collation of existing documents products or businesses. on bank charges has been basically completed. Meanwhile, Harmonious Bank Optimising the operation system, enforcing the compliance 和谐银行 The Bank conducted in-depth investigations on the problems regarding 12 business subsystems, names of 607 items of feebased intermediary businesses, parameter system and voucher printing in the reporting period. It proposed requirements for standardized reconstruction project on the charging system of intermediary businesses which covers 537 reconciliation items and contents, so as to facilitate the integration of fee-charging of intermediary businesses and the new price list. In Charity Bank 爱心银行 the meantime, the Bank strengthened the tracking, monitoring, investigation and analysis on the practice of the new service price list. Special investigations concerning the execution of the new service price list and protection of customers' interests and rights were organized and carried out, so that relevant branches and departments could be urged to rectify discovered problems. A total of 86 opinions on improving and adjusting the new price list were collected, summarized and analyzed, and a plan was brought forward. Moreover, the Bank set up 5 inspection groups according to the overall plan of the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) on the governance of operations which are not in compliance with the laws and regulations, to 未来展望 conduct special inspections on 10 branches. Problems discovered during the inspections were notified to branches and relevant Outlook departments for rectification in a timely manner. 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 稳妥高效处理各类客户纠纷维权事件 本行构建了服务管理部门协调推动、专业部门各司其职 95588 的投诉管理工作模式，由总行直接参与处理各类客户纠 客服电话 95588 Customer 纷维权事件。全行高度重视，快速反应，采用电话沟通、 Service Line 实地回访、调阅资料等方式进行核实，并积极主动与客 官方网站 外部机构 Official Website External Institutions 户 沟 通 解 决。 报 告 期 内， 本 行 共 办 理 业 务 658 亿 笔， 客户投诉渠道 平均 950 万笔业务发生 1 件投诉，网均投诉 0.4 件。自 Customer Complaints 2011 年以来，本行投诉已连续八个季度延续环比下降态 Channels 营业网点 举报专线电话 势，重点领域投诉数量明显减少，2012 年接到的投诉总 Branches Complaint Hotline 量较 2011 年下降 73%。报告期内，本行投诉处理完结率 来信来访 99%，客户对投诉处理的满意率达到 96%。 Mails and Visits 为增加客户反映问题和沟通的渠道，本行在总分行两级 机构同时公告并开通了“投诉举报专线电话”，并建立 了抽查督导、监测分析、全行通报等机制。报告期内， 全行受理投诉举报专线电话 783 起。同时，本行注重通 过源头改进服务促进投诉量的压降，优化投诉处理流程， 不断提高投诉处理效率和质量，主动收集、分析客户反 映的本行金融产品和金融服务涉及消费者权益保护方面 的有关缺陷、瑕疵或风险隐患，研究消费者维权案例， 推动产品和服务改进。 开展金融消费者知识教育 本行一直致力于做好客户金融知识普及，提升公众金融 安全意识，开展了以“金融知识在您身边服务月”、“助 推小微、三农金融服务月”和“特殊群体客户关爱服务月” 为主题的“普及金融知识万里行”活动。活动中，本行 通过持续跟踪、定期统计、重点指导、现场调研等措施 本行认真做好普及金融知识万里行宣传活动 The bank earnestly carried out the campaign of Dissemination of Financial Knowledge 组织全行开展了形式多样、内容丰富的知识普及和宣传 工作，取得了积极的社会宣传效果。报告期内，本行共 组织各类活动 5 万余次，参与网点数量 15,000 多个，设 立公共区域宣教点 1,600 多个，参与员工 29 万余人次， 投放宣传资料 900 万份。同时，本行借助各种媒体对活 本行北京分行积极开展反洗钱宣传月咨询活动 动进行了 2,000 余次的宣传报道，其中通过电视 120 余次， Beijing Branch actively carried out the consulting campaign with the 广播 70 余次，报刊 450 余次。 subject of Publicity Month of Anti-money Laundering 87 88 importance to lowering complaints through improving services, optimizing complaints handling processes, Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 constantly enhancing complaints handling efficiency and quality, proactively collecting and analyzing the defects, of Social Responsibility flaws and risks lying in financial products and services in terms of customer rights proection, studying customer rights protection cases, and facilitating the betterment of products and services. Value Creator 价值银行 本行上海分行携手区公安局共同开展金融反诈骗活动 Shanghai Branch, together with the district Public Security Bureau, jointly organized the financial anti-fraud activity Handling customer complaints and rights-protection Brand Builder 品牌银行 cases reliably and efficiently The Bank established the complaint management working 本行广西分行向公众宣传金融知识，提升公众金融安全意识 Guangxi Branch publicized financial knowledge to the public to model, featuring the coordinated facilitation of service enhance people' s awareness of financial safety management departments and professional departments performing their respective duties. The Head Office directly participated in the handling of customer complaints Educating financial knowledge among customers Green Bank 绿色银行 and rights-protection cases to which the whole bank attached great importance and responded quickly by The Bank has always devoted itself to the popularization means of telephone communication, return visit, access to of financial knowledge among customers to raise the information and positive communication with customers. awareness of the public for financial safety. Therefore, Creditworthy Bank During the reporting period, the Bank processed 65.8 the public education campaign of Dissemination of 诚信银行 billion businesses, one complaint occurred per 9.5 million Financial Knowledge was launched, with the subjects businesses on average, 0.4 complaint occurred per branch of Service Month of Financial Knowledge by Your Side , on average. Since 2011, complaints to the Bank have Month of Financial Services Supporting Micro and Small declined for eight consecutive quarters, complaints in Businesses, and Agriculture, countryside and Farmers , the key areas decreased signific antly, complaints in 2012 and Service Month of Care for Special Customer Groups . Harmonious Bank declined by 73% over 2011. During the reporting period, In the campaign, the Bank organized the whole bank to completion rate of complaints handling reached 99%, and popularize and publicize diversified and wide-ranging 和谐银行 customer satisfaction of the complaints handling reached financial knowledge by taking measures including constant 96%. tracking, regular statistics, targeted guidance and onsite investigation, which produced positive social effects. To broaden channels for customers to report problems During the reporting period, over 50,000 activities were Charity Bank 爱心银行 and communication with customers, the Bank opened the organized by the Bank, with the participation of more than complaint and reporting hotline both at the Head Office 15,000 outlets. Over 1,600 public education centers were and branches on which announcements were made at set up, employees of more than 290,000 person-times took the same time, and mechanisms of selective examination, part in the activities, and 9 million leaflets were handed supervision, monitoring, analysis and bank-wide notification out. In addition, more than 2,000 reports on these activities were set up. During the reporting period, 783 compliant were made through various media, including TV program 未来展望 and reporting cases were accepted through the hotline for over 120 times, broadcasting for more than 70 times, Outlook in the whole bank. At the same time, the Bank attached and newspapers and periodicals for more than 450 times. 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 709 投资者关系管理 642 551 568 报告期内，本行不断完善投资者关系管理，强化股东 444 回报，畅通沟通渠道，有力保障全体股东尤其是中小 投资者合法权益，赢得投资者的广泛认可与信赖。 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 现金分红（亿元） Cash dividend (RMB100 million) 以稳定的业绩增长和持续的现金分红回报投资者 报告期内，本行实现税后利润 2,386.91 亿元，同比增长 14.5%；每股盈利 0.68 元；加权平均权益回报率达到 23.02%。截 至报告期末，本行市值为 2,365 亿美元。在业绩稳定增长的同时，本行积极落实现金分红政策，以高现金分红回报股东， 让投资者分享公司增长成果。 以充分、及时、公平的信息披露保护投资者 本行继续秉持信息披露公平性原则，向所有股东公平披露信息。为了确保投资者的公平知情权，本行坚持在沪港两地交易 所和公司网站同步披露临时公告和定期报告，报告期内，本行共对外披露定期报告 4 次，发布临时公告及相关资料 198 份； 坚持以现场和全球电话会议同步的方式召开业绩发布会，并通过官方网站以网络广播的形式供全球投资者收看；坚持以简 体中文、繁体中文、英文三种版本印制定期报告；在倡行“绿色环保”、积极引导股东采用电子方式收取公司通讯文件的 同时，向有纸质阅读习惯的股东寄发纸质公司通讯文件。报告期内，本行荣获上交所“2012 年度上市公司信息披露奖”、 香港会计师公会“最佳企业管治资料披露大奖”H 股板块白金奖、美国媒体专业联盟（LACP）评选的年度报告白金奖和最 佳年度财务信息披露金奖（亚太区）等等境内外信息披露权威奖项。 本行 2012 年中期业绩发布会 ICBC's Interim Results Announcement of 2012 89 90 Improvement of Investor Relations Management Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank strongly protected the legitimate rights and interests of all shareholders especially small and medium investors by constantly improving investor relations management, increasing return to shareholders and unblocking the of Social Responsibility communication channels, winning the recognition and trust of investors. Repaying investors with stable performance growth and sustained cash dividends Value Creator 价值银行 At the end of reporting period, the Bank' s after-tax profit was reported at RMB 238.691 billion, with a year-on-year increase of 14.5%; earning per share (EPS) was RMB0.68; return on weighted average equities were recorded at 23.02%; market capitalization was recorded at USD 236.5 billion. While maintaining the stable performance growth, the Bank actively implemented the cash dividend policies, with a purpose of repaying high cash dividends to shareholders and letting investors enjoy the fruits of growth of the Bank. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Protecting investors with sufficient, timely and fair information disclosure Adhere to the principle of impartiality for information disclosure, the Bank disclosed information to all Green Bank 绿色银行 shareholders impartially. To ensure that investors have equal access to the information, it persisted in disclosing interim and regular announcements Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 simultaneously at The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, Shanghai Stock Exchange and on its official website. During the reporting period, regular reports were Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 disclosed four times, and 198 interim announcements and relevant materials 本行网站投资者关系专栏公告 Announcements in the investor relations column on ICBC's website were disclosed. R esults announcements were persistently made by on-site and global teleconference and transmitted through network broadcasting on its website so Charity Bank 爱心银行 that global investors could watch the announcements. Besides, regular reports were published in three versions of simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. While advocating environmental protection and actively guiding shareholders to receive electronic company documents, the Bank sent paper documents to shareholders who had such reading habit. In the reporting period, the Bank won a series of prestigious awards granted by domestic and overseas institutions, including the 2012 Listed Company of Excellent Information Disclosure Award by Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Best Corporate Governance Disclosure H-Stock Platinum Award by Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Annual Report Platinum Award and Best Annual Financial Information Disclosure Award (Asia-Pacific) by League of American Communications Professionals 未来展望 Outlook LLC (LACP). 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 以积极主动的沟通服务投资者 本行积极畅通沟通渠道，确保全体股东尤其是中 小投资者同等享有和行使知情权、决策参与权、 建议权和质询权。本行一直坚持在股东大会两地 会场同时设立 A 股股东和 H 股股东登记处 , 两会 场股东均有投票权。本行设立了投资者热线（+8610-66108608） 和 投 资 者 关 系 邮 箱（ir@icbc.com. cn），配备专门工作人员负责回答热线接听和投资 者邮件回复。从接好每一个投资者的电话，到解决 每一个投资者关心的问题，本行致力于踏踏实实建 立友善、和谐的投资者关系，通过深入细致的沟通， 杨凯生行长在中央人民广播电台“做客中央台”直播节目现场接受访谈 与广大投资者建立了良好的互动关系。 President Yang Kaisheng attended a live broadcasting program named Be A Guest of Central People's Broadcasting Station” 本行不断完善投资者意见建议采集与行内传导机制， 通过境内外非交易性路演、反向路演、投资者分析师见面会、媒体发布会等方式不断拓宽沟通途径 , 及时掌握媒体、投资者关 注的问题并认真解答，进一步加强与全球投资者的沟通与交流，不断提升本行公司治理水平和投资价值。 责任采购 报告期内，本行全面修订了集中采购规章制度，形成了较为规范统一的集中采购制度体系。本行在集中采购过程中加大了 对供应商在社会责任履行方面的资质要求和审查力度，如供应商生产过程中是否严格遵循环境政策、致力环境保护、是否 关心员工权益、是否鼓励开发和推广环境友好型技术，以及在反腐败方面的行动等，力求通过定性约束，向上下游产业链 传导社会责任意识，促进供应链上各方社会责任的承担。 2012 年，本行继续积极推进采购领域市场诚信体系建设，严把供应商推荐关。全行各级纪检监察部门共对 3,889 个集中采 购项目进行了监督，监督项目金额达 96.28 亿元，将 92 家有不良行为的供应商列入禁入名单，有效促进了全行集中采购 业务的规范开展。 知识产权保护 本行在增强业务创新和科技创新力度的同时，加 快推进自主创新技术保护工作。报告期内，本行 专利申请和专利获权取得了显著成绩，累计向国 家知识产权局递交了 80 项专利申请，获得了国 家知识产权局 61 件专利授权证书，目前已经拥 有的专利总量达到 224 个。 同时，本行坚持贯彻落实国家有关软件正版化 的政策和规定，在信息化建设过程中，坚持与 IBM、微软、ORACLE 等软件供应商签订企业级合 林晓轩首席信息官出席人民银行推进金融业软件正版化工作会议并介绍经验 Chief Information Officer, Lin Xiaoxuan attended seminar held by PBOC, and introduced 作协议，合法使用其软件产品和技术服务，尊重 ICBC' s experience on software copy-right protection 合作伙伴的正当权益。 91 92 Serving investors through proactive and interactive communication It actively unblocked communication channels so that all Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 shareholders, especially small and medium investors, could enjoy and exercise equal rights to know, to make decisions and of Social Responsibility participate, to propose and to inquire. By virtue of registry offices for A-stock holders and H-stock holders in Shanghai and Hong Kong, all shareholders could exercise their voting rights when the General Meeting of Shareholders being held. An investor hotline (+86-10-66108608) and a special email (ir@icbc.com.cn) for investor relations have been set and specialized personnel 本行在加拿大开展非交易性路演 were delegated to answer and reply the questions and emails Value Creator 价值银行 Non-trading road show of ICBC in Canada from investors. The Bank devoted itself to establishing friendly and harmonious relationship with investors by means of in-depth and meticulous communications including answering all calls and questions from all investors and has established sound interactive communication with them. Besides, the Bank continued to improve the mechanism of collection and Brand Builder 品牌银行 internal transmission of investors' opinions and suggestions. By domestic and overseas non-trading road show, reverse road show, meet-and-greet with investors and analysts, and press conference, the Bank constantly expanded 本行江西分行举行“中国网络媒体江西行——走 进工行”活动 communication channels, so as to duly learn and answer the questions Jiangxi Branch organized the campaign of Chinese raised by the media and investors, further strengthen the communication Internet Media in Jiangxi Learn about ICBC and exchange with global investors, and continuously enhance the Bank' s Green Bank 绿色银行 corporate governance and investment value. Responsible Procurement During the reporting period, the Bank revised the policies raise the awareness of social responsibility of enterprises on centralized procurement in an all-around manner along upstream and downstream industrial chains through Creditworthy Bank and developed a standardized and unified centralized qualitative constraints to urge the performance of social 诚信银行 procurement system. In the process of centralized responsibilities of all parties of the supply chain. procurement, the Bank proposed more requirements on qualifications of suppliers in per forming social In 2012, the Bank continued to build the market credit responsibilities with stricter examination and review. For system for procurement, and strictly reviewed the example, whether suppliers committed to environmental recommendations of suppliers. Disciplinary inspection protection strictly in accordance with environmental institutions at different levels supervised a total of 3,889 Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 policies in the process of production, cared about the rights centralized procurement projects amounting to RMB9,628 and interests of employees, encouraged the development million, 92 delinquent suppliers were included in the and promotion of environment-friendly technologies and blacklist, effectively advancing sound development of took anti-corruption actions. Therefore, the Bank tried to centralized procurement. Protection of Intellectual Property Rights The Bank strengthened the business and technology In the meantime, the Bank persistently implemented the Charity Bank 爱心银行 innovation and accelerated the protection of independently national policies and regulations on copyrighted software. In developed innovation technologies. During the reporting information construction, it insisted on signing enterpriseperiod, it made remarkable achievements in terms of the level cooperative agreements with software suppliers application for and acquirement of patents. Accumulatively including IBM, Microsoft and ORACLE, using their software 80 items of patent applications were submitted to the State and technical services legitimately, to respect cooperative 未来展望 Intellectual Property Office, and 61 patent certificates were partners' rights and interests. Outlook granted by the office. The Bank now has 224 patents in total. 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 反金融犯罪 完善内控体系，制定内控规划 报告期内，本行按照“行为有规、授权有度、监测有窗、检查有力、控制有效”的内控合规总体要求，持续推进内部控制 体系建设。本行制定或完善了一系列内控管理基本制度，明确了内控体系建设目标，并初步建立起集团制度的全流程管理 机制；全面修订了一级（直属）分行内控评价办法和指标体系，促进内控评价全面实现非现场评价为主和年度常态化评价； 通过深入推进信息科技系统建设，加强了内控合规非现场监测分析工作，强化信息安全管理。 营造合规文化，提高合规意识 报告期内，本行在全辖范围内组织开展了以员工行为规范教育为主题的合规文化建设活动，通过主题学习、征文评比、知 识竞赛等活动，对全行 40 余万干部员工进行了一次深入、系统的行为规范教育，强化了全行“凡事讲依法合规、做事要 有规有矩”的意识；评选了一批长期严守行为规范和岗位职责、兼顾风险控制和经营业绩的“合规标兵”机构和个人，树 立了本行在内控合规方面持之以恒的行为典范，使合规文化进一步深入人心。 加强反假币宣传，保障人民群众利益 本行以“假币零容忍”为工作目标，在全行范围组织开展假币专项治理工作，强化假币收缴和堵截，加强反假宣传和普及， 重点做好向社会收付现金的假币防范工作，2012 年全行累计收缴人民币假币 104.7 万张、4,144.3 万元，货币流通秩序得 到净化，切实维护了广大人民群众的切身利益。 履行反洗钱职责，维护金融安全稳定 报告期内，本行严格遵守我国及境外分支机构驻在国（地 区）的反洗钱与反恐怖融资法律法规，认真履行反洗钱 社会职责和法定义务。作为国内首家开展大额和可疑交 易报告综合试点工作的金融机构，研究开发了自定义的 异常交易监测模型和新一代反洗钱监控系统，全面完成 了反洗钱集中处理改革，有计划、分层次、多形式开展 反洗钱宣传培训活动，“集中做、专家做、系统做”反 洗钱工作机制进一步完善；启动境外机构反洗钱评估项 目，及时发布洗钱风险提示，组织开展境内外机构反洗 罗熹副行长出席工商银行反洗钱重点领域工作座谈会 Senior Executive Vice President, Luo Xi attended seminar for anti钱检查，增强集团反洗钱和反恐怖融资风险掌控能力。 money laundering 创新反欺诈技术手段，加强信用卡风险监控 本行构建了全行信用卡申请反欺诈数据平台，建立了基于对风险监控事件分析排查为基础的 CPP 筛查和重大风险事件防控 机制，以及总分行互动、7×24 小时风险监控作业机制。报告期内，开展了形式多样的银行卡安全使用知识宣传，不断增 强持卡人自我保护的风险防范意识；荣获公安部 2012 年联合打击银行卡犯罪行动“最佳协作单位奖”。 93 94 Anti-financial Crime Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Improving the internal control system and establishing the internal control planning During the reporting period, the Bank kept promoting the construction of internal control system based on the general requirements of Social Responsibility on internal control and compliance which could be characterized by regular conducts, proper authorization, windowed monitoring, powerful inspection, and effective control . With the formulation or improvement of a range of basic regulations on internal control management, the Bank defined the objectives for construction of internal control system, and preliminarily established the wholeprocess management mechanism at the group level. Moreover, through the all-round revision of internal control evaluation system and indicator system for tier-one (directly controlled) branches, the Bank pushed forward the annual normalized evaluation with the focus on off-site evaluation. Meanwhile, the Bank energetically reinforced the off-site monitoring and analysis on internal control compliance and Value Creator 价值银行 tightened up information security management by facilitating the building of information technology system. Building the compliance culture and enhancing the compliance awareness During the reporting period, the Bank organized and carried out compliance culture building activities under the subject of education on code of conduct throughout the Bank, such as theme-based learning, essay competition and knowledge quiz, so that more than Brand Builder 品牌银行 400,000 employees of the Bank could receive in-depth and systematic education on code of conduct, for the purpose of intensifying the consciousness of complying with laws, regulations and rules in everything . A batch of institutions and individuals as compliance models that strictly performed the code of conduct and their duties on a long-term basis and considered both risk control and operation performance, were selected to build up a behaviour model on internal control compliance in the Bank, and make compliance culture being further accepted by employees. Green Bank 绿色银行 Publicizing anti-counterfeit money and protecting public's benefits The Bank bears with the goal of zero-tolerance to counterfeit money , performed prudential management on counterfeit money control compaign, by blocking and confiscating the counterfeit money. The Bank aslo enforced publicity to the customers for the konwledge of awaring forged banknote. In 2012, the Bank accumulatively collected 1.047 million fake banknotes, with the face-value of RMB 41.443 million. As a result, currency circulation was purified, and the Bank well protected the public's benefits. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 Performing anti-money laundering duties and maintaining financial safety and stability During the reporting period, the Bank rigidly observed the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing laws and regulations of China and the countries (regions) where overseas branches were located, and earnestly fulfilled social responsibilities and legitimate obligations regarding anti-money laun dering. As a financial institution which was the first one to provide reports on large-value and Harmonious Bank suspicious transactions on a pilot basis in China, the Bank developed a risk-focused monitoring model on suspicious transactions 和谐银行 and a new-generation anti-money laundering monitoring system, successfully reformed anti-money laundry fuction concentration, and implemented multi-level and forms of training program. The anti-money laundry framework of Concentration, Professionism and Systematicness is further improved. Besides, the assessment project on anti-money laundering of overseas institutions was initiated, risk warning on anti-money laundering was released in a timely manner, and domestic and overseas institutions were organized to conduct self-examination on anti-money laundering, to potentiate the Group' s capabilities on controlling anti-money laundering and antiterrorist financing risks. Charity Bank 爱心银行 Innovating anti-fraud technologies, and reinforcing monitoring of credit card risks The Bank built an anti-fraud data application platform for credit card, established CPP scanning and major risk events preventing mechanisms based on the analysis and monitoring of risk events, and formed the 7×24 risk monitoring mechanism with interaction between the head office and branches. During the reporting period, the Bank publicized the knowledge of banking cards security in 未来展望 diverse ways, constantly enhancing self-protection awareness of card-holders; also, the Bank was granted The Most Cooperative Unit Outlook Award by the Public Security Department. 诚信银行 Creditworthy Bank 健全反腐体系，塑造自律氛围 本行按照“标本兼治、综合治理、惩防并举、注重预防”的方针，以健全惩治和预防腐败体系为重点，整体推进反腐倡廉 各项工作，取得良好成效，塑造了本行廉洁、合规、诚信的社会形象。 反腐倡廉教育深入人心 本行以教育为先导，在全行深入开展反腐倡廉宣传教育， 次，培训员工 966,780 人次，编发活动简报 9,459 期，刊 将反腐倡廉宣传教育纳入各级管理人员教育培训规划。 载活动网讯信息 22,160 次。 报告期内，全行累计开展各类反腐倡廉学习培训 14,790 本行四川分行举办“前车之覆 后车之鉴”案防警示教育展览 Sichuan Branch held an exhibition on case prevention and caution education named “Remembrance of the Past Is the Teacher of the Future”. 权力制约和监督工作成效明显 报告期内，本行推出“三重一大”决策制度实施细则等， 结合全行近年来国际化发展趋势，主动延伸监督触角， 进一步明晰了权力边界，减少了制度执行中的自由裁量 对 2 家境外机构管理人员廉洁履职情况开展现场检查； 空间，形成覆盖权力运行过程的控制链；起草规范管理 充分发挥执法监察的监督作用，全行各级纪检监察机构 人员职务消费意见，并在全行东、南、西、北四个区域 对 1,454 个机构财务制度执行情况开展了执法监察，促进 共选择 6 家一级分行开展试点，为科学有效规范职务消 各单位进一步规范财务管理工作；同时注重充分运用监 费行为摸索积累经验；强化监督检查，把监督检查作为 督成果，针对监督检查发现的问题督促有关部门完善管 促进权力规范运行的关键手段， 总行共组织巡视了 6 家 理制度 40 余条，通过以查促建、以建纠偏，以个案问题 一级（直属）分行，对 10 个一级（直属）分行和 5 个总 推动共性问题的解决，进一步完善了源头治腐长效机制。 行部室进行了廉政案防责任制量化考评，指导 29 个一级 报告期内，本行共组织开展治理商业贿赂有关检查 2,340 （直属）分行开展了效能监察试点工作；加强信访核查， 次，出台规范交易行为、推进银行业市场诚信体系建设 把管理人员违规违纪问题和上级交办的信访件作为核查 的新制度和新措施 1,363 个。 重点，并加大直查力度，总行共直查重要信访件 28 件； 95 96 Improving of anti-corruption system and building a self-discipline atmosphere Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 In accordance with the guidelines of combating corruption in an integrated way, addressing both its symptoms and root of Social Responsibility causes, and combining punishment and prevention , with emphasis on the latter, the Bank promoted its overall work of anticorruption, achieved favourable effects and built a social image represented by integrity, compliance and creditworthiness for the Bank. Value Creator 价值银行 In-depth education on combating corruption The Bank carried out the publicity and education on anti-corruption in depth throughout the Bank and incorporated such education into the training plan for management personnel at different levels. During the reporting period, accumulatively 14,790 trainings on anti-corruption were conducted across the Bank, trained employees reached 966,780 person-times, 9,459 Brand Builder 品牌银行 issues of bulletins were prepared and released, and 22,160 pieces of news about these activities were published on websites. Marked achievements in the power restriction and supervision mechanism Green Bank 绿色银行 During the reporting period, the Bank actively explored of management personnel and complaint letters assigned a restriction and supervision mechanism for proper by superior departments. The Head Office conducted allocation and exercise of power, and formulated the investigations concerning 28 important complaint letters. implementation rules on related decision-making system Considering the development of global presence in recent to further clarify the boundary of power, reduce flexibility years, the Bank extended the range of supervision and Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 in the implementation of regulations and develop a control carried out on-site inspections on clean duty performance chain covering the process of power execution. The Bank by the management personnel in two overseas institutions. drafted the opinions on position-related consumption of Fully playing their supervisory role, disciplinary inspection management personnel, and selected six tier-one branches institutions at different levels in the Bank supervised the in the eastern, southern, western and northern areas for trial implementation of financial systems in 1,454 institutions implementation, so as to accumulate experience in effective to improve financial management. Besides, the Bank urged Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 supervision of position-related consumption. The Bank related departments to solve the problems found in the also intensified supervisory inspection and took it as a key supervisory inspections and accordingly improve more means for promoting proper exercise of power. Specifically, than 40 management regulations. In this way, specific the Head Office inspected six tier-one branches (branches problems were tackled with the development of regulations directly under the Head Office), carried out quantitative pushed forward by inspections, to facilitate the solution of evaluation of anti-corruption and case prevention common problems and improve a long-term mechanism accountability system in ten tier-one branches (branches for combating corruption from the source. During the directly under the Head Office) and five departments under reporting period, the Bank organized 2,340 inspections on Charity Bank 爱心银行 the Head Office, and guided 29 tier-one (branches directly combating commercial briberies, and issued 1,363 new under the Head Office) to conduct efficiency supervision regulations and measures for trading activities and market on a pilot basis. For the purpose of strengthening the credit system of banking sector. inspection on complaint letters and visits, the Bank gave priorities to direct investigation on disciplinary violations 未来展望 Outlook 和谐银行 Harmonious Bank 规范用工管理，保障员工权益 Standardizing Recruitment Management, Protecting Employees' Rights and Interests 重视员工诉求，听取民主意见 Paying Attention to the Needs of Employees, Taking Democratic Advice 关注职业发展，关爱员工成长 Concerning about Employees' Career Development, Caring for Their Development 营造温馨氛围，致力人文关爱 Creating Comfortable Working Environment, Dedicating to Giving Humanistic Care to Its People 推进文化融合，打造和谐队伍 Boosting Cultural Integration, Building Harmonious Team CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 和谐银行 Harmonious Bank 员工是本行发展的根本，构建和完善和谐的劳动关系，着力营造“以人为本”的工作氛围，是本行构建和谐银行的出发点 和落脚点。本行切实保障员工合法权益，重视员工民主管理，关注员工职业成长，致力员工人文关怀，注重民族团结和文 化融合，努力实现员工与企业的共同成长。报告期内，本行贵州六盘水分行、大连分行营业部被中国金融工会授予“全国 金融系统劳动关系和谐企业”称号，浙江分行获评“2012MBA 眼中的最佳雇主”。 员工概况 Employees Profile 2012 2011 2010 员工总数 427,356 408,859 397,339 Total number of employees 当年新增员工（创造就业） 14,665 13,587 11,269 New employees of the indicated year (jobs newly created) 女员工占比 49.5% 48.8% 48.2% Ratio of female staff 中高层管理人员的女性比例 Ratio of female staff among middle-level 24.6% 24.3% 24.3% and high-level managers 45 岁以下员工比例 62.1% 63.9% 63.9% Percentage of staff under the age of 45 少数民族员工比例 5.25% 5.23% 5.15% Percentage of staff from ethnic minorities 员工流失率 1.1% 1.15% 1.05% Staff turnover rate 规范用工管理，保障员工权益 报告期内，本行不断完善各项劳动用工制度，遵循公平、公正的原则，科学设定岗位职责，合理配置人力资源，建立和健 全切实有效的维权机制，充分保障员工权利，全面建立企业年金、员工及补充医疗保险等补充福利制度。自 2008 年起实 施企业年金计划并委托专业机构进行投资管理，取得较好收益，进一步提高了员工福利。 重视员工诉求，听取民主意见 本行不断完善以职代会为基本形式的民主管理制度，对涉及员工切身利益的规定，及时启动民主程序，切实保障全行员工 的知情权和参与权，激发员工的主人翁精神，充分调动员工积极性。同时，通过员工满意度调查、专题访谈等途径全面掌 握员工的思想动态，解决员工在薪酬福利、职业发展等方面的各种问题，凝聚人心，促进和谐。 本行重庆分行开办了首期职工代表培训班，召开了第四次职代会暨会员代表大会，全面征集和全部办理、回复了代表提案， 开展了提案工作满意度调查，代表满意率为 97%。 99 100 Employees are the basis of ICBC's development. Therefore, 0.1% it is the Bank's starting point and foothold on its way of 博士 PhD 3.7% Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 becoming a harmonious bank to actively build and maintain 硕士 Master a harmonious labor relation and strive to create a people本科 Bachelor of Social Responsibility oriented atmosphere. The Bank earnestly strives to ensure 专科及以下 the legitimate rights and interests of its staff, attaches Junior college 43.8% and below great importance to democracy in staff management, pays attention to their professional growth, commits itself 52.4% to giving more humanistic care to them, and emphasizes national unity and cultural integration, makes great efforts to achieve mutual growth of the Bank and its staff. During Value Creator 价值银行 the reporting period, Liupanshui Branch in Guizhou Province and the business division of Dalian Branch were awarded with the title of Enterprise of Harmonious Labor Relation 员工学历结构 Employees' educational background structure in the Financial System of China by China Trade Union of Finance, and Zhejiang Branch was accredited as 2012 Best Employer in the Eyes of MBAs . Brand Builder 品牌银行 Standardizing Recruitment Management, Protecting Employees' Rights and Interests During the reporting period, the Bank made continuous efforts to formulate and improve its various labor and employment systems in accordance with the principle of fairness and justice, scientifically specified job descriptions, logically allocated human resources, established and perfected a practical and effective rights protection mechanism to fully ensured employees' rights; it Green Bank 绿色银行 established comprehensive supplementary welfare systems including enterprise annuity and supplementary medical insurance. It has carried out the enterprise annuity program and hired professional institutions to manage the investment which gained sound returns since 2008, and further improved the staff welfare. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 Paying Attention to the Needs of Employees, Taking Reasonable Advice The Bank has been working on improving the democratic management system in the basic form of congress of workers and staff, duly initiated democratic procedures on regulations to make sure that their opinions were fully heard, ensured all Harmonious Bank employees' rights to know and participate, and fully stimulated their enthusiasm. Meanwhile, the Bank adopted various means 和谐银行 such as satisfaction surveys and interviews among its staff to get a comprehensive grip on the staff opinions, and pushes hard for solutions to various problems of the staff about their salary and welfare and career development, which keep the unity and stability of the personnel. Charity Bank 爱心银行 Chongqing Branch started the first round of training sessions for staff representatives and held the 4th Congress of Workers and Staff and Member Representative Conference, in which it fully collected, processed and replied proposals from representatives, and conducted a survey on the satisfactory level of proposing work in which 本行大连分行召开职代会 Dalian Branch held the Congress of Employees 未来展望 97% representatives gave a positive reply. Outlook 和谐银行 Harmonious Bank 关注职业发展，关爱员工成长 报告期内，本行紧密围绕人才强行战略，以增强员工素质能力、优化员工队伍结构为重点，建立健全“纵向可进退、横向可交流” 的职业发展新机制，为员工提供多通道的职业发展路径，为员工指明职业发展方向；针对不同岗位、不同梯队、不同能力、不同 年龄的员工，实施针对性职业设计与能力培养，为员工成长提供坚实的支撑。 本行建立健全基于岗位胜任能力的培训制度，不断丰富员工培训的渠道资源，采取传统教育与电化教育相结合、请进来与走出去 相结合的方式，形成有利于员工职业生涯发展的培训模式。报告期内，本行共完成各类培训 3.6 万期，279 万人次，人均受训约 10.6 天；积极推进网络直播课堂、数字图书馆、知识库系统等和网络大学的集成，组织全行性重点网络培训项目 20 期，培训近 76 万人次；广泛开展业务知识和技能比赛，以赛促学，以赛促教，努力营造公平竞争、积极向上的成长氛围；与剑桥大学、沃顿 商学院等境内外 50 余家知名机构开展培训交流合作，初步形成覆盖美洲、欧洲和亚洲的高端国际交流与合作网络。 姜建清董事长、王希全副行长就提高选人用人满意度进行调研 胡浩董事会秘书出席战略合作培训班 Jiang Jianqing, Chairman of the Board, and Wang Xiquan, Senior Hu Hao, Secretary of the Board of Directors, attended the strategic Executive Vice President of the Bank conducted a survey on improving cooperation training session the satisfaction in regard to recruitment and employees' career development 营造温馨氛围，致力人文关爱 本行高度重视员工健康与安全保障，尊重和关心特殊群体，定期组织员工体检，广泛开展关爱员工心理健康、关爱女性员 工、关爱离退休员工、困难员工帮扶等暖心工程，将对员工的关怀落到实处。 报告期内，本行积极开展职工之家 场所设施建设，使员工工作生活环 境和设施得到明显改善。全行累计 投入资金 8.45 亿元，新建职工之家 634 个，职工小家 9,193 个，完善职 工之家 2,892 个，职工小家 3,445 个。 同时，本行通过心理健康培训、交友 平台、户外拓展训练、员工亲子活动、 运动会等各类文体活动，不断丰富 员工精神文化生活，缓解工作压力， 刘立宪纪委书记视察湖北分行员工餐饮配送中心 保持员工身心健康。 Liu Lixian, Secretary of the Disciplinary Committee, visited Staff Food Distribution Center in Hubei Branch 101 102 Concerning about Employees' Career Development, Caring for Their Growth Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 During the reporting period, the Bank centered closely a training model beneficial to the career growth of its staff. on talent-driven developmetn strategy with a focus on During the reporting period, the Bank completed 36,000 of Social Responsibility enhancing employees' qualities and capabilities and training sessions in various kinds with 2.79 million personimproving the structure of its work force, set up a new times involved, which amounted to an average of 10.6 sound career development mechanism which is flexible days of training per person. It also actively promoted the and courageous in terms of vertical position movements integration of live online classes, digital library, knowledge and horizontal exchange to provide its staff with broadened database system and online college, and organized 20 causes of career development, illuminated the future major online training programs throughout the bank with Value Creator 价值银行 career development directions for the staff; specific career 760,000 person-times participated in. Besides, it launched development and training programs were designed various competitions on business know-how and skills with and organized for employees holding different posts, at the purpose of boosting learning and education among different levels, with different capabilities and at different the staff, and strived to cultivate a fair and positive learning ages, providing firm support to the growth of its employees. environment. The Bank has established cooperation and exchange channels with more than 50 well-known Brand Builder 品牌银行 The Bank has established and improved a sound educational institutions at home and abroad such as the competenc y-based training system, dedicated to University of Cambridge, the Wharton School of Business, continuously expanding the training resources through initially formed a high-level international exchange and extended channels of both traditional education and audiocooperation network covering America, Europe and Asia. visual training through international cooperation, and built Green Bank 绿色银行 Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 本行举办第三届青年外语大赛，适应全行国际化加快的步伐，服 本行中年客户经理岗位技能比赛优秀选手技能展示暨颁奖典礼 务青年的学习成长需求 Skill show of outstanding competitors of the ICBC Middle-aged The Bank held the 3rd Youth Foreign Language Competition to fit into Customer Manager Skill Competition & the Award Ceremony its pace of internationalization and meet the learning and growth needs of young staff. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Creating Comfortable Working Environment, Dedicating to Giving Humanistic Care to Its People The Bank highly values the health and security of its working environment and facilities for its staff. The Bank employees, respects and cares for special groups, regularly cumulatively input RMB845 million to newly construct 634 Charity Bank 爱心银行 organizes physical examinations for all employees. new staff recreation centers and 9,193 small family-style It extensively launched heart-touching programs for staff centers, and improve 2,892 existing staff recreation employees' psychological health, and implemented centers and 3,445 existing small family-style staff centers. assistance and other programs to care for its female and Meanwhile, it organized various cultural and sports retired staff and employees in difficulties, and turned its activities such as psychological health training sessions, words of love and care for its employees into actions. friend-making platform, outdoor exercises, parent-child 未来展望 activities and athletic meetings to enrich the cultural life of Outlook During the reporting period, the Bank actively constructed its staff, relieve their work pressure, and keep their physical staff recreation centers, which greatly improved the and psychological well-being. 和谐银行 Harmonious Bank 案例 本行数据中心（北京）关爱广大员工心理健康，实施 EAP（员工帮助计划）项目，通过宣讲会、现场观察、 焦点座谈、“一对一”访谈、问卷调查等多种形式开 展了心理调查活动，设计发放宣传品，发布专题板报， 组织大讲堂，并辅之以心理工作坊、心理热线服务等， 为员工提供了专业心理诊断和援助。 本行陕西分行员工冬至在职工小家包饺子 Employees of Shaanxi Branch made dumplings at the family-style staff center on the Winter Solstice Festival 案例 报告期内，本行完成“非你不可”交友平台的系统升 级并召开推广会，关注单身员工幸福。截至报告期末， 共有 11 家系统内在京机构参与，系统注册人数共计 数据中心（北京）举办员工帮助计划大讲堂 4,498 人，红娘人数 233 人，发布交友人数 616 人， The Data Center (Beijing) held EAP lectures 共有 16 人牵手成功。 关爱女员工 本行积极推进女员工权益保护专项集体合同签订和落实工作。截至报告期末，全行 36 个一级分行、直属学院签订了女职 工权益保护专项集体合同。本行江西分行召开座谈会 11 场，下发并回收问卷 625 份，开展对集体合同落实情况的专项检查， 获省总工会授予“江西省女职工权益保护专项集体合同工作先进单位”称号。报告期内，本行组织了联谊晚会、先进女员 工疗休养活动、兴趣小组、休闲沙龙等一系列关爱 女员工专项活动，深受女员工喜爱。 王丽丽副行长出席本行在京机构女员工联谊会 本行深圳分行女员工业余学习美术 Wang Lili, Senior Executive Vice President, attended the sodality of female staff Female employees of Shenzhen Branch were having art from Beijing-located institutions classes in their spare time 关爱离退休员工 截至报告期末，本行共设立了 504 个服务管理机构，配备了 1,466 名专兼职工作人员，确保全行 14 万离退休员工待遇的落实和服 务管理的到位。报告期内，本行组织 134,867 名离退休员工进行 体检；先后慰问了 23,505 名特困离退休员工；为 51,799 名离退 休员工庆祝生日；依托 1,536 个离退休人员活动中心和 7 所自办 本行山西分行慰问离退休员工 老年大学，开展门球、舞蹈、健身、合唱、书法、摄影、台球等 Visits and regards to retired employees organized by Shanxi Branch 自娱自乐活动，确保“老有所学，老有所乐”。 103 104 Strategy and Management of Social Responsibility 社会责任战略与管理 本行北京分行组织员工参加长走活动 本行海南分行开展“六一亲子活动” Beijing Branch organized its staff to take part in the long-distance Hainan Branch held a parent-child event on the Children's Day Value Creator 价值银行 walking initiative During the reporting period, the Bank upgraded the The Data Center (Beijing) cares for the psychological health CASE CASE Only You friend-making platform system, and held a of employees, thus implemented an Employee Assistance promotion with the participation of 11 Beijing-located Program (EAP), which made psychological surveys through Brand Builder institutions within the banking system, which offered more teach-ins, on-site observation, focused talks, one-on-one 品牌银行 opportunities for single employees to make friends. By the interviews and questionnaires, designed and sent out end of the reporting period, the system had 4,498 registered publicity materials, published special bulletins, organized users of which 233 were match-makers, 616 in search of lectures with the supporting psychological work studio friends and 16 successfully found their boy or girl friends. and hotline service to provide professional psychological diagnosis and assistance to its staff. Caring for female employees Green Bank 绿色银行 The Bank has been actively pushing ahead the signing and execution of special collective contracts for the protection of rights and interests of female employees. By the end of the reporting period, 36 tier-one branches and immediate subordinate schools of the Bank had signed the special collective contracts. Jiangxi Branch held 11 symposiums, handed out and collected 625 Creditworthy Bank questionnaires and carried out special surveys on the execution of these collective contracts, won the title of Outstanding 诚信银行 Enterprise in the Execution of Collective Contracts for the Protection of Female Employees' Rights and Interests in Jiangxi Province awarded by Jiangxi Provincial Federation of Trade Unions. During the reporting period, the Bank organized a series of special activities for female employees such as parties, therapy recreation activities for outstanding female employees, hobby groups and entertainment salons which were very popular among female employees. Harmonious Bank Caring for retired employees 和谐银行 As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank established 504 service management organizations for retired employees and employed 1,466 full-time and part-time personnel to ensure the full execution of wage packages for 140,000 retired employees and Charity Bank make sure that the service for retired employees is in place. During the reporting period, the Bank organized physical examination for 爱心银行 134,867 retired employees, visited and extended regards to 23,505 retired employees in extreme difficulties, celebrated the birthday of 51,799 of them, and launched various entertaining activities such as croquet, dance, fitness, chorus, calligraphy, photography and billiards in 1,536 entertainment centers and 7 self-funded 未来展望 Outlook 本行广西分行组织离退休人员开展“金秋夕阳红”文娱活动 universities for retired employees, ensuring a happy study and Guangxi Branch organized retired employees to take part in the Golden Sunset entertainment activity happy life in old age for its staff. 和谐银行 Harmonious Bank 困难员工帮扶救助 本行不断加强对困难员工的帮扶救助，组织救助了天津、宁波、广西等分行的重急病员工，慰问了西藏分行等条件艰苦地 区机构的员工。报告期内，本行累计救助、慰问各类员工 32,000 多人次，累计 4 次集中救助，拨付专项资金 8,000 万元。 案例 湖南邵阳分行女员工马建平曾被总行和湖南省人民政府分别荣记一等功，并被 授予“工行卫士”光荣称号。马建平因病逝世后，邵阳分行将其女儿的冷暖、 成长牵挂在心，经常帮助她解决一些生活、学习上的困难。2012 年马建平的 女儿以优异成绩考入湖南师范大学树达学院，但面临高额的学费一筹莫展。分 行得知情况后，一次性支助其助学金 10,000 元，鼓励其勤奋励志，圆满完成 大学学业。 本行湖南分行为员工子女送去助学金 Hunan Branch sent fellowship to Ma's daughter 推进文化融合，打造和谐队伍 本行高度重视维护少数民族员工权益，关心少数民族员工成长，在公开、公平、公正原则下，加大少数民族人才选拔力度， 充分尊重各民族员工的宗教信仰自由和风俗习惯，努力营造团结和谐的工作、生活氛围，有效维护了民族团结。 案例 本行新疆分行在校园招聘工作中，对优秀的少数民族民考民大学生，考 虑预科经历，将录取年龄较汉族学生放宽一年，扩大了选择范围和录取 人数。报告期内，新疆分行共招聘维吾尔族、哈萨克族、回族、满族、 蒙古族、锡伯族等各少数民族优秀大学生 17 人，占全部招聘人数的 7.66%， 高学历少数民族新员工得到充实。 案例 本行宁夏分行充分尊重回族员工风俗习惯，专门设立“清真”食堂，在 回族聚集地区——吴忠市设立了具有伊斯兰特色的回乡支行，在回族重 工银印尼举办员工传统服装秀以纪念印尼妇女节 大节假日时按照国家规定给予假期，努力营造团结和谐的工作氛围。 ICBC (Indonesia) held a traditional costume show among employees in commemoration of the Indonesian Women's Day 本行在境外机构建设和发展过程中，遵循“One ICBC”的 理念，注重与当地文化的融合，做到兼收并蓄和求同存异。 遵守当地劳工法律，并参考当地风俗习惯，在人员招聘、 职业发展、薪酬福利等环节均平等对待全球雇员，不断提 高当地员工比例，制订针对全球雇员的福利体制，选派优 秀全球雇员赴国内培训及交流；在日常生活中重视人文关 怀，通过开展中西文化讲座、共度中国及当地传统节日、 开展丰富多彩的文化体育活动、员工互助活动等增强员工 米兰分行员工参加年度长跑活动 Employees of Milan Branch attended the annual long-distance 的凝聚力，促进员工间的融合，提高全球雇员对本行企业 running event 文化的认同，增进对本行归属感。 105 106 Helping employees in difficulties Ma Jianping, a female employee of Shaoyang Branch in Hunan, CASE was once awarded with Order of Merit by the Bank and the Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 The Bank has been providing more assistance to Provincial Government of Hunan Province respectively, and employees in difficulties, offering help to heavily honored with the title of Guard of ICBC . After her death of illness, of Social Responsibility Shaoyang Branch has been concerned about the well-being and sick or acutely sick employees in branches in Tianjin, growth of her daughter and regularly helps her with difficulties Ningbo and Guangxi, visiting and extending regards in her life and study. In 2012, though having been admitted by to employees in branches based in areas with harsh ShuDa College of Hunan Normal University with high scores in conditions like Tibet Branch. During the reporting examinations, Ma's daughter could not afford the high tuition. period, the Bank accumulatively helped and visited On hearing this news, Shaoyang Branch offered a lump sum over 32,000 person-times, launched 4 concentrated fellowship of RMB10,000 to encourage her to study hard and finish Value Creator assistance initiatives and appropriated RMB80 million 价值银行 the college education. special funds. Boosting Cultural Integration, Building Harmonious Team The Bank pays much attention to protect the rights and interests of employees from ethnic minorities, cares about their growth, and makes great efforts in selecting and promoting outstanding employees in accordance with the principle of openness, fairness and justice. Meanwhile, it fully respects religious freedom, customs and habits of employees from ethnic minorities, Brand Builder 品牌银行 strives to cultivate a unified and harmonious working and living environment, which effectively maintains national unity. During the establishment and growth of overseas institutions, the Bank adheres to the principle of One ICBC , attaches great importance to integrating into local culture and aims at embracing diversities and seeking common grounds while reserving differences. Overseas institutions abide by local labor laws and regulations, respect local customs and habits, and treat overseas employees equally in recruitment, career development and Green Bank 绿色银行 salary and welfare, constantly raising the proportion of local In campus recruitment, Xinjiang Branch considers the CASE experience of taking preparatory courses and sets the employees. Besides, they have established welfare systems employment age upper limit one year higher than for overseas employees, and sent outstanding overseas students from the Han nationality for outstanding employees to China for trainings and exchanges. In daily Creditworthy Bank college students from ethnic minorities who had taken life, the Bank attaches great importance to humanistic 诚信银行 admission examinations in their own languages, which care for employees and launches a series of activities such widened the numbers of candidates and recruited as lectures on Chinese and Western Culture, celebrations ethnic students. During the reporting period, Xinjiang Branch recruited 17 outstanding university graduates for Chinese and local traditional festivals, diverse and from ethnic minorities such as Uygur, Kazak, Hui, vibrant cultural and sports activities and mutual assistance Manchu, Mongol and Xibe, accounting for 7.66% of among employees in order to enhance unity, boost mutual Harmonious Bank the total which replenished the work force of highly understanding, improve the recognition of the bank's 和谐银行 educated employees from ethnic minorities. corporate culture by overseas employees, and strengthen their sense of belonging. Ningxia Branch, fully respected the customs and Charity Bank CASE habits of employees from the Hui nationality, set up 爱心银行 a Muslims' canteen, established Huixiang sub-branch with Islamic features in Wuzhong which is highly populated by the Hui community, and provided holiday breaks according to the national regulations on major festivals of the Hui nationality, dedicated to cultivating a unified and harmonious working 未来展望 Outlook environment. 万象分行为员工庆祝生日 Vientiane Branch celebrated the birthday of employees 爱心银行 Charity Bank 定点扶贫 Targeted Poverty Alleviation 社会公益 Public Welfare 支持文教体育事业 Supporting Culture, Education and Sports 志愿者活动 Volunteer Activities 海外公益 Overseas Public Welfare CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 爱心银行 Charity Bank 本行视强国富民为己任，热忱于反哺社会，投身于公益事业，努力做优秀的企业公民。报告期内，本行秉持“源于社会、 回馈社会、服务社会”的宗旨，遵循“全局规划、突发优先、统筹配置、双线并行、注重创新”的原则，以“公益慈善” 和“普惠民生”为主轴，从赈灾扶贫、文化教育、社区服务等多个角度积极参与社会公益事业。截至报告期末，除员工个 人捐赠外，本行在公益事业方面共投入 4,098 万元。 定点扶贫 自 1995 年开始，本行持续在四川省南江县、通江县和万源市开 展定点扶贫工作，以支持当地“六大扶贫工程”为路径，以贫困 村和贫困人口为主要对象，以保障和改善民生为核心，努力协助 当地稳定实现扶贫对象“不愁吃、不愁穿，保障其义务教育、基 本医疗和住房”的总体目标，促使当地生产生活条件显著改变， 特色优势产业显著发展，公共服务均等化水平显著提高，社会保 障事业显著改善，可持续发展能力显著提升。 2012 年，本行继续深入开展定点扶贫工作，先后投入扶贫资金 1,200 万元，实施了一系列绿色扶贫、卫生扶贫、教育扶贫新项目， 杨凯生行长代表本行向扶贫县捐赠 400 万元 On behalf of the Bank, President Yang Kaisheng donated RMB4 促进了贫困地区居民收入水平和生活质量的不断提高，推动了扶 million to poverty-stricken counties 贫地区经济和社会事业的协调发展。 绿色扶贫 为加快推动当地山青、水净、天蓝的生态环境建设，本行连续五年在定点扶贫县（市）实施绿色扶贫示范工程，2012 年 再次投入资金 200 万元，支持当地打造绿色扶贫开发示范村，新建沼气池 200 余口，并对所在乡村及农户的配套道路、庭 院、厨、厕、圈、坝等设施进行了大规模改造和完善，同步提升了新农村环境卫生水平；在通江县陈河乡、诺水河镇继续 实施了椴木银耳栽培项目，资助耳农建设了 161 口耳堂，初步形成了“饲料 能源 肥料 养殖 种植”等绿色产业经济一 体化链条，提高了农户的自身发展能力，促进了当地群众脱贫致富。 教育扶贫 近年来，本行逐年加大了扶贫助教力度，2012 年相继投入资金 575 万元，捐物捐款 18 万元，进一步扩大了教育扶贫受助面。 连续十年在三县（市）举办了优秀贫困大学生助学行动和优秀山 村教师评选活动。2012 年，在三县（市）择优奖励了扎根山区教 育工作的 150 名优秀教师，激励更多教师扎根农村、无私奉献； 同时对 300 名品学兼优、考入大学但因家庭贫困无力支付学费的 新入学大学生提供资助，帮助他们顺利步入大学校园。截至报告 期末，本行在三县（市）累计资助优秀贫困大学新生 1,100 名， 表彰优秀乡村教师 Award ceremony for excellent rural teachers 累计表彰优秀山村教师 740 名，得到了当地群众的广泛好评。 109 110 The Bank is dedicated to repaying society and making the people rich and the nation powerful. It is engaged in public welfare undertakings, striving to become an outstanding corporate citizen. During the reporting period, the Bank made an overall planning, prioritized emergencies, coordinated configurations, leveraged parallel efforts and stressed innovation under the Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 principle of rooted in society, rewarding society and serving society . The Bank actively took part in charitable activities centering on public welfare and universal livelihood , including disaster and poverty relief, culture and education, and of Social Responsibility community service. As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank contributed an aggregate total of RMB40.98 million to public welfare undertakings, in addition to the donations from individual employees. Targeted Poverty Alleviation Since 1995, in order to help those underprivileged villages and people, the Bank has launched targeted poverty alleviation Value Creator 价值银行 activities to improve the people's livelihood in Nanjiang County, Tongjiang County and Wanyuan City of Sichuan Province. By supporting six local poverty alleviation projects, it made great efforts to enable adequate food and clothing, compulsory education, basic medical care and housing available to the poor population. As a result, great changes have taken place in local production and living conditions; specialty and competitive industries have developed significantly; the equal distribution of basic public services has been promoted considerably; social security undertakings have been enhanced notably, and the capacity for sustainable development has been boosted drastically. Brand Builder 品牌银行 During 2012, the Bank continued to carry out poverty alleviation activities. It has launched a series of new projects, such as green poverty alleviation, health poverty alleviation and educational poverty alleviation, with the funds totaling RMB12 million, which continuously improved the income level and life quality of poverty-stricken people and promoted the coordinated development of economy and social undertakings in these areas. Green poverty alleviation Aiming at speeding up local ecological progress and keeping Green Bank 绿色银行 the mountain green, water clean and sky blue, the Bank has implemented green poverty relief demonstration projects in these targeted poverty relief counties (cities) for five consecutive years. In 2012, the Bank invested RMB2 million to build green poverty alleviation demonstration villages. As a result, over 200 Creditworthy Bank biogas digesters were established, roads, courtyards, kitchens, 诚信银行 toilets, livestock pens, dams as well as other facilities were greatly renovated, and the sanitary conditions in new countryside were improved. The Bank made continuous efforts to launch the edible tree fungus cultivation project in Chenhe Township and Nuoshuihe Town of Tongjiang County, assisting local farmers to build 161 edible 邱家坪农妇已经使用沼气能源做饭 tree fungus greenhouses, thus initially forming a green industrial Farmers in Qiujiaping began to use biogas energy to cook Harmonious Bank economic integration chain covering feedstuff, energy, fertilizer, breeding and planting, and meanwhile improved local farmers’ 和谐银行 capability of development and promoted poverty alleviation. Educational poverty alleviation Charity Bank 爱心银行 In recent years, the Bank intensified efforts in educational poverty alleviation year by year. It successively invested the fund of RMB5.75 million and the donated materials worth of RMB180,000 in 2012, furthering expanding the scope of poverty alleviation recipients. The Bank initiated campaigns to support excellent poor college students and to select outstanding rural teachers in three counties (cities) for ten consecutive years. In 2012, 150 outstanding rural teachers who chose to work in the mountainous areas in the three counties (cities) were awarded to encourage more teachers to work in and dedicate themselves to the countryside; 未来展望 meanwhile, 300 excellent fresh college students from poverty-stricken households were awarded, enabling them to go to Outlook college smoothly. As at the end of the reporting period, the Bank funded 1,100 excellent underprivileged college students, awarded 740 outstanding teachers, thus highly appreciated by local residents. 爱心银行 Charity Bank 连续三年实施“新长城高中生自强班”项目。本行密切 跟踪项目实施情况，确保资金发放到位。同时，驻点扶 贫干部定期看望自强班学生，帮助他们树立人生理想， 克服困难，完成学业。 连续两年实施“爱心小厨房”工程。针对偏远山区学校 厨房及餐饮设施缺乏，学生就餐难问题，2012 年本行再 本行向罗文希望小学的孩子们捐赠爱心书包 次捐款 180 万元，两年累计为 67 所贫困地区学校建起厨 The Bank donated schoolbags to students of Luowen Hope Primary School 房并配备炉灶、餐桌、餐具等设施，受惠学生总量达到 6 万余名。 实施“筑巢行动”项目。扶贫县（市）实施“撤点并校” 后，学生数量大为增加，学生住宿难问题更为突出。本 行捐赠资金 215 万元，与中国扶贫基金会合作，为万源 市八台乡中心校、通江县芝苞乡中心小学和南江县正直 镇花桥小学各新建一座 500 余平方米的学生住宿楼。目前， 项目正在按计划紧张施工，将于 2013 年年底前全面交付 使用。 万源贫困小学用上全新的乒乓球台 Students of Wanyuan Primary School are using brand new table tennis 捐赠文体用品和教学设备。为补充贫困地区学生文体教 tables 学设施设备，本行为南江县凉水小学、通江县董溪小学 捐赠了数字化教室设备、校园广播系统、音乐教学系统、 捐赠爱心包裹 1,190 个；本行员工捐向白沙镇凉水井小学 电视机、黑板、室外篮球架、乒乓球台等教学设备。 卫生扶贫 扩大了“母婴平安 120 行动”资助范围。 2012 年本行将“母婴平安 120 行动”的 资助额从 60 万元增加到 90 万元，受助 贫困高危孕产妇增加到 1,500 人。截至 报告期末，该项目已惠及三县（市）3,500 名贫困孕产妇，母婴死亡率大大降低。 捐赠“母亲健康快车”。2012 年，本行 捐款 36 万元，与中国妇女发展基金会合 作向三县（市）妇幼保健院各捐赠了一 辆全新救护车，并配备了车载 B 超机， 既延伸了服务半径，又将健康理念、健 杨凯生行长探望“母婴平安 120 行动”受助婴儿 康知识、健康服务送下乡，保障了贫困 President Yang Kaisheng showed care for babies benefited from Safety of Mothers and Babies 120 campaign 地区妇女儿童的健康权益。 111 112 The Bank supported New Great Wall senior high school students from self-improvement class project for three Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 consecutive years. The Bank kept close track of the implementation of the project to ensure the funds were given out to those underprivileged students. At the same time, of Social Responsibility officials assigned to targeted areas paid regular visits to these students, help them to set up their own ideals, overcome difficulties, and finish school. 通江贫困大学生捐助仪式 Donation ceremony to college students in poverty in Tongjiang Value Creator 价值银行 The Bank conducted the Little Kitchens of Love project for two consecutive years. In response to the lack of kitchen and dining facilities and to tackle the school meal problem for students in remote mountainous areas, the Bank donated another RMB1.8 million on Little Kitchens of Love project. The funds donated over the past two years helped setting up kitchens with complete auxiliary dining facilities such as stoves, dining tables Brand Builder 品牌银行 and cutleries for 67 schools in poverty-stricken areas, benefiting over 60,000 students. 罗文希望小学的孩子在爱心厨房用餐 Students of Luowen Hope Primary School were having dinner in the Little Kitchen of Love The Bank conducted the Nesting Project . With the implementation of combination of school policy in poor counties (cities), the number of students was considerably Green Bank 绿色银行 increased, which aggravated the problem of student accommodation. The Bank donated RMB2.15 million. Together with China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation, the Bank is constructing a student apartment building covering an area of more than 500 square meters for Batai Township Central School in Wanyuan City, Zhibao Township Central Primary Creditworthy Bank School in Tongjiang County and Huaqiao Primary School in 诚信银行 本行援建的南江凉水小学多媒体教室 Multi-media teaching classroom of Liangshui Primary School in Zhengzhi Town of Nanjiang County respectively. Currently, Nanjiang constructed with the aid of the Bank the project is undergoing as planned and will be completed before the end of 2013. The Bank donated recreation and sports appliances as well as teaching facilities to poverty-stricken areas. 1,190 care packages were donated to Liangshui Primary School in Nanjiang County and Dongxi Primary School in Tongjiang County. The Bank's employees donated Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 to Liangshuijing Primary School in Baisha County for purchasing digital classroom equipments, schoolyard broadcasting systems, music teaching systems, televisions, blackboards, outdoor basketball stands, table tennis tables as well as other teaching facilities. Health poverty alleviation More and more people benefited from the Safety of Mothers and Babies 120 campaign. The Bank increased the funds from RMB600,000 Charity Bank 爱心银行 to RMB900,000, providing 1,500 high-risk pregnant women in poverty with hospital delivery subsidy. As at the end of the reporting period, 3,500 women in the three counties (cities) benefited form the project, reducing infant and maternal mortality rate considerably. The Bank donated one mother lifeline express . In 2012, the Bank donated RMB360,000 and purchased the ambulances equipped with type-B ultrasonic machine by working together with China Women's Development Foundation, helping the Bank to expand service 未来展望 radius, providing local people with health concept, knowledge and services, as well as ensuring the heath of women and children in Outlook disadvantaged areas. 爱心银行 Charity Bank “溪桥工程” 2012 年，本行再次捐款 150 万元，与中国扶贫基金会合作继续实施“溪桥工程”，资助当地集中连片区域的 15 个自然村 每村架设一座桥梁。目前项目正在实施中，将于 2013 年汛期前全面交付使用。 沙坝 -工行爱心桥 Shaba in Sichuan—ICBC caring bridge “小母牛”项目 切实改善和加强了金融服务 为帮助当地群众创业致富，本行再次向国际小母牛组织 为帮助当地提升“造血”能力，相继投放信贷资金约 5 亿元， 捐资 130 万元港币，实施“礼品传递”计划，向农户提 扶植了一批产业带动力强、示范性广、经济效益显著的 供畜禽、技术培训及相关服务。自 2006 年以来，本行已 农业深加工企业及小微企业，推动了当地产业升级和产 累计投入 590 余万元，受助农户达到 2,200 多户。项目实 业结构优化。 施提高了受助农户科学饲养畜禽的能力，人居环境和社 会风尚也得到了改善。 社会公益 情系灾区 2012 年 9 月 7 日，云南省昭通市彝良县先后发生 5.7 级、5.6 级地震，给当地造成大量人员伤亡和财产损失。地震发生 后，本行全力做好金融支持抗震救灾工作，同时，全力做 好灾区的金融服务，向昭通灾区发放了 1.7 亿元的信贷资 金，共计捐款捐物 534 万元。此外，本行云南分行向云南 省捐赠 300 万元救灾款，向昆明市嵩明县捐赠 100 万元 本行云南分行向地震灾区捐款 300 万元 Yunnan Branch donated RMB3 million to earthquake-hit area 抗旱资金。 113 114 Xiqiao Project Heifer Program Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 To improve local traffic conditions, the Bank donated The Bank donated another HKD1.3 million to Heifer another RMB1.5 million in Xiqiao Project in 2012 through International Program for Passing-on-gift Project to provide local farmers with livestock and poultry, technical of Social Responsibility cooperation with China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation, to help each of the 15 villages in concentrated areas to build training and other related services. Since 2006, the Bank a bridge. These bridges are expected to be put into service has invested more than RMB5.9 million to aid over 2,200 ahead of the flood season in 2013. households. The program has enhanced the farmers’ ability to scientifically feed livestock and poultry with considerable improvement of people's living environment and social atmosphere. Value Creator 价值银行 Improving and strengthening financial services in real terms To strengthen local wealth-generating capacity, the Bank successively granted loans of about RMB500 million to help a group of agricultural deep-processing enterprises with strong driving force, wide demonstrative influence and significant economic benefits as well as some micro and small enterprises, promote the upgrading and structural optimization of local industries. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Green Bank 绿色银行 Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 本行为通江县周子坪村铺就的致富路 A road leading Zhouziping Village of Tongjiang County to prosperity paved by the Bank Public Welfare Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Disaster relief On September 7, 2012, a 5.7-magnitude earthquake followed by another 5.6-magnitude one hit Yiliang County, Zhaotong City, Yunnan Province, causing heavy casualties Charity Bank 爱心银行 and property losses. After the earthquakes, the Bank tried its best with timely financial support and disaster relief. Meanwhile, the Bank allocated RMB170 million of credit funds to striken areas and donated a total of RMB5.34 million in means of money as well as goods. In addition, Yunnan Branch of the Bank donated relief funds of RMB3 本行云南分行开展“抗旱保民生、送水解民忧”爱心送水活动 未来展望 Outlook million to Yunnan Provincial Government and RMB1 million Yunnan Branch launched the activity of delivering water to fight drought and ease people's worries to Songming County of Kunming City. 爱心银行 Charity Bank 本行甘肃分行积极开展“联村联户 • 为民富民”行动。报告期内，投入 8.4 万元用于购置化肥，帮扶 61 个村、7,177 户困 难群众完成春耕生产；得知清水县土门乡遭受冰雹灾害后，再次投入资金 5 万元帮助当地恢复生产，同时出资 60 万元， 启动致富产业发展基金，完善帮扶村脱贫致富长效机制。2012 年 5 月，甘肃岷县发生大范围冰雹泥石流灾害，本行及时 捐赠 20 万元，并组织员工捐款 7 万余元，支持灾区重建美好家园。 健康快车光明行 2007 年以来，本行先后为四川、贵州、云南贫困白内障 患者送去光明，在内蒙古捐建眼科显微手术培训中心， 在云南捐建白内障治疗中心，累计捐款 1,210 万元，帮助 近 5,000 名贫困白内障患者重见光明。 报告期内，本行再次向中华健康快车基金会捐赠 300 万元， 由北京大学人民医院眼科医护人员上车服务，为河南三 门峡 1,552 名贫困白内障患者免费实施了复明手术；在“健 康快车 / 工商银行内蒙古眼科显微手术培训中心”，举行 了第二届白内障手术技术培训班；举办“健康快车国际 工商银行——健康快车“三门峡·母亲河光明之旅” ICBC-Lifeline Express Sanmenxia, the Mother River Brightness Tour 眼科大会”，200 多名眼科医生参会；为内蒙古贫困白内 障患者实施减免费用手术 92 例。 “献爱心，圆梦想”关爱农民工子女主题活动 2012 年春节期间，由本行独家赞助制作的《第一财经 2012 财神到春晚》通过宁夏卫视和第一财经两个频道在全国播出， 本行通过该节目与甘肃省甘南夏河县拉卜楞藏民小学等贫困中小学建立了对口帮扶关系。同时，各帮扶学校所在地的分行 也积极组织员工，捐款捐物。此外，本行还号召各分支机构积极组织“献爱心，圆梦想”关爱农民工子女主题活动，通过 多种形式满足农民工子女的小心愿。 本行云南分行关爱农民工子女活动 本行河南分行在上蔡县农民工子女学校举行爱心捐助仪式 Yunnan Branch conducted activity of caring for children of migrant workers Henan Branch held donation ceremony at the school for children of migrant workers at Shangcai County 115 116 Gansu Branch of the Bank actively carried out the activity of uniting villages and households for a better living of the people . During the reporting period, the branch had donated RMB84,000 in fertilizers and helped 7,177 households in 61 villages Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 finish spring ploughing. After learning that Tumen Township of Qingshui County had suffered hail disaster, the branch donated another RMB50,000 to help local people restore production, and at the same time subsidized RMB600,000 to launch of Social Responsibility a Development Fund for Industries to perfect the long-term mechanism of poverty alleviation. In May 2012, hail and landslides hit a wide range of areas in Minxian County, Gansu Province. The Bank promptly donated RMB200,000 and the staff more than RMB70,000 to support local people in rebuilding their homes. Lifeline Express Brings Eyesight to Patients Since 2007, the Bank has helped lots of impoverished cataract patients in Sichuan, Guizhou and Yunan provinces. It donated to Value Creator 价值银行 build a micro-ophthalmic surgery training center in Inner Mongolia and set up a cataract treatment center in Yunnan. The Bank donated RMB12.1 million in aggregate and helped nearly 5,000 impoverished patients recover from cataract. During the reporting period, the Bank donated another RMB3 million to the Foundation for Lifeline Express for free surgeries Brand Builder 品牌银行 on 1,552 impoverished cataract patients in Sanmenxia, Henan Province, which were performed on the Lifeline Expresses by medical personnel from the Department of Ophthalmology of Peking University People's Hospital. In the Lifeline Express/ICBCInner Mongolia Ophthalmic Surgery Training Center , the Second Cataract Surgery Training Session was held. Lifeline Express International Congress of Eye Research was held, in which over 200 ophthalmic surgeons participated. Ninety-two surgeries free of charge or at lower expenses were performed on impoverished cataract patients in Inner Mongolia. Realizing Dreams with Loving Heart activities to help children of migrant workers Green Bank 绿色银行 During the Spring Festival in 2012, Ningxia TV Channel and CBN aired nationwide the program CBN 2012 Creditworthy Bank God of Wealth to Spring Festival Gala , 诚信银行 which was exclusively sponsored by the Bank. The Bank established one to one proverty alleviation relationship with primary and middle schools by the program, including Labuleng Harmonious Bank Tibetan Primary School of Ganan's 和谐银行 X i a h e C o u n t y, G a n s u Pr o v i n c e . Meanwhile, local branches of ICBC also organized their employees to donate money and goods. In addition, the Bank called for these branches Charity Bank 爱心银行 to organize activities themed on Realizing Dreams with Loving Heart to help children of migrant workers realize their dreams by a variety of 本行重庆分行在“农民工子女关爱月”走进忠县中星小学 ways. Chongqing Branch visited Zhongxing Primary school at Zhongxian County during the Month of Caring for Children of Migrant Workers 未来展望 Outlook 爱心银行 Charity Bank “金融知识进校园” 为正确树立学生的理财投资理念，增强风险防范意识， 使学生更好地将金融理论知识和实践有机结合，报告期 内，本行江西分行举办了“新金融 • 高校行”之金融知识 进校园主题活动，引导学生树立正确的投资理念，提升 学生金融素质和社会实践能力；深圳分行与当地教育局 联合举办了五场“青少年学生财商教育读书暨社会实践 活动”，覆盖学校 25 所、学生两万余人，向中小学生及 本行江西分行走进鹰潭市第八小学开展“送金融知识到学校”的主题活动 其家长宣传财商教育理念的同时，还赠送了 25,000 册财 Jiangxi Branch held the activity of Bringing Financial Knowledge to Schools in No.8 Primary School of Yingtan City 商教育读本。 关注“最美女教师” 5 月 23 日，本行黑龙江分行组织开展了“学英雄，爱岗位，比贡献”——向舍己救人的最美女教师张丽莉学习活动，向 全行发出倡议书，并组织现场捐款，得到了全行员工的积极响应。 “春天新希望”慈善晚会 2012 年 4 月 28 日，本行福建分行举办工行之夜“春天新 希望”慈善晚会，出席活动的爱心人士超过 400 人，为 闽清下祝乡的孩子募集助学金 95,640 元；在义卖活动环 节，本行员工积极参与认捐，为帮助家境困难的小朋友 实现“刮风不倒、下雨不漏”的家庭梦想筹集房屋修缮 基金 11,640 元。 本行福建分行为“福建微博关怀”爱心账号揭幕 Fujian Branch unveiled its microblog for Fujian Weibo Cares 微博公益 2012 年 7 月，本行子公司工银瑞信联合其它机构在新浪微博平台发起“我们要学的自救常识”公益活动，整个活动历时 5 天，向全社会传递了正能量。此后，工银瑞信根据网络上的公开资料制作了《安全自救手册》，详细介绍了日常可能用到 的 12 类自救常识，发布在网站上供大众下载学习。 支持文教体育事业 举办《“汇通天下—从钱庄到现代银行”展览》 2012 年 11 月 3 日至 12 月 7 日，本行联合台湾永丰金融控股股份有限公司在台湾台北国父纪念馆举办《汇通天下——从 钱庄到现代银行》展览。这是上海银行博物馆馆藏珍品面向台湾公众的第一次集中展示，该展览分为“汇通天下——从钱 庄到现代银行”、“通宝大观——中国历代货币”、“荟萃台湾——台湾地区金融业”三大章节，集中了两岸三馆各类具 有鲜明历史特征和丰厚文化内涵的馆藏精品 639 件，其中本行从银行博物馆 3 万余件藏品中精选出 550 件参展。其中，钱 币类 350 件，反映了西汉以来 2,200 年的货币历史；实物类 200 件，反映了清末钱庄银行一个多世纪的发展历程。 117 118 Bringing financial knowledge to schools To help students establish the correct wealth management Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 concept, increase their risk awareness, and enable them to better combine financial knowledge with practice, Jiangxi of Social Responsibility Branch launched the Publicizing New Financial Knowledge to Campuses activity during the reporting period. In addition, Shenzhen Branch cooperated with local bureau of education to hold five rounds of Teenage FQ Education and Social Practice activity, which covered 25 schools with over 20,000 students participated. While promoting FQ 本行深圳分行举行青少年财商教育和社会实践启动仪式 education to students and their parents, a total of 25,000 Value Creator 价值银行 Shenzhen Branch held the launching ceremony of Teenage FQ Education and Social Practice activity books on FQ education were given out. Concerning about the Most Beautiful Woman Teacher On May 23, 2012, Heilongjiang Branch held the activity Brand Builder 品牌银行 of Learning from Hero, Loving Our Jobs, and Making Contributions and also organized a fund-raising event for Zhang Lili, Most Beautiful Woman Teacher ，who risked her life to save two students. The staff responded warmly 本行黑龙江分行赴哈尔滨医科大学附属第一医院慰问“最美女教师”张丽莉 and made their donations. Representatives of Heilongjiang Branch visited Zhang Lili, the Most Beautiful Woman Teacher , at the First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University Spring with New Hope charity evening party Green Bank 绿色银行 On April 28, 2012, Fujian Branch held an ICBC Spring with New Hope charity evening party with over 400 participants. RMB95,640 was raised for children at Xiazhu Township, Minqing, to support their schooling. The branch's staff actively participated in the auction and raised RMB11,640 for Family Dream Foundation to help impoverished children have their homes Creditworthy Bank repaired. 诚信银行 Public Welfare on Weibo In July 2012, ICBC Credit Suisse, a subsidiary of ICBC, in cooperation with other institutions, launched a public welfare event of Self-rescue Knowledge that We Should Learn at Sina Weibo platform. The five-day event made a positive influence on the Harmonious Bank society. Afterwards, based on materials on the website, ICBC Credit Suisse produced a brochure named Self-rescue Manual , 和谐银行 which can be downloaded for free, detailing 12 categories of self-rescue knowledge. Supporting Culture, Education and Sports Land of Wealth from Money House to Modern Bank Charity Bank 爱心银行 The Bank held an exhibition Land of Wealth—From Money House to Modern Bank which lasted from November 3 to December 7, 2012, with the Taiwan-based SinoPac Holdings in the National Dr. Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall in Taipei. It was the first time that the Shanghai Bank Museum showcased its collections to people in Taiwan. The exhibition was divided into three parts — Land of Wealth — From Money House to Modern Bank , Copper Coins—China's Ancient Currency , and Treasury in Taiwan — Taiwan's Financial Industry . It collected 639 items from Taiwan and the Chinese Mainland that carry distinct historical features and rich cultural connotations, including 550 items selected from more than 30,000 items from the Museum. Particularly, there were 350 currencies on display, which reflected the 2,200-year currency history since the Western Han Dynasty. There were also 未来展望 200 physical items reflecting the development of the money houses in the late Qing Dynasty for more than a century. Outlook 爱心银行 Charity Bank 本行姜建清董事长和国民党荣誉主席连战等共同为《“汇通天下—从钱庄到现代银行”展览》开箱揭幕 Jiang Jianqing, Chairman of ICBC, and Lien Chan, honorary chairman of the KMT, inaugurated the exhibition Land of Wealth—From Money House to Modern Bank 大陆与台湾同根同源，历史文化一脉相承。该展览生动地展示了中国金融发展的沧桑岁月和灿烂文明，传播了中国金融文 化和创新成果，推动了两岸经济发展和文化繁荣，增进了两岸金融机构的合作交流，搭建了两岸金融业的文化桥梁， 为 携手推动社会进步、共创金融发展作出了新的贡献。 第三届“工商银行杯”全国大学生银行产品创意设计大赛 报告期内，本行携手对外经济贸易大学合作举办第三届“工商银行杯”全国大学生银行产品创意设计大赛。大赛共吸引了 来自清华大学、中国人民大学、对外经济贸易大学等全国 370 余所高校 6,200 余名选手提交的 1,052 件参赛作品。最终评 选出 37 个获奖作品和 10 个优秀高校组织奖。该活动不仅为大学生提供了深入开展社会实践、展现自身社会价值的平台， 还通过举办获奖选手座谈会、开展部分获奖作品点评等形式，普及了金融知识，体现了高校、银行及社会各方对合作加强 创新型人才培养的高度重视和深刻共识，收到了良好的社会反响。 支持文化艺术产业 本行连续第三年为上海艺术博览会提供全方位的金融服务，推进 了文化产业与金融资本的有效嫁接；支持文化场馆的运营建设； 连续多年支持上海市自然科学牡丹奖评选，资助了 33 位科学家 开展自然科学基础研究工作，为中青年科学家脱颖而出提供了广 阔的舞台；支持举办“上海新年音乐会”；举办《中国人看世界》 全国摄影展，共收到来自全球五大洲的参赛作品 12,500 余幅；举 办“工行杯”宁波市书法篆刻作品展，围绕“喜迎十八大，翰墨 本行支持举办的“上海新年音乐会” Shanghai New Year Concert 2013 supported by the Bank 同辉煌”的时代主题，努力推动文化产业发展。 119 120 Chinese mainland and Taiwan share the same root, history and culture. The exhibition has vividly showed the Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 vicissitudes and splendid civilization in China's financial development. It has also spread the Chinese financial of Social Responsibility culture and innovation fruits, promoted the cross-Strait economic development and cultural prosperity, enhanced the cooperation and communication between financial institutions of both sides, built a cultural bridge for crossStrait financial business, and made new contributions to promoting social progress and financial development. 本行安徽分行援建希望小学签字仪式 Anhui Branch held donation ceremony for the hope school Value Creator 价值银行 The 3rd ICBC Cup national competition in innovative design of banking products by college students During the reporting period, the Bank and the University of International Business and Economics jointly held the 3rd “ICBC Cup” National Competition in Innovative Design of Banking Products by College Students. The event attracted over 6,200 student Brand Builder 品牌银行 participants from more than 370 colleges, such as Tsinghua University, Renmin University of China and University of International Business and Economics etc., and received 1,052 entries in total. In the end, 37 entries were selected and ten universities and colleges were awarded with the outstanding organization prize. This event provided students with chances of social practices and platforms to exhibit their social values. Also, it disseminated financial knowledge in the form of symposium participated by winners of the competition and comments on some winning entries. The event publicized financial knowledge, reflected universities and colleges, banks and society's high attention to and profound consensus on enhancing innovation training. Green Bank 绿色银行 Supporting the culture and art industry The Bank provided a full range of financial services to the Shanghai Art Fair for the third year in a row to promote effective Creditworthy Bank integration of the culture industry and financial capitals. The Bank supported the construction and operation of cultural venues. 诚信银行 For many years, the Bank has supported Shanghai Peony Award for Natural Science and subsidized 33 scientists on fundamental natural science research, providing a broad stage for young and middle-aged scientists to stand out. Additionally, it sponsored Shanghai New Year Concert; held the World in the Chinese Eyes national photo exhibition and attracted more than 12,500 entries from all over the world; it held ICBC Ningbo Calligraphy and Seal-cutting Exhibition, with the theme of Celebrating the 18th National Congress of the CPC with Brush and Ink , promoting the development of cultural industry. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Charity Bank 爱心银行 本行宁波分行支持举办的第二届“中国人看世界”全国摄影大赛 未来展望 本行支持的上海艺博会 Outlook The 2nd National Photography Show The World in Chinese People's Eyes sponsored by Ningbo Branch Shanghai Art Fair 2012 supported by the Bank 爱心银行 Charity Bank 志愿者活动 2012 年，本行秉承“工行在哪里，爱心到哪里”的青年爱心行动理念， 开展了金融宣传、扶贫帮困、助老助残、捐资助学、公共服务等一系列 丰富多彩的青年爱心行动。报告期内，本行评选表彰了 12 名 “中国工 商银行青年爱心行动爱心大使”，72 名“中国工商银行青年爱心行动 优秀个人”，20 个 “中国工商银行青年爱心行动明星项目”，138 个“中 本行天津分行志愿者慰问患病儿童 国工商银行青年爱心行动优秀项目”，23 个“中国工商银行青年爱心 Volunteers of Tianjin Branch visited child patients 行动优秀组织”，进一步激发了广大员工投身社会公益的热情。 2010-2012 年志愿者活动情况表 2010-2012 Statistic Sheet of Youth Volunteer 捐资金额 受助 志愿者活动 项目数 参与人数 / 次 （万元） 人数 / 次 时间（小时） Participants/ Donation Amount Persons/ Volunteering Number Participating Times (RMB 10,000） Times Aided Time（hour） 扶贫帮困 Poverty Alleviation 953 70,218 1,167.6 89,530 19,976 助老助残 Assisting the Old and the Disabled 440 11,084 156.9 14,517 951.5 金融教育宣传 Financial Education and Dissemination 4,196 76,627 55.7 405,600 21,968.5 助学支教 Assisting Learning and Teaching 587 57,350 519.8 72,907 4,594.5 环保交通 Environmental Protection and Transportation 523 22,553 24.2 30,566 11,845.5 医疗卫生 Medical Care and Health 430 12,701 43.5 10,042 2,250.5 （含无偿献血） (Including Voluntary Blood Donation) 其他 Others 240 7,564 144.6 35,496 526 合计 Total 7,369 258,097 2,112.3 658,658 62,112.5 注：志愿者活动时间仅为 2012 年数据 Note: Volunteering time includes statistics only in 2012 法律援助志愿者行动 在法律援助领域，本行资助中国法律援助基金会 160 万元用于开展 “1+1”中国法律援助志愿者 行动项目。该项目由中国法律援助基金会每年组 织动员一批律师志愿者和大学生志愿者（1+1） 到西部无律师和律师资源十分短缺的贫困县，无 偿为当地农民工、残疾人、老年人、妇女儿童等 贫弱群体维护自身合法权益提供法律援助，并为 当地政府和群众无偿提供法律咨询服务。 本行上海分行走进敬老院开展志愿者行动 Shanghai Branch launched volunteer activities in retirement home 121 122 Volunteer Activities Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 In 2012, in accordance with the spirit of youth volunteer activities of wherever ICBC is, our care goes , the Bank actively launched a series of youth care activities such as financial knowledge dissemination, poverty alleviation, assisting the old and of Social Responsibility the disabled, supporting learning and teaching and public services. During the reporting period, the Bank recognized the outstanding performance of these volunteers, among whom 12 people were praised as Ambassador of Love for ICBC Youth Care Activities and 72 as Individuals with Excellent Performance in ICBC Youth Care Activities . Meanwhile, 20 projects were selected as Star Project of ICBC Youth Care Activities , 138 as Excellent Project of ICBC Youth Care Activities and 23 as Excellent Organization of ICBC Youth Care Activities . These awards further aroused employees' enthusiasm for public welfare. Value Creator 价值银行 Brand Builder 品牌银行 本行辽宁分行为盘锦市福利院孤残儿童献爱心 本行北京分行走进社区开展金融知识讲座 本行厦门分行开展送金融知识下乡活动 Liaoning Branch visited Panjin Children Welfare Beijing Branch provided lectures on financial Xiamen Branch brought financial knowledge Center knowledge to local communities to countryside Green Bank 绿色银行 Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 本行重庆分行组织开展自愿献血 Chongqing Branch launched volunteer blood donation activity Legal Aid Volunteer Campaign Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 In the field of legal assistance, we provided RMB1.6 million to China Legal Aid Foundation (CLAF) for the implementation of “1+1” Legal Aid Volunteer Campaign. Through the campaign launched by CLAF, a number of voluntary lawyers and undergraduates (1+1) were sent on an annual basis to the Charity Bank 爱心银行 poverty-stricken counties in Western China with extreme scarcity of legal practitioners. They provided free legal assistance to the vulnerable and disadvantaged people (local peasant workers, the disabled, old people, women and children, etc) to help them protect their legitimate rights and interests. The volunteers also 本行山西分行举办图书捐赠活动 Shanxi Branch carried out book donation activities provided free legal consultancy services to local governments and people. 未来展望 Outlook 爱心银行 Charity Bank “情暖端午、共度佳节” 本行苏州分行组织开展了以“情暖端午、共度佳节”为 主题的青年志愿者走进相城福利院慰问帮扶送温暖活动。 志愿者们不仅为福利院的孤寡老人送去了几大箱现成的 粽子，还别出心裁的准备了粽叶、肉馅、糯米等材料， 与老人们互动包粽子。同时，志愿者们还给院里的十五 位孤儿带去礼物，有可爱的玩具、实用的文具、优质的 本行苏州分行为福利院老人们包粽子 奶粉和纸尿布，件件都饱含志愿者的真心，满载工行人 Suzhou Branch made zongzi with the seniors in Welfare House 的真情。 关爱自闭症儿童 本行上海分行连续两年参加了“我是爱心达人”关爱自 闭症慈善集市活动，通过转发邮件、张贴海报、散发传 单、微博推广等方式募集到几百件创意玩具、办公用品、 家居饰品、工艺收藏品等，通过展台募集善款 10,612 元， 为自闭症患儿提供了切实帮助。 本行软件开发中心积极组织参与“关爱自闭症儿童”系 列活动，并在圣诞慈善义卖活动中踊跃奉献爱心。 本行软件开发中心组织开展“关爱自闭症儿童”系列活动 The Software Development Department organized a series of Caring for Autistic Children activities 海外公益 报告期内，本行深入贯彻落实本地化发展战略，积极履行全球企业公民责任，不断深化对东道国的环境保护、社区公益等 社会责任议题的理解和参与，与东道国在务实合作中实现了互利共赢、共同发展，以实际行动展示了扎根当地、关注民生、 反哺社会的良好企业品牌和社会形象。 工银澳门 工银澳门连续第四年向澳门大学、澳门理工学院、澳门 科技大学三所澳门高等学府提供奖学金，并开始向澳门 城市大学提供奖学金，支持澳门文教事业发展；向同善 堂、《澳门日报》读者公益金基金会捐赠善款 , 组织全行 员工及家属近 900 人参加一年一度的公益金百万行活动； 组织员工参加“关爱特奥慈善足球赛”、“爱心育苗郊 游乐”助学扶贫慈善活动、“青年正能量．云澳同胞情” 工银澳门参与“青年正能量 云澳同胞情”赈灾筹款活动 彝良地震赈灾筹款活动，展现了工银澳门员工参与社会、 ICBC (Macau) participated in Positive Influence of Youth on MacauYunnan Compatriots earthquake relief fundraising 投身公益的良好精神风貌。 123 124 Celebrating Dragon Boat Festival with seniors Caring for Autistic Children Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 Suzhou Branch of the Bank organized young volunteers Shanghai Branch participated in the I Care Charity to visit Xiangcheng Welfare House to celebrate the festival Fair for Autistic Children for two years in a row. By of Social Responsibility with alone elders. They not only brought boxes of readyforwarding emails, posting posters, distributing leaflets, made zongzi (sticky rice ball wrapped in bamboo leaves), and microblogging, employees of the Branch collected but also bamboo leaves, grounded meat and raw sticky rice hundreds of creative toys, stationery, household articles and to make zongzi together with the elders. Meanwhile, they handicrafts and collected RMB10,612 at the fair, bringing brought lovely toys, quality milk powder, stationery, diapers true help to autistic children. and other gifts to the 15 orphans living at the House. Each gift expressed the care and love of the volunteers and ICBC. The Software Development Department of the Bank organized a series of Caring for Autistic Children activities Value Creator 价值银行 and participated in Christmas Charity Sales. Overseas Public Welfare Brand Builder 品牌银行 During the reporting period, overseas institutions of the Bank actively fulfilled its responsibilities as global corporate citizens while implementing the localization development strategy. They gradually deepened their understanding of and enhanced their participation in issues of social responsibilities, such as environment protection and community welfare, for the mutual benefits of and common Green Bank 绿色银行 development with host countries to shape the image of 本行上海分行组织开展“我是爱心达人”关爱自闭症慈善集市活动 responsible corporate focusing on local markets, caring for Shanghai Branch participated in the I Care Charity Fair for Autistic Children people's well-being and repaying the society. Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 ICBC (Macau) ICBC (Macau) had been offering scholarships to University of Macau, Macau Polytechnic Institute, Macau University of Science and Technology for 4 consecutive years and Harmonious Bank started to offer scholarships to City University of Macau in 2012, in a bid to support the cultural and educational 和谐银行 development in Macau. It donated money to Macau Tung Sin Tong Charitable Society and Macau Daily News Readers Charitable Foundation and organized its employees and their family members, nearly 900 people, to join the Charity Bank 爱心银行 annual Walk for Millions charity event. It also organized its staff to participate in other charity events, like Charity 工银澳门向《澳门日报》读者公益金基金会捐款 20 万澳门元 Football Games for Paralympic Games , Caring for SchoolICBC (Macau) donated MOP200,000 to Macau Daily News Readers Charitable Foundation aged Children Field Trip” poverty alleviation events and Positive Influence of Youth on Macau-Yunnan Compatriots Yiliang earthquake relief fundraising. All these activities displayed the willingness of its employees to serve the society and 未来展望 devote to charity cause. Outlook 爱心银行 Charity Bank 工银亚洲 作为香港明爱慈善组织连续十四届筹款委员会主席，工 银亚洲通过主办“2012 工银亚洲慈善高球日”等活动， 为明爱筹款港币近 200 万元。此外，工银亚洲还积极参 与香港明爱其它筹款活动，帮助社会上有需要的人士。 报告期内，工银亚洲获得香港社会服务联会颁发的“商 界展关怀 10 年”奖项，表彰其过去 10 年间在社区服务 方面所作出的贡献。 工银亚洲捐助香港明爱电视筹款节目「明爱暖万心」 ICBC (Asia) subsidized Hong Kong Caritas Charity TV Show 工银印尼 工银印尼依托“工银印尼关爱基金”积极开展公益慈善活动，组织员工与来自不 同基金会的 40 名孤儿一同观看电影；组织为巴淡 Yayasan 孤儿院捐款，组织百余 名中外员工开展无偿献血活动，传承中华民族扶贫济困的传统美德，在当地社会 引起强烈共鸣。 其他海外机构 工银国际参与了香港公益金举办的港岛、九龙区百万行筹募活动，将善款捐赠给“家 庭及儿童福利服务”的 23 家香港社会福利机构；金边分行参加了中国驻柬埔寨大 使馆组织的为柬埔寨红十字会筹集资金的义卖活动；工银欧洲组织员工参与卢森堡 抗癌基金会发起的第七届“生命接力跑”公益活动；工银加拿大参与了多伦多“热 浪”沙滩排球赛暨赞助病患儿童基金会（SickKids Foundation）活动，为病患儿童 基金会捐助善款；万象分行成立了“ICBC 老挝公益基金”，向万象市占塔武里区 哈萨地泰村翻修道路捐赠了部分资金，获得了当地政府颁发的“建设家园”表彰证 工银印尼员工打扫清理公交站 书；悉尼分行荣获“最佳社会责任奖”; 新加坡总统陈庆炎向新加坡分行颁发了“热 ICBC (Indonesia) organized employees to clean bus stations 心公益奖”，感谢中国工商银行对新加坡金融繁荣以及文化及公益活动的大力支持。 工银欧洲参加卢森堡抗癌基金协会组织的生命接力赛 病患儿童基金会为工银加拿大颁发荣誉证书 ICBC (Europe) employees participated in Relay for Life charity event SickKids Foundation awarded ICBC (Canada) Certificate of Honor initiated by Luxemburg Cancer Foundation 125 126 ICBC (Asia) Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 As the chairman of the 14th Caritas Hong Kong Fundraising Committee, ICBC (Asia) raised nearly HKD2 million for of Social Responsibility Caritas Hong Kong Bazaars through holding 2012 ICBC (Asia) Charity Golf Day event. Besides, it also participated in other fundraising activities, such as subsidizing fundraising TV programs, providing Caritas charity fundraising services and participating in charity sales, aiming at helping those in need. During the reporting period, ICBC (Asia) was awarded 工银亚洲员工与家属参与港岛、九龙区百万行活动 Value Creator 价值银行 with the 10 Consecutive Years Caring Company by Hong ICBC (Asia) employees and their family members participated in Walk Kong Council of Social Service for its excellent service to the for Millions at Hong Kong Island and Kowloon District community for 10 consecutive years. ICBC (Indonesia) Brand Builder 品牌银行 Through the work of ICBC Indonesia Care Foundation, ICBC (Indonesia) spared no efforts in participating in charity events. The Foundation organized employees of the branch to watch movies with 40 orphans from other foundations, raised money for Yayasan Orphanage and organized over 100 employees to participate in voluntary blood donation. These activities passed on the traditional Chinese virtue of helping needy and disadvantaged people, which was greatly acknowledged and applauded by local people. Green Bank 绿色银行 Other Overseas Institutions ICBC International participated in Fundraising Walk for Millions event in Hongkong Island and Kowloon District organized by the Community Chest of Hong Kong and donated the money raised to 23 social welfare agencies under Family and Child Welfare Services in Hong Kong. Phnom Penh Branch participated in the charity sales organized by Chinese Embassy in Cambodia for Cambodian Red Cross. ICBC (Canada) took part in Toronto Hot Wave Beach Volleyball Games to raise money for SickKids Creditworthy Bank 诚信银行 Foundation. Vientiane Branch set up the ICBC (Laos) Welfare Foundation and subsidized the reconstruction of some roads in the city, thus receiving a commendation certificate from the local government. Sydney Branch was awarded the prize of Best Social Responsibility ; Tony Tan, president of Singapore awarded ICBC (Singapore) the Public Welfare Contribution award, with the view to appreciating ICBC's contribution to the prosperity of Singapore and development of its culture and charity industry. Harmonious Bank 和谐银行 Charity Bank 爱心银行 未来展望 工银印尼关爱基金联合 Dilts 孤儿基金会组织孤儿们参观印尼国家博物馆 ICBC (Indonesia) Care Foundation, working with Dilts Orphan Foundation, organized a visit to Indonesia National Museum for the orphans Outlook 未来展望 Outlook CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2012 社会责任报告 未来展望 Outlook 2013 年是全面贯彻落实党的十八大精神的开局之年，也 展望 2013，本行将 以科学发展观为指引，将“稳中求进” 是机遇与挑战交织并存的一年。国际金融形势的深刻变 作为工作主基调，抓住“危”中之“机”，把转变发展 化，国内化解产能过剩矛盾压力增大、经济运行中的结 方式和增强服务实体经济能力作为履行自身社会责任的 构性矛盾突出，金融业也面临着金融脱媒、利差收窄、 重中之重，切实增强履行社会责任的使命感，健全社会 利率市场化、资本约束趋紧、商业模式转变等多重压力， 责任管理体系，不断深化社会责任工作内涵，探索创新 我国经济社会将进入一个“转型突围”时期，商业银行 社会责任沟通方式，加快促进社会责任理念与日常经营 的可持续发展也将面临诸多困难和挑战。 管理的有机融合，为股东创造更高的价值、为客户提供 更好的服务、为员工构建更广的平台、为社会贡献更多 的力量。 责任导向 2013 重点举措 大力加强先进制造业、战略新兴产业、现代服务业、文化产业信贷支持 持续提高中小企业贷款比重，加大“三农”建设、民族地区信贷支持 价值银行 加大对经济结构调整和经济社会发展薄弱领域的支持 积极稳妥地推进国际化发展战略，更好地服务于“走出去”企业 改善服务质量，切实保护消费者合法权益 推进流程改造，优化业务环节，加快网点改造 品牌银行 普及金融知识，培育理性金融消费观念 重视客户反馈，提升客户满意度，建立和完善客户体验机制 贯彻绿色信贷政策，严格执行一票否决制，加快产能过剩行业退出力度 加快生态文明建设，加大绿色经济领域的支持力度 绿色银行 加大自助银行、ATM 等设备投放力度，加快网上银行、电子支付技术推陈出新 倡导绿色办公，推行责任采购，力争实现人均能耗指标稳中有降 加强合规管理，弘扬诚信文化，倡导互利共赢 履行反洗钱、反欺诈义务，防范腐败风险 诚信银行 强化内部控制，完善全面风险管理体系 强化供应链社会责任管理 切实保障员工权益，改善办公环境 和谐银行 拓展员工职业发展空间，加快多元化、国际化员工培训力度 完善员工民主参与的渠道建设 深入推进定点扶贫工作 爱心银行 积极投身公益事业，组织开展丰富多彩的志愿者活动 支持文教、体育和科技事业健康发展 129 130 The year of 2013 is the start to follow the decisions of the development and keynoted on steady progress , the Bank 18th National People's Congress, and also a year woven by will seize the opportunities amid time of crisis. It will take Strategy and Management 社会责任战略与管理 opportunities and challenges. The international financial development mode transformation and enhancement markets are confronted with profound changes, and of capacities in serving the real economy as the priorities of Social Responsibility the domesic market is witnessing increasing pressure in performing its social responsibility, earnestly reinforce in reducing excess capacity and outstanding structural its sense of mission in performing social responsibility, contradictions in economic operation. Besides, the financial and establish and improve the management system for sector comes under multiple pressures, including financial social responsibility. It will deepen the connotation of disintermediation, narrowing interest spread, interest rate social responsibility work, explore and innovate ways of liberalization, tightening capital constraint and business communication on social responsibility, and accelerate the Value Creator 价值银行 mode transformation. All these will lead Chinese economy integration of social responsibility concepts with routine to a period of transformation and breakthrough , and operational management. In a word, the Bank will take all at the same time, present commercial banks with huge possible measures to create more value for shareholders, difficulties and challenges in their sustainable development. provide better services to customers, build up a broader platform for employees and make more contributions to Looking into 2013, guided by the scientific outlook on the society. Brand Builder 品牌银行 Responsibility Orientation Key Measures in 2013 Vigorously strengthen credit supports to advanced manufacturing industry, strategic emerging industries, modern service industry and cultural industry; Green Bank 绿色银行 Constantly scale up SME loans and enhance credit aids for the development of agriculture, countryside and Value Creator farmers and ethnic group areas; Strengthen the support to economic structural adjustment and weak areas in economic and social development; Actively and steadily propel the internationalization strategy and better serve going global enterprises. Improve the quality of services and earnestly protect the legal rights of consumers Promote process reengineering, optimize business links and speed up outlet transformation; Brand Builder Creditworthy Bank Popularize financial knowledge and foster rational financial consumption concept; 诚信银行 Value customer feedbacks, improve their satisfaction level, establish and improve customer experience mechanism. Implement the green credit policy, strictly stick to the one-ballot veto principle and accelerate the exit of loans to industries with excess capacity; Promote ecological progress and increase the support to green economic development; Green Bank Install more self-service banking facilities and ATMs and accelerate the innovation in Internet banking and e-payment technologies; Harmonious Bank Advocate green office and environmentally responsible procurement to realize steady decline of energy 和谐银行 consumption per capita. Strengthen compliant management, promote creditworthy culture and encourage reciprocity and mutual benefits; Perform anti-money laundering and anti-fraud obligations and prevent corruption risk; Creditworthy Bank Strengthen internal control and improve the comprehensive risk management system; Strengthen supply chain social responsibility management. Charity Bank 爱心银行 Protect the basic rights and interests of employees, improve office environment; Harmonious Bank Broaden employees' career growth space and intensify efforts in diversified and internationalized employee training; Improve channel building for democratic participation of employees. Further facilitate the poverty relief work in targeted areas; 未来展望 Charity Bank Actively participate in charitable activities and organize various voluntory activities; Support the healthy development of education, culture, sports, science and technology. Outlook 安永华明会计师事务所 中国北京市东城区 东长安街 1 号东方广场 安永大楼 16 层 邮政编码 : 100738 社会责任独立鉴证报告 中国工商银行股份有限公司董事会 ： 一、鉴证范围 三、鉴证的局限性 中国工商银行股份有限公司（以下简称“贵行”）2012 年社会责任 我们的鉴证工作不包括 ： 报告（以下简称“报告”）由贵行管理层编制。收集和披露报告内容， • 鉴证除贵行总行、上述四家境内分行、一家境外分行及一家子公司关 保留充分的证据，以及设计、实施和维护与报告编制相关的内部控 键社会责任指标外，其余信息或数据的准确性及公允性 ； 制是贵行管理层的责任。 • 鉴证贵行管理层的预测性声明 ； • 鉴证历史比较数据。 我们的责任是根据贵行管理层的要求，对报告中披露的 2012 年度 关键社会责任指标实施有限保证鉴证程序 ，并对报告是否遵循了 四、保证水平 全球报告组织（GRI）发布的《可持续发展报告指南（G3） 》要求的 重要性和包容性原则进行评价。 我们的鉴证程序是为得出有限保证的结论而设计的，执行这些程序并 不会使我们获取为得出合理保证的结论而所需的全部鉴证证据。因此， 根据双方的业务约定条款，本报告仅为贵行董事会编制。我们的 该报告意见不是合理保证意见或审计意见。尽管我们在决定鉴证程序 工作仅限于就上述约定事项向贵行董事会进行汇报，而非其他目的。 的性质和范围时会考虑贵行内部控制的有效性，但我们的目的不是就贵 我们不会就我们所实施的工作、出具的报告或做出的结论对除贵行 行内部控制的有效性发表意见。 董事会以外的任何第三方承担任何责任。 五、结论 我们按照国际鉴证业务准则第 3000 号 ：历史财务信息审计或审阅 以外的鉴证业务计划和执行鉴证工作。 基于本鉴证报告所述的范围，实施的程序和上述局限性，我们的鉴证 结论如下 ： 我们设计了以下鉴证程序以评价报告是否遵循 GRI(G3) 要求的重要 性和包容性原则 ： 关键社会责任指标 ：我们没有注意到任何重大事项使我们相信贵行编 制的 2012 年社会责任报告中披露的关键社会责任指标存在重大错报。 重要性 ：贵行是否对重要社会责任事项在报告中作出平衡的表述？ 重要性和包容性 ：我们没有注意到任何重大事项使我们相信贵行编制的 包容性 ：贵行是否识别了利益相关方？贵行是否管理了利益相关方 2012 年社会责任报告不符合 GRI(G3) 要求的重要性和包容性原则。 的参与过程？贵行是否在报告中对重要社会责任事项向利益相关方 做出平衡的回应？ 二、鉴证工作 为了得出鉴证结论，我们进行了下列工作 ： 根据贵行管理层的要求，我们选取了如下范围进行工作，对报告中 披露的 2012 年度关键社会责任指标实施鉴证程序 ： • 总行 • 福建分行 • 江西分行 • 陕西分行 • 甘肃分行 • 工银亚洲 • 新加坡分行 除此以外，我们没有对其他分行及子公司实施鉴证程序。 我们所实施的鉴证程序仅限于以下方面 ： • 与贵行负责收集、整理和披露信息的管理层和员工进行访谈 ； • 在上述选定的范围，抽样测试 2012 年度关键社会责任指标的准 确性 ； • 根据财务报表审计结果，与相关社会责任指标核对一致 ； • 通过收集行业、其他同业以及媒体关注的焦点问题，检查贵行 报告中是否涵盖了重要社会责任事项 ； • 选取有关政策、文件等支持性证据，以评估重要社会责任事项的 描述是否适当。 131 132 Ernst & Young Hua Ming Level 16, Ernst & Young Tower Oriental Plaza No. 1 East Chang An Avenue Dong Cheng District Beijing, China 100738 Independent Limited Assurance Statement on Corporate Social Responsibility To the Board of Directors of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited Scope of Our Engagement • Cross checking key sustainability indicators to the annual financial report of the Bank, where applicable. The 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report (the Report ) of • Conducting a high-level review of the Report to ensure all material Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (the Bank ) has sustainability issues have been covered in the Report. been prepared by management of the Bank (the Management ). The • Reviewing selected documents relating to the material sustainability Management is responsible for the collection and presentation of issues. information within the Report and for maintaining adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the corporate social Limitations of Our Review Scope responsibility reporting process. Our scope of work did not include: Our responsibility was to carry out limited assurance procedures in • Assessing the accuracy or fairness of information relating to areas other relation to key sustainability indicators included in the Report for the than the key sustainability indicators of the sites selected. year ended 31 December 2012 in accordance with the Management's • Reviewing the forward-looking statements made by the Management. instructions. We also evaluated the Report in terms of the principles • Reviewing and consequently providing assurance on historical data. of materiality and inclusivity set out in Global Reporting Initiative G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our work was limited to these stated above and our report is made solely to you, as a body, and for no other purpose. We do not therefore accept or Level of Assurance assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Report is Our evidence gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a limited entirely at its own risk. level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which to base our conclusions. The procedures conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be Our review has been planned and per formed in accordance with required in a reasonable assurance engagement and, accordingly, we do International Standard on Assurance Engagements ( ISAE ) 3000: not express a reasonable assurance opinion or an audit opinion. While we Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical considered the effectiveness of the Management's internal controls when Financial Information issued by the International Federation of determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our review was not Accountants. designed to provide assurance on internal controls. We have designed our procedures for us to evaluate the Report in terms Our Conclusions of the principles of materiality and inclusivity set out in Global Reporting Initiative G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Subject to our limitations of scope noted above and on the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance engagement, we provided the following Materiality conclusion: • Has the Bank provided a balanced representation of material issues • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that there concerning its sustainability performance? are any errors that would materially affect the key sustainability indicators Inclusivity reported by the Management. • Has the Bank identified stakeholders? • Based on our work performed, nothing has come to our attention that • Has the Bank managed its stakeholder participation process? causes us to believe that any material sustainability issues were not aligned • Has the Bank responded to stakeholder concerns? with the materiality and inclusivity set out in Global Reporting Initiative G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Work Performed In order to form our conclusions, we carried out the following procedures. In accordance with the Management's instructions, we selected Head Office, four domestic branches, one subsidiary and one oversea branch to perform limited assurance procedures over key sustainability indicators in the Report for the year ended 31 December 2012. The sites selected included: • Head Office • Fujian branch • Jiangxi branch • Shaanxi branch • Gansu branch • ICBC (Asia) • Singapore branch We did not perform limited assurance procedures on other sites. Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP Beijing, PRC The limited assurance procedures we carried out were limited to: 27 March, 2013 • Interviewing a selection of the Bank's management responsible for sustainable development issues to understand the current status of sustainable development activities and the progress made during the reporting period. • Sample testing key sustainability indicators in the sites selected. GRI 索引 GRI Index 编号 内容 披露页码 1.1 机构最高决策者关于企业战略与可持续发展的陈述 P2, P6 战略与分析 1.2 对主要效果、危机及机遇的描述 P129 2.1 机构名称 P17 2.2 主要品牌、产品及服务 P17 2.3 组织结构图 P20 2.4 公司总部的地址 P17 公司概况 2.5 机构业务所在国及报告中涉及的与相关的国家的数量和名称 P17 2.6 所有权性质及法律形式 P17 2.7 所服务的市场 P17 2.8 公司规模（含员工数量、营业收入、市值等） P11, P12 2.10 报告期间获得的奖项 P25 3.1 所提信息的报告时间 扉页 3.2 最近一次报告的时间 扉页 3.3 报告周期 扉页 3.4 回应关于报告或内容相关问题的联系方式 扉页 3.5 确定报告内容的程序 扉页 3.6 报告的界限 扉页 报告参数 3.7 说明关于报告范围及界限的限制因素 扉页 3.9 数据计算和处理方法 扉页 扉页 , P133, 3.12 列表标明报告引用的标准 ；标明页码和网络链接 P135, P137 在可持续发展报告附带的认证报告中列出机构为报告寻求外部认证的政 3.13 策以及现行措施。如果没有列出，请解释任何外部认证的范围以及根据， 扉页 P131 并解释汇报机构与验证者之间的关系 4.1 机构的治理结构 P19, P20 4.2 说明最高治理机构的主席是否也兼任行政职位 P19 4.3 如机构有完整的董事会体系，说明独立董事与非执行董事的数量 P19 4.4 股东和员工向机构最高治理层提供意见和建议的机制 P19 4.5 公司治理层、高级经理及执行主管的薪酬与机构效益的联系 P19 公司治理 与经济、环境、社会效益及其实施情况相关的使命或价值观、行为守 4.8 P15 则及原则 4.9 最高决策层如何对机构进行监查，管理经济、环境、社会效益 P129 4.11 说明机构是否以及如何提出预防性的措施 P129 4.13 在协会（如行业协会）和 / 或国内、国际相关组织的成员资格 P10 133 134 No. Contents Pages Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the Strategy and 1.1 P3-4, P7-8 relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities P130 2.1 Name of the organization P18 2.2 Primary brands, products and services P18 2.3 Operational structure of the organization P20 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters P18 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with Organizational 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues P18 Profile covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P18 2.7 Markets served P18 Scale of the reporting organization (including number of employees, net revenues 2.8 P11, P12 and total capitalization) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period P26 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Headpage 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Headpage 3.3 Reporting cycle Headpage 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Headpage 3.5 Process for defining report content Headpage 3.6 Boundary of the report Headpage Report Parameters 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Headpage 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Headpage Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report, identify the Headpage, P134, 3.12 page numbers or web links P136, P138 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 3.13 report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also P132 explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) 4.1 Governance structure of the organization P20 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer P20 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of 4.3 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonP20 executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 P20 direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 P20 senior managers, and executives, and the organization's performance Governance Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the P16 status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's 4.9 identif ication and management of economic, environmental, and social P130 performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 P130 addressed by the organization Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 P10 international advocacy organizations GRI 索引 GRI Index 编号 内容 披露页码 4.14 机构利益相关者的名单 P23, P24 4.15 识别及选择利益相关者的依据 P23, P24 公司治理 4.16 利益相关者参与的程序 P23, P24 4.17 利益相关者参与提出的主要问题及机构如何进行回应 P23, P24 EC1 产生和分配的直接经济价值 P11 EC2 机构活动由于市场环境变化产生的财务问题和其他风险及机遇 P129 EC3 公司明确承诺的各种福利和补偿计划 P99, P101, P103, P105 EC5 机构在各主要营运地点工资的标准起薪点与当地最低工资的比例 P99 经济绩效 EC6 机构在主要业务运营地地点对当地供应商的政策、措施以及支出比例 P91 机构透过商业活动、实物捐赠或者免费，主要为大众利益而提供的基建 EC8 P109-125 投资及服务的发展与影响 EC9 机构了解并说明其重大的间接经济影响，包括影响的程度 P89, P91 EN1 所用物料的总量或者用量 P12 EN3 按照主要源头划分的直接能源耗量 P12 EN5 因环境保护及提高效益而节省的能源 P12 提供具能源效益或以可再生能源为本的产品及服务计划，以及计划的成 EN6 P65-79 效 环境绩效 EN7 减少间接能源耗量的计划以及计划的成效 P65-79 EN8 按源头划分的总耗水量 P12 EN18 减少温室气体排放的计划及成效 P75-79 EN26 减低产品及服务的环境影响的计划及其成效 P65-79 EN30 按类型说明环境保护的总体支持及投资 P65-79 LA1 按雇佣类型、雇佣合同及地区分类的员工总数 P99 LA2 按年龄组别、性别及地区划分的雇员流失总数及比率 P99 LA3 按主要业务划分，只提供全职雇员（不给予临时或者兼职雇员）的福利 P99-105 为协助雇员、雇员家属或者社区成员而推行的，关于严重疾病的教育、 LA8 P99-105 培训、辅导、预防与风险监控计划 社会绩效 LA10 按雇员类别划分，每名雇员每年受训的平均时数 P101 加强雇员的持续职业发展能力及协助雇员转职的技能管理及终生学习课 LA11 P101 程 LA12 接受定期绩效考核及职业发展计划的雇员的百分比 P101 按性别、年龄组别和少数族裔及其他多元性指标划分，管理层员工和普 LA13 P99 通雇员的细分 LA14 按雇员类别划分，男性与女性的基本薪金比率 P99 135 136 No. Contents Pages 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization P23, P24 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P23, P24 Governance 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement P23, P24 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns P23, P24 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed P11 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's EC2 activities due to climate change 130 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations P100, P102, P104, P106 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at Economic EC5 significant locations of operation P100 Performance Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6 significant locations of operation P92 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement P120-126 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 extent of impacts P90, P92 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume P12 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P12 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements P12 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives P66-80 Environmental Performance EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved P66-80 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P12 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved P66-80 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent EN26 of impact mitigation P66-80 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type P66-80 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region P99 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region P99 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3 part-time employees, by major operations P99-106 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place LA8 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding P99-106 serious diseases Social LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category P172 Performance Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings P102 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews P102 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators P99 of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category P99 GRI 索引 GRI Index 编号 内容 披露页码 雇员在作业所涉及的人权范围内的相关政策及程序方面受训的总时数， HR3 P101 以及受训雇员的百分比 HR10 接受人权审查和 / 或影响评估的运营点的百分比和总数 P59 与社区事务有关的评估和管理工作，其核心思路、评估和管理范围以及 SO1 P49, P53, P83, P87 有效性 SO2 已作贿赂风险分析的业务单位的总数以及百分比 P95 社会绩效 SO3 已接受机构的反贿赂政策及程序培训的雇员的百分比 P95 SO4 惩治贿赂个案所采取的行动 P95 SO5 对公共政策的立场，以及在发展及公共政策立法过程中的参与 P29-45 SO6 按国家划分，对政党、政客以及相关组织作出财务及实物捐献的总值 P12 PR5 客户满意度管理措施，包括调查客户满意程度的结果 P87 PR6 为遵守市场推广相关法律法规、自愿守则而设立的计划 P83-P87 FS1 应用于业务活动的具体环境和社会政策 P65-79, P109-125 FS2 在业务中评估与监控环境和社会风险的程序 P65-73 FS3 对客户环境和社会合规情 的监控 P65-73 FS4 提高员工执行环境与社会政策能力的程序 P65-79, P109-125 FS5 与客户、投资人和合作伙伴关于环境社会风险与机遇的互动 P23, P24 FS6 按地区、规模、行业分的业务比例 P29-45 金融行业 FS7 为实现特定社会目标而设计的产品及服务的价值，按目标分类 P49-61 附加指标 FS8 为实现特定环境目标而设计的产品及服务的价值，按目标分类 P65-75 在投资组合中，报告组织与其存在环境或社会因素互动的公司的比例与 FS10 P65-75 数量 FS13 按类型列示的低人口密度和经济上欠发达地区的切入点 P29-45 FS14 提高为弱势群体获取金融服务能力的行动 P33-43 FS15 金融产品与服务的公平设计和销售的政策 P49-53, P83-87 FS16 按受益类型分，提高金融知识教育的行动 P87, P117 137 138 No. Contents Pages Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of P102 employees trained Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights HR10 P60 reviews and/or impact assessments. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and SO1 P50-54, P84-88 manage the impacts of operations on communities SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption P96 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Social SO3 P96 procedures Performance SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption P96 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying P30-46 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 P12 related institutions by country Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 P88 customer satisfaction Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 P84-88 marketing communications FS1 Policies with specifi c environmental and social components applied to business lines P66-80, P110-126 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines P66-74 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with FS3 P66-74 environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and P66-80, FS4 social policies and procedures as applied to business lines P110-126 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and FS5 P23, P24 social risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specifi c region, size and by sector P30-46 Financial Services Sector Supplement Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social FS7 P50-62 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Monetar y value of produc ts and ser vices designed to deliver a specif ic FS8 P66-76 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which FS10 P66-76 the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type P30-46 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to fi nancial services for disadvantaged people P34-44 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of fi nancial products and services P50-54, P84-88 FS16 Initiatives to enhance fi nancial literacy by type of benefi ciary P88, P118 全球契约十项原则对照表 Table of Social Responsibility Performance Contrast with the Ten UNGC Principles 全球契约十项原则 2012 年责任绩效 坚持以人为本，严格遵守国家及经营所在国法律、法规、规章；劳动合同签 企业应该尊重和 1 维护国际公认的各项人权 订率 100%，及时足额为员工缴纳各项社会保险和住房公积金；加强职工民 主管理制度建设，切实维护员工合法权益。 绝不参与任何漠视 2 与践踏人权的行为 遵守《世界人权宣言》等国家签署或承认的国际公约或惯例。 企业应该维护结社自由 完善职工代表大会制度，广泛听取民主意见，切实保障员工知情权、参与权 3 承认劳资集体谈判的权利 和监督权的落实；工会组建率 100%，员工入会率 100%。 遵守《劳动合同法》等相关法律法规要求，依法合规做好劳动合同的签订工 彻底消除各种 4 形式的强制性劳动 作；通过建立高效有序的工作机制和加强劳动力优化组合，充分保障员工的 休息休假权利，杜绝各种形式的强迫劳动。 5 消除童工 坚决杜绝使用童工。 尊重员工的宗教信仰自由，尊重员工个性，杜绝因种族、性别、国别、文化、 杜绝任何在用工 6 与行业方面的歧视行为 年龄等方面的歧视现象；在招聘录用、岗位调整、薪酬待遇、职业发展、离 职管理等各个环节，对全体员工一视同仁、平等对待。 企业应对环境 积极应对气候变化，自觉承担国际环境责任，建立健全生态环境保护综合管 7 挑战未雨绸缪 理机制，发挥金融杠杆作用，摆脱对传统发展路径的依赖，促进经济结构调整。 完善绿色信贷政策和制度体系，建立绿色信贷问责机制 , 加强落后产能企业 主动增加对环 8 保所承担的责任 和涉及重金属污染领域的信贷风险管理，实施贷款“环保一票否决制”，从 源头上遏制了环境污染，有力支持了生态文明建设。 优先支持客户在新能源、节能环保和资源综合利用等领域的绿色信贷项目， 加大对碳排放、节能等领域的绿色信贷产品创新力度。截至报告期末，全行 鼓 励 无害 环境 技 术的 环境友好及环保合格客户数量及贷款余额占全部境内公司客户数量及贷款余 9 发展与推广 额的比例均保持在 99.9% 以上，投向绿色经济领域贷款余额合计 5,934 亿元。 依托科技领先优势，推广无纸化、低消耗、高效率的电子银行业务，电子银 行业务占比达 75.1%。 企 业应 反对 各 种形式 按照“标本兼治、综合治理、惩防并举、注重预防”的方针，以健全惩治和 预防腐败体系为重点，整体推进反腐倡廉各项工作，报告期内组织开展治理 10 的 贪 污， 包 括 敲 诈、 商业贿赂有关检查 2,340 次，出台规范交易行为、推进银行业市场诚信体系 勒索和行贿受贿 建设的新制度和新措施 1,363 个。 139 140 Ten UNGC Principles 2012 Social Responsibility Performance The Bank has been people-oriented and strictly observed laws, regulations and rules of China Businesses should support and the host country of its place of business. It signed labor contracts with its staff (100%) 1 and respect the protection and timely paid all social insurance premium and housing provident fund for its employees of internationally proclaimed in full amount. In addition, it improved the system for democratic management of staff, to human rights. earnestly protect the legal rights of employees. Make sure that they are not 2 complicit in human rights The Bank abided by international conventions signed by the state or practices accepted by the state, including The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. abuses. Businesses should uphold The Bank improved the system of staff representative meeting, to listen to all employees' the freedom of association 3 opinions and protect their right to know, participate and supervise. All branches and and the effective recognition subsidiaries of the Bank have their own labor unions and all employees are members of labor of the right to collective unions. bargaining. The Bank complied with the Law of the People's Republic of China on Employment Contracts The elimination of all forms and other relevant laws and regulations, and signed employment contracts according to 4 of forced and compulsory labor. law. It also strived to protect employees' rights to rest and take leaves and eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor through an efficient and orderly working mechanism and improved labor combinations. 5 The effective abolition of child labor. The Bank thoroughly eradicated child labor. The elimination of The Bank respected employees' religious belief and individuality, and eliminated any 6 discrimination in respect discrimination against ethnicity, gender, country, culture, age and others. In addition, of employment and the Bank fairly and justly treated all employees regarding recruitment, post adjustment, occupation. compensations, career development and post leaving management. Businesses should support a The Bank actively responded to climate changes, willingly assumed responsibility for 7 precautionary approach to environmental challenges. international environment . It made use of the financial leverage, to get rid of dependence on traditional development mode and promote the adjustment of economic structure. The Bank improved its green credit policy and rule system, established an accountability Businesses should undertake mechanism for green credit, and strengthened credit risk management of enterprises with 8 initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. backward production capacity and heavy metal pollution. The one-ballot veto principle for loans adopted by the Bank rooted out the causes of environmental pollution and vigorously supported ecological progress. The Bank gave priority to customers' green credit projects in such fields as new energy, energy conservation and comprehensive utilization of resources. It also intensified its efforts in innovating green credit products related to carbon emission and energy conservation. As Businesses should encourage at the end of the reporting period, the number of environment-friendly and environment9 the development and spread compliant customers and their proportion to the total loan balance accounted for above of environmentally friendly 99.9% of all the domestic corporate customers and their loan balance. The balance of loans extended to green economy fields totaled u RMB593.4 billion. technologies. In addition, based on its leading advantages in technology, the Bank promoted the paperless, low energy-consuming and high-efficient e-banking business, and transactions handled through electronic banking accounted for 75.1% of the Bank's total. In accordance with the guidelines of combating corruption in an integrated way, addressing Businesses should work both its symptoms and root causes, and combining punishment and prevention, with 10 against corruption in all emphasis on the latter , the Bank promoted its overall work of anti-corruption. During forms, including extortion the reporting period, the Bank organized 2,340 inspections on commercial briberies, and bribery. and introduced 1,363 new regulations and measures for regulating trading activities and promoting the establishment of a market credit system for the banking sector. 意见反馈表 Readers Feedback Form 感谢您在百忙之中阅读《工商银行 2012 年社会责任报告》。这是工商银行持续第六次公开发布的社会责 任报告。为了更好的满足您的需求，向您及各利益相关方提供更有价值的信息，同时促进公司改善社会 责任工作绩效，提高履行社会责任的能力和水平，我们殷切的期望您能够对报告提出宝贵意见，并通过 以下方式反馈给我们 ： 传 真：（8610）66106336 电子邮件 ：csr@icbc.com.cn 邮寄地址 ：（中国）北京市西城区复兴门内大街 55 号 战略管理与投资者关系部 邮 编 ：100140 1、您对本报告的总体评价是 ： □好 □ 较好 □ 一般 □差 2、您对工商银行在经济层面履行社会责任的评价是 ： □好 □ 较好 □ 一般 □差 3、您对工商银行在环境层面履行社会责任的评价是 ： □好 □ 较好 □ 一般 □差 4、您对工商银行在社会层面履行社会责任的评价是 ： □好 □ 较好 □ 一般 □差 5、您认为本报告是否能真实反映工商银行社会责任实践对经济、环境、社会的影响？ □能 □ 一般 □ 不能 6、您认为本报告披露的信息、数据、指标的清晰、准确、完整程度如何？ □高 □ 较高 □ 一般 □低 7、您认为本报告的内容安排和版式设计是否方便阅读？ □好 □ 较好 □ 一般 □差 您对工商银行社会责任工作和本报告的意见和建议 ： 注 ：请您在相应的“□”内打“√”。 141 142 Thank you for reading the 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited. ICBC has published Corporate Social Responsibility Reports for consecutive six years. In order to better satisfy your need, provide more valuable information for you and the interested parties, improve our performance of corporate social responsibility and enhance our ability to fulfill our social responsibility, we sincerely hope that you would provide your valuable opinions and feedback regarding this report to us via the following means: Fax: (8610) 66106336 E-mail: csr@icbc.com.cn Address: No. 55 Fuxingmennei Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, PRC Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations Department Post code: 100140 1. What is your overall evaluation for the report? □ Very good □ Good □ General □ Poor 2. What is your evaluation for ICBC's performance of its social responsibility on the economic level? □ Very good □ Good □ General □ Poor 3. What is your evaluation for ICBC's performance of its social responsibility on the environmental level? □ Very good □ Good □ General □ Poor 4. What is your evaluation for ICBC's performance of its social responsibility on the social level? □ Very good □ Good □ General □ Poor 5. Do you think the report can truly represent the influence on economy, environment and society of the social responsibility practice of ICBC? □ Yes □ So so □ No 6. What do you think of the clarity, correctness and completeness of the information, data and statistics in the report? □ Very good □ Good □ General □ Poor 7. Is this report reader-friendly from your perspective in terms of its contents, structure and formatting? □ Very good □ Good □ General □ Poor What is your opinions and suggestions on corporate social responsibility of ICBC and this report? Note: Please add √ in the corresponding □ .
