Cosmo Oil Group Profile of the Cosmo Oil Group Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2013) Name Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Dealers 244 offices Head office 1-1-1, Shibaura, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8528 Japan Service stations 3,325 (stationary) Telephone +81-3-3798-3211 Branch offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Kanto-Minami, Nagoya, Osaka, Hiroshima, Established April 1, 1986 Takamatsu, and Fukuoka Capital ¥107,246,816,126 Refineries Chiba, Yokkaichi, Sakai, and Sakaide Main business Oil refining and sales Oil depots 35 locations (including 33 subcontractors) No. of employees 1,899 Bases outside of Japan Abu Dhabi (UAE); Beijing and Shanghai (China); Doha (Qatar); History Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. was established on April 1, 1986 through the Torrance, California (USA); London (UK); Singapore merger of Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd., Maruzen Oil Co., Ltd., and their refinery subsidiary, the former Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Asian Oil Co., Ltd. was merged into Cosmo Oil on October 1, 1989. Financial Data Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Ordinary and Net Income (¥ billion) (¥ billion) Ordinary income Net income 4,000 200 3,428.2 3,109.7 3,166.7 96.1 3,000 2,771.5 100 2,612.1 61.4 36.4 48.4 28.9 2,000 0 -10.7 -9.1 1,000 -100 -92.4 -85.9 ×0.75 -125.0 0 -200 ×0.012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity and Shareholders’ Equity Ratio Non-Consolidated Sales Volume Shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) (Megaliter or tonne) Gasoline & naphtha Kerosene & diesel fuel Heavy fuel oil Other 50,000 22.8 41,183 39,656 19.2 21.1 38,824 18.9 40,000 37,093 36,890 (¥ billion) 13.2 15,634 16,784 16,140 400 15,372 15,332 328.4 315.7 332.7 30,000 316.9 300 230.5 14,483 20,000 13,304 13,824 12,329 13,195 200 10,000 8,516 7,140 6,506 7,170 100 6,675 2,549 2,427 2,352 1,850 2,058 ×0.75 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) ×0.9 Consolidated Cash Flows Consolidated Profit Ratios (¥ billion) Operating activities Investing activities Financing activities (%) Return on equity (ROE) Return on assets (ROA) 200 20 159.3 8.9 104.7 100 82.1 -0.7 -0.6 57.9 0 -6.0 43.6 26.3 1.8 2.3 11.6 0 -3.3 -2.8 -5.0 -25.8 -21.0 -56.0 -20 -100 -73.1 -86.1 -80.5 -31.4 -93.3 ×0.009 -24.0 ×0.6 -200 -40 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 2 Contents Profile of the Cosmo Oil Group ......................................................... 2 Editorial Policy Message from the President ............................................................ 4 The Cosmo Oil Group Environmental Report was first published in fiscal CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Oil Group ............................................. 6 2001, then replaced by the Sustainability Report in fiscal 2004. It was Overview of Cosmo Oil Group Businesses . ....................................... 8 renamed the Corporate Report in fiscal 2010 for use as a comprehensive communication tool. This year’s report was prepared with reference to the Global Special Features Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 and Targeting Further Growth: Safe and Stable Refinery Operation includes a special feature that highlights issues deemed important to 1 Steady Innovation to Ensure Sustainable Growth ............ 10 stakeholders. The issues have been selected to reflect stakeholders’ views as expressed in questionnaires and other sources, as well as the Group’s management philosophy, its business strategies, and the New Horizons for Cosmo Oil: Power Generation Business risk factors that it considers to be material. In the Fiscal 2012 Initiatives section (starting on page 26), the Group 2 Expanding the Business Portfolio with  reports on various activities according to items prioritized in the CSR Sustainable Energy ............................................................ 12 Initiative Policy. The Group references the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 published by the Ministry of Environment in calculating Fiscal 2012 Performance Highlights the Company’s environmental performance. Note: Employee job titles and departmental assignments referred to in this Chapter 1 Live up to customer expectations concerning reliability and report are current as of March 31, 2013. satisfaction . ................................................................. 14 Material Issues in Report Chapter 2 We aspire to become a safe, accident-free company ...... 16 Chapter 3 We value people ........................................................... 18 Chapter 4 We take care of the global environment ......................... 20 Priority issues in Chapter 5 We value communications with society .......................... 22 Importance for stakeholders special features Chapter 6 We strive to maintain our position as an honest company . 24 Reported in the print Performance Reports version or on the Fiscal 2012 Initiatives ..................................................................... 26 CSR website Priority Item 1 Strict Safety Management . ....................................... 28 Priority Item 2 Working with Integrity ............................................... 30 Strategic importance for the Cosmo Oil Group Priority Item 3 Enhancing Human Rights/Personnel Policies .............. 32 Priority Item 4 Promoting Environmental Initiatives ........................... 34 Corporate Report 2013 and the Website The Cosmo Oil Group is committed to making the information in Priority Item 5 P romoting Communication Activities Corporate Report 2013 available to as many stakeholders as possible. The That Respond to Society ........................................... 37 Group publishes two versions of the report: a concise print version that provides report highlights and an online version that provides Independent Assurance Report ........................................................ 39 detailed data. Access the publicly available Web version of the report at the official Cosmo Oil website. CSR website: http://www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/csr/ In this report, this mark indicates that the data has been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Period Covered This report covers the Cosmo Oil Group’s efforts in the area of corporate social responsibility in fiscal 2012 (April 1, 2012 to March Oil Exploration and Production Other Businesses 31, 2013), though some sections include content from fiscal 2013. An Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd. overview of the Cosmo Oil Group’s petroleum business and Group Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd. organization is provided on pages 8–9. Ltd. (Japan) Cosmo Business Support Co., Ltd. Petroleum Product Cosmo Research Institute Report Boundary Manufacturing and Sales Cosmo Computer Center Co., Ltd. This report includes information on the 23 Cosmo Oil Group Cosmo Oil Lubricants Co., Ltd. EcoPower Co., Ltd. companies, listed at right, which are implementing the CSR Initiative Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd. Outside of Japan Policy. Data, however, that pertains only to Cosmo Oil or only to Cosmo Oil (U.K.) Plc. Sales certain companies is footnoted to indicate this. Cosmo Oil International Pte., Ltd. Cosmo Petroleum Gas Co., Ltd. Note: There have been no major changes in the boundary coverage since the Cosmo Oil of U.S.A. Inc. Cosmo Oil Sales Corp. fiscal 2011 report. Distribution Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Hokuto Kogyo Co., Ltd. Month of Issue Cosmo Kaiun Co., Ltd. November 2013 Cosmo Delivery Service Co., Ltd. Cosmo Petro Service Co., Ltd. Next issue (tentative): Cosmo Techno Yokkaichi Co., Ltd. November 2014 (previous issue was November 2012; report issued Kansai Cosmo Logistics Co., Ltd. annually) Sakaide Cosmo Kosan Co., Ltd. Inquiries CSR & Environmental Affairs Department Risk Management Unit Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-3-3798-3134 FAX: +81-3-3798-3187 www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/ 3 Message from the President “The Cosmo Oil Group is a vertically integrated global energy company that deeply values public trust and always strives to contribute to society.” Keizo Morikawa President, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Mission of the Cosmo Oil Group Basic Policies of the Fifth MediumOur Chiba Refinery was not able to operate at full capacity Term Management Plan for almost two years after the 2011 Great East Japan Based on the five-year objective to establish a solid Earthquake and an asphalt leak in June 2012. After business foothold for further expansion, four basic policies determining the causes of the asphalt leak and taking were established in the new medium-term management steps to prevent a recurrence, we resumed crude oil plan: (1) regain profitability in the refining and marketing processing in January 2013, and recovered full capacity sector; (2) secure stable income from investments made by July 2013. I recognize that the situation at our refinery during the previous management plan; (3) further has caused great concern and inconvenience to nearby strengthen alliances with IPIC1 and Hyundai Oilbank;2 and residents and many others concerned. I would like to take 4) further enhance CSR management. this opportunity to express my sincere apologies once We continue to strengthen our dedication to socially again, and to assure you of our renewed commitment to responsible management. While conducting business safe and stable operations. We will do everything possible operations according to socially accepted rules and in to prevent accidents like these from happening again. good faith, we will undertake continual business The petroleum products that Cosmo Oil supplies help improvement by consistently implementing plan-do-checkto protect people and support their daily lives. As seen in act (PDCA) cycles. the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Through these initiatives, the Cosmo Oil Group aims to kerosene was used to keep survivors warm, while gasoline become a vertically integrated global energy company. and diesel fuel enabled relief supplies to reach the disaster area. These petroleum products literally helped to keep people alive. Many things people use every day, like clothing and plastic bottles, are made from petroleum; it is 1. The International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) is a sovereign wealth an integral part of modern daily life. fund wholly owned by the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, the largest member of the oil-producing United Arab Emirates (UAE). It was established with the aim of The mission of the Cosmo Oil Group is to deliver a constructing an oil industry value chain funded by the country’s own crude oil. stable supply of these vital, high-quality petroleum IPIC mainly invests in oil and petrochemical companies outside the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. products to our customers. The entire Group is working 2. Hyundai Oilbank Co., Ltd. signed a memorandum with Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd., in together to fulfill this mission. May 2013, to establish a reciprocal backup supply system for use in the event of an emergency. Based on this cooperation, the two energy suppliers will work to provide a stable supply of petroleum products even in emergencies. 4 Restructuring the Supply System A Risk Management Unit has also been established with the aim of managing group-wide risk. A Refinery In the 27 years since its founding merger in 1986, Cosmo Safety Department specialized in refinery safety Oil has maintained a supply system based on its four management and a CSR & Environmental Affairs refineries (Chiba, Yokkaichi, Sakai, and Sakaide). However, Department that centrally manages group-wide risk have there has been a gradual decline in oil demand in Japan, been set up in this unit. In addition to strengthening and this trend is expected to continue. checks and balances for the entire Group, the new unit will Given this situation, a comprehensive review of the size enhance the risk management systems and help ensure and location of each refinery was carried out. As a result, the safe and stable operation of refineries. the Company decided to focus its management resources on just three refineries, and halted refining operations at Contributing to Society and Earning the Sakaide Refinery in July 2013. Cosmo Oil will continue Public Trust to improve its competitiveness and ensure a stable supply by building an efficient supply system based on the three We launched our five-year CSR Initiative Policy, “Filling Up remaining refineries. Your Hearts and Safety,” in fiscal 2013. The goal for the Despite discontinuing its refining operations, the Cosmo Oil Group for fiscal 2017—“Earning public trust Sakaide location will continue to function as an oil terminal and always making a positive contribution to society”—has and distribution center, in order to ensure a stable supply been shared with all employees, and we are taking various of petroleum products for West Japan. Cosmo Oil will also steps to implement the Policy. look into various options for utilizing the premises after In order to ensure that its CSR activities meet global refining equipment is removed to increase corporate value. standards, the Group has been participating in the UN The affected Cosmo Oil Group employees from the Global Compact since 2006. The Group proactively Sakaide Refinery are to be relocated within the Group, and undertakes CSR management that respects the basic local residents will continue to receive support through principles of the Global Compact in areas including human social contribution activities. rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. These basic principles are also found in the Cosmo Oil Group Organizational Restructuring Code of Conduct. The Group will continue to promote socially responsible management while helping to build a The Cosmo Oil Group implemented organizational more sustainable society. restructuring on June 25, 2013 to enable better execution In fiscal 2013, the Cosmo Oil Group stood united in its of the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan. mission to ensure the safe operation of refineries and a Through the introduction of a business unit system, the stable supply of petroleum products. We are working Head Office departments, branches, refineries, and other harder than ever on our CSR initiatives with the goal of sites, as well as affiliated companies, are now organized earning the complete trust of the public. into business and functional units. Eight new units have been established to clarify responsibilities for planning and execution of strategies as well as revenues, enabling profits to be maximized by each business unit. New Organization General Meeting of Shareholders New Departments Corporate Auditors/Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Note: S ecretaries Office and Internal Audit Office are placed under Secretariat of Audit & Supervisory Board Executive Officers’ Committee direct control of the president. Officer’s Meeting Risk Resource Technology Corporate Corporate Project Development Management Supply Business Unit Sales Business Unit E&P Business & Research Planning Unit Management Unit Business Unit Unit Unit Unit Internal Audit Office Secretaries Office Refinery Safety Department CSR & Environmental Affairs Department Corporate Planning Department Corporate Communication Finance Department Accounting Department Human Resource Department General Affairs Department Information Technology Department Purchasing Center Four refineries (refining operations Supply Department Production Technology Department Crude Oil & Tanker Department Petroleum Product Department Nine branch offices Sales Department Wholesale Marketing Department Industrial Fuel Marketing Department Resource E&P Department Petrochemical Business Department Lubricant Business Department Power & Gas Business Department ALA Business Department Technology & Research Department Research & Development Center Department ended at Sakaide Refinery in July 2013) Cosmo Research Institute Cosmo Business Support Co., Ltd. Cosmo Computer Center Co., Ltd. Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd. Four outsourcing companies1 Tozai Oil Terminal Co., Ltd. Hokuto Kogyo Co., Ltd. Cosmo Kaiun Co., Ltd. Sogo Energy Corporation Cosmo Delivery Service Co., Ltd. Cosmo Oil Sales Corp. Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd. Petroleum E&P companies2 Petrochemical companies3 Cosmo Oil Lubricants Co., Ltd. EcoPower Co., Ltd. Cosmo Petroleum Gas Co., Ltd. 1. Cosmo Petro Service Co., Ltd., Cosmo Techno Yokkaichi Co., Ltd., Kansai Cosmo Logistics Co., Ltd., Sakaide Cosmo Kosan Co., Ltd. 2. Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan), Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. (Japan), Cosmo Oil Ashmore Co., Ltd., United Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. (Japan) 3. Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd., Maruzen Petrochemical Co., Ltd., CM Aromatics Co., Ltd., Hyundai Cosmo Petrochem Co., Ltd. 5 CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Oil Group In order to realize the Management Vision of the Cosmo Oil Group, all employees are conscientiously engaged in CSR activities. CSR management is being promoted under the Fifth Consolidated MediumConsolidated Medium-Term Management Plan and the Term Management Plan CSR Initiative Policy, based on the Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct. The financial position of the Cosmo Oil Group deteriorated as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake in Cosmo Oil Group Management Vision March 2011 and an asphalt leak at the Chiba Refinery in June 2012. In striving for harmony and symbiosis among our planet, humankind, Under the Fifth Consolidated and society, we aim for sustainable growth towards a future of limitless Medium-Term Management Plan possibilities. (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Group intends to improve its position Harmony and Symbiosis Creating Future Value mainly by increasing profitability in the oil refining and marketing Harmony and Symbiosis Creating the Value of with the Global Environment “Customer First” business, while working towards a Harmony and Symbiosis Creating Value from the resumption of dividend payments. between Energy and Society Diverse Ideas of the Individual Over the long term, the Group aims Harmony and Symbiosis Creating Value by Expressing between Companies and Society Collective Wisdom to become a vertically integrated global energy company that contributes to society. 1. See footnotes on page 4 for more information concerning the International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) and Hyundai Oilbank, shown in the figure on the right. Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct Chapter 1 We strive to deliver stable energy Consolidated Medium-Term supplies Pages 14–25 Management Plan and CSR Chapter 2 We aspire to become a safe, accident-free company Chapter Initiative Policy Chapter 3 We value people Chapter 4 We take care of the global environment 1–6 The Cosmo Oil Group had been promoting CSR activities based on Chapter 5 We value communications with society Consolidated Medium-Term CSR Chapter 6 We strive to maintain our position as an honest company Plans. In fiscal 2013, the name was changed to the CSR Initiative Policy (Fiscal 2013–2017): Filling Up Your Hearts and Safety. The Group will Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term continue promoting CSR initiatives Management Plan under this policy. While promoting CSR CSR Initiative Policy management based on the Filling Up Your Hearts and Safety Management Plan and CSR Initiative 1. Strict safety management Policy, all employees of the Cosmo 2. Working with integrity Pages 26–38 Oil Group perform their work 3. Enhancing human rights/personnel policies conscientiously in order to realize 4. Promoting environmental initiatives Priority items the Management Vision and meet 5. Implementing better internal and external communication 1–5 the expectations of society. Fiscal 2012 Initiative Results 6 Basic Policy Five years to establish a solid business foothold for further expansion Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Sustainable growth through continuous innovation Reposition the businesses and steer them toward growth Improving financial position and resuming dividend payments to shareholders through increased profitability Secure stable income from Further strengthen Regain profitability in the oil Further enhance investments made during the previous alliances with IPIC and refining and marketing sector CSR management medium-term management plan Hyundai Oilbank1 Long-term goal Vertically integrated global energy company Management Vision: “Harmony and Symbiosis” and “Creating Future Value” Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct CSR Initiative Policy Practical operations Highest priority items We aspire to become a safe, accident-free Chapter 2 company 1. Strict safety management Group companies and divisions We strive to maintain our position as an Chapter 6 All Group employees honest company 2. Working with integrity Live up to customer expectations concerning Chapter 1 reliability and satisfaction Existing items Chapter 3 We value people 3. Enhancing human rights/personnel policies Chapter 4 We take care of the global environment 4. Promoting environmental initiatives 5. Implementing better internal and Chapter 5 We value communications with society external communication The Cosmo Oil Group strives to implement socially responsible management in order to contribute to society, based on the Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct and through group-wide efforts to achieve the goals set out under the Management Plan and the CSR Initiative Policy. 7 Overview of Cosmo Oil Group Businesses Business Segments Business operations Oil Exploration and Production Crude oil procurement, Marine transport exploration and production The Cosmo Oil Group purchases crude oil from oil-producing countries, promotes independent Procuring crude oil through independent Increasing the efficiency of crude oil development of crude oil in cooperation with these development and from oil-producing transport with joint shipping and large-sized countries, and transports crude oil to refineries in Japan. countries tankers. Refining and manufacturing Refining and Sales The Group produces gasoline, kerosene, and other Producing gasoline, diesel, and kerosene to petroleum products and sells/delivers these products to meet market needs service stations, oil depots, and users across Japan. Petrochemicals manufacturing Petrochemicals The Group also manufactures and sells petrochemical products, including xylene and other raw materials used Maintaining a production system and meeting in such everyday household goods as clothing and PET increased demand bottles. Wind power generation ALA Environment In addition to undertaking wind power generation, the Realizing mass production and lower costs Group is focusing on the production of ALA for ALA, an important amino acid to promote (5-aminolevulinic acid) in the plants and agriculture field. Wind power generation facilities across Japan plant growth Cosmo Oil Oil Exploration and Production Refining and Sales Group Crude oil procurement, Refining and manufacturing ◎ Kansai Cosmo Logistics Co., Ltd. ○ TOCOS Car Support Co., Ltd. Companies exploration and production Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. ◎ Sakaide Cosmo Kosan Co., Ltd. ○ Cosmo Reform Co., Ltd. ◎ Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) ◎ Cosmo Oil Lubricants Co., Ltd. ○ Chiba Cosmo Koun Co., Ltd. ○ Amtecs Co., Ltd. ◎Q  atar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. Transport in Japan ○ Cosmo Lubricants Services Co., ◎ Cosmo Petroleum Gas Co., Ltd. (Japan) Ltd. ○ Tohoku Cosmo Gas Co., Ltd. ○ Tozai Oil Terminal Co., Ltd. ◎C  osmo Oil Ashmore Co., Ltd. ◎ Yokkaichi LPG Terminal Co., Ltd. ○ Osadano Gas Center Co., Ltd. ◎ Hokuto Kogyo Co., Ltd. ○U  nited Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. ◎ Cosmo Kaiun Co., Ltd. Sales in Japan (Japan) ◎ Cosmo Delivery Service Co., Ltd. ◎ Cosmo Oil Sales Corp. Import/export of crude oil and ◎ Cosmo Petro Service Co., Ltd. ◎ Sogo Energy Corp. Legend: petroleum products ◎ Cosmo Techno Yokkaichi Co., ◎ Cosmo Property Service Corp. ◎: C onsolidated ◎ Cosmo Oil (U.K.) Plc. Ltd. ○ Sakurabashisangyo Co., Ltd. subsidiary ◎ Cosmo Oil International Pte. Ltd. ○: E quity-method ◎ Cosmo Oil of U.S.A. Inc. affiliated company Storage As of March 31, 2013 ○ Okinawa CTS Corp. 8 Initiatives for the future Export of petroleum products More crude oil exploration and production ● Increasing production in existing lots in Qatar ● Starting early production in the new Hail oilfield in Abu Dhabi ● Ongoing drilling in promising lots Exporting petroleum products from Japan, according to demand Customers, homes, and industry Stronger initiatives for profit Transport in Japan Sales in Japan stabilization ● Reconstructing the supply system ● Strengthening the retail business Safe and stable refinery operations ● Improving safety management systems ● Restarting the Chiba Refinery Selecting the means of transport, taking Supporting motoring lifestyles through cost, distance and location into service station sales, while emphasizing See page 10 for details consideration regional characteristics Strengthening the paraDistribution and sales xylene (PX) business ● Starting PX production in Seosan, Storage South Korea, by Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical Co., Ltd. Stockpiling at least 70 days worth of private crude oil reserves Research and development Strengthening the renewable energy business ● Expanding profits in the wind power generation business See page 12 for details Expanding the ALA business ● Expanding ALA applications in the healthcare, cosmetics, and health Researching more advanced manufacturing food fields technologies and developing environmentally friendly products Petrochemicals Environment Other Businesses Petrochemicals Wind power generation ◎ Eco World Kuzumaki Wind ◎ Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd. ○ Senshinsya Co., Ltd. manufacturing ◎ EcoPower Co., Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. ◎ Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd. ○ Summit Trading Co., L.L.C. ◎ Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd. ◎ Hazaki Wind Farm Co., Ltd. ○ Akita Wind Power ◎ Cosmo Business Support Co., ○ Musashi International Co. W.L.L. ◎ CM Aromatics Co., Ltd. ◎ Choshi Wind Farm Co., Ltd. Laboratory Co., Ltd. Ltd. ○ Abu Dhabi Enterprises (Japan) ○ Maruzen Petrochemical Co., ◎ Dangamine Wind Farm ○ GotoKishiku Wind Power ◎ Cosmo Computer Center Co., Co., Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Laboratory Co., Ltd. Ltd. ○ A.D. Marine Inc. ○ Hyundai Cosmo Petrochem ○ Ikata Eco Park Co., Ltd. ALA business ◎ Cosmo Research Institute ◎ Cosmo Oil (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Co.,Ltd. ○ Wakkanai Wind Power Co., ◎ Cosmo ALA Co., Ltd. ○ Cosmo Sea Farming Inc. ◎ Cosmo Oil Europe B.V. Ltd. ○ TOCOS Enterprise Co., Ltd. Eco-friendly product ○ Kitagas Fureasuto Hakodate ◎ Tachikawa Wind Power manufacturing Minami Co., Ltd. Laboratory Co., Ltd. ○ Cosmo Eco Support Inc. 9 Special Feature Targeting Further Growth 1 Safe and Stable Refinery Operation Steady Innovation to Due to the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011 and an asphalt leak accident in June 2012, the Cosmo Oil Group shut down its main refinery, the Chiba Refinery, for an extended period of time. This resulted in deterioration in the Group’s financial position, while serving as a reminder that safe refinery operation is the ultimate foundation of profitability. With a focus on the Chiba Refinery, the Group is implementing various changes to ensure safe refinery operation. Through these efforts, the Group intends to improve the profitability of its oil refining and sales business as well as achieve continuous growth. Reforming the Refinery Safety Creation of a Refinery Safety Reform Management System Committee In order to improve safety management, the refinery safety The Cosmo Oil Group refineries have been working on the and environmental administration system was reorganized elimination of safety issues through Change 21 Activities in fiscal 2012. A Safety & Environment (Control) Office at since 2006. However, the safety targets were not achieved each refinery was separated into two sections: a Safety due to the accident at the Chiba Refinery. Focusing on Promotion Section which promotes disaster preparedness refinery safety as the Group’s most important management and safety management within the refinery, and a Safety & issue, the Refinery Safety Reform Committee was Environment (Control) Section which performs established in March 2013 to function as a core environmental management and oversees compliance with organization in tracking, evaluating and revising refinery laws relating to security and the environment. These two safety measures through management based on PDCA sections are supervised by a new Deputy General Manager cycles,1 aiming to realize safe operations and stable supply. at each refinery, thereby strengthening the safety management system. 1. A system for ensuring continual improvement of operation management by implementing four-stage cycles of “plan,” “do,” “check”, and “act.” Refinery Safety Reform Committee Instructions and guidance for each safety activity Chairman: President Members: G  Ms of relevant departments, Reports by each working group on results such as measure Vice chairmen: R isk Management Officer/ refineries and plants effectiveness and companyWorking Group on Safety Management Supply Business Officer Observers: Auditors wide application Reports by refinery and plant GMs on safety activities and progress Working Group on Maintenance Management Working Group on Operation Management Chiba Refinery Yokkaichi Refinery Sakai Refinery Sakaide Refinery Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd. and Human Resources Development Road towards 2011 Restarting the Chiba Refinery March 11 April 1 October/December Great East Japan Earthquake Accident Investigation Committee including outside Disaster drill conducted on the The Cosmo Oil Chiba Refinery, located triggered a fire and explosions experts set up. scenario of a major earthquake in Ichihara City, Chiba Prefecture, was at the liquefied petroleum gas followed by a fire, involving April 5 (LPG) facilities of the Chiba 300 people and confirming forced to halt operations due to the Refinery. Fire extinguished on Chiba Refinery Recovery Committee launched to ensure coordination and Great East Japan Earthquake in March March 21 with the assistance of the safe and efficient recovery of the LPG facilities, communication with nearby the Ichihara City Fire using the findings of the Accident Investigation companies and the supervisory 2011 and an asphalt leak in June Committee. Department. authorities. Training on 2012. Production was increased at the August 2 providing information to local Yokkaichi, Sakai, and Sakaide Accident investigation completed, confirming accident residents also conducted. refineries while operations at the Chiba causes and proposing preventive measures: Refinery were being restored and its (1) implementation of comprehensive safety inspections; (2) improvement of contingency response; and safety management system improved. (3) management of preventive measures and implementation at other refineries. 10 Ensure Sustainable Growth Renovating the Chiba Refinery and Increasing Long-Term Safety In order to realize safe refinery operations and stable supply, the Cosmo Oil Group is carrying out various Chiba Refinery Safety Management Activities tangible and intangible initiatives. On the tangible side, the Group is strengthening the repair and maintenance of refinery equipment, including a 28-billion-yen investment in ● S afety patrols indicate equipment hazards and the renovation of the Chiba Refinery. Through the repair check that corrections are implemented and updating of an even wider range of equipment, the Equipment ● E quipment repair and updating carried out initiatives according to plan Group is countering the overall effects of aging and ● T horough inspection carried out to ensure ensuring long-term safety. soundness and reliability of equipment As for intangible initiatives, the Group is ensuring safety by using PDCA cycles under the theme of frontline capacity building and legal compliance. With support from outside consulting firms and safety experts, the accidents ● T raining on special provisions such as in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 were thoroughly investigated hazard-prevention regulations provided to all Safety employees and operational processes are being redesigned. education ● S afety training by outside instructors provided and training to all employees ● D rill conducted using a large-scale disaster scenario with the Ichihara City Fire Department ● Risk assessment performed for near-miss accidents and measures taken Risk ● Hazard prediction before the start of operations assessment ● Non-routine work carried out based on thorough awareness of work procedures and Safety Conference on Regular Maintenance risks In October 2012, a safety conference was held to reconfirm safety targets for the autumn scheduled maintenance at the Chiba Refinery. It was an opportunity to raise awareness of the goals of safe operations and zero accidents not only within Cosmo Oil, but also at partner companies. (Left: Katsuhisa Ohtaki, General Manager, Chiba Refinery. Right: Safety conference) July 24 2012 2013 Both CDUs in operation January 12 June 28 July 10 January 30 Some refining equipment Asphalt leaked from a tank, Accident Investigation No. 2 CDU restarted after restarted after safety inspection, some of which spilled into the Committee including outside it was completely safe, as backed by united efforts of the ocean. The Group took academic experts and a step towards full Both CDUs in operation entire Group for recovery. measures including installing an representatives of relevant recovery. after the No. 2 CDU was Preparation was also carried out oil fence to prevent further organizations established. restarted upon May 10 completion of for restarting the rest of the spread, and recovered the September 13 No. 1 CDU restarted for facility, based on safety leaked asphalt. maintenance. This inspections showing thorough Accident investigation crude oil processing when brought crude oil safety confirmation. completed, confirming No. 2 CDU was shut down accident causes and for regular maintenance. processing back to the March 20 proposing preventive level prior to the Great No. 2 Crude Distillation Unit measures (i.e., enhanced East Japan Earthquake. (CDU) started up, resuming management of An increase in revenues production of petroleum maintenance and operation is expected due to the products from crude oil. of asphalt tanks). elimination of alternative supply costs and the resumption of exports. 11 Special Feature New Horizons for Cosmo Oil 2 Power Generation Business There are rising expectations for renewable energy as a domestic and environmentally friendly energy source that can address social issues such as natural resource depletion, energy supply stability, and global warming. Further development is expected for wind power in particular, which is comparatively low cost and can also generate power at night. The Cosmo Oil Group has built new wind farms, embracing the challenge of the renewable energy business to help build a more sustainable society. Expanding Expanding the the Business Business Portfolio Portfolio with Sustainable Energy 1 Maximizing output March Acquisition of EcoPower Co., Ltd March 31 EcoPower Co., Ltd. achieves profitability Equipment Equipment availability rate: 94.9% 100 availability rate: Cosmo Oil acquired from existing EcoPower to further 91.0% equipment develop its wind power business after Working to enhance 90 launching commercial maintenance in order to operation of a wind Equipment improve operating rates power plant in Sakata availability rate: and reduce downtime due City, Yamagata to malfunctions. Prefecture in 2004. 81.2% 80 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific measures for enhancing Past issues Initiatives to ● maintenance Maintenance technology improve ● Additional personnel and skill training ➡ not yet reliable equipment ● ● Inventory management for spare parts and P arts procurement at the availability time of accidents development of global procurement channels rates ● Maintenance measures ● Improvement of repair methods to enable rapid recovery and better maintenance 12 Solar Power Business Built on Unused Land In March 2013, Cosmo Oil established CSD Solar, a joint venture with Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. and the Development Bank of Japan Inc., marking the Company’s full-scale entry into the massive-scale solar (“mega solar”) power business. Solar panels will be installed on eight sites, including the Company’s former oil depots whose operations were ceased due to a direct delivery system from refineries to service stations. The panels were made by Solar Frontier K.K., a subsidiary of Showa Shell Sekiyu. The eight mega solar sites, which will start operation sequentially as Overview of the Mega Solar Business construction is completed, are ● Managed by CSD Solar expected to output a total of ● Generation capacity: Approx. 24,000 kW 24,000 kW. ● U  ses panels manufactured by Solar Frontier Through its mega solar power ● Eight sites to be constructed, including on the former sites business, the Cosmo Oil Group will of Ohgishima Oil Terminal (jointly owned by Cosmo Oil work to create a safe, clean and and Showa Shell) and the Cosmo Oil Hitachi Depot Mega solar power plant (provided for illustrative sustainable energy supply in Japan. purposes only) Strengthening the Wind Power Generation Business After the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Japanese wind power business was brought into the Group. public has higher expectations for renewable energy. The EcoPower achieved profitability in just one year, helping to business environment has also changed significantly with solidify the Group’s efforts to build a new growth the introduction of a feed-in tariff (FIT)1 scheme in July foundation and expand wind power generation. 2012, resulting in an increasing number of renewable energy installations. The Cosmo Oil Group has targeted business portfolio 1. Feed-in tariff scheme is a government initiative requiring electric utilities to purchase renewable energy (wind, solar, hydro, geo-thermal and biomass power) expansion in its new Medium-Term Management Plan. at a fixed price in order to promote renewable energy production. The additional cost to the utilities is partly passed on to consumers in higher electric rates. Renewable energy, and wind power generation in particular, is one of the pillars of this growth strategy. In 2010, the proven expertise of EcoPower Co., Ltd. in the 2 New October: Wakayama Prefecture Scheduled start of the March: Fukushima Prefecture Scheduled start of Aizu Mie Prefecture Scheduled start of a project in Watarai Hirogawa and Hidakagawa Wakamatsu Wind Farm wind farms wind farms Studying sites with good wind conditions in Japan, Estimated output: Estimated output: Estimated output: and building consensus 20,000 kW 16,000 kW 50,000 kW with local governments and residents for the establishment of new wind Also studying the development farms. of wind farms in other locations 2014 2015 2016 3 As an island nation, Japan has a natural interest in offshore wind power. EcoPower participates in the Ministry of the Environment’s Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Demonstration Project as an outside partner, seeking to gain expertise in this area. Potential for Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Demonstration Project offshore wind farms Will generate wind power offshore using floating wind turbines (a 100 kW smallusing floating scale test plant and a 2,000 kW demonstration plant) turbines Location: Offshore Kabashima Island, Goto City, Nagasaki Prefecture Photo: 100 kW small-scale test plant 13 Chapter Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct Live up to customer expectations concerning reliability and satisfaction 1 Initiatives for stable crude procurement Feeling the Responsibility to Support Japan’s Social Infrastructure Crude Oil Group, Crude Oil & Tanker Department, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Takahiro Yamada (Currently at Cosmo Oil of U.S.A. Inc.) Negotiating Contracts for 100 million Always Ready with a Backup Plan in Barrels of Oil Per Year Case of Problems After joining Cosmo Oil in 2009, I worked in the Crude As term contracts are renewed each year in January, the Tanker Group of the Crude Oil & Tanker Department for negotiations begin two or three months prior. For monthly three years. I have now been in the Crude Oil Group for shipment, a detailed plan including the grade and quantity one year. In the Tanker Group, I managed tankers bringing of crude oil, as well as the tanker and loading date is purchased crude oil to refineries in Japan. I now use that submitted to the producing country two months ahead experience in my current position procuring condensate, a of time. kind of crude oil. Spot contracts are determined in meetings held two Specifically, my work mainly consists of negotiating months in advance, concerning the amount of crude contract terms and conditions with producing countries required and the supplier. Since spot contracts make up and making monthly adjustments. There are one-year term about 30% of total procurement, it is important to contracts and monthly spot contracts: Our term contracts ascertain needs two months in advance and get the best cover purchases of 300,000 barrels of oil per day, or 100 conditions possible. Various issues both large and small million barrels per year. arise in the course of this work. Therefore, alternative plans are always prepared, in order to ensure stable procurement of crude oil. ◀ Crude oil tanker: What Is a Barrel? Maersk Hakata A barrel is a unit of volume measurement for oil. In addition to market transactions, it is the unit used to express the size of an oilfield in terms of the amount of crude it can produce. It also measures refinery production capacity and the amount of petroleum products that can be refined. There are various definitions of a barrel depending on the application or country, but a standard barrel of oil is 42 U.S. gallons, or about 159 liters. The tanker shown at right can transport about 2 million Far right barrels of crude oil, the amount the Chiba Refinery can process Negotiation meeting ▶ (at the Cosmo Oil Head in about 9 days. Office) 14 Work and Mission of the Crude Oil Group In order to ensure a stable supply of crude oil, the Cosmo Oil Group began building Main operations Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct relationships of trust and cooperation with Devising and implementing crude oil oil-producing countries in the Middle East from import policies and plans (including Chapter 1, 1 (1) Stable energy supplies crude oil procurement for Japan’s Chapter 6, 3 (1) Honest transactions early on. The Crude Oil Group of the Crude Oil national oil stockpiling) & Tanker Department is responsible for stable Insurance Chapter 1, 1 (1) Stable energy supplies procurement of crude oil, at the best possible price, which is used to make petroleum Chapter 5, 2 (2) A ppropriate information Preparing and submitting data to disclosure products. Crude oil is procured from other government agencies, as well as Chapter 6, 3 (5) B uild highly transparent performance reports and external relationships with regions as well, such as East Asia and South reports government and administrative agencies America, based on the right price and quality. 4 (1) Handle information properly Visiting the Far Eastern Branch of the Economic Research Institute at Seeking to Understand the World of the Russian Academy of Sciences (top) and the Far Eastern Federal Crude Oil from a Broader Perspective University (bottom) Maintaining Stable Supply through Careful In addition to the large amounts of money involved in this Negotiations work, it is a heavy responsibility to handle procurement of The Crude Oil Group procures oil from oil-producing a product that supports the foundations of daily life. If any countries, traders, and trading companies, and sells any problems arise in procurement or planning, the economy surplus that is not refined. It performs various controls and and production activities in Japan could even be impacted. procedures including insuring the process from purchase, to I joined this company because I want to do a job that loading and shipping. supports the national interest of Japan. This job is never Our greatest mission is to ensure a stable supply of oil, easy. For example, since the price of crude oil fluctuates which is the foundation of industry. Therefore, communication due to the effects of speculation, I need to have knowledge is actually the most important skill we have. Even in the main not only of price and production trends in producing procurement region of the Middle East, social conditions and countries, but also hedging. Petroleum is a vitally important cultures vary substantially from country factor in the social infrastructure. By getting to know this to country, which I learned during my world better and further broadening my perspective, I three-year posting in Abu Dhabi. would like to help generate even greater trust and The most important thing is to satisfaction among customers. communicate with people politely and sincerely, based on a good understanding of that country’s people and culture. This is the key to securing stable procurement of oil at the best price possible. Crude Oil Group Manager, Crude Oil & Tanker Department Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Eitaro Sakaya 15 Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct We aspire to become a safe, accident-free company Safety at service stations Chapter Putting Customer 2 Safety First by Strengthening Safety Measures Ryoichi Katsushika Manager, Car Care Station Ishinomaki Higashi, Sendai Branch Minato Corporation (Cosmo Oil dealer) When the Quake Struck The First Step Toward Reconstruction The station was operating normally when the quake hit. It When I went back to the service station at dawn the next started shaking so violently I couldn’t stay upright without day, there was nothing left—only the framework of the holding on to something. I wasn’t even able to get under a building. Everything else had been washed away. After table. I had never experienced anything like it before. being in business at this location for more than thirty years, We sent home the part-time staff soon afterwards. The I was at a loss. Despite it all, some customers urged me station couldn’t operate due to the power outage, and a to reopen. In May, we set up a generator amongst the tsunami warning was issued on the radio. As the remaining rubble to run one fuel pump, and started providing gas for employees were closing up the station, I heard one of the interim. them yell, “It’s here!” I saw the breakwater disappear and The reconstruction work began on February 1, 2012, the tsunami wiping out a pine forest, coming our way. I and the station was completely rebuilt in two months. Of yelled, “Everybody run!” We took refuge in a five-story course, measures were taken to prepare for any future apartment building as the water came up to the second earthquakes and tsunamis. We have a generator, a floor. If it had come any faster, we probably wouldn’t have waterproof fuel pump, and a portable, emergency fuel made it. pump which refuels directly from the underground tank on power from a car battery. A satellite phone and an evacuation ladder to the roof of the building have also been installed. ◀ W ith staff (Katsushika second from left) Disaster preparedness equipment: Satellite phone ▲ Generator ▶ Waterproof fuel pump ▶ Evacuation ladder to the rooftop (left to right) ▶ 16 Making Every Effort to Support Service Station Operations Reconstruction Timeline for the Ishinomaki Higashi Service Station The Ishinomaki Higashi Service Station was 2011 March 11 Great East Japan Earthquake Damage situation forced to halt operations due to the Great East Canopy Partly damaged Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011. The Building Debris inside service station was fully reopened on April 20, Fuel pumps All destroyed 2012, after reinforcing safety measures based Car wash and Washed away fire containment fence on lessons from the quake. With the aim of Sign pole Wiring damage ensuring zero accidents, all Cosmo Group Concrete slab Broken up frontline employees maintain high safety awareness and the Group has introduced May 28 Start of interim operations accident prevention technologies and systems. 2012 February 1 Start of reconstruction Introduction of Disaster Preparedness Equipment Flood-resistant Can dispense fuel even after being temporarily multi-fuel pump submerged in a flood (1 pump) Emergency fuel Can dispense fuel directly above the pump underground tank during a power outage Generator Enables operation during an power outage Evacuation Allows evacuation to the office rooftop during ladder flooding LED sign Reduces maintenance costs and environmental impact due to low power consumption and long LED lighting life April 20 Full restoration Photo shows current Ishinomaki Valuing Ties with Local Customers Higashi Service Station The Ishinomaki Higashi Service Station is next to a residential area and has close ties to the community. We have many warm-hearted, long-term customers and some come from far away. Although the fuel pumps are selfAiming for Even Better Results service, we wash customer’s cars by hand, just like the As a sales representative, I have been working to support good old days. We love it whenever a customer strikes up service stations’ efforts to improve their operations for three a friendly conversation. years. The Ishinomaki Higashi Service Station is very As a community-based service station, we intend to important to Cosmo Oil due to its excellent sales and maintain our strong ties with customers and make operations. The station is such an integral part of the ourselves indispensable to the area. By learning from the community that local customers urged it to reopen soon after experience of the earthquake, we aim to be a safe service the disaster. This is mainly due to the station without any accidents, always prepared for a personality of the station manager, disaster. I believe this is my role, and this is what motivates Ryoichi Katsushika. He has also earned a me every day. lot of trust from employees. We received the request to reopen the station only a month after the earthquake. We wanted to move faster, but full-scale reconstruction could not start until February 2012 due to delays in the overall recovery effort and a shortage of personnel. I think the period of interim operations was the most difficult. My goal is to assist the station to achieve even higher sales than before the earthquake. Sales Group, Sendai Branch Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Yohei Naito 17 Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct We value people Developing global human resources Chapter 3 Empowering Employees with the Big Picture Manager, Cosmo Oil International Pte. Ltd. Minako Fujimoto Women Play a Major Role in Singapore A Business Hub for Human and Information Exchange Cosmo Oil International is a Cosmo Oil subsidiary located in Singapore. We carry out specific purchase and sales As a center for trade in Asia, Singapore has a dense negotiations with oil companies and traders, based on concentration of people and information. This means it is detailed plans from the Petroleum Product Department vital to maintain good communication with people here and Supply Department of the Cosmo Oil Head Office and build relationships based on trust. These related to domestic production and import/export of interpersonal relationships keep me plugged into a lot of petroleum products, including gasoline and kerosene. information, and sometimes this can have a significant We have eight staff: five local hires and three impact on our business. employees from Cosmo Oil in Japan. I am the only woman However, Singapore is also a fiercely competitive among the employees from Japan, but four of the local society, and just being here in itself is not going to hires are women. There are many career women in provide me with more information than being in Japan. Singapore. In every industry, you can find expat female To succeed here, you have to reach out to people and employees of my generation, and I have gotten to know a work on your relationships every day, and you always lot of people outside the company since coming here. have to keep your eyes open. And of course, relationships need to involve both giving and receiving information because information is never free. Left to right ◀ Merlion Park ◀ Singapore skyline Left to right Monitoring the market ▶ Meeting at the office ▶ 18 The People the Cosmo Oil Group Needs Preparing Employees to Seize Opportunities Singapore is a leading center for global oil transactions. Many petroleum companies have oil trading offices here. With Ms. Fujimoto’s wealth of knowledge, outstanding communication skills, and great personality, she is able to build relationships of trust with many oil traders and related companies. She really gets things done. In a global business, it is important to understand the customs, cultures, and religions of different countries and regions, and to build relationships of trust by acting with sincerity. This is why we need human resources that can think The Cosmo Oil Group understands that for themselves, who are able to quickly recognize changes in employees are the driving force behind the the business atmosphere and market and reliably seize good business. Employees are the ones that actually business opportunities. Experience with people in the field is provide the products and services that society the most important factor for understanding the perspectives needs. In addition to creating workplaces that of others and creating win-win business opportunities. are positive and supportive, and evaluating employees fairly based on their competence and abilities, the Group has been implementing new work arrangements that help employees balance work and personal life. Singapore office Becoming a Trusted Source of Information for Many Since joining Cosmo Oil, people tell me that I have been really fortunate: I’ve been doing work that interests me under supportive superiors. Working in Singapore was one of my ambitions. I have more opportunities here to meet people outside the company than I did in Japan, so now I see myself not just as an individual, but also as a representative of the company. In the future, I want to use my experience to perform my job from a broad perspective on the logistical operations of the entire company. Therefore, I would like to make good use of my current situation to gain even greater knowledge and experience, and ultimately become a trusted source of information for people in and outside the company. Managing Director, Cosmo Oil International Pte. Ltd. Nobuhiro Tenkumo 19 Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct We take care of the global environment Environmental initiatives Striving to Prevent Accidents and Minimize Risk: Soil Preservation Chapter 4 The Cosmo Oil Group works hard to provide environmentally friendly petroleum products. It is also striving to ensure the next generation will inherit a healthy global environment, by for example, offering renewable energies and protecting biodiversity. The Group conducts careful study, management and inspection to ascertain the environmental impact and risks associated with its business activities and makes continual improvements. Environment & Technology Group, Safety & Environment Control Department1 Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Yuya Takagi 1. As of June 25, 2013, the Safety & Environment Control Department has been reorganized as the CSR & Environmental Affairs Department in the Risk Management Unit. Preventing Soil Contamination and Responding Quickly and Properly with Minimizing Risk Central Information Management The public is concerned about soil contamination. Service The primary objective of soil surveys is to quantify soil stations are a part of the local community, so any contamination. There are various forms of soil contamination at one would create anxiety for nearby contamination depending on the type and concentration of residents and harm public confidence. As a part of its oil, the soil properties, and the groundwater. Central advanced environmental initiatives, in August 2004 information management helps to minimize risk to soil and Cosmo Oil set up an organization dedicated to the ensures a quick and proper response. centralized management of its soil preservation efforts, If the results of a soil survey indicate a problem, we called the Environment & Technology Group. carefully determine the impact in relation to the This group is focused on preventing soil surrounding environment. Then we determine the scope, contamination, and also ensures a quick response in the technique and schedule for soil remediation. With the event of an oil leak to minimize risk to soil. The group reorganization of service stations owned by Cosmo Oil, checks the equipment at sites and service stations within soil surveys were conducted at 51 locations in fiscal 2012. the Cosmo Oil Group, conducts soil surveys, and As of last year, 1,007 service stations had been surveyed, undertakes soil remediation. and the necessary surveys were mostly completed. Number of Soil Surveys at Service Stations Owned by Cosmo Oil 1,007 925 956 875 718 595 Cumulative number of surveys Annual number of surveys 172 157 123 50 51 31 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ▲ Survey using ground radar ▲ Soil sampling by boring ▲ Storing soil samples for testing (Fiscal year) 20 The Potential of 5-Amino Levulinic Acid (ALA) Utilizing the Benefits of ALA for the Global Environment ALA is a naturally occurring amino acid present in all living organisms. Although it has long been utilized for cancer drugs, it is difficult to produce and very expensive, impeding the development of new applications. In 1999, the Cosmo Oil Group developed fermentationbased ALA mass production technology. In 2003, the Group launched the PENTAKEEP series, the world’s first liquid fertilizer containing ALA. This fertilizer promotes the growth of plants and can help prevent declines in crop yield due to climate change. The Group is pursuing the full potential of ALA in areas such as livestock feed, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and health food. Helping to solve social issues such as the need for more food production and better health is yet another way the Cosmo Oil Group is building a more sustainable society. Taking the Time to Address Concerns Soil preservation is technical and complex, and tends to have a bad image. People are usually quite concerned PENTAGARDEN series of liquid fertilizers about it. At one service station we surveyed, the neighbors were very worried about soil contamination at first, but we New Lineup alleviated their concerns by patiently explaining the survey In March 2013, the Group released a methods and action we would take. I have learned that it solid fertilizer, PENTAGARDEN Pellet, is very important to listen carefully to people and provide to complement its liquid fertilizers. The product is 80% organic material for a them with polite, accurate explanations. slow-release effect, and 20% chemical Cosmo Oil’s strength lies in how we carefully address fertilizer which works faster. It is each case while making the most of central information popular for use indoors or on management and our accumulated expertise in soil balconies that do not get much sun preservation. In order to increase confidence in Cosmo Oil and also for improving garden soil. as an environmentally advanced company, we want to continue addressing soil issues with great sincerity. History of the Cosmo Oil Group’s ALA Business 1995 Growth-promoting effects of ALA in plants discovered Improvement of Equipment and Facilities For new service stations, 1999 Fermentation-based ALA mass production technology invented Cosmo Oil is installing equipment with very low 2003 PENTAKEEP liquid fertilizer released in Japan leakage risk, such as Double-walled tank corrosion-free resin pipes 2004 Cosmo Seiwa Agriculture Co., Ltd. established (now Leak detector Cosmo ALA Co., Ltd.) and double-walled tanks. For existing service stations, Sales start outside Japan the Company is replacing and reinforcing piping as 2006 PENTAGARDEN for home gardening released necessary, and is improving metal equipment through 2013 PENTAGARDEN Pellet (with organic material) released cathodic protection. 21 Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct We value communications with society Refineries contributing to the local community Chapter 5 Cleaning Up to Show Appreciation General Affairs Section, General Affairs Department Sakaide Cosmo Kosan Co., Ltd. Kaori Tanikawa / Toshihisa Okawa Volunteer Cleanup Activities Stimulating Internal Communication The Sakaide Refinery has been helping with local In addition to beautifying the community, these cleanups community cleanups since 2007. The refinery also holds offer the opportunity to talk with people, even those from its own neighborhood cleanup activities each spring and my own company, who I wouldn’t ordinarily see. It’s fun to fall. Bulletin boards around the worksite promote the talk with new friends at the post-cleanup barbeque. events, and employees volunteer. I grew up here in Kagawa Prefecture, and I wanted to The first time I joined a local cleanup, the shoreline was work for a local company. So I joined Cosmo Oil in quality not as littered as I had expected. Apparently that particular testing at the Sakaide Refinery. While learning about the beach was once covered in plastic bottles washed ashore, petroleum business, something that was completely new so these regular cleanups must be making a difference. A to me, I thought it would be great to be able to lot of people from our refinery were there, and we had a lot contribute to the local community via this kind of of fun. Even the little children were working hard to pick up volunteer activity. I will certainly participate garbage, so I also felt I had to do my best. again. (Tanikawa) Employees and their families ◀ Shoreline cleanup Barbeque afterwards ▶ 22 Responsibility to Ensure Community Safety Creating Accident Prevention Systems Our disaster preparedness work involves a 24-hour system of refinery safety and security. The two main areas are safety management to prevent accidents, and acting to minimize damage in the event of an accident. Specifically, we carry out onsite facility security, and perform firefighting with our own brigade when a fire occurs. Although there have been no major accidents so far, we hold a comprehensive disaster drill four times a year. We also participate in annual disaster drills held in cooperation with local petroleum industrial complexes. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, people’s awareness of disaster preparedness has really increased. By strengthening our initial The Cosmo Oil Group works hard at earthquake response system, based on the scenario of an communicating with the public to earn trust. earthquake in the Nankai Trough, we are working to ensure By fostering a corporate culture where all peace of mind for everyone in the community. employees strive to contribute to society, the Group is strengthening local communities and fostering good relations by sharing the fun of making the world a better place. Showing Appreciation The garbage found on the beach is not left there by the locals, but rather brought in by the ocean. Most of the plastic bottles, styrene foam and other rubbish are made from petrochemicals. So it makes sense that we help pick them up. We have been refining oil here for more than 40 Disaster drills years and, although that ended in July 2013, we continue, as an oil terminal, to supply petroleum products to the local community. These cleanups give us a way to show our appreciation to the community, and they also promote interaction and cooperation among employees. (Okawa, Manager) Sakaide Refinery As part of a supply system reorganization, in August 2012 Cosmo Oil announced that refining operations would end at the Sakaide Refinery. Refining ended in July 2013, but the site continues to operate as an oil terminal and distribution base that ensures a stable supply of petroleum products for Western Japan. Manager, Disaster Prevention Section, General Affairs Department Sakaide Cosmo Kosan Co., Ltd. Toshifumi Ozaki 23 Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct We strive to maintain our position as an honest company Dialogue with stakeholders Cosmo Oil’s Obligation to Maintain Public Confidence Chapter 6 Director and Senior Executive Officer Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Hirohiko Ogiwara Employees Who See Things Like the Being Aware of Risk and Facing It Public Have Greater Safety Awareness Head On Ogiwara: The fire and explosions at the Chiba Refinery at Ogiwara: What do you think of Cosmo Oil’s the time of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the responsibilities and risk management as a provider of asphalt leak in June 2012 caused much concern and Japan’s petroleum energy? inconvenience, especially among local residents. Seeking Kikkawa: It is important to remain aware how big the risks to respond, in April of this year we established the CSR are: this was emphasized by the nuclear accident. The BP Initiative Policy—Filling Up Your Hearts and Safety, and we oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010 caused extensive are determined to regain public confidence within two years. damage. So I was quite impressed, when I visited Please share your thoughts on how we can raise employee Louisiana recently, that most people had nothing bad to awareness and promote a stronger culture of safety. say about BP. This likely reflects BP’s thorough cleanup Kikkawa: I think you’re already doing everything you can activities and information disclosure. While recognizing the as a company to improve public confidence. It is important size of the risks, the Company must also face them head not to lose sight of your good reputation—employees need on. This is something that needs to be thoroughly to have confidence in how Cosmo Oil is seen by society. understood by everyone in the Company. The earthquake reminded us all of the importance of Ogiwara: I agree. The primary goal is to prevent accidents oil in modern society: oil and LP gas were the main energy from happening in the first place. We need to keep total sources that saved people’s lives. For example, there safety management top priority to prevent accidents, yet were many cases where a Cosmo Oil service station be ready to take proper measures quickly if one occurs. helped people recover from the quake. By sharing each of Business continuity is also important. Emergency drills these stories with employees, you can raise their morale need to be carried out and confidence. according to a business continuity plan. Loading operation 24 Profile of Takeo Kikkawa Born in Wakayama Prefecture in 1951, As a key energy provider in Japan, the Cosmo Kikkawa earned a Ph.D. in economics from The University of Tokyo. After Oil Group engages in a business with a high teaching at Aoyama Gakuin University degree of public interest. What should the and then The University of Tokyo, he Group be doing to maintain public confidence was named Professor at the Graduate School of Commerce and Management and live up to the expectations of society? We of Hitotsubashi University. invited Professor Takeo Kikkawa of Professor Kikkawa has authored many publications including Denryoku Kaikaku Hitotsubashi University to give us his opinions (“Reformation of the Electric Power concerning the Group’s compliance and risk Industry”), Kodansha. He has also written numerous histories of the energy management initiatives. industry including Hiyaku e no Kakehashi (May 2013) (“Bridging the Way Forward”), which covers 20 years of Cosmo Oil’s history. New Concession for Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. In December 2012, Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd., a Cosmo Oil Group company, was granted a new concession covering not only its three existing oilfields, but also an additional undeveloped concession area, the Hail Field. This achievement is due to the 40-year operating record of Abu Dhabi Oil and its environmental and production technologies. It is also a reflection of how the UAE values Japan as a friendly and reliable partner. The Hail Field is expected to have production yield equaling the three existing fields. Abu Dhabi Oil will Professor, Graduate School of strive for an early start of Commerce and Management Hitotsubashi University Takeo Kikkawa production in the Hail Field, and the expanded output will ensure a safe and stable supply of oil for the next 30 years. CSR—A Great Corporate Asset Cake cutting ceremony Kikkawa: Your promotional campaign “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” has steadily caught the attention of the Japanese public. Rather than just being a marketing slogan, this phrase directly expresses Cosmo Oil’s commitment to corporate social responsibility. Employees must know that the message has reached the public and should carry out their work accordingly. Your commitment to CSR is a great asset and it is viewed favorably by society. I think this is true not only in Japan, but overseas as well. Ogiwara: Thank you. We really want to do our best to live up to this promise. Kikkawa: The employees of the Cosmo Oil Group, especially the younger ones, should be made aware of what the Group has achieved in Abu Dhabi. I think Cosmo Oil is the Japanese company that the leaders of Abu Dhabi trust most. Ogiwara: Last December, the Group’s development rights in Abu Dhabi were renewed for 30 years. The Group also obtained new development rights for the Hail Field, which shows our relationship of trust with the country is becoming stronger. Kikkawa: You should respect and make the most of the trust you have earned as a petroleum company that runs a supply chain extending from oil exploration and production to service station operation. Related Special Feature 1: Targeting Further Growth— Safe and information, p. 10 Stable Refinery Operation Related information, p. 30 Priority Item 2: Working with Integrity 25 Fiscal 2012 Initiatives Results and Issues for the Third Consolidated Medium-Term CSR Management Plan for Fiscal 2010–2012 Based on the Third Consolidated Medium-Term CSR Overall, the qualitative targets were mostly achieved. Management Plan, the Cosmo Oil Group carried out CSR However, some quantitative targets fell short of the goal for and environmental management initiatives with the following the second and third objectives above. While the CSR five objectives: (1) Improve functioning of CSR promotion management principles continued to take root, the Group structure; (2) Strengthen safety management; (3) Enhance will work to promote greater implementation of CSR human rights/personnel policies; (4) Promote environmental activities based on these principles, and it will put them initiatives; and (5) Promote communication activities that into practice. respond to society. Fiscal 2012 Initiatives and Results under the Third Consolidated Medium-Term CSR Management Plan (Fiscal 2010–2012) Priority Items Themes Major Activity Policy/Goals Fiscal 2012 Results Strengthen structures for Review the appointment and duties of personnel in charge of CSR promotion • CSR staff kept employees informed of the activities of the Group’s 6 CSR-related committees improving implementation to enhance the Group’s CSR promotion system and advanced CSR initiatives at their departments and companies. Further increase recognition and • Implemented internal corporate ethics training from October 2012 to February 2013 (3,798 • Continue regular internal training understanding of Code of participants) • Implement monitoring (CSR Status Survey) Conduct • Informed the Group of results from the CSR Status Survey conducted in November 2012 Improve functioning of • R evised the rules for decision-making authority in July 2012 (to clarify the roles of CSR promotion structure Promote efficient operations in Standardize and simplify business operations by using internal confirmation givers and approvers) conformity with company rules infrastructures, and strengthen information management • Revised the insider trading prevention rules in November 2012 and manuals • Revised the rules on use of the corporate seal • Identify risks on a company-wide basis and establish countermeasures • Identified Company-wide risks and revised countermeasures during March and April 2013 Restructure risk management • Conduct continual education and training on business continuity plan • Conducted BCP drills in March 2013 for scenarios involving earthquakes in Tokyo and the structure (BCP) Tokai, Tonankai, and Nankai regions Strengthen safety Refineries and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil: Achieve and maintain a record of • M anufacturing: Unsafe and failure incidents slightly decreased to 112 compared with 117 in management (Third zero accidents; reduce unsafe and failure incidents1 by 90% or more from the benchmark year Raise safety level by setting Consolidated the benchmark year2 by 2012 • Implemented measures to prevent reoccurrence of asphalt leak quantitative targets for reducing Medium-Term Safety accidents, assessing results and Offices and Group companies: Continue and develop safety management • D istribution: 4 work-related accidents and 9 accidents/incidents (including 5 oil-mixing Plan) making improvements activities to meet objectives, i.e., reduce or eliminate work-related accidents, 2 maritime accidents, 1 traffic accident, and 1 oil spill) → S ee p. 28 for more details. accidents, reduce or eliminate accidents/incidents • Marketing and other departments: 16 work-related accidents and 6 incidents Respect human rights: Prevent Achieve participation rate of 80% or more in human rights training for harassment, eliminate Achieved participation rate of 87% Cosmo Oil employees discrimination Respect diversity/equal Maintain and improve employment rate of people with disabilities (higher Enhance human rights/ opportunity: Maintain fairness in Achieved employment rate of 2.20% at Cosmo Oil than the legally mandated rate of 1.8%) personnel policies (Third hiring Consolidated Promote physical and mental Medium-Term Human health care: Prohibit excessive Gradually decrease the number of employees with long working hours (over Rights/Personnel Plan) 478 employees worked excessive hours (up by 32 persons from fiscal 2011) overwork and implement 350 excessive working hours per year) → S ee p. 32 for more specified health exams details. Support balance between work and home life: Promote childcare Maintain or improve the average paid time off utilization rate of employees Achieved goal at Cosmo Oil (83.3%); rates improved at 9 of 18 target Group companies in and family healthcare leave and (Cosmo Oil: 80% or more; Group companies: improve current records) Japan support leisure activities Reduce CO2 emissions by amount equivalent to approx. 3% (0.22 million tonnes) or more of annual emissions in the Group’s business areas (crude • R educed annual CO2 emissions by 0.278 million tonnes (not including CO2 emissions Respond strategically to prevent oil extraction, crude oil transport, refining, and product transport and reduction due to the temporary shutdown of the Chiba Refinery) global warming while ensuring storage at oil depots) by fiscal 2012 (compared to level before • Submitted report summarizing greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with Japan’s Act continuation of business implementation of measures). Reductions achieved by the wind power on the Rational Use of Energy and Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures generation business will be included in overall amount. • Identify environmental risks that may arise at times of normal operations Promote environmental • F or the 5 cases in progress, 3 saw measures implemented, 1 was suspended and 1 is not and times of irregular operations; implement response measures initiatives (Fourth yet completed. • Reduce industrial waste: achieve final disposal rate of less than 0.5% at Consolidated • Final disposal rate of 0.23% at Cosmo Oil and 1.98% for Group companies Cosmo Oil and less than 5.0% for Group companies Medium-Term • Conducted internal/external audits and environmental inspections • Enhance internal/external audits for thorough environmental management Environment Plan) Reduce environmental impact • Systematically implemented soil cleanup, environmental monitoring, and facilities • Adopt rigorous measures to ensure soil preservation → S ee p. 34 for more management based on the environmental impact at various sites • Promote Eco Office activities (Group-wide goal: Reduce copy paper by details. • Group-wide goals were achieved; some Group companies fell short of copy paper reduction 9%, company car fuel consumption by 6%, and office electricity target consumption by 7% from the averages of fiscal 2007–2009) • Followed up on “non-green” suppliers • Promote green purchasing • C ontinued to implement 14 Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund projects, and held eco tour for Cosmo • P romote environmental contribution activities through Cosmo Oil Eco Promote environmental Oil Eco Card cardholders Card Fund contribution activities • Participated in the editing and preparation of Forest Creation Guidelines through • Protect biodiversity intercompany study groups • C  onducted Cosmo Forest activities in Sakai and Matsuyama cities Promote communication Establish effective Maintain communication with all stakeholders, including customers, local • Held Family Concerts in the cities of Sakai and Sakaide activities that respond to communication activities based communities, shareholders, investors and societies around the world • Sent 730 Christmas cards to hospitalized children at 12 hospitals society on stakeholder feedback • 14,372 people participated in Clean Campaign held at 39 locations 1. “Unsafe and failure incidents,” as defined by the Cosmo Oil Group, include the following: extraordinary accidents as defined by the Act on the Prevention of Disaster in Petroleum Industrial Complexes and Other Petroleum Facilities; and trouble, failures and work-related accidents that do not rise to the level of extraordinary accidents. 2. Benchmark year: September 2006–August 2007 26 CSR Initiative Policy: Overview, Issues and Targets for Fiscal 2013–2017 Along with the start of the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Based on progress made under the Third Consolidated Management Plan covering fiscal 2013–2017, the CSR Medium-Term CSR Management Plan, five priority items Initiative Policy for fiscal 2013–2017 has been established were established for the new CSR Initiative Policy. The based on the Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct. In order highest priority items are “Strict safety management” and for all Group employees to become more familiar with “Working with integrity.” The CSR Initiative Policy goes socially responsible management, the name of the hand in hand with the Consolidated Medium-Term Consolidated Medium-Term CSR Management Plan was Management Plan. With all employees working to achieve changed to the CSR Initiative Policy. The additional phrase, the Management Plan, the Cosmo Oil Group is aiming to “Filling Up Your Hearts and Safety” was added, reflecting conduct its business with safety and integrity while the Group’s familiar slogan, “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too.” furthering its contributions to society. Degree of achievement: Achieved (A), Partially achieved (B), Not achieved (C) Results (Fiscal 2010–2012) Achievement Goal and Initiative Themes of Goal Goal for Fiscal 2017 Cosmo Oil Group—Earning social trust and always making a positive contribution to society Initiative Themes Targets were mostly achieved, and the organizational structure for CSR promotion A FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 was implemented along with the activity content Safety and Integrity (Restore social trust) Did not achieve target of reducing accidents by 90% (Share across the organization C Sharing and Self-driven until established as routine) Targets were mostly achieved in other departments including reducing accidents compared to the previous year CSR Promotion Committee reviews initiatives across the Group each fiscal year and reaffirms Achieved participation rate of 80% or more or sets the theme for the next fiscal year. “Safety” means observing rules (both legal and social rules) and maintaining stable, continuous Improved the rate of employment for persons with disabilities operations “Integrity” means displaying a consistently honest stance toward all stakeholders “Self-driven” means that each employee puts the Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct into action Failed to reduce excessive working hours B on the job every day Priority Items for CSR Initiative Policy Improved rate of paid holidays taken Fiscal 2013–2017 Development and Execution of Measures Priority Items for CSR Initiative Policy Comprehensive Safety Action Headquarters Committee (Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plan) I. Strict safety management Refinery Safety Reform Committee Achieved target annual reduction of 0.24 million tonnes II. Working with integrity CSR Promotion Committee Human Rights Committee III. Enhancing human rights/ (Consolidated Medium-Term personnel policies Human Rights/Personnel Plan) Achieved targets on industrial waste, electricity, and fuel for company vehicles A Global Environment Committee IV. Promoting environmental initiatives (Consolidated Medium-Term Environment Plan) V. Implementing better internal and external communication CSR Promotion Committee Continued Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund projects Five priority items were established for activities to realize the goal. • C ontinued Cosmo Forest activities at Sakai Refinery, Cosmo Matsuyama Oil and Chiba Refinery A priority item of the Third Consolidated Medium-Term CSR Management Plan, “Strengthen safety management,” • Held Family Concerts across Japan A was changed to a highest priority item, “Strict safety management,” in the new CSR Initiative Policy. • Sent 4,834 Christmas cards to children hospitalized at 54 hospitals • Clean Campaigns held (45,018 people participated at 116 locations) “Working with integrity” was also established as a highest priority item, since it is indispensable for maintaining safe business operations. Communication activities are also to be strengthened both in and outside the Group. 27 Priority Item 1 Strict Safety Management Safety Initiatives Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plans for Fiscal 2010–2012 and Fiscal 2013–2017 Since fiscal 2005, the Cosmo Oil Group has carried out the accidents. The strategy was to identify and eliminate latent Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plan to eliminate workrisks in the workplace, while ensuring that everyone is fully related accidents and injuries and secure the confidence aware of their roles and responsibilities. Under the next and trust of the community. Under the Plan, the Group Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plan (Fiscal 2013– implements initiatives for each stage of business 2017), the safety level will be further improved through the (production, distribution and sales). enhancement of management by using PDCA cycles, with In fiscal 2012, the final year of the Third Consolidated the aim of realizing and maintaining safe operations and Medium-Term Safety Plan, safety activities were carried out stable supply systems. based on the Group-wide safety goal of achieving zero Initiatives and Results in 2012 under the Third Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plan Degree of achievement: Achieved (A), Partially achieved (B), Not achieved (C) Achievement Divisions 2012 Goals 2012 Results of Goal Refining and manufacturing Reduce unsafe and failure incidents1 by 90% or more from the 4 refineries and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Unsafe and failure incidents: 112 (4% reduction from benchmark year) C benchmark year2 (meaning 11 or less incidents) • Work-related accidents: 6 (2 requiring time off from work, 4 not requiring Cosmo Oil Lubricants (manufacturer of • Achieve target of zero work-related accidents time off from work) C lubricating oil) • Reduce accidents/incidents by 30% over previous year • Accidents/incidents: 14 (down 7% year on year) Cosmo Petroleum Gas (LPG storage/ Maintain zero accidents/incidents Accidents/incidents: 0 A delivery) • Eliminate oil-mixing accidents to zero Cosmo Delivery Service (ground • Oil-mixing accidents: 5 • Encourage employees to report near-miss accidents, with a target of C shipments) • Near-miss accident reports: Over 20,000 20,000 reports • Maintain zero accidents involving marine oil spills/ships run aground • Marine oil spills: 0; maritime accidents: 2 Cosmo Kaiun (sea shipments) C • Reduce equipment failure to 50% of benchmark year (2008) • Equipment failures: 8 incidents (down 72% compared to 2008) Distribution • Maintain zero work-related accidents • Work-related accidents: 0 Oil depots A • Limit the number of ﬁres/oil spills to less than 2 incidents per year • Oil spill: 1 (2010–2012 annual average: 1.3) • Incidents: 3 Complete action plan (prevent accident reoccurrence and strengthen Crude Oil & Tanker Dept. • Incidents were substantially reduced compared to the 12 incidents in 2010 A prevention measures) (75% reduction) Petroleum Products Trading Dept. Achieve target of zero serious accidents relating to ship movements Serious accidents relating to ship movements: 0 A Sales & Marketing Coordination Dept. Maintain zero work-related accidents in service station construction Work-related accidents: 0 (2010–2012) A (Service Station) Project Development Dept. Achieve target of an average of no more than one accident a year during Sales and other operations Accidents/incidents: 0 (2010–2012) A (co-generation, etc.) the Medium-Term Plan (2010–2012) • Achieve target of no incident per year • Incidents: 1 R&D Dept. B • Continue analysis on near-miss accident reports • Continued analysis on near-miss accident reports • Maintain zero work-related accidents • Work-related accidents: 3 (not requiring time off from work) Research and Development Center • Reduce number of accidents/incidents compared to previous year • Incidents: 5 B • Achieve zero cases of seriously unsafe incidents • Seriously unsafe incidents: 0 Work-related accidents: 13 (4 requiring time off from work, 9 not requiring time Cosmo Engineering Steadily reduce work-related accidents to zero B off from work) 1. “Unsafe and failure incidents,” as defined by the Cosmo Oil Group, include the following: extraordinary accidents as defined by the Act on the Prevention of Disaster in Petroleum Industrial Complexes and Other Petroleum Facilities; and trouble, failures and work-related accidents that do not rise to the level of extraordinary accidents. 2. Benchmark year: September 2006–August 2007 Change 21 Activities All Cosmo Oil refineries and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd. have introduced Change 21 Activities, the ultimate goal of which is achieving and maintaining a record of zero accidents. These activities are designed to strengthen the safety management system and further improve the level of equipment maintenance. While these efforts have produced a certain level of results, they have also uncovered new issues. Under the new management system, the activities will be continued by the Refinery Safety Reform Committee, chaired by the President, further strengthening the safety management system. Change 21 activity 28 Safety Inspections The Cosmo Oil Group has established a Comprehensive Safety Management System Safety Action Headquarters Committee, as its Group-wide safety management organization, in the Cosmo Oil Head Comprehensive Safety Action Headquarters Committee Safety Office. This Committee performs coordination and inspections deliberation of important safety management matters in Plans and instructions to carry out Safety management order to ensure thorough initiatives for enhancing safety necessary measures status report management systems. An annual safety inspection is also held each year for operation sites and the Head Office divisions that oversee them. Cosmo Oil offices, refineries, In fiscal 2012, safety inspections were conducted at 12 and the Research Group companies workplaces and departments, including four refineries. and Development Center Especially in the inspection of refineries, efforts are made to enable better, more effective improvements and guidance from a third-party perspective by including personnel from other refineries, in addition to workers from the Head Office, among the internal inspectors. General BCP Training In March 2013, the Group conducted business continuity plan (BCP) training for the sixth time, based on the hypothetical scenario of earthquakes in the Tokai, Tonankai, and Nankai regions immediately after a major earthquake in Tokyo. This time, a communication drill was carried out using a new multi-channel access wireless system. The Group will continue to perform these exercises based on various assumptions in order to strengthen its system for ensuring a stable supply of petroleum products, General BCP training with the top priority being placed on human life in the event of a major disaster. Initiatives to Foster a Culture of Safety The Company fosters Cosmo Oil Small Group Initiatives1 at 1. Cosmo Oil Small Group Initiatives are voluntary its refineries in order to achieve safer operations, stable initiatives implemented by supply, and even better competitiveness. These initiatives small groups formed in the workplace to achieve the involve a bottom-up system in which each group works on objectives of Cosmo Oil the safety themes it decides on, using its creative Group’s management policies approaches. Representative groups from each refinery then gather at an annual presentation meeting to share the results of their activities. Through these activities, Cosmo Oil is working to foster a culture of safety at its refineries, while improving human resources management capabilities Group-wide activity at the same time. presentation meeting Establishment of Refinery Safety Reform Committees All Cosmo Oil refineries, along with Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd., have revised their previous safety management activities through the Change 21 Activities Promotion Committee. In fiscal 2013, a Refinery Safety Reform Committee was established, aiming to strengthen and enhance PDCA management and to establish systems for safe operations and stable supply. In order to foster a culture of safety, the Cosmo Oil Group is working to strengthen its safety management systems and to raise its level of equipment maintenance. The Group will do this by encouraging even greater safety awareness among employees, in addition to the introduction of systems and technologies to prevent accidents. Refinery Safety Reform Committee meeting Note: Please refer to Special Feature 1 on page 10 for more details. 29 Priority Item 2 Working with Integrity Compliance Promotion Corporate Ethics Framework As the organization responsible for the execution of matters Corporate Ethics Promotion Framework under the CSR Promotion Committee, a Corporate Ethics Corporate Ethics Committee Committee has been established to decide, promote, and implement basic policy relating to corporate ethics. A Corporate Ethics Promotion Office has also been set up to Corporate Ethics Promotion Office serve as a facilitator for the Committee. Additionally, the Cosmo Oil Group has created corporate ethics consultation helplines to promote the early discovery of and response to Corporate Ethics Consultation Helplines corporate ethics issues. In fiscal 2013, the Group will begin revising part of its corporate ethics promotion framework. Corporate Ethics Consultation Helplines Number of helpline inquiries The Cosmo Oil Group has set up internal and external 10 helplines by which employees or persons outside the 9 Group can discuss legal or ethical problems concerning 5 5 Group operations. The internal helpline is set up within the 2 2 Corporate Ethics Promotion Office, while the external 0 helpline is staffed by outside experts. There is also a 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) consultation helpline within the Personnel Department for matters related to sexual and power harassment. Corporate Ethics Training Fiscal 2012 Results for Corporate Ethics Training In order to maintain a high level of awareness of corporate Training No. of No. of Theme Training ethics, the Cosmo Oil Group conducts annual corporate category Participants Hours ethics training for Group employees. In addition to providing New employees Compliance and corporate ethics; Code of Conduct; and 27 3–6 Company decision-making rules training tailored to job levels to help employees gain the Newly promoted Compliance; role of line managers to promote corporate 39 2 expertise they need in specific positions, training sessions line managers ethics tailored to specific Group companies are also led by the All departments: Corporate ethics; helpline system; thorough information management; and the proper use of presidents of Group companies. information systems Sectoral In fiscal 2012, training was carried out for the themes training Sales departments: Act on the Quality Control of Gasoline 3,798 2 and Other Fuels / Antimonopoly Act, and personal shown in the table on the right. Along with improving information awareness of safety and information management, Engineering departments: Ensuring safety employee knowledge of the law was also strengthened. Securing Trust in Petroleum Products The Quality Assurance Committee1 established at the New Quality Assurance Committee Framework Cosmo Oil Head Office has set out a Group-wide quality Quality Assurance Committee assurance policy, thereby creating a uniform quality (Secretariat: CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept.) assurance structure for the entire Group. The Group constantly works to prevent accidents or problems and improve product quality and reliability. Cosmo Oil Lubricants Cosmo Petroleum Quality Assurance In order to eliminate quality problems, the Group always ALA Product Quality Meeting Co., Ltd. Gas Co., Ltd. Assurance Meeting (Managed by: Quality (Managed by: General strives to prevent defects by ensuring that employees (Managed by: (Managed by: Technology & Assurance Dept.) Affairs Dept.) ALA Business Dept.) always comply with laws, follow prescribed rules, confirm Research Dept.) (Related Department: (Related Department: Lubricants Business Power & Gas procedures before operations, and confirm quality after Dept., Cosmo Oil) Business Dept., Cosmo Oil) operations. The Cosmo Oil Group will continue these quality assurance activities in the future. Efforts were made to fully restore operations at the Sales Departments Supply Departments Chiba Refinery, damaged by the 2011 Great East Japan (Overseen by: Sales & (Overseen by: Technology Earthquake. In order to prevent any quality problems, the Marketing Coordination Dept.) & Research Dept.) Group carried out thorough preliminary checks before restarting the facilities in fiscal 2012. 1. The Quality Assurance Committee is an execution organization under the CSR Promotion Committee. 30 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Pursuing Customer Satisfaction and Stable Supply—Providing Value for Motoring Lifestyles The greatest mission of the Cosmo Oil Group is to deliver Providing value for motoring lifestyles products and services that earn the trust of society, and to provide them in a stable, safe, and reliable way across the entire supply chain, from crude oil procurement and Brand Promise refining, to distribution and sales. Through activities based Peace of Mind Convenience Good Value Fun on the “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration, the Group continues its efforts to ensure that customers experience comfort, peace of mind, and trust. Concept In fiscal 2013, the Cosmo Oil Group will continue Create mechanisms to deliver responding to a wide range of motoring lifestyle needs. It Improve brand Proactive initiatives motoring lifestyle solutions reliability for vehicle sales will do this by further enhancing its product lineup with a rather than single products focus on auto leasing, under the brand promise, “peace of mind, convenience, good value, and fun.” The Group’s aim is to transform itself from a petroleum distributor centered on fuel oil into a company that can provide value for all aspects of customer motoring lifestyles. Service Evaluations Monitor Three Promises The Cosmo Oil Group focuses intently on customer “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration Service Evaluation satisfaction. The Group surveys its customers to assess Results for Fiscal 2012 First Second Third the level of comfort, peace of mind and trust provided by Regular hours 85.0 86.4 83.6 service stations and reviews the fulfillment of the Three Overall Late night 86.1 87.5 78.9 Promises made to customers. In fiscal 2012, a total of Regular hours 91.9 92.1 89.3 three surveys were conducted, and about 1,360 service Self-service operations Late night 84.9 86.4 80.1 stations participated. The surveys will continue in fiscal Regular hours 74.5 77.2 80.6 Full-service operations 2013, mainly to ascertain customer intentions to make Late night 71.4 75.7 57.7 repeat visits. Self-pure1 Regular hours 93.6 92.9 80.5 Late night 90.4 91.1 90.5 Note: The third survey targeted service stations that scored less than 90 points in the two previous surveys. 1. Self-pure: Provides low-cost self-service operations Ensuring Customer Support Number of Customer Inquiries Inquiries Amount of Feedback The Cosmo Oil Customer Center facilitates communication with customers through a support phone line, which 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 2008 4,475 launched 24-hour operations in 2010. In fiscal 2012, the 3,195 1,280 amount of feedback decreased, even though the number 2009 5,048 of inquiries increased significantly, due to the expansion of 3,793 1,255 vehicle leasing and cross-industry alliances such as a 2010 5,343 campaign with the Aeon Group. 4,099 1,244 2011 6,326 5,197 1,129 2012 10,998 (Fiscal year) 10,275 723 Survey of CSR at Service Stations The Cosmo Oil Group conducts annual privacy policy (PP) Average PP and EM Points surveys and environmental management (EM) surveys to PP points EM points (Points) check and improve regulatory compliance among service 100 98.3 98.0 98.7 stations. In fiscal 2012, survey takers visited 1,275 service 94.3 97.8 90.2 96.5 96.6 stations. However, the remaining 1,800 plus service stations conducted their own self-assessments. 89.5 86.1 80 0 First half Second half 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) 2009 2009 31 Priority Item 3 Enhancing Human Rights/Personnel Policies Respect for Human Rights Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/Personnel Plans for Fiscal 2010–2012 and Fiscal 2013–2017 The Cosmo Oil Group is striving to create workplaces that respect for human rights, respect for diversity and equal respect human rights and the diversity of personnel. opportunity, promoting physical and mental healthcare, and Introduced in fiscal 2010, the Third Consolidated Mediumsupporting a balance between work and home life. Term Human Rights/Personnel Plan is divided into shared In the next Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/ Group themes on which Cosmo Oil and its main Group Personnel Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Cosmo Oil Group companies (18 companies) work, and individual themes in has added efforts to eliminate power and sexual which initiatives differ according to the number of employed harassment and is continuing to work on unfinished themes workers at each company. Shared Group themes include from the third medium-term plan. Fiscal 2012 Initiatives and Results under the Third Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/Personnel Plan Degree of achievement: Achieved (A), Partially achieved (B), Not achieved (C) Achievement Theme Fiscal 2012 Goals Fiscal 2012 Results of Goal Prevent harassment, eliminate Achieve participation rate of 80% or more in human rights training Respect human rights Achieved participation rate of 87% A discrimination for Cosmo Oil employees Maintain and improve employment rate of people with disabilities Respect diversity/ Achieved goals at Cosmo Oil (2.20%); goals not achieved at Maintain fairness in hiring (higher than the legally mandated rate of 1.8%) for 3 target B equal opportunity Cosmo Oil Sales (1.52%) and Cosmo Engineering (1.75%) companies Shared Group Themes Prohibit excessive overwork Gradually decrease the number of employees with long working Promote physical and 478 employees worked excessive hours (up by 32 persons from and implement specified hours (over 350 excessive working hours per year), aiming to C mental healthcare fiscal 2011) health exams decrease total working hours Support balance Promote childcare and family Average paid time-off utilization rate of employees Achieved goal at Cosmo Oil (83.3%); rates improved at 9 of 18 between work and healthcare leave and support • Cosmo Oil: 80% or more B target Group companies in Japan home life leisure activities • Group companies: Improve current record Individual Comply with Act on Advancement of Measures to Establish an action plan required for general business owners and Plan establishment or notification completed at 5 target A Themes Support Raising Next-Generation Children notify the authorities companies1 1. Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd., Cosmo Oil Sales Corp., Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd., Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd., and Cosmo Petro Service Co., Ltd. Global Human Resources Development There are 94 Cosmo Oil Group employees stationed in Number of Employees Stationed Number of Employees eight countries outside Japan, engaging in resource Outside Japan by Country: Fiscal Stationed Outside Japan: development, crude oil and petroleum product 2012 As of March 31, 2013 Fiscal 2008–2012 transactions, and project operations in the petrochemical Country No. of Employees Fiscal Year No. of Employees and ALA businesses. With the aim of becoming a UAE 61 2008 77 comprehensive global energy company, the Group has an Bahrain 1 2009 84 urgent need to develop human resources that can respond Qatar 15 2010 91 to a variety of challenges both in and outside Japan. China 2 2011 89 Building on the strengths of the current international USA 3 2012 94 employees, it is necessary to develop more global human UK 1 resources with a diverse range of experience and skills. Singapore 3 Therefore, the Group will transfer about 30% of young and South Korea 8 mid-career employees to international offices to increase Note: The number of employees includes the number of personnel that can operate effectively those dispatched from Cosmo Oil outside Japan. and full-time employees of Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd., Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd., and Cosmo Research Institute. Respecting Diversity and Providing Equal Opportunity The Cosmo Oil Group set the goal of maintaining and Employment of People with Disabilities (data reported to Japan’s improving its employment rate of people with disabilities Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare)1 under the theme of sustaining fair employment practices. In June June June June June 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 fiscal 2012 the Group achieved Japan’s legally mandated Total number of employees with rate of 1.8% or more, with an actual result of 2.2%. A disabilities 44 46 45 46 41 revision to the relevant law enforced in fiscal 2013 requiring (Number with severe disabilities) 22 25 23 23 21 a higher rate of 2.0%. Accordingly, the Group is striving to Employment rate of people with disabilities2 2.0% 2.1% 2.1% 2.3% 2.1% ensure that it maintains and improves the employment rate Shortfall in the mandatory of people with disabilities through measures that aim to number of employees with 0 0 0 0 0 disabilities create workplace environments where diverse human 1. For Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd., as of June 1 in each year resources can demonstrate their different abilities to the 2. Legally mandated employment rate: 1.8% (rounded to the second decimal place) fullest extent. 32 Work-Life Balance Balancing Work and Home Life The Third Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/ Personnel Plan identifies child/family care leave and Comment from Childcare Leave Recipients leisure activities as important elements for employees to Yuko Tomite balance work and home life, and it focuses on enhancing CSR & Environmental Affairs Department, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. various systems to provide better support. The Cosmo I’m currently on childcare leave until Oil Group is committed to creating positive and dynamic the end of the fiscal year, when my work environments for all employees and respects the son will reach the age of three. values and life perspectives of each employee. The Although I was apprehensive about Group is implementing initiatives to enable employees going on long-term leave, the to achieve a work-life balance with the flexibility to tailor understanding and support of my boss and senior colleagues their desired lifestyles. enabled me to take advantage of the program. I am very The fifth action plan required for general business grateful for this time and opportunity to provide full-time care owners for fiscal 2013–20141 was submitted to Japan’s for my son. After returning to work, I would like to give back Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, as part of Cosmo as much as possible through my performance at the job. I Oil’s measures to support the raising of the next also want to tell others about the benefits of this program, so generation of children. that those expecting a child can take childcare leave without 1. Action plan required for general business owners: These plans outline timeframes, objectives, and duration of implementation for measures to support and enhance any worries. working conditions for workers who are raising children. Physical and Mental Healthcare The Cosmo Oil Group has been working with the Cosmo Number of Inquiries Submitted to the Health and Counseling Online Hotline Oil Health Insurance Society to fully implement the special General health Psychological counseling check-ups. The Cosmo Oil Health Insurance Society 400 378 operates a Group Health and Counseling Online Hotline that is staffed by specialists in psychiatry and psychosomatic medicine, which employees and their 300 290 266 families can access to receive immediate counseling on a variety of subjects. 217 Set up to handle a wide variety of inquiries, the hotline 200 184 can be used by employees to discuss everyday worries such as health concerns, medication, and emotional issues. General health: M  edicines, gastrointestinal illness, child 100 79 71 fever, influenza, other 52 Psychological counseling: A  nxiety, parental and family 31 34 issues, spousal relations, other 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Reducing Long Working Hours The Cosmo Oil Group has set the theme of prohibiting Number of Workers Exceeding Fixed Hours for Overtime Work in Fiscal 2012 excessive work and implementing specified health exams 40 in order to maintain employee health, and is making efforts 34 34 to decrease excessive working hours gradually by setting limits on the number of overtime hours on a monthly and 30 yearly basis. 24 23 However, in fiscal 2012 the number of employees working long hours on a yearly basis increased by 32 from 20 16 18 18 17 the previous year to 478. The number of employees 16 working long hours decreased year on year at refineries, 13 10 9 but it still accounts for two-thirds of the total number of 7 employees with long working hours. The main cause for overtime work in the Head Office departments is new 0 business projects. Under the upcoming Consolidated Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. (Month) Medium-Term Human Rights/Personnel Plan (Fiscal 2013– 2012 2013 2017), the goal is to reduce total annual work hours, and guidance will continue to be provided in individual cases. 33 Priority Item 4 Promoting Environmental Initiatives Environmental Initiatives Fourth Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan (Fiscal 2010–2012) The Cosmo Oil Group has been enhancing its initiatives on prevent global warming while ensuring continuation of the environment since fiscal 2002. In fiscal 2010, the Group business, reduce environmental impact, and promote introduced its Fourth Consolidated Medium-Term environmental contribution activities. The Group will Environmental Plan and generally achieved the goals it set continue these initiatives under the next Consolidated based on the following policies: respond strategically to Medium-Term Environmental Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017). Fiscal 2012 Initiatives and Results under the Fourth Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan Degree of achievement: Achieved (A), Partially achieved (B), Not achieved (C) Achievement Themes Fiscal 2012 Goals Fiscal 2012 Results of Goal Reduce CO2 emissions by 0.22 million tonnes per year compared to level before implementation of measures Reduced 278 kt of CO2 emissions Respond 1. Reduce CO2 emissions in business areas: Energy savings at refineries, use 1. Reduced 117 kt of CO2 emissions strategically to Reduce CO2 emissions of biogasoline, etc. (Anticipated reduction of 88 kt) 2. Reduced 161 kt of CO2 emissions through wind power business A prevent global 2. Develop wind power business (equivalent to reduction of 146 kt of CO2 ) 3. Conducted bio-fuel development and EV recharger service demonstration warming while 3. Conduct environmental technology development and commercialization projects ensuring study aimed at future CO2 reductions continuation of • C  ontinued to control the volume of GHG emissions in the specified areas business Manage greenhouse gas Control the volume of GHG emissions in manufacturing, product transport and • Submitted report summarizing GHG emissions in accordance with Japan’s A (GHG) emissions storage processing as well as in offices and the R&D Center Act on the Rational Use of Energy and Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures Identify environmental risks that may arise at times of normal operations and Consider precautions for times of normal/irregular operations at refineries Identified 10 risks and considered precautions (Precautions completed for 8 C times of irregular facing risk of regulatory or agreement violation risks; consideration suspended for 1 risk and ongoing for 1 risk) operations; implement countermeasures • F inal disposal rate: Less than 0.5% for Cosmo Oil; less than 5.0% for Group • Final disposal rate: 0.23% for Cosmo Oil; 1.98% for Group companies Reduce industrial waste companies • Introduced electronic manifests at Sakai, Yokkaichi, and Sakaide refineries; A • Introduce electronic manifests consideration ongoing at Chiba Refinery Enhance internal/external • C  onducted internal/external audits and environmental inspections audits for thorough Continue ISO internal/external audits and environmental inspections in each Reduce • Ascertained environmental management conditions using the meeting B environmental workplace environmental minutes from environmental management committees at each site management impact • C  osmo Oil service stations: Took action as planned; surveys at 61 stations (51 • C  ontinue environmental monitoring and facilities management at refineries, new and 10 previously surveyed service stations) and soil cleanup at 20 Adopt rigorous measures oil depots, and Cosmo Oil service stations service stations A to ensure soil preservation • Take action according to equipment renovations at Cosmo Oil service • Refineries: Systematically implemented soil cleanup, environmental stations monitoring, and facilities management based on the environmental impact at various sites • A chieved Group-wide targets to reduce the use of copy paper, fuel for Promote Eco Office Conduct energyand resource-saving activities throughout the Cosmo Oil company vehicles, and electricity in offices A activities Group • Some Group companies fell short of copy paper reduction target Reconsider specified items (office supplies) and require each Group company Promote green purchasing Achieved the goals for specified items (office supplies) A to purchase only such specified items Promote environmental Promote environmental contribution activities through Cosmo Oil Eco Card • P romoted environmental contribution activities in all 14 projects A communication Fund • Held eco tour for Cosmo Oil Eco Card cardholders Promote environmental • S urvey the level of impact on biodiversity in business areas and prepare new • Participated in the editing and preparation of Forest Creation Guidelines contribution initiatives through intercompany study groups activities Protect biodiversity • Conduct initiatives to protect satoyama near workplaces • Chiba Refinery, Sakai Refinery, and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil engaged in A • Conduct projects through the Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund with the aim of satoyama preservation activities on 5 occasions protecting biodiversity • Commenced support for projects aimed at preserving biodiversity Cross-Sectional Environmental Management Structure The Cosmo Oil Group has established a unique Environmental Management System environmental management system centered on the Global Environmental Global Environment Committee Inspections Environment Committee, a body that cuts across the Plans and Reports on the instructions to status of Group and departments. The Global Environment carry out necessary environmental measures management Committee drafts the Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan, reports on and evaluates plan results, Cosmo Oil Group companies and provides feedback to specified departments. Through this structure the Group encourages all employees to Sales sections Refining and voluntarily engage in environmental action and shares (functioning as environmental distribution sections actions taken throughout the Group, from the front lines to management points) (certified under ISO 14001) the management level. 34 Environmental Impact of Business Activities ○ SOx and NOx figures for “Crude Oil INPUT Business Activities OUTPUT Extraction,” “Crude Oil Transport,” and “Product Transport and Storage at Oil ● Energy ● Emissions into atmosphere Depots” are estimated based on LCI Crude Oil for Petroleum Products by Fuel and Fuel.................. 20,003 TJ Extraction CO2................................1,115 kt Environmental Impact Assessment for SOx..............................15,376 t Petroleum Products, published in March 2000 by the Japan Petroleum NOx................................2,467 t Energy Center. ○ For “Manufacturing” and subsequent stages, energy consumption is ● Energy Crude Oil ● Emissions into atmosphere calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Fuel......................9,815 TJ Transport CO2...................................671 kt ○ CO2 emissions for “Manufacturing” SOx..............................14,610 t and “Product Transport and Storage at Oil Depots” are calculated in NOx..............................18,098 t accordance with the Guidelines for Accounting Greenhouse Gas Emissions from the Industry, published ● Raw materials Manufacturing ● Emissions into atmosphere by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Crude oil.............20,486 Ml CO2................................3,999 kt Economy, Trade and Industry. Others..................1,318 Ml Private-use fuel.....................3,427 kt ○ Figures given for “Manufacturing” include data from the Cosmo Oil Purchased power.....................231 kt ● Energy refineries, Yokkaichi Kasumi Power Purchased power.. 4,744 TJ Hydrogen production process...342 kt Station, Cosmo Matsuyama Oil, and Cosmo Oil Lubricants. However, data (489,741 MWh) SOx................................3,469 t from Cosmo Oil Lubricants are not Private-use fuel..54,095 TJ NOx................................1,889 t included in the figures for water, wastewater, SOx, and NOx. (1,396 Ml of crude oil equivalent) ● Wastewater ○ “Industrial waste” refers to waste generated during business activities, ● Water Wastewater................199,679 kt which includes waste that could be Industrial water...40,183 kt (incl. 188,859 kt of seawater) sold. ○ “Electricity sold” refers to electricity Seawater..........188,859 kt Chemical oxygen demand supplied to outside customers by the (COD).................................107 t Chiba Refinery, Yokkaichi Kasumi Power Station, and Cosmo Matsuyama Nitrogen..............................50 t Oil. CO2 emissions from Phosphorus...........................1 t “Manufacturing” were calculated by deducting the portion of CO2 ● Industrial waste/PRTR substances emissions attributed to electricity sold. Generated.....................70,205 t CO2 emissions from utility (power) were included in the CO2 emissions Recycled.......................19,362 t from “Manufacturing.” Final disposal.....................172 t ○ “Steam sold” refers to steam sold by the Chiba Refinery and Cosmo PRTR Law designated chemical substances Matsuyama Oil. CO2 emissions for Released...........................143 t “Manufacturing” were calculated after deducting the portion of CO2 Transferred..........................37 t emissions that results from the generated steam sold. ○ “Sales (service stations)” is based on Production Sulfur recovered Electricity sold Steam sold CO2 sold data from Cosmo Oil Sales Corp. Products ○ See the Environmental Accounting 21,031 Ml 191 kt (by-product) 1,022,150 MWh 936 TJ 73 kt web page on the Cosmo Oil Group website for the methodology and basis of “Consumption (Product Use)” ● Energy Product ● Emissions into atmosphere calculations. ○ With regard to CO2 emissions for Fuel (transport)...... 2,475 TJ Transport CO2 (transport)...................171 kt “Consumption (Product Use),” CO2 Fuel (storage)..............27 TJ and Storage CO2 (fuel; storage).................2 kt emissions attributable to generated electricity and steam sold are Purchased at Oil Depots CO2 (purchased power; storage) estimated separately. .............................................1 kt ○ SOx emissions for “Consumption power (storage).......... 15 TJ (Product Use)” are included for SOx................................1,325 t reference, and were estimated from NOx................................2,566 t the sulfur content of products without accounting for sulfur reduction during use. Accordingly, actual SOx emissions Fuel/Purchased power Sales CO2.....................................26 kt are lower than the estimate. ............................... 517 TJ (Service ○ Naphtha used mainly as a Station) petrochemical material does not directly emit CO2 or SOx. However, naphtha is included with other Consumption CO2..............................51,717 kt petroleum products when calculating CO2 and SOx emissions for “Product (Product Use) (Excludes CO2 emissions of 702 kt attributable Use.” to generated electricity sold and CO2 emissions ○ Data for “R&D Centers” includes the of 49 kt attributable to generated steam sold) R&D Center of Cosmo Oil and the R&D Laboratory of Cosmo Oil Lubricants. SOx............................150,981 t ○ Figures given for “Offices” include data from the Cosmo Oil Head Office and branch offices. ○ In fiscal 2012, the Cosmo Oil Group’s total direct (Scope 1) emissions from Fuel...........................46 TJ R&D CO2.......................................6 kt business activities were 3,714 kt CO2 Purchased power........60 TJ Centers Fuel.............................................3 kt equivalent, and its indirect (Scope 2) emissions were 321 kt CO2 equivalent. Purchased power.........................3 kt Detailed information Purchased power........25 TJ Offices CO2.......................................1 kt Environmental accounting http://www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/csr/ accounting/ev_accounting.html 35 Priority Item 4 Promoting Environmental Initiatives Initiatives in Response to Global Warming Saving Energy in Refineries Approximately 60% of the Cosmo Oil Group’s CO2 emissions Energy Consumption and CO2 Emissions at Four Refineries are generated by refining. The Group is working to reduce Energy consumption Unit energy consumption this figure and conserve energy by introducing high-efficiency (Ml-crude oil) (kl-crude oil/Ml) 3,000 12 equipment and improving operational performance. 10.36 9.41 10.11 10.16 9.27 9.12 In fiscal 2012, measures such as revising operating conditions for advanced equipment at the Sakai Refinery 2,000 8 contributed to CO2 emissions reduction. The Group reduced 1,775 1,721 1,821 1,490 1,396 1,439 42.9 kilotonnes of CO2 emissions (crude oil equivalent of 1,000 4 16,390 kiloliters) from its refineries, exceeding the reduction target of 34.2 kilotonnes (crude oil equivalent of 13,150 0 0 kiloliters) for fiscal 2012 under the Fourth Consolidated 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Medium-Term Environmental Plan. At the Chiba Refinery, however, production had been halted for most of fiscal 2012. CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per unit of crude oil equivalent processed Consequently, despite a decrease in total energy (kt-CO2 /kl) (kg-CO2 /kl) 6,000 27.04 26.09 26.52 30 consumption and CO2 emissions at the refinery, the unit 24.32 24.19 25.02 energy consumption1 figure deteriorated compared to the 4,658 4,566 4,840 regular production year of fiscal 2010 due to preparations for 4,000 20 3,889 3,600 3,756 restarting production. After production has been stabilized, the refinery will continue working to execute and improve its 2,000 10 energy-saving measures. 0 0 1. Unit energy consumption indicates total energy consumption divided by the total crude oil equivalent processed, taking into account the complexity of refining 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) technology. The unit used is kiloliters of crude oil equivalent/megaliters (kl-crude oil/ Ml). Total energy consumption is calculated by converting heat, electricity, and other Note: In addition to the figures shown in the graph, N2O released from the catalyst energy use into the megaliters of crude oil equivalent (Ml-crude oil). regeneration tower amounted to 13 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent in fiscal 2012. Reducing Transport-related Energy Consumption In fiscal 2012, unit energy consumption in the transport1 Average Capacity and Stowage Rate sector at Cosmo Oil alone was 8.77 kiloliters per million Fiscal 1990 Fiscal 2012 tonne-kilometers (kl/Mt-km), a 0.16 kl/Mt-km improvement over the previous fiscal year. This is attributable to the Tanker trucks for white oil Company’s ongoing efforts to achieve high stowage rates Average vehicle capacity by using larger trucks and ships. The Company transported Average vehicle capacity 15.0 kl 19.6 kl 6,833 Mt-km of freight, up 1.4% year on year. However, due to the increased use of railroad and coastal tankers in transport, the total energy consumption was equivalent to Stowage rate 94.3％ Stowage rate 94.7％ 59,915 kiloliters of crude oil, down 0.4% year on year, causing the unit energy consumption to decrease. Coastal tankers For ground transport, the average payload increased to 17.93 kiloliters of freight per trip, an improvement of 0.03 kiloliters year on year, while unit energy consumption also Average ship capacity 1,536 kl Average ship capacity 3,060 kl improved to 35.62 kiloliters per trip, an improvement of 0.65 kiloliters year on year. For marine transport involving the Stowage rate 90.0％ Stowage rate 92.7％ use of coastal tankers, unit energy consumption was 6.63 1. Unit energy consumption in transport (kiloliters/million tonne-kilometer) is kl/Mt-km on a par with previous year, partly due to the calculated by energy consumption (kiloliters of crude oil equivalent) divided by long-term shutdown of the Chiba Refinery. cargo tonne-kilometers (weight in tonnes of material transported multiplied by the number of kilometers transported). Environmentally Friendly Service Stations In an effort to create service stations that are friendlier to rates are lower. The project will also demonstrate the ability the environment, the Cosmo Oil Group is making to refuel vehicles during power outages. enhancements such as installing solar panels and LED High-Speed EV Recharger with Storage Battery System lighting. Electric vehicle (EV) charging stations have been installed at nine service stations, in an active effort to System power source Photovoltaic source provide necessary infrastructure for the spread of EVs. During peak demand control During emergencies In fiscal 2012, the Group began a demonstration project in which a service station acquires all the electricity Solar panel for its operations, including electricity for an EV recharging Car wash service, using a high-speed EV recharger with a storage battery. The storage battery stores and supplies not only Fuel dispenser (gas pump) power generated by solar panels installed at the station, Charging stand but also commercial power obtained at night when the Store EV System power source 36 Priority Item 5 Promoting Communication Activities That Respond to Society Environmental Activities Promoted with Society Cosmo Earth Conscious Act Clean Campaign Since 2001, the Cosmo Oil Group has been promoting Cosmo Earth Conscious Act initiatives for the preservation and conservation of the global environment. The effort includes clean campaigns, where participants enjoy nature while cleaning up mountains, rivers, and beaches throughout Japan. At 475 locations over the past 13 years, these campaigns have involved 187,111 participants who collected a total of 4,753,632 liters of garbage. As a part of the initiative, the Cosmo Earth Conscious Act Clean Campaign at Mt. Fuji is also held each summer. In fiscal 2012, the event involved a clean-up campaign on Mt. Fuji, Cosmo Earth Conscious Act event along with trekking. Together, 180 participants collected 440 (45-liter) garbage bags of litter. Related information: In order to further enhance communication with Cosmo Earth Conscious Act official website participants, the latest event information will continue to be http://www.tfm.co.jp/earth/concept/english.html provided online through a blog and Facebook. Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund The Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund has developed “Living with Achievement of Our Planet” projects to protect the irreplaceable global a sustainable society environment for future generations. Thanks to donations Restoration and preservation of Education of the next generation the environment in Japan and overseas from approximately 80,000 cardholders, it marked the 11th Global environmental issues year of the projects in fiscal 2013. These valuable donations are used to find solutions to environmental issues and fund Initiatives in response to global warming Preservation of biodiversity environmental preservation activities under the themes of Fiscal 2012 Projects environmental restoration and preservation, and educating Tropical Rainforest Conservation Project 1 (Papua 8 Noguchi Ken Environmental School the next generation. New Guinea/Solomon Islands) (Japan) In fiscal 2012, 14 projects were carried out. For more Silk Road Afforestation Project 2 (China) Seed Planting School 9 (Hokkaido) information, see the Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Activity Report 2013. South Pacific Countries Support Project Related information: 3 (Kiribati/Tuvalu) 10 Acorn Forests— Satoyama Regeneration (Nagano) Environment www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/envi/index.html 4 Qin Ling Mountains Forest and 11 Biotope Floating Islands—Waterfront Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Activities Ecosystem Recovery Project (China) Ecosystem Restoration (Saitama, other) http://www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/envi/eco/project.html 5 Inner Mongolia Afforestation Project 12 Study on Endangered Species in South (China) Pacific Countries (Japan/South Pacific countries) 6 Community Forest Map Development in the Northern 13 Living with Flying Squirrels— Mountainous Region of Thailand (Thailand) Satoyama Regeneration (Yamanashi) Satoyama Preservation School 7 (Nagano) 14 Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery Support (Miyagi) Cosmo Forest Activities for Satoyama Preservation The Cosmo Forest Initiative is a program that works with local governments across Japan to preserve satoyama (managed woodlands near populated areas) close to Cosmo Oil Group sites. The aim is to maintain these forests for future generations. The Sakai Refinery and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd. hold Cosmo Forest conservation activities twice a year, with the participation of employees and their families. In April 2012, the Chiba Refinery held an event at a nearby Cosmo Forest for local children. Participants in the event 37 Priority Item 5 Promoting Communication Activities That Respond to Society Various Social Contribution Activities United Nations Global Compact The Cosmo Oil Group has pledged its commitment to the The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles United Nations Global Compact since 2006, supporting ten Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights environment and anti-corruption. The Group’s embrace of abuses. Labour the Global Compact shows that it is committed to CSR and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective is striving to improve its initiatives for social responsibility. bargaining; The Cosmo Oil Group is also involved in the Global Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Compact Japan Network, which promotes local activities Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of of the Global Compact. Through the commitment to the employment and occupation. Environment Global Compact, the Group is actively contributing to the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; realization of a sustainable society alongside its business Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and activities, aiming for the sustainable development of Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. society by promoting harmony between corporations and Anti-Corruption local communities. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. International Technology Exchanges The Cosmo Oil International Cooperation Center maintains Trainings with Trainees Accepted Trainings with Experts Dispatched and develops positive relations with oil-producing nations Country Description of Training No. of Country Description of No. of Sessions Training Sessions through technical cooperation and training projects. These Petroleum refining Refinery UAE 2 Oman 1 efforts have earned high praise from the countries with technology, etc. management which the Center conducts exchanges. The Center also Qatar Refinery equipment 6 Refinery profitability operating techniques, etc. Vietnam improvement, and 1 utilizes assistance programs offered by the Japan Environmental catalyst selection Oman 1 Cooperation Center, Petroleum (JCCP), Japan Oil, Gas and management Total 2 Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) and other Vietnam Logistics management 1 system organizations to conduct training projects. Safety and environmental In the area of technical cooperation in fiscal 2012, the Ecuador management and crude oil 1 sludge measures Group provided technical guidance for environmentally friendly Safety and environmental Myanmar 1 equipment and operations in refineries in Oman. For training management projects, the Group accepted trainees for 13 sessions and China Safety and environmental 1 management sent instructors for two sessions, working with 10 organizations Total 13 in seven countries including the UAE, Qatar, Oman, Vietnam, Ecuador, Myanmar, and China. Main Social Initiatives Cosmo Oil pursues social initiatives under a management Social Initiatives in Fiscal 2012 vision to achieve harmony and symbiosis between Program Description Dates companies and society. These initiatives focus on 20th Cosmo Waku Waku Nature camp for elementary-school-aged children who have been orphaned as a result of traffic Aug. 2–4, 2012 educating children for the future development of society Camp accidents and on conservation of the global environment and cultural Let’s play musical Concert program in which residents living near June 3, 2012 (Sakaide) instruments! Cosmo Family development. Concert Cosmo Oil Group sites can participate Mar. 9, 2013 (Sakai) With the Cosmo Waku Waku Camp reaching its 20th Christmas Card Project Project to send Christmas cards with words of encouragement to children in long-term hospital Nov.–Dec. 2012 year, a letter of appreciation was received from the National 2012 care Agency for Automotive Safety & Victims’ Aid. The letter Charity concert to benefit the Family House, a Jazz Night at Gyoranji housing option for families of children in long-term Nov. 8, 2012 expressed gratitude for Temple hospital care inviting 980 children to Hands-on craft workshop conducted by Group Cosmo EkaKids Dec. 8, 2012 participate in the camp employees at an orphanage Sept. 5, 2012; Feb. 1, over the last two 2013 (Cosmo Oil Head decades. Cosmo Oil Blood drive Employee blood-giving drive Office); also conducted at other Cosmo Oil will continue to offices promote various kinds of social contribution Participants enjoying the river at the Cosmo activities in the future. Waku Waku Camp 38 Independent Assurance Report Report on Independent Assurance Work With this report, the environmental performance indicators The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) issued in May 2013 now include the environmental impact of service stations. the fourth generation of its Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, This means virtually all significant environmental impacts of which is regarded as the global standard for CSR reporting. the Cosmo Oil Group in Japan are being accounted for and The G4 guidelines introduce some major changes that will disclosed. The Group should now look into how to track affect CSR reporting by, for example, requiring reporting and disclose the impact of its production and transport of companies to explain the process of identifying what is to crude oil. be reported and disclose the identified material aspects. The report discloses detailed data on social Whether or not the Group follows the G4 Guidelines, steps performance indicators, but most of the indicators are for should be taken to address this new CSR reporting trend. Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. only. For the major social performance indicators, Cosmo Oil should aim to disclose performance for the entire Cosmo Oil Group and build informationgathering systems and mechanisms to make this possible. Shinichiro Akasaka KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 39 The design of the Cosmo Oil Group Corporate Report 2013 incorporates the following principles. Color Universal Design This report incorporates Color Universal Design principles to convey information to people who see color differently, in addition to people with normal color vision, and is certified by the non-profit Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO). Printed in Japan
