un global compact communication on progress 2013 communication on progress 2013 CEBRA a/s, architects maa Vesterbro Torv 1-3, 2. sal 8000 Aarhus C Denmark CVR-nr.: 2668 6407 T: 8730 3439 F: 8730 3429 E: cebra@cebra.info W: www.CEBRAarchitecture.dk STATEMENT OF SUPPORT CEBRA joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 and we hereby state our continued support of the initiative. We commit ourselves to continuously implementing the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in our vision, strategy and every-day practice. At CEBRA, we insist on thinking all our business aspects within a sustainable context. Keeping the Global Compact principles in mind, we work with the belief that through our professional expertise as architects, we are able to promote, develop and initiate significant and substantial changes, which provide a lasting and sustainable framework for our societies. Our goal is to challenge the world we and our architecture live in through a holistic approach to sustainability, which takes environmental, social, economic and cultural aspects into account. Hence, I am pleased to place my signature and post our Communication on Progress, stating our continued support and efforts regarding the application and instrumentalisation of the ten principles. Aarhus, 01.11.2013 Kolja Nielsen CEO, architect maa CEBRA a/s, architects maa CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 01 human rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. CEBRA complies with the 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and with Danish national legislation, which meets the standards of international conventions. As architects, we have the privilege and the proffesional responsibility to design lasting and sustainable frames for human life aiming at increasing life quality continuously. At CEBRA, social responsibility and user needs are make up the creative fuel of our architecture.Thereby, we actively support, promote and contribute to the development of environments, which secure the enjoyment of human rights. Amongst these environments, CEBRA works intensively with the development and design of the school and educational institutions of the future. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 03 Labour PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CEBRA supports the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and complies with Danish work legislation. CEBRA is a member of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms, which collaborates with The Danish Union of Salaried Architects and the Danish Architects’ Association. These organizations safeguard and balance individual and commercial interests as regards collective bargaining, legislation concerning salaried employees, labor market, industrial and educational policies etc. and CEBRA is committed to and supports this system. CEBRA’s hiring policy and collaborative relations are solely based on educational and professional experience and skills, and do neither take race, gender, sexuality, religion nor political beliefs of the involved persons into account. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 05 environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As architects, we are in the prominent and exacting porition of designing the physical surroundings of the future. Therefore, the implementation of the three principles concerning environmental responsibility are quintessential in every aspect of our practice. In the following we describe the mindset and actions, which form a red line through our our office and practice. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 07 quality, safety, environment Quality Managment System CEBRA is conducting quality management (QM) and project examination based on instructions and DS/EN of the Danish Association of Architectural Firms (DANSKE ARK) and the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI). The QMS is developed and adapted based on the following guidlines and standards: • ‘Quality management in architectural firms’ by DANSKE ARK • DS/EN ISO 9001:2008 standards • the Danish Business Authority’s circular letter on quality management from November 12th 1986 The QS handbooks are verified and updated continually, so that they are in accordance with company’s goals and the experiences, which are collected during the development of various projects. The QS handbooks are distributed to clients as general information about CEBRA’s QMS. CEBRA’s QMS manual is in Danish and thus not included in this material. The table of content for CEBRA’s QMS manual can be found on the following pages. If there should be any need for further clarifications about the offices QM procedures, please don’t hesitate to contact us for additional information. Safety and health CEBRA organizes safety, health and working environment according to Danish law and regulations (“Bekendtgørelse om projekterendes og rådgiveres pligter m.v. efter Lov om Arbejdsmiljø, Arbejdsministeriets bekendtgørelse nr. 574 af 21. juni 2001 med senere ændringer”). CEBRA has three certified safety coordinators, who have completed the “working environment education for coordinators of safety and health regulations on building and construction sites”. The coordinators are responsible for the development, implementation and accomplishment of the safety and helth systems. Environmetal management CEBRA is conducting environmental managment (EM) according to DANSKE ARK’s & FRI’s guidelines. A more detailed description of CEBRA’s EMS can be found on the following pages. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 08 environmental management CEBRA is conducting environmental managment according to Environmentally responsible planning will on the other hand often lead DANSKE ARK’s & FRI’s guidelines to solutions, which can be economically beneficial when the building’s overall economy, including the total costs of construction and operation As developing, executing and advising company we have to be prepared during the building’s complete lifetime, is quantified. for the society’s ever increasing demands concerning a sustainable development of the building sector, which e.g. includes restrictions An overall economic quantification includes an evaluation of the regarding the energy and ressource consumption and the usage of possible advantage of accepting higher acquisition costs i norder to materials with minimum impact on the environment. achieve lower operation costs for electricity, water, heating, climate control, waste treatment, fewer sick days and less ressource-intensive With the implementation of well prepared and made-to-measure maintenance throughout the building’s lifetime. environmentally responsible planning we can meet the demands and wishes of developers and the society, weither it is to contribute to a Looking at a buildings lifespan, only a few percent of the building’s sustainable development, reduce operating costs, create a good indoor total energy consumption derive from its construction, while by far the climate for employees and visitors, strengthen the building’s image or largest part is used to operate it. From a construction economical point heighten the buildings overall quality of view, financial austerity hardly ever pays off in the long run. Environmentally responsible planning and sustainable initiatives Responsibility and competence regarding possible environmental are all about ensuring environmental optimum resutls within the activities during the programming, planning, construction and operation given framework stated by the client in the competition or building phase are determined parallel to the project organisation. programme, based on a general main environmental policy and the building task’s preconditions. Depending on the client’s wishes and the complexity of the task at hand, a environmental coordinator is involved in the project’s planning In order to achieve these objectives, the group of advisers can, on the management. clients initiative, contribute to: • map environmental impacts and effects, The environmental coordinator adopts the coordinating position across • determine environmental goals individual professional disciplines and secures the connection between • lay down an environmental program and plan, incl. description of the environmental initiatives within the disciplines and the processing of activities, organisation, schedule and budget, the programme’s environmental goals. • carry out environmental assessments, • propose instruments and prioritize those in consultation with the The environmental coordinator reports to the planning manager, client, whereas the planning manager retains the general responsibility for • ensure that all executing parties live up to the environmental goals the environmental managment durig the planning phase, because it is stated in the environmental programme. deemed vital that environmental issues are addressed on equal footing with the rest of the project’s considerations. This reduces the risk of Regarding environmentally responsible planning, it can be stated that significant conflicts between environmental aspects and the demands if it is implemented early into the programming and overall planning, it made upon architecture, exhibition priciples, function, technology and will normally not increase the project’s construction costs and merely economy during the later stages of the proces. encrease planning costs to a very limited extent. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 09 anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CEBRA supports The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. We fully comply with Danish and International legislation and dissociate ourselves from all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. Our practice and business relationships are based on democratic values, mutual respect and transparency. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 11 outcome: selected projects • The Iceberg • Grundfos Dormitory • UDK Holstebro • RebildPorten • Bülowsvej School • Children’s Home of the Future • HF & VUC Fyn • Sustainable Club House • Kildebjerg Ry CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 13 the iceberg Name: The Iceberg The Iceberg is located at a prime location on the outmost harbour Commission: Private front in Aarhus’ new quarter Aarhus Ø (Aarhus East) and consists of Type: Lead consultancy services 208 apartments. The Iceberg will contribute to transform the former Category: Residential container port of Aarhus into a vibrant new neighbourhood that on Client: Pension Danmark completion will be home to 7,000 inhabitants and provide 12,000 Place: Mariane Thomsens Gade, Aarhus, DK workplaces. Year: 2008 2013 completed Instead of following the masterplan, which was dominated by closed Purpose: 208 apartments building blocks, the Iceberg is laid out as four L-shaped wings, where Size: 22.000 m2 new building the street spaces in between open towards the water. In order to Budget: DKK 300m/€ 40,2m excl. VAT obtain optimal daylight conditions and views over the bay for as many Awards: MIPIM Award 2013, apartments as possible the building volume is cut up by jagged lines. The Architizer A+ Award 2013 roofs rise and fall into peaks and valleys, which create visual passages Service: Architectural services incl. landscape that allow views across the individual volumes like floating icebergs Energy class: Low energy class standard 2010 that constantly refract one’s gaze. Thus, even the appartmants in the in Collaborating architects: JDS, SeARCH and Louis Paillard the back wing can enjoy the view. By applying this simple algorithm to Collaboration: NCC, Tækker R.I. and Hamiconsult the design the spectacular iceberg structure emerged. The varying building volumes make it possible to arrange a wide range of different apartment types within the complex from two-storey ‘town houses’ and affordable smaller apartments to exclusive penthouses in the peaks of the Iceberg. The variety of residences with different balconies, shapes and orientations as well as the combination of owner-occupied and rented flats aim at creating socially diverse urban surroundings that form a lively local community:The building complex becomes a neighbourhood instead of a mere series of housing blocks. CEBRA a/s, architects maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. floor, DK-8000 Aarhus C, P: +45 8730 3439, E: cebra@cebra.info, W: www.cebra.info 14 Grundfos dormitory Name: Grundfos Kollegiet One of Grundfos Kollegiet’s remarkable characteristics is providing Commission: Private student housings in the heart of Aarhus’ new harbour front development Type: Turn-key contract – that is, a low cost residential building on a very attractive site. From Category: Residential afar the building’s vertical stripes act as a metaphor for books and Client: Ingeniørhøjskolen/ Sjælsø Gruppen A/S make the building appear as a group of books on a shelf, while close up Location: Grethe Løchtes Gade, Aarhus, DK they resemble a condensed micro Manhattan a condensed bundle of Year: 2011-2012 completed small towers. Each ‘tower’ is treated differently both inside and out with Purpose: 159 student housings different materials and window openings, thereby creating a variety Size: 6.000 m² new building of living accommodations that suitable for singles, couples as well as Budget: n/a friends living together. Service: Architectural services The individual apartments are reached from balconies, which are Energy class: Low energy class standard 2015 encasing the 12-storey atrium with mirror clad balcony fronts. The Collaboration: Sjælsø, NIRAS mirrors are transforming the sense of space by expanding the relatively narrow atrium with endless kaleidoscopic reflections of itself and the people moving through it. The reflections assist orientation across several floors from one location allowing you to see people or activities that are located directly beneath or above you. The Grundfos Dormitory is not only home to approx. 200 students it also serves as a unique research facility for researchers from Aarhus University. The structure includes Denmark’s most comprehensive program for measuring and controlling a building’s energy consumption. The project aims at developing an intelligent control system, which provides an optimal indoor climate with minimum energy consumption i.e. an intelligent building that responds to and even predicts user needs based on e.g. registered usage patterns or weather forecasts. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 15 UDK Holstebro Name: Udbetaling Danmark Holstebro Udbetaling Danmark Holstebro (UDK) gathers employees from several Commission: Public municipalities in one new administration building, which has to handle Type: Turn-key contract and ensure a centralized and efficient service for the citizens. In order Category: Business to create an ideal combination of exposure, building expression, views, Client: ATP Ejendomme a/s daylight conditions and reduced thermal stress, the building is designed Location: Hostrupsvej, Holstebro, DK in a triangular shape. The triangle is an unusual shape in the Danish Year: 2011 2012 architectural landscape. Thus, UDK will draw attention to itself, but Purpose: Office building and citizen service center without visually overpowering its surroundings. Size: 4.600 m² The triangular interior atrium is rotated 180° so that its tips meet the Budget: DKK 77m/€ 10,32m excl. VAT building’s outer edges. Given that the shape is slightly asymmetric Prize: Competition 1. prize and rotates for each floor, varied spaces with different floor-to-ceiling Service: Architectural services heights emerge, which makes the building flexible and usable in a long Energy class: Low energy class standard 2015 range of different working situations. Collaboration: Sjælsø, Orbicon, Bent Moesby The building is designed in order to consume a minimal amount of energy for ventilation, lighting, heating and cooling and to maintain the best possible indoor climate at the same time. The design is optimised through an Integrated Energy Design proces, where energy and indoor climate form integrate design parameters from the project’s very beginning, continuously interacting with materials and architecture. This approach made it possible to meet the Danish Low Energy Class 2015 standards solely through integration of passive solutions and without the support of energy producing solutions, although preparations for a future installation of solar panels and photovoltaic film on the glass facades are incorporated in the building. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Århus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 16 RebildpoRten Name: RebildPorten RebildPorten is a new visitor’s centre and exhibition space for Rebild, Commission: Public one of the most popular tourist destinations in northern Denmark Type: Turn-key contract Rebild Hills and Rold Forest. RebildPorten shall create an ideal setting Category: Culture for the narrative about cultural history and nature experiences in these Client: Rebild Kommune & Realdania unique surroundings. Location: Rebild, DK The project is inspired by the idea of a building, which bids you welcome Year: 2012 2013 built and acts as a natural gathering place an open and accommodating Purpose: Visitor’s center and museum building that offers knowledge and insight before guiding and Size: 540 m2 distributing the visitors into the hills and the forest. The structure is Budget: DKK 12,7m / € 1,7m excl. VAT designed as a hymn to Nature and the hills and forest, next to which it is Award: Competition 1. prize situated. Visitors will experience it as a small section of stylised forest Services: Architectural services with stems and branches made from a sculptural structure of bluff Energy class: Low energy class standard 2015 timber, thus making the building accessible to the eye of the observer Collaboration: HP Byg, Viggo Madsen R.I., very similar to a forest’s opening and closing when one moves through Elisabth Topsø it and looks upwards through the branches’ chaotic network of crossing lines. By shaping the building out of raw cut timber, the visitor not only experiences a ‘walk in the forest’, and a particular atmosphere determined by Nature’s own strength and rustic weight, but also the scent of wood and nature, which sets the mood for the visit to the forest and hills. With its location between Rebildhus and The Fiddler’s Museum, the building stands out from its surroundings as a place of significance a small piece of forest projecting out into the built environment. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 17 school at bülowsvej Name: School at Bülowsvej The school at Bülowsvej consists of individual buildings that are spread Commission: Public out between a rudimentary city block in Frederiksberg. The new school Type: Turn-key contract is made up of a complex program in three parts: a new building, the Category: Play and Learning refurbishment of the existing school with a new media centre and a Client: Frederiksberg Municipality masterplan for the large school yard. Location: Bülowsvej, Frederiksberg, DK The new building is organized as a straight grid divided into three rows Year: 2009 2013 of four units. To accommodate different needs and create variation, the Purpose: Public school units are reorganized from story to story by the means of a series of basic Size: 3.500 m2 new building, 2.900 m2 rebuilding Tetris-inspired shapes. The three rows contain different functions and 5.000 m2 school yard are organized accordingly. The rows towards the street and the school Budget: DKK 60m/€ 8,04m excl. VAT yard contain class rooms while one in between holds flow areas and Prize: Competition 1st prize common areas for breaks and group work. As opposed to most schools Service: Architectural services located in city centres the Bülowsvej School is very green. The buildings Energy class: Energy class 1 are tied together by the large green yard, which is an integrate part of Collaboration: Tri-Consult, LIW Planning the school’s daily life and infrastructure. The masterplan for the new school yard forms an extension of the interior spaces it complemets the common areas and forms an active learning space. Right from the beginning, a minimized use of energy has been an essential design parameter for the new building. I.a. the roof is shaped so that solar cells can be placed optimally for the production of electricity. In addition, the building’s organization is very flexible and ensures a long lifetime, which makes it possible to change the building according to future needs and changing education principles with a minimal use of ressources. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 18 agora hf & vuc fyn Name: HF & VUC Fyn HF & VUC Fyn creates a flexible and diverse learning environment that Commission: Private gives room for individual needs in a collective building. The design is Type: Turn-key contract characterized by a system of curved lines and rounded forms, which cut Category: Education through the building volume’s regular form and create transparent and Client: VUC Fyn & Fyns HF-kursus various spatialities around a central atrium – a duality that generates Location: Odense, DK interaction, diversity and versatility i regards of both the internal and Year: 2012 2014 under construction external organization of the new Adult Education Centre. A series of Purpose: Adult education centre curved incisions in the basic volume ensure interaction between the Size: 13.600 m2 new building building’s activities and functions and the city around it. Budget: DKK 158m / € 21,2m excl. VAT The building is organized around a transparent and very active atrium, Prize: Competition 1st prize called the Agora and named after the public gathering place in ancient Service: Architectural services incl. landscape Greek cities that constituted the center of political, spiritual and artistic Collaboration: E. Pihl & Søn, Hundsbæk & Henriksen life in the city state. The levels of activity decrease gradually from the Agora and outwards with the most calm and private spaces located along the building’s outer edges. At the same time, this organizational principle is transferred from plan to section with the highest levels of activity and transparency at the bottom and spaces for contemplation at the top floor. Thus, the new AEC focuses on offering specialized and at the same time diverse learning environments, where students turn to those spaces and environments, which match their individual needs learning style. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 19 our house Name: Our House Children’s Home of the Future “Our House” – the Children’s Home of the Future is a pioneering project Commission: Public for an entirely new type of 24-hour care centre for marginalized children. Type: Lead consultancy services The concept combines the traditional home’s safe environment with Category: Children’s home new ideas and conceptions of what a children’s home is and which needs Client: Kerteminde Municipality it should fulfill. Location: Strandgårds Allé, Kerteminde, DK Thus, the project takes the familiar basic shapes of the typical Danish Year: 2012-2014 under construction home as its starting point: the classic pitched-roof house and the Purpose: Care centre for marginalized children dormer motif. By using the shapes in a new and playful way the design Size: 1.500 m2 new building marks the house as an out of the ordinary place, which at the same time Budget: DKK 18,5m / € 2,48m excl. VAT is recognized as a dwelling with a safe and homely environment. Prize: Competition 1st prize “Our House” is basically organized as four interconnected houses Service: Lead consultancy services in order to reduce the building’s scale and to create self-contained, Energy class: Low energy class standard 2015 varied units for the different groups of residents. The quartered shape Collaboration: Søren Jensen R.I., PK3 is modified by the distinctive dormer profiles, which grow into and out of the individual houses, are turned upside down and even rise to form an observation tower. This flexible concept gives the residents the opportunity to set their own mark on the arrangement, décor and use of these ‘bonus spaces’ according to needs and activities. The building’s rational organization ensures short distances and proximity between the different units so that the personnel always are close to every resident. Thus, the personnel’s working procedures are incorporated effectively in the daily routines, which frees more time for taking care of the children – more home, less institution. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 20 sustainable club house Name: Sustainable Club House The Aarhus Municipality has drawn up an ambitious climate plan that Commission: Public aims reaching CO2-neutrality by 2030. As part of this plan the city Type: Lead consultancy wishes to make the new club house for sports club LIF a sustainable Category: Sports building with a minimal CO2 footprint that can stand as a showcase Client: Aarhus Municipality of sustainability and serve as an example for larger projects. With this Location: Lystrupvej, Lystrup, DK project, the city gains knowledge about new low-emission construction Year: 2010-2013 completed methods, which consequently can influence both future behavior and Purpose: Club house legislation and show how to integrate sustainable solutions as well as Size: 450 m2 innovative design Budget: DKK 10 mio. excl. VAT The project is designed in a close collaboration between the client, Awards: Competition 1st prize the users, engineers and CEBRA by means of Integrated Energy Design Services: Lead consultancy services (incl. landscape) (IED) based on CEBRA’s process and user involvement tools. This Energy class: CO2-neutrality creative design process focused on reaching an optimal combination of Collaboration: Esbensen, Sloth Møller R.I. functionality and sustainable choices within a limited budget. The project is based on an equal share of both high and low-tech solutions. We introduced simple elements, such as heat storing sand fill, a drain layer of mussel shells and the use of eaves to protect the facade and prevent overheating and the need for cooling. Since the building is primarily used during the summer, all traffic between specific rooms takes place outside under the eaves. This essentially reduces the total surface area and heat, light and maintenance costs. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 21 pulse park Name: The Pulse Park Pulse Zone The Pulse Park forms an activating and innovative continuation of the Opdrag: Public unique residential and business area of Kildebjerg Ry. The project’s aim is Type: Architectural services to create a vivid and coherent neighbourhood that encourages an active Category: Sports and recreation lifestyle and informal meetings across age, gender, social background Client: KildebjergRy, Skanderborg Municipality and physical abilities. The Pulse Park will establish optimal conditions Location: Ry, DK for excercise and play through three zones that form an integral part of Year: 2011-2012 completed the landscape, the area’s many leisure activities and Kildebjerg Ry itself. Purpose: Excercise and meditation zone The Pulse Zone addresses primarly runners, mountainand BMX bikers, Size: 24.057 ft² (all 3 zones) who use the network of paths and tracks around Kildebjerg Ry for Budget: DKK 16,7 mio. excl. VAT (all 3 zones) excercise. The tracks’ asphalt surface flows into the zone’s centre area Service: Architectural services incl. landscape in the form of hills, bulges and bowls that incite to obstacle races and artistic excercises. The Play Zone is a forest of different functions that relate to both organised and freestyle activities. The forest consists of three consentric circles. The centre is intended for play and excercise with large tree-like elements, the second circle for outdoor fitness and the outermost area for social activities. The Zen Zone is all about relaxation and activating all your senses. The zone is placed on an island in a small lake, which supports its meditative purpose and relaxing atmosphere. The island is shaped like a hill from a grid structure, that creates an interior space for activities like yoga, pilates and meditation as well as unformal surroundings for a business meeting. CEBRA a/s, arkitekter maa, Vesterbro Torv 1-3 2. sal, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Tlf.: +45 8730 3439, Mail: cebra@cebra.info, Web: www.cebra.info 22
