United Nations, Global Compact Communication of Progress April 17, 2013 What’sInside: 1 Letter from the Founding Directors Statement of Continued Support 2013 2 Human Rights Intercultura Language and Cultural Center 3 Labor and Environment To our partners: 4 Anti-Corruption and Measure of Outcomes Intercultura Language and Cultural Center is honored to maintain our support to the United Nations Global Compact. We are in the fortunate position to have bettered our institution and local areas by focusing on the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, as they pertain to human rights, labor rights, environmental protection, and anticorruption. We continue to instill the Global Compact and its ideals in the overall methodology of our company as well as integrate it into our daily procedures. We are proud to communicate these values with all of those we work with on some level, including, but not limited to our co-workers, business partners, students/customers, and Intercultura our friends and neighbors. Language and Cultural We continue to be a smaller, independent company, and have executed the processes to suit our size and style to allow us to help us Center observe our progress in achieving the goals set forth in the Ten Principles. We will continue to encourage ourselves and those we Heredia & Playa encounter – clients, neighbors, and service providers – to improve our Sámara, global community. Costa Rica In this year’s Communication on Progress, we communicate our continuous and most recent actions to better the use of the Global Compact and its principles into our business methods, training and day-by-day work. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary modes of communication. Sincerely yours, Laura Ellington &Adelita Jiménez Founding Directors PAGE2 INTERCULTURA LANGUAGE AND CULTURAL CENTER Human Rights Principle One: Intercultura Language and Culture supports and respects the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights by providing a safe and just working environment. Employees are consistently compensated above the legal minimum wage and are protected by national insurance through their employment. We support their continuing education by offering free or subsidized classes in their areas of interest such as professional development, foreign language and higher education. They are made aware of their rights to take leave when due and are compensated accordingly. Upper Level Throughout the workday they are provided with ample Management time for meals, rest and relaxation and are also offered more than the legal requirement for vacation time. Emergency evacuation plans are clearly communicated and rehearsed. Female We actively offer financial aid for personnel who are Male completing Master’s degree programs and other further education. All employees and clients are treated respectfully and equally regardless of gender, race or religious beliefs. All employees receive one-month’s additional salary annually as indicated by the Costa Rican Labor law. Employees have access to a human resources All Other Staff representative as well as a psychologist, giving them the opportunity and anonymity to express concerns or communicate with other departments of the institution. We continue to be extremely interested in the betterment of our communities and continuously offer support of Female local organizations through monetary donations, Male volunteer hours, free English classes to local police force, subsidized foreign language programs, and by donating our space for fundraising activities, providing the complete infrastructure for non-profit supplemental education program and by placing our students with local families providing income to over 100 local Costa Rican women. Principle Two: We ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuse by maintaining relationships with credible vendors with transparency in their business practices, as well as maintaining transparency in our own. We vow to be neither directly, beneficially, nor silently complicit in any human rights abuses. INTERCULTURA LANGUAGE AND CULTURAL CENTER PAGE3 Labor At Intercultura, we maintain open and constant communication with our employees by holding weekly staff meetings, providing an open environment to discuss any work-related issues the staff may have. If concerns are brought to the table, each staff member is given a vote to determine how they would like the situation to be remedied. Staff is aware of their opportunity to work and their freedom to resign. All employees are aware of their rights as declared by the Costa Rican Labor Ministry and work with our institution in accordance with these laws and regulations. Intercultura Language and Cultural Center has never been involved directly or indirectly in forced labor practices. All employees are paid fairly for applicable time off, working hours and overtime, and wages are never withheld or threatened. All company policies are clearly communicated to each staff member at the time of their hiring, in the employee manual and via periodic memorandums throughout the year. Country of Origin of All employees are over 18 years of age without exception, Employees except in the case of student interns who may provide parttime services in return for a stipend. Costa Rica If made aware of any instances of unsavory labor situations anywhere in our chain of suppliers, we will take immediate North America action to halt such labor and commit to educate those partaking in said situation. Central America Environment Europe Intercultura’s involvement in the preservation and betterment of our natural surroundings has continued to South America grow over the last few years and this year is no exception. Intercultura serves as a locale for recycling drop off and weekly pick-up. Through their support of Casatur (Local community/tourism board) and constant efforts with the local municipality, there are now two entities that collect and separate recyclables every week. By coordinating beach clean-ups and ensuring other local business maintain high quality drainage/sewage standards, Intercultura has helped Sámara earn the ecological blue flag, a local award for only the cleanest of beaches. We are involved in the reforestation of our local area by planting many trees annually. We use energy efficient lights, no paper towels in the bathrooms, prohibit disposable plates and cutlery, and compost all organic waste CREAR, the non-profit organization we provide the complete infrastructure for, takes environmental education into the local classrooms and also offers special workshops to our homestay families on subjects such as recycling and decomposition and how to reduce, reuse and recycle. PAGE4 INTERCULTURA LANGUAGE AND CULTURAL CENTER Anti-Corruption We at Intercultura do not participate in any form of extortion or bribery. We hold our local government accountable to uphold local laws as we ourselves do. We have participated in community petitions and denouncements of environmental abuses, both by signing and providing legal services for community groups acting in the defense of the environment. Many of these abuses occur due to corruption in the entities responsible for ensuring accountability, thus Intercultura’s role in and support for actions to stop these abuses is key to fighting corruption in public institutions. Measure of Outcomes These are the outcomes of the goals we communicated in last year’s report: Effectively formalized the town’s recycling project. Assisted in the renovations of local parks for children. Reinstated special visits from psychologists to rural Sámara campus with focuses on recognizing and preventing domestic violence in the home. Implemented reforestation project in the Sámara area to remedy erosion and maintain excellent air quality. Coordinated 8 volunteer groups who performed a variety of services for the town’s schools and clinic. Continued education funding for two Master’s programs and a variety of professional development workshops. Employee Ages 18-25 26-45 46-65
