STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201 3 i Editor’s note This has been a pivotal year for Transurban’s sustainability program. We’ve challenged ourselves to take a fresh look at how we invest in our communities, manage our impacts and build roads for the future. We have revised our Sustainability Strategy which you’ll read more about in the report. We believe this strategy provides us with the best framework for managing our sustainability performance not only in the design and construction of roads but throughout the operating life of our assets. We’ve set ourselves some challenging goals—achieving them all won’t be easy. The next 12 months will be critical for harnessing the exceptional skills, knowledge and dedication within our business to deliver better outcomes for our communities, employees, government clients and construction partners. We hope you enjoy reading the report and we look forward to sharing our progress. Clare Baldwin Manager, Sustainability CONTACT US GRI INDEX Your feedback on this report is valuable, and To view our GRI Index please visit helps us improve our reporting. For questions transurban.com/sr13/GRI_Index_2013.pdf or comments contact our sustainability team. Phone: +61 3 8656 8900 Email: sustainability@transurban.com Transurban’s ii Sustainability Strategy Transurban’s Board and management are committed to taking a sustainable approach to all our operations, projects and business practices to create the best outcomes for our government clients and the communities which we serve. In FY13, the Board endorsed a revised Sustainability environment and neighbourhoods in the Strategy, which underpins Transurban’s corporate 495 Express Lanes corridor. This program was strategy and reinforces our vision to ‘strengthen also extended to the 95 Express Lanes in FY13. communities through transport’. >> We contributed seed funding to a partnership The Sustainability Strategy highlights three addressing long-term social disadvantage focus areas: and promoting economic development in Woolloomooloo, an inner-city area of Sydney >> Be good neighbours — anticipating, listening near our Eastern Distributor motorway offices. and responding to community needs >> Use less — reducing the impacts of our operations Use less on the community and environment, and >> For assets under our management control, >> Think long term — improving transport networks we adopted a new energy reduction target — to help people, goods and services move more a ten per cent reduction in ten years using a efficiently and safely across our cities both now 2013 baseline. and into the future. >> We established a partnership with Victoria’s Under the focus areas, we have three business wide Regional Rail Link City to Maribyrnong Alliance initiatives. They are: that will allow the project to use stormwater captured in rainwater tanks below CityLink’s >> A community investment strategy Bolte Bridge. >> An energy reduction target for operations >> We reduced electricity consumption at our of our management-controlled assets, and corporate offices by 30 per cent with the >> Sustainability objectives for new road or introduction of more energy efficient IT upgrade projects. hardware and printers. The principles inherent in these focus areas Think long term enhance our ability to deliver efficient and integrated transport networks that support >> We reached the final stage of the New South productivity and the wellbeing of our communities. Wales Government’s unsolicited bid process on our proposal for a new link between the F3 and FY13 M2 motorways in Sydney. During the year, we made significant progress on >> We opened one of the most technologically our agenda within the sustainability strategy’s advanced toll roads in the world — the 495 focus areas: Express Lanes in Virginia, USA, which uses dynamic tolling. Toll prices are based on Be good neighbours demand and ensure traffic can maintain >> We began revising our approach to community a minimum speed of 45mph. investment, with a new strategy to be >> We added a customer safety measure to our completed in FY14. corporate Key Performance Indicators, with >> Along with our construction partner Fluor, the measure coming into effect in FY14. we provided grants to nonprofit organisations that sustain, enhance or protect the local SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 Contents i 08 34 EDITOR’S NOTE ENVIRONMENT APPENDIX 1 ii 15 38 TRANSURBAN’S EMPLOYEES APPENDIX 2 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 18 40 MARKETPLACE EY ASSURANCE 01 STATEMENT CEO MESSAGE 26 COMMUNITIES 43 02 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL ABOUT TRANSURBAN 29 CHECK STATEMENT ENGAGING WITH 04 OUR STAKEHOLDERS TRANSURBAN’S APPROACH TO 32 REPORTING COMMITMENTS 06 TRANSURBAN IN FY13 SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 CEO message 01 As a long-term owner and operator of toll roads in As part of a review of our capabilities and major cities both in Australia and the United States, management responsibilities at Transurban, we it is our role, and our responsibility, to make sure appointed a head of strategy this year to lead a team that our roads help make those cities great places whose mandate is to focus on the long-term—and to live and work—both now and in the future. look at how we can work with our partners to deliver sustainable transportation solutions for our cities. Our cities need efficient, well-run roads and public transport networks that move people and goods The team has revised our approach to sustainability, from A to B as safely and quickly as possible. which harnesses all that we do into three pragmatic They are critical to a city’s productivity and, areas of focus—be good neighbours, use less and ultimately, the strength of its communities. think long term. This year employees across our business worked If we do those things, we will go a long way toward together to develop a new vision statement that achieving our vision to strengthen communities reflects what we want Transurban to achieve. through transport. We agreed on “to strengthen communities through transport” because it recognises that what we do and how we do it has a real impact on the daily lives of our cities and their residents. Scott Charlton To realise this vision we need to take a big picture CEO view of transportation—recognising our roads are just one piece of the puzzle in a city’s transport network. We have to actively manage those roads to ensure they work well within that puzzle, and we have to plan for the future so our transport solutions can predict and meet the needs of tomorrow. It is not always easy. In cities around the world road and public transport networks are under enormous pressure in the face of growing populations, expanding urban development and, at the same time, declining public funding for infrastructure. We have to face these issues alongside our partners in government. We must find solutions that make sense for everyone. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT In 2009, Transurban signed the UN Global Compact, a voluntary framework which encourages companies to align their operations to 10 universal principles on human rights, labour practices, the environment and anti-corruption. Since signing the compact, we have been applying these principles across our business, and we will continue to do this in FY14. To find out more about the UN Global Compact, visit unglobalcompact.org SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 02 About Transurban Transurban manages and develops networks of urban toll roads in Australia and the United States of America. We are a Top 50 company on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) and have been in business since 1996. Our portfolio Our business framework We have nine roads across three markets: and strategy Australia In FY13, we reviewed and confirmed Transurban’s business strategy. At the heart of this strategy is our Melbourne desire to be a ‘partner of choice’ for our government >> CityLink: 100 per cent ownership clients, which means we have to provide effective, innovative transport solutions to support the growth Sydney and well-being of our cities. We do this through >> Hills M2: 100 per cent ownership smart management of our existing road networks, active involvement in the transport policy debate, >> Lane Cove Tunnel: 100 per cent ownership and the application of our skills to the infrastructure >> Eastern Distributor: 75.1 per cent ownership challenges in our markets. >> Westlink M7: 50 per cent ownership We have defined our primary capabilities as: >> M5 South West Motorway: 50 per cent ownership >> Network planning and forecasting >> Operations and customer management United States of America >> Project development and delivery Northern Virginia >> Application of technology, and >> 495 Express Lanes: 67.5 per cent ownership1 >> Community engagement. >> 95 Express Lanes: 67.5 per cent ownership1 (under development) As part of our FY13 business strategy review, we have also clearly defined our target markets as the >> Pocahontas 895: 75 per cent ownership eastern seaboard of Australia and Northern Virginia in the US. Together, these roads serve more than 1.4 million retail account customers in Australia2. In FY13 Finally, the business continues to focus on 5.3 million unique users drove on our assets. distribution growth as part of our overall strategy. 1 DRIVe is Transurban’ Group’s road investment vehicle in the US. The Group holds 75 per cent of DRIVe, which owns 90 per cent of both the 495 and 95 Express Lanes projects. The 67.5 per cent therefore reflects Transurban’s proportional ownership. 2 Retail account customers represent actual tag and video accounts held with Transurban entities. Non-account customers include an estimate for tag account customers with EastLink, QML, RTA, FLOW, E-way and VDOT who use Transurban roads plus an estimated number of individual customers who use either video passes, or receive deferred toll notices in New South Wales or late toll invoices in Victoria. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 03 Our vision and values Our investment proposition During the year, we refreshed our vision and values Investing in Transurban gives security holders to ensure they align with the refined business access to long-term, predictable and growing cash strategy. This process involved employees from flows over the life of our toll road concessions across our markets helping us to articulate our (contracts) with governments. We help deliver those shared aspirations and the behaviours that underpin cash flows by effectively managing and developing the way we work together to achieve them. the road corridors and networks under these concessions. The new vision is ‘to strengthen communities through transport’, and the values are: Organic growth in our business comes from traffic growth and inflation-protected toll price >> Integrity increases across our portfolio. This growth is >> Collaboration further supported through successful operations, >> Accountability maintenance and customer management. >> Respect, and We generate value for investors through: >> Ingenuity. >> The effective application of technology in key areas including traffic management and tolling, and >> Further development of our portfolio through asset enhancements such as Sydney’s Hills M2 Upgrade and M5 West Widening, and through new projects negotiated with governments such as the 495 and 95 Express Lanes projects in the US. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 04 Transurban’s approach to reporting Our Sustainability Report is aimed at all internal and external stakeholders with an interest in Transurban’s sustainability performance and strategy. This includes employees, investors, customers, the community, governments, suppliers, contractors, financial analysts, non-government organisations and industry leaders. The report addresses issues relevant to Transurban Determining priority issues and others in our sector. EY and Transurban employees with knowledge of the subject matter have checked the content of this Sustainability reporting report against the findings of our formal materiality We choose to publicly report our sustainability review. The annual review determines the most performance to our stakeholders in the interests important and relevant issues for both Transurban of accountability and transparency. and our stakeholders. We evaluate our performance against the Each of our markets — Victoria and New South sustainability goals and targets we set for our Wales in Australia and Virginia in the US — and our programs and projects. corporate offices compiled a comprehensive list of issues using the 5 Part Materiality Test.1 During FY13 the Transurban Board approved an internal review and consolidation of our The test covers: sustainability reporting. >> Direct, short-term financial performance This year, we decided to align all sustainability >> Transurban’s ability to deliver on its strategies reporting to a financial year schedule. and policies As a result, shifting from calendar year for our >> Best practice norms exhibited by peers annual response to the Carbon Disclosure Project meant only an additional six months of data and >> Stakeholder behaviour and concerns, and/or commentary would have been included. Given this >> Societal norms, particularly where these are short timeframe would not have made a material linked to possible future regulation. impact to our submission, we chose not to submit Issues were then prioritised through the process a response for 2013. outlined in our Stakeholder Engagement Framework, which rates issues on the basis of potential impact on Transurban and the significance to stakeholders. Based on this process, we determined material issues for inclusion in the Sustainability Report. In addition, we consulted with ‘data owners’ across the business to identify, collect and interpret data relevant to this year’s report. 1 Described in AccountAbility’s AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (AA1000SES) SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 05 Scope Accuracy The report contains information on activities in Through this report, we aim to present an accurate FY13 (1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013), unless otherwise picture of Transurban’s social, economic and stated. We report our sustainability performance environmental performance, and our governance annually, and have done so for eight years. landscape. Most of the information and data presented in this To provide stakeholders with a greater level of year’s report comes from our Australian roads confidence in the company’s sustainability reporting, as the majority of our operations are based in we appointed EY to provide limited assurance over Australia. The report also covers Transurban’s certain information within this report. corporate offices in Australia. Transurban has identified the following as key For the roads Transurban manages — CityLink, issues for assurance over the period of our Hills M2, Lane Cove Tunnel, Eastern Distributor assurance services: and Pocahontas 895 — we have reported relevant >> Customer safety sustainability information. >> Diversity For roads we co-own with partners — Westlink M7, >> Pay equity M5 South West, and the 495 Express Lanes — we are >> Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions data, and still able to report some aspects of sustainability performance. >> Water data. This report also contains data provided by our road EY’s Limited Assurance Statement is on page 40. operations and maintenance (O&M) contractors and construction project contractors. We believe the work GRI accordance they carry out for our assets forms part of our social and environmental footprint. This report is produced in accordance with the G3 Guidelines published by the Global Reporting These contractors include: Initiative (GRI). GRI is a multi-stakeholder network >> TransLink Operations Pty Ltd (TLO) for CityLink that is considered to set the most globally recognised framework for reporting on sustainability. >> Lend Lease Pty Ltd and EGIS Australia for Hills M2 (up to 30 March 2013) The GRI G3 provides us with a comprehensive framework that helps us assess and track our >> Tollaust/ Transfield Services Limited economic, social and environmental performance. for Hills M2 (from 1 April 2013) It also provides us with a useful benchmark against >> Interlink Roads for the widening of the other global companies. M5 South West GRI has verified that the report is prepared >> Leighton Contractors for the Hills M2 Upgrade according to the GRI Guidelines, at application and the Eastern Distributor level A+. The GRI’s statement is on page 43. >> Transfield Services for the Lane Cove We also review our reporting against other Tunnel, and sustainability performance indicators such >> Fluor-Lane, AECOM and Roy Jorgensen as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) Associates for the 495 Express Lanes. and the FTSE4Good Index. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 06 Transurban in FY13 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 16 JUL 19 JUL 1 AUG 7 AUG 28 SEP 3 OCT 4 OCT 31 OCT 17 NOV 13 DEC 5 FEB 24 MAR 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 01 NEW CEO STARTS TENURE 08 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT After his appointment late in FY12, Scott Charlton We released our eighth sustainability report stepped into the Chief Executive Officer role at detailing our overall approach and our performance Transurban at the start of FY13. in areas including environment, community and customer engagement. 02 DISCUSSIONS START ON F3-M2 09 495 EXPRESS LANES OPEN The NSW Government announced that it would conduct an exclusive assessment on our proposal Our dynamically-priced lanes on the Capital for a tunnel joining the F3 and M2 motorways Beltway (I-495) in Washington, DC opened to tolled in Sydney. traffic more than one month ahead of schedule. 03 FINANCIAL CLOSE FOR 95 EXPRESS LANES 10 CHANGES TO EXECUTIVE TEAM Transurban announced it reached financial close on CEO Scott Charlton outlined a restructure at the this $750 million project, which will link to our other executive level to balance the range of skills and Express Lanes in Northern Virginia on I-495. experience and help take Transurban to the next stage in development. 04 FY12 FULL-YEAR RESULTS 11 HALF-YEAR RESULTS Our underlying proportional EBITDA increased by 9.1 per cent over the previous year, and proportional We announced our financial results for the six toll revenue rose 5.9 per cent. months ended 31 December 2012. Our proportional EBITDA increased 6.9 per cent on the prior 05 WESTLINK M7 RE-FINANCING corresponding period to $416.9 million. Westlink M7 reached financial close on the 12 RUN FOR THE KIDS re-financing of $505 million of debt due to mature in December 2012. Transurban’s CityLink asset co-sponsored Melbourne’s biggest fun run for the eighth straight 06 CLOSURE OF CITYLINK TUNNELS year. Run for the Kids raised a record $2 million for Due to a systems issue that affected our ability to the Royal Children’s Hospital Good Friday Appeal, respond to incidents, we closed both the eastbound with $1.95 million from the event and a further and westbound tunnels on CityLink for most of $50,000 from the CityLink business. the day, which had a severe impact on Melbourne 13 FINAL DISTRIBUTION traffic. Our business issued a public apology and refunded all tolls incurred by customers during We announced that a distribution of 15.5 cents per the period. stapled security would be paid for the second half of FY13, bringing the final, full year distribution to 07 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 31.0 cents. Transurban’s AGM was held in Melbourne, 14 F3-M2 PROJECT GOES TO STAGE 3 where two new directors were elected and the remuneration report was adopted. Our proposal for a tunnel linking the F3 and Hills M2 progressed to the third and final stage of the New South Wales Government’s unsolicited bid proposal process. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 07 ONGOING Australia Hills M2 Upgrade — construction 13 14 15 16 17 of this $600 million upgrade in Sydney 21 MAY 30 MAY 14 JUN 18 JUN 30 JUN was completed in August 2013. 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 M5 West Widening— preliminary work started in July 2012 and construction on the Sydney motorway widening is expected to be completed in late 2014. 15 POCAHONTAS 895 TRANSFER United States Transurban began discussions with lenders on the 895 project, with plans to transfer the 95 Express Lanes —construction started in August 2012 asset to them by October 2013. and is expected to be completed within two and a half years. 16 LANE COVE TUNNEL RE-FINANCING We reached financial close on the re-financing of $260 million of debt due to mature in August 2013. 17 M5 GOES CASHLESS The last manual tolling booths closed on the M5 South West at the end of the financial year, and the motorway featured fully electronic tolling from 1 July 2013. AWARDS & ACHIEVEMENTS Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI): >> Included on DJSI ‘Asia Pacific’ list for performance in specific economic, environmental and social criteria Intelligent Transportation Society of America (ITS) ‘Best of ITS’ awards: >> ‘Best new product, service or application’ for 495 Express Lanes American Business Awards (the Stevie awards): >> Bronze Stevie award for ‘Best Brand Experience Event — All Other Industries’ for 495 Express Lanes opening >> Bronze Stevie award for ‘Marketing Campaign of the Year — Transportation’ for 495 Express Lanes Public Relations Society of America (Virginia chapter) Awards >> Capital Award of Merit for the 495 Express Lanes Media Relations Campaign >> Commonwealth Award of Merit for the 495 Express Lanes Opening Event >> Commonwealth Award of Excellence for the 495 Express Lanes Educational Marketing Program >> Commonwealth Best in Show for the 495 Express Lanes Educational Marketing Program SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 08 Environment Transurban is focused on minimising our impacts on the environment while operating our roads, tunnels and offices, and while undertaking our construction projects. Environmental governance In FY13 we completed all outstanding (nonmandatory) recommendations raised in an Transurban’s approach to managing our environmental compliance and sustainability environmental risks is guided by an Environment review conducted by consultants in FY11 on Eastern Management System (EMS) that helps us improve Distributor. The review had identified environmental our environmental performance. risks, liabilities and sustainability issues for the In FY13, our EMS was extended to incorporate our motorway. Pocahontas 895 and 495 Express Lanes roads in The EMS maintained by Interlink Roads for M5 the US. This change was part of our overall effort to South West, which is part-owned by Transurban, achieve a consistent standard across the assets over was externally audited in FY13 and maintained its which we have management control. accreditation to the international standard ISO14001. A key focus during FY13 has been developing or reviewing Environment Management Plans (EMP) Climate change for our assets. We recognise that the expected increase in extreme In preparation for the completion of the Hills climatic events may place additional pressures on M2 Upgrade, the operating, maintenance and our assets. overarching EMPs for Hills M2 were reviewed and finalised in FY13. The Tollaust operating EMP and An effective way for Transurban to mitigate climate sub plans were reviewed by the Department of change risks is through the design and construction Planning and Infrastructure (DoPI) and met the of climate resilient assets. Therefore, we have requirements set under the Minister’s Conditions established a process to work with our construction of Approval for the Hills M2 Upgrade project. This partners to assess climate change risks in the includes obligations to monitor and report on the design phase of major projects. environmental performance of the motorway, traffic While there is less capacity to retrofit our existing and compliance tracking. assets, we will consider doing climate change risk New EMPs will be finalised for Eastern Distributor, assessments for our NSW assets to evaluate Lane Cove Tunnel and Tollaust during FY14, and the our exposure. EMP review for CityLink will also be completed in FY14. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 09 Energy and greenhouse gases TRANSURBAN SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS FY13 10 in 10 In June 2013 Transurban endorsed an energy reduction target for assets under management control. The target is a 10 per cent reduction in 10 years from a 2013 baseline. This presents a challenge for our business, with our success depending on regulatory factors and the emergence of low energy technologies. In FY14 we will be developing specific targets for the individual assets. In FY13 we commenced reporting on a new US asset —the 495 Express Lanes—and two new upgrade projects—the 95 Express Lanes in the US and M5 CITYLINK: 49.8% POCAHONTAS 895: 0.5% West Widening in NSW. Despite this, our total Scope HILLS M2: 5.4% 495 EXPRESS LANES: 3.2% 1, 2 and 31 GHG emissions have decreased. EASTERN DISTRIBUTOR: 6.9% HILLS M2 UPGRADE: 0.6% Scope 1 and 2 emissions are associated with LANE COVE TUNNEL: 28.9% M5 WEST WIDENING: 0.2% CORPORATE OFFICES: 2.4% Transurban’s use of electricity and fuel. Our Scope M5 SOUTH WEST: 2.0% 3 emissions are associated with energy embedded in construction materials, fuel usage by our Transurban records other relevant Scope 3 contractors and emissions associated with waste emissions associated with corporate air travel sent to landfill. and customer vehicle travel separately. Both of these have increased during FY13 as a result of business growth. TRANSURBAN SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS FY03 TO FY13 70,000 60,000 50,000 Corporate Offices 95 Upgrade TONNES CO2-e 40,000 M5 West Widening Hills M2 Upgrade 495 Express Lanes 30,000 Lane Cove Tunnel M4 20,000 Eastern Distributor Pocahontas 895 10,000 M5 South West Hills M2 CityLink 0 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 1 E xcluding Scope 3 GHG emissions associated with customer vehicle and corporate air travel. SUSTAINABIILITY ENVIRONMENT REPORT 2013 10 Energy reduction Motorway lighting In FY13 our combined Scope 1 and GHG emissions Feature lights on the International Gateway decreased at CityLink, Eastern Distributor, Lane on CityLink were changed to low energy LED Cove Tunnel and in our corporate offices as during FY13. a result of implementing energy saving initiatives. LED lights have several advantages associated with Tunnel operations their low energy use, long life, improved light quality and reduced toxicity given they do not contain Lane Cove Tunnel — Current regulatory restrictions mercury. Additional benefits include reduced risk mandate zero portal emissions from Lane Cove associated with replacing globes, less waste and Tunnel (except in emergencies). This requires high savings on maintenance costs. However, they have a use of our ventilation systems and energy. higher capital cost. In FY13 we conducted trials in the tunnel to assess On the Gateway, the new lights are estimated to cut the potential to reduce ventilation during low electricity use for feature lighting by up to 83 per traffic periods overnight while still maintaining our cent (261MWh per year). They will also significantly approval conditions of zero portal emissions. reduce our maintenance costs, providing a returnThese trials have provided valuable information on on-investment in about three years. the optimal ventilation configuration to achieve lower Due to this project, we now have the ability to power consumption, good air quality and healthy air change the lighting colours on the Gateway to flow through the tunnel and exhaust stack. support community campaigns such as Blue Ribbon Operational trials on this configuration continue. Day, and we can more easily turn the lights off for Potential savings of 3,000kWh per day have specific events such as Earth Hour. been identified. We successfully trialled LED lights on the In addition, we have to periodically carry out architectural lights of the Bolte Bridge towers, ventilation flushing — a high energy process to blow and a business case for a permanent change dust and particulates out of the ventilation systems. will be prepared in FY14. CityLink proposes This process ensures that, in the event of a traffic to progressively replace other non essential incident with smoke or an air quality incident with lighting with LED or other energy efficient lighting increased emissions, there is less likelihood of technologies as lifecycle replacements become due. triggering a particulate (PM10) exceedance. We During the Hills M2 Upgrade, incandescent globes are reviewing the effectiveness of these flushes to on the toll gantries were replaced with high assess whether we can continue to achieve optimal efficiency LED lights. In FY14, LEDs will be trialed performance with lower energy usage. on one gantry at CityLink with a view to installing them on all gantries if the trial is successful. Building energy efficiency Corporate offices — Electricity consumption in our corporate offices in Australia has declined by over 30 per cent in FY13 due to the introduction of new IT hardware and printers with enhanced energy efficiency. The saving equates to an annual reduction of over 45 per cent. The initiative commenced roll out in November 2012. ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 11 Sustainable building Waste reduction Last year Transurban and our project partner CityLink — CityLink has been using long life Fluor applied for LEED (Leadership in Energy and fluorescent globes in the Domain Tunnel since Environmental Design) Silver certification for our FY11, and this switch helped to reduce the use new, state-of-the-art operations centre for the of replacements by around 90 per cent. In FY14, 495 Express Lanes. CityLink will replace all Domain and Burnley Tunnel lighting with these longer life and more energy Our application to achieve LEED Silver certification efficient globes. is still being assessed by the US Green Building Council (USGBC). The target for finalisation is Hills M2— Longer life, high-pressure sodium lights were installed in the underpasses at Windsor Road now FY14. as part of the Hills M2 Upgrade. The performance of these lights will be assessed to determine if we Waste should install them beyond the upgrade area in FY14. During the upgrade noise walls constructed of Reuse and recycling noise-absorbing Hebel panels were removed and In June 2013 Transurban was recognised by the replaced with new panels. Approximately two Australian Federal Government for our commitment thirds (over 2000 cubic metres) of these panels to keeping harmful mercury out of our environment were re-used by the local community to construct by participating in FluoroCycle, a fluoro light agricultural sheds and stables. recycling program. As a facilitator for the scheme, our role is to promote FluoroCycle to our suppliers, customers, operators and landlords, encouraging them to recycle as many lamps as possible and to sign up to FluoroCycle. Transurban has also developed an action plan to raise awareness throughout our own organisation. Our aim is to reduce the number of mercury containing globes being used by assessing the potential for alternatives withouth mercury (e.g. LED) or installing longer life globes. A SMART PARTNERSHIP In May FY13 CityLink established a partnership with Victoria’s Regional Rail Link City to Maribyrnong Alliance (RRLCMR) that will allow the rail project to use stormwater captured in our rainwater tanks below the Bolte Bridge. Runoff from the Bolte Bridge is diverted to two steel rainwater tanks under the bridge at Turner Street in Port Melbourne. The tanks have a combined capacity of approximately 137KL. Water is then transported via a water cart to the RRLCMR site for use for dust suppression, soil and fill compaction and embankment formation. Making use of this local source of water avoids significant water transport costs and associated GHG emissions. SUSTAINABIILITY ENVIRONMENT REPORT 2013 12 Water POTABLE WATER USE FY13 Protecting local waterways CityLink— In FY13 local waterways were further protected by the restoration of sediment control ponds on the Westgate Freeway under the Bolte Bridge. This work included new planting. Hills M2 — During the Hills M2 Upgrade, sandbag dams were established in sloping areas. In addition, surfaces prone to erosion were covered with geofabric to reduce soil erosion and prevent the pollution of waterways from sediment run off during rainfall. Monthly waterway monitoring during the upgrade was carried out both upand down-stream at local CITYLINK: 42.4% POCAHONTAS 895: 2.2% creeks that intersect with work zones to ensure HILLS M2: 1.2% HILLS M2 UPGRADE: 45.5% there were no adverse impacts from construction. EASTERN DISTRIBUTOR: 1.8% M5 WEST WIDENING: 1.6% The monitoring included Darling Mills Creek, LANE COVE TUNNEL: 1.4% CORPORATE OFFICES: 0.9% Devlins Creek, Terrys Creek, Porters Creek and M5 SOUTH WEST: 3.0% Shrimptons Creek. We have also expanded and upgraded stormwater An ongoing monitoring regime for the stormwater retention ponds in the motorway corridor as part of ponds has been integrated into the operational the Hills M2 Upgrade and the new Lane Cove Road Environment Management Plan for Hills M2. Eastbound On-Ramp. The responsibility for monitoring has been allocated to Tollaust as manager of the operation and If contaminated sediment is identified in areas maintenance contractor. outside of the upgrade, it is removed and treated through bioremediation (allowing the sun to burn off Spill management contaminants). This work will continue as required In FY13 we made improvements to our spill after the upgrade is completed. management procedures for all assets and projects over which we have management control. This has resulted in a decrease in the number of spills on or near these motorways. There were no infringements for spill events during the year. ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 13 Biodiversity Air quality Hills M2 — The upgrade project team has made the Tunnel air quality environment surrounding the project corridor one CityLink — All in-tunnel air quality monitors in the of its top priorities. Burnley and Domain Tunnels were replaced in FY13 After consultation with stakeholders including local as part of our life-cycle replacement program. governments, an Ecological Management Plan and In FY13 CityLink’s incident response crews a Landscaping and Weed Management sub plan raised concerns about their exposure to diesel were developed as part of the operational EMP. particulates while working in the CityLink tunnels. In FY13 ecologists monitored the 110 nest boxes An investigation undertaken by environmental installed at the start of the upgrade project and found consultants concluded diesel particulate that a wide variety of native animals — including concentrations varied with traffic volumes but ringtail possums and lorikeets — are now using exposure of incident response workers in the the boxes. tunnels was 40 times less than the Occupational Exposure Limit for mining. CityLink — Following a significant loss of landscaping vegetation due to drought, CityLink is undertaking a Lane Cove Tunnel — In FY13 we completed regular review to select replacement species that are more six monthly air quality audits (as required under drought tolerant. the project’s approvals) of the in-tunnel ventilation, stack ventilation and air quality processes for Lane In FY13, about 2,500 plants were planted in the Cove Tunnel. motorway corridor. Eastern Distributor — In FY13 we continued to 95 and 495 Express Lanes — In the US, Transurban address recommendations made by consultants and its project partner Fluor are working to offset in their FY12 review of the in-tunnel air quality and impacts from the removal of trees and brush velocity system on the Eastern Distributor. One due to the construction of Express Lanes on I-95. of these recommendations involved replacing an We have offered local communities a number of air quality visibility sensor to address faulty PM10 opportunities for landscaping under a program readings. During the year we checked the condition aimed at planting 1,000 trees in 1,000 days. of all air quality and velocity sensors in the tunnel, Transurban has also worked with the state and a refurbishment and improvement plan is government, the community and the Fairfax County under way. Restoration Project to finalise a landscaping and Hills M2 — As part of the Hills M2 Upgrade, a new re-forestation plan for the 495 Express Lanes air velocity sensor was installed in each tube of corridor. All plantings will occur in the right of the Norfolk Tunnel and air quality sensors were way controlled by the Virginia Department of removed and reinstalled. Transportation. The Virginia General Assembly New software for tunnel operations will allow the and the Fairfax County Board of Supervisors are number of ventilation fans to automatically adjust providing US$5 million in funding to prepare and according to carbon monoxide (CO) levels in the implement a corridor-wide plan. Norfolk Tunnel. This will benefit air quality, but the increased ventilation and enhanced lighting are likely to increase energy consumption in the tunnel. In FY13, there were no air quality exceedances in the tunnels on Hills M2, CityLink or Eastern Distributor. SUSTAINABIILITY ENVIRONMENT REPORT 2013 14 Road corridor air quality Hills M2 — On the upgrade, construction activities 95 Express Lanes — Communities in the vicinity of were conducted during the daytime wherever one of the new ramps that needs to be constructed possible. However, some works needed to be for the 95 Express Lanes project had expressed undertaken at night during low traffic periods. concern about potential health hazards from We took a proactive approach to community exposure to vehicle exhaust. During the year, the consultations for any noisy night-time works, Virginia Department of Transportation reviewed the including face-to-face visits with the residents air quality studies that formed part of the project’s and businesses most affected, targeted letterbox environmental assessment. The department deliveries, website updates and a 24-hour phone determined that the studies were done properly and line for complaints. air quality impacts are within acceptable limits. In FY13 a number of residents most affected by Hills M2 — To ensure that the air quality impacts nearby night-time works were offered temporary from construction of the Hills M2 Upgrade were respite relocations. Movie tickets were offered minimised, we identified a suite of control measures to others as a goodwill gesture to recognise the under the project’s Air Quality Management inconvenience of the works. Plan. To reduce dust associated with the upgrade Nearly 7km of temporary noise walls were installed works, rock-milling equipment was modified to along the motorway during construction to protect incorporate spray heads to limit dust in the air. This adjoining residents from excessive operational and supplemented use of water carts that used recycled construction noise. All these temporary noise walls water (rainwater), hoses and gurneys. were removed once new and relocated noise walls Two dedicated weather stations installed at were installed. either end of the project provided wind speed and During the Environmental Assessment phase of the direction, allowing work to be stopped during upgrade, a number of properties were identified excessive conditions. where operations noise was expected to exceed the At the end of a work shift, excavated material was operational noise criteria set out for the project. stockpiled and watered down. Two water carts were These properties were then eligible to be assessed also kept on standby for use after-hours to spray for architectural treatments to mitigate this noise. exposed areas when there was the possibility of In all, 92 property inspections were completed and strong winds. 70 properties were offered treatments. The installation of a new, low noise road pavement Noise management for the entire length of the motorway will help reduce traffic noise. Noise levels along the CityLink — Following some community complaints to motorway will be measured during FY14 and FY19 VicRoads about noisy truck brakes near the entrance to ensure predicted noise levels are not exceeded. to the Burnley Tunnel, VicRoads has been liaising with CityLink to install a noise monitoring system 495 Express Lanes — In the US, the 495 corridor has at the entry to the Burnley Tunnel. The system will extensive noise walls to mitigate vehicle noise. Sound identify noisy trucks, allowing VicRoads to contact protection was tripled as a result of the improvements owners requesting the trucks be inspected by completed during project construction. a technician. Trials to prove the technology for detecting noisy truck brakes have now been completed. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 Employees 15 Transurban is focused on providing a safe, supportive and stimulating workplace for our employees. In FY13 we worked on a range of initiatives to fulfill our commitment, including the launch of our new vision and values, work on leadership development and gender diversity within the business, and safety and security programs. Vision and values EMPLOYEES LEAVING TRANSURBAN In FY13 Transurban reviewed the Group’s vision and values to ensure they align with the refined 30 INVOLUNTARY business strategy. VOLUNTARY 25 During this process, we involved employees in a 7.7% 5.0% range of activities in our Australian and US offices 20 11.4% to help define the vision and values and to ensure 15 the outcome reflected Transurban’s culture. 5.3% 3.5% The new vision is ‘to strengthen communities 10 3.5% 5.3% through transport’, and the values are integrity, 5 17.9% 18.7% 11.6% 7.9% 9.9% 10.6% 7.1% collaboration, accountability, respect and ingenuity. During the year, the company promoted the vision 0 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 and values through activities and visual displays in our offices to help embed them within the business. As the Analysis of Employee Turnover by Age table This work will continue in FY14, and will primarily shows, the age composition of employees leaving focus on targeted activities within teams. the business is spread evenly across our age groups, with the only increase in the ‘up to 25 years’ Workforce changes group. In FY13 the arrival of our new CEO and the In FY13 unplanned absenteeism decreased by 0.77 confirmation of the Group’s strategy led to of a day per employee on the previous year, as structural changes in our workforce that continued indicated in the Work Health and Safety table. Our for the duration of the year. average of 6.52 days per employee per year is well Following new appointments to the Executive below the industry benchmark of 9.7 days. Committee in the first half of the year, the In FY14 and beyond, we will continue to monitor Technology, Delivery & Operations, Strategy, unplanned absenteeism and educate employees Victorian and US areas of the business reviewed about flexible work arrangements. and reshaped their teams. The gender balance of leavers in FY13 has shifted Under changes to our operating model, Transurban by 8 per cent, with a higher proportion of males will bring operations for Lane Cove Tunnel and Hills departing. M2 in-house. Preparation for this is continuing, with The most common reasons cited for leaving the transition due to be completed on 1 April 2014. Transurban were ‘a new job opportunity’, followed Employee turnover decreased in FY13, with voluntary by ‘personal/family reasons’ then ‘limited turnover down 3.5 per cent from the prior year (see opportunities at Transurban’. Employee Turnover table). In FY13 we promoted a number of people into senior roles, including executive positions. We will continue to identify opportunities to support the development of employees wanting to advance their careers at Transurban. SUSTAINABIILITY EMPLOYEES REPORT 2013 16 Employee safety FY13 INJURY REPORTS Most safety incidents involving our employees are caused by common hazards, with repetitive movement at workstations (36 per cent) our most frequent incident type. In FY12 we reported an increase in our repetitive movement injuries that coincided with the introduction of a new customer management IT system. This past year, the rate came back down in line with our FY11 levels. The four recordable injuries in FY13 comprised three repetitive movement injuries within our customer service area and a fall on the stairs by a contractor. We have taken the following measures to minimise ASSET: 6% KITCHEN/CORRIDOR: 24% or eliminate the repetitive movement hazard which WORKSTATION: 36% TRAVEL: 10% causes the majority of our employee injuries: FALL: 10% INJURY (OTHER): 14% >> We have changed and redesigned some activities that may be repetitive by automating tasks within The results showed that respondents believed there the credit and customer areas of the business. had been positive changes since the last survey. This reduces mouse usage and the number of The company will conduct another full Employee screens required for processing transactions. Opinion Survey in FY14. >> We electronically measure the repetitive movement of individuals and teams to Diversity and pay equity determine the level and distribution of this hazard across teams. This allows team leaders In FY13 we established a Diversity Committee to respond to particular high activity periods. in Australia and North America. We surveyed >> We have increased our focus on well-being, employees on diversity topics, and we introduced a including exercise and core strength to ensure formal coaching and mentoring program for female employees remain fit for work. Our most middle managers. successfully evaluated program involves Our ongoing work on diversity has made a positive whole teams working on core strength with impact on several metrics. an occupational physiotherapist. During the reporting period, the percentage of females in executive positions increased from ‘Pulse’ survey 40 per cent to 50 per cent. In addition, the average remuneration ratio at the senior executive level Transurban regularly surveys employees to identify changed from 32:68 (female:male) in FY10 to 50:502 strengths and weaknesses in our business and in FY13. This was impacted by the addition of three working environment. new senior executive positions in FY13. In FY13 we conducted a spot survey to get a The increased emphasis on the Hay Job Evaluation reading of our workforce’s ‘pulse’ and to review our methodology1 has ensured remuneration both at progress on key items identified in the full FY12 the time of recruitment and at the time of review is Employee Opinion Survey. aligned to the market. 1 Hay Job Evaluation is a methodology used to map out job roles in the context of the organisational structure. The general purpose for carrying out job evaluations using this or similar methods is to enable organisations to map all their roles in a manner that (i) recognises equivalent levels for the purposes of salary and benefit grading/ banding (ii) improves succession planning, and (iii) assists in the creation of more useful and focussed job descriptions. 2 Reflective of contracted remuneration as at 30 June 2013. EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 17 In FY13 our Women in Leadership program Transurban is also focused on succession continued into its third year. The program supports management in the business and believes that this the development of women at Transurban and aims is crucial to our success. Successors who have to improve the proportion of women in senior and been identified for executive roles have started a middle management positions. Over the past year formal assessment process that evaluates their the focus has been on coaching and mentoring. leadership style and reasoning skills. The outcomes of these assessments will be used to determine After completing the Diversity Survey during the development plans for these individuals. year, we identified the following focus areas for FY14: Twice a year we conduct succession planning >> gender diversity activities across the business where managers >> flexible work practices, and of business units are asked to identify their >> cultural diversity. high-performing employees and successors for leadership or other critical roles. This information We have developed action plans to advance in these is presented to the Board and used for planning and areas over the next three years. development purposes. Flexible work arrangements Code of Conduct Transurban supports flexible work arrangements In FY13 the number of incidents involving employees such as flexible hours, part-time work, job-share breaching our code decreased from the previous arrangements, working from home, phased year, as shown in the Breaches of Code of retirement and lifestyle leave. Conduct table. At 30 June 2013, 26 per cent of our employees were More than half of the FY13 incidents were related working under a flexible arrangement, which was to inappropriate use of technology. To help address consistent with previous years. The takeup of our this, we conducted refresher training on information lifestyle leave program — which allows eligible security during the year and will continue to provide employees to purchase leave over and above their this in coming years. annual leave — increased slightly from the previous year to 6.6 per cent. Employee systems Learning and development A project to consolidate our payroll and HR system was undertaken in FY13. This consolidation will The number of training hours per employee improve our HR reporting capability, data integrity increased slightly from the previous year, as and processes. reflected in the Average Hours of Training per Employee by Employee Category table. During the year we also launched the Group’s intranet, with a new look and feel and an increased Transurban continues to deliver a large number of emphasis on communicating with employees. its learning and development programs internally, We are now working to build in document particularly those related to compliance. management features that will increase Some of the key programs in FY13 included training collaboration across teams. on information and security, the vision and values initiative and a pilot customer service program that will be rolled out to our Victorian and New South Wales operations in FY14. During the year, 51 executive and senior managers participated in a Leadership Development Program that covered planning for challenges, giving feedback and supporting employee development, and team effectiveness. In addition, a ‘Leading Teams’ refresher course was piloted and will be rolled out to previous participants in FY14. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 18 Marketplace Our Marketplace section looks at our key activities with external stakeholders. This includes our customers, suppliers, contractors and joint venture partners, government, industry and investors. Customer safety Our collision index tracks the number of collisions on a three-year rolling average for our 100 per cent Safety is a top priority for Transurban, with various owned roads1 — CityLink and Hills M2 and the Eastern programs and initiatives aimed at ensuring we offer Distributor (75 per cent owned). the safest possible roads for drivers. In FY13, the number of collisions involving injury Our roads have a number of key safety features declined on all those roads. including electronic speed and lane control signage, No fatalities occurred on Transurban’s Australian automatic detection of incidents on the road to roads during FY13. One fatality occurred on our ensure rapid response as well as specialist tunnel US roads. A motorist died as a result of injuries safety systems. received in a single-car crash on a ramp off the We conduct reviews to determine trends such as the 495 Express Lanes in Virginia. impact of increasing peak-hour traffic or changing Incidents on our roads are indicative of hazards that patterns of heavy vehicle use. We share what we may lead to more serious incidents. The chart below learn—and our risk-reduction measures—across provides an overview of the 9,000 incidents recorded our assets to ensure the best safety outcomes. on our roads during FY13, showing that breakdowns We also monitor collisions on our roads to or drivers stopped on the toll road account for further understand our risks and identify areas almost three-quarters of incidents. Information for improvement. such as this helps us determine our priorities for implementing safety initiatives. LANE COVE TUNNELa COLLISIONb INDEX FY13 INCIDENT TYPE—OPEN ROAD All collisions per 100 million kilometres 2010 2012 July n/a January 0 August 0 February 0 September 16 March 0 October 16 April 0 November 31 May 31 December 16 June 0 1 We expect to include data from Lane Cove Tunnel, which we July 16 acquired in August 2010, 2011 August 0 when a longer history of data January 0 September 0 is available. February 0 October 0 March 15 November 15 April 18 December 0 a Transurban acquired the Lane Cove Tunnel in August May 0 2010. This is the third year of June 0 2013 reporting the collision index. July 0 January 0 Our aim is to report a rolling average in the future when August 31 February 17 GONE ON ARRIVAL: 11% COLLISIONS – NIL INJURIES: 7% we have a longer history of September 0 March 0 collision reporting data for the BREAKDOWNS: 60% COLLISIONS – WITH INJURIES: 1% Lane Cove Tunnel. October 0 April 0 DEBRIS: 9% FIRE: 0% November 15 May 29 b C ollision data based on collisions occuring within the December 17 June 0 PROHIBITED USER: 3% OTHER: 9% tunnel only. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 19 CityLink safety The CityLink Collision Analysis Report, which During FY13 we continued to implement road analysed data from July 2009 to June 2012, improvements and raise driver awareness on confirmed most collisions on CityLink were CityLink in response to a rise in the number of nose-to-tail. It also pinpointed eight investigation low-speed nose-to-tail collisions. areas — seven on CityLink’s western section and one on the southern link. New electronic speed limits signs were installed on the Bolte Bridge and its approach in October The report has recommended specific actions in 2012 after an investigation highlighted an issue relation to each investigation area. These actions with varying speeds across lanes, which is known include checking skid resistance and lighting and to increase the risk of collisions. New line marking line marking. was also undertaken to discourage drivers from Over-height vehicles making late lane changes. Incidents involving over-height vehicles entering In December 2012, we launched a campaign, Look the CityLink tunnels have also led to a review of Up Stay Back, to encourage drivers to look ahead systems and processes. and leave a two-second gap from the vehicle in front. Over-height vehicles set off sensors as they Run in conjunction with road safety organisation approach the tunnels and the driver is alerted Murcotts Driving Excellence and radio station 3AW, through our vehicle message system. Despite this, the campaign included radio and web advertising 10 incidents have occurred from January 2012 as well as on-road signage reminding drivers to June 2013, with seven causing damage to the that nose-to-tail accidents were a major cause of tunnels. congestion and delays. In FY13 we engaged ARRB Group to recommend The campaign’s key plank was to reward safe improvements based on best practice both in drivers. A Victoria police officer and 3AW Australia and overseas. representative travelled along CityLink daily and selected motorists driving safely, rewarding them As a result, we are investigating improved detection with toll credit vouchers and defensive driver of overheight vehicles. This would allow us to training courses. develop a procedure to close the tunnel entrance and prevent overheight vehicles from entering. In May 2013, our Road Operations Team completed a report which identified trends and locations for collisions on CityLink. TRANSURBAN’S COLLISION INDICESab—CITYLINK, EASTERN DISTRIBUTOR, HILLS M2 80 30 INJURY COLLISIONS PER 100 MILLION VEHICLE KILOMETRES ALL COLLISIONS PER 100 MILLION VEHICLE KILOMETRES 70 25 60 20 50 40 15 30 a A three-year rolling average 10 is used given the variability in collision occurrences 20 b I n some instances, Transurban contractors provide assistance 5 with incidents that take place 10 outside our lease boundaries in New South Wales. In order to determine whether 0 0 these incidents have occurred JUN DEC JUN DEC JUN DEC JUN DEC JUN DEC JUN within Transurban’s lease 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 boundaries and should be included in the collision indices, incident report data ALL COLLISION INDEX INJURY COLLISION INDEX is scrutinised by specialist CITYLINK EASTERN DISTRIBUTOR HILLS M2 CITYLINK EASTERN DISTRIBUTOR HILLS M2 personnel in our Health and Safety teams. SUSTAINABIILITY MARKETPLACE REPORT 2013 20 Burnley Tunnel incident Coroner’s report Emergency telephones were also updated to a On 23 March 2007, three people died as a result more durable, weather-resistant model to ensure of a multi-vehicle accident and subsequent fire in improved reliability for motorists involved in a CityLink’s Burnley Tunnel. breakdown or minor collision. In the wake of the incident, CityLink held Cyclists returned to the motorway following the discussions with a range of agencies and completion in August 2013. We displayed safety implemented changes including traffic lights and messages and ran Australian Traffic Network physical barriers at tunnel entrances which can be advertisements in the lead up to completion to used in an emergency and further electronic speed remind drivers that cyclists would limit signs on the tunnel approaches. be returning to the motorway. The Coroner’s report on the 2007 Burnley Tunnel Eastern Distributor, LCT safety fatalities was released publicly on 30 January 2013 A new Operations Management and Control and included 14 recommendations. System (OMCS) has been approved for the Eastern Ten were addressed to VicRoads on future tunnel Distributor. The new system will improve camera design, one to CityLink on computer control of coverage in the tunnels as well as our incident emergencies, one to CityLink/Metropolitan Fire detection and response times. It is expected to Brigade (MFB) on water deluge for fire suppression be operating by early FY15. performance, one to MFB on emergency tunnel We also expect to improve our incident detection communications and one to VicRoads/CityLink on times in the Lane Cove Tunnel in FY14, with plans tunnel emergency messages. to install an automated video incident detection In response, CityLink and all relevant agencies system. regularly assess CityLink emergency control On the Eastern Distributor, we use a vehicle to computer systems to ensure they would be effective highlight the regular closure and opening of the in an emergency. In addition CityLink and the MFB Cleveland Street ramps in peak hour. In FY13, we are working together to develop response plans for introduced a larger and more prominent vehicle multiple deluge incidents. equipped with warning lights and reflective strips to A review of emergency messages is expected to alert motorists to ramp closures and other works. finalised before the end of 2013. M5 West Widening Hills M2 safety Work to widen the M5 West motorway in Sydney The number of significant collisions on Hills M2 started in September, focusing on widening the declined during the year. median, drainage and noise walls. As construction sites scaled down, breakdown During construction, our contractors AbiGroup are lanes and breakdown bays were opened for use. responsible for traffic and incident management The lanes and bays had been used temporarily and have a temporary traffic management control during construction, which potentially led to room. Traffic response crews are on-site around additional congestion on the motorway during the clock. any incidents. Safety in the US The upgrade project also included substantial Our major project in the US, the 495 Express Lanes improvements to Hills M2’s tunnel safety system. in Virginia, opened to traffic in November 2012, Boom gates, traffic signals and an automated video marking one of the most significant changes to the incident detection system were installed, while area’s transport network in several decades. the control and deluge sprinkler systems were improved. In the first week of operations, we introduced extra lane marking and updated digital messages Other safety improvements as part of the reminding drivers about the new traffic patterns. upgrade included additional breakdown bays This followed some driver confusion and swerving and repositioned CCTV to provide better overall which caused a handful of incidents at the southern coverage and incident response. Variable speed entrance of the Express Lanes near the Springfield signs were installed on approaches to the tunnel Interchange. and additional message systems will provide better advanced notification of incidents/traffic conditions. MARKETPLACE SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 21 The incidents and customer confusion diminished In FY13, we completed our 495 Express Lanes project significantly almost immediately following in Virginia achieving an outstanding safety record, far these changes. exceeding the national industry safety standards. 495 Express Assist Crews patrol the lanes for any We recorded 9.15 million job hours with two lost safety and motorist issues and since opening have time injuries for the duration of the project. helped 272 drivers. They also monitor the lanes for The recordable injury frequency rate of 2.65 per any debris or hazard that may pose a safety issue. 1 million hours worked was less than one fifth of US Express Assist’s average time of response has been national average for the construction industry. seven minutes. Construction on our other project in Virginia — the The 495 Express Lanes team also works closely 95 Express Lanes — is 40 per cent complete, with no with the Virginia State Police, Virginia Department of lost work day incidents. Transportation and Fairfax County Fire and Rescue squads to ensure a timely response to any incidents. We have achieved 1,129,481 recorded hours with a recordable injury frequency rate of 2.65 per In June the speed limit on the 495 Express Lanes 1 million hours. was increased from 55mph to 65mph after extensive safety study by the Virginia Department of In March 2013, Transurban began a safety audit Transportation (VDOT) and the Express Lanes team. program to review work and customer safety including activities such as ramp closures, Based on the results, VDOT determined that a maintenance of critical tunnel safety systems and 65mph speed limit was safe and allowed for safe work permits. merging and lane changing. The audit program is led by a single team to improve consistency across the network and distribute Contractor safety examples of good practice. In FY13 we recorded one lost time injury in 1.2 million Transurban has also produced the first of its construction hours on our upgrade project on the Minimum Safety Standards. The aim is to ensure Hills M2 in Sydney. This follows three lost time injuries that where there may be variation in the control of a in FY12 in more than 1.8 million construction hours. hazard in our industry then a minimum standard is Work on the project was completed on 1 August 2013. produced, that includes contractors, to reduce the Since the projected started in January 2011 until possibility of incidents. The first standard included 30 June 2013 we have achieved; was Excavation, Break In and Tunnel Penetrations. >> Over 3.8 million construction hours This standard outlines what must be done by anyone working on our assets to assess the hazards before >> 6,247 inductions commencing works involving digging, breaking >> 679 toolbox briefings into vertical services (walls, embankments) and >> 40,212 toolbox attendees (average of 59 penetrating into tunnel walls. per briefing) >> LTIFR1 3.8 >> RIFR2 17.5 FY13 FY13 TOTAL CONSTRUCTION LOST TIME FY13 PROJECT PROJECT PROJECT PROJECT HRS (1000’S) INJURIES LTIFR1 HOURS LTIFR1 RIFR2 Capital Beltway Upgrade3 997 0 0 9,150 0.22 3.5 Hills M2 Upgrade 1,207 1 .83 3,805 3.8 17.5 95 Express Lanes 1,129 0 0 1,129 0 2.65 M5 West Widening 382 0 0 382 0 0.07 TOTAL 1,379 1 1 LTIFR — Lost Time Injury Frequency rate (per 1 million hours worked) 2 RIFR — Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (per 1 million hours worked) 3 Capital Beltway Upgrade refers to the 495 Express Lanes project construction period SUSTAINABIILITY MARKETPLACE REPORT 2013 22 Customer Service 495 Customer Service Centre Our 495 Express Lanes Customer Service Centre Transurban’s Australian tolling brands, CityLink has exceeded service and quality levels goals in Melbourne and Roam Express in Sydney met or and objectives every month since opening. The exceeded their customer service targets and results Customer Service Centre received more than in FY13. 26,000 calls since opening in January 2013 to June Roam, our other Sydney tolling brand, did not meet 30, delivering a Service Level of 94 per cent against one of its Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)—to the performance measure of 80 per cent. Other respond to email communications within two days. KPIs satisfied during the period were Average The methodology to measure this KPI changed due Speed of Answer (less than 30 seconds) and First to system and process changes. Call Resolution (more than 90 per cent). For full year scorecard results please visit The Customer Service Centre opened in October transurban.com/sr13/Scorecards.htm 2012, a month before the lanes, with extended hours Further information regarding targets and results of operation during November and December to for CityLink, Roam and Roam Express is available deal with inquiries. A Customer Care web page was on their websites: citylink.com.au, roam.com.au also launched to provide customers with several and roamexpress.com.au. communication channel options. We are also promoting customer self-service with a Customer self-service options discount for those who pay toll invoices online. We are continuing our efforts to improve selfservice options for our CityLink customers through 495 Express Lanes Driver Survey enhancements to our web and mobile sites. In December 2012 and January 2013 we engaged an Customers can now manage their vehicle details, independent research firm Povaddo to survey 1,760 make payments and check account balances, frequent Capital Beltway drivers in the Greater while further improvements are planned for the Washington, DC area. coming year. The research gauged drivers’ overall impressions, A self-service web station has been set up at our experiences and opinions of travelling on the Customer Service Centre at Lorimer Street to Beltway and the 495 Express Lanes in its first two further promote the new online facilities. months of operations. The website improvements have seen general The survey found that 64 per cent of frequent Beltway enquiry customer phone calls decrease by 9 per drivers regarded traffic congestion to be the biggest cent. issue in the Greater Washington DC area. Traffic congestion was more concerning than the economy Commercial customers’ phone enquiries decreased (11 per cent), the housing market (7 per cent) and by 21 per cent following one-on-one tutorials unemployment (4 per cent). to familiarise those customers with the online services. In January 2013, CityLink expanded its email notification system to include low balance and account alerts for customers. This has led to a reduction of approximately 50,000 letters to customers per month. More than 80 per cent of 495 Express Lanes customers found a real time savings on their trip on the Express Lanes. MARKETPLACE SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 23 Working with Government However, with the agreement of all parties, completed sections of the upgraded motorway were New South Wales Government opened in advance of the revised final completion enabling motorists to benefit from the extra lanes F3-M2 proposal and reinstatements of the breakdown lanes earlier. In FY13 we continued to progress our negotiations Some toll increases were deferred until completion with the New South Wales Government to develop of the project in light of the traffic impacts. one of Sydney’s “missing links”—a connection between the F3 freeway and Hills M2. This has long M5 West Widening been seen as an essential project to ease heavy In August 2012, work started on a $400 million congestion and improve the link between Sydney project to widen the M5 West, a key route between and the central coast and beyond. the city and Sydney’s south-western suburbs. Transurban submitted an Unsolicited Proposal for Transurban reached agreement with the NSW the F3 -M2 Link Project early in 2012 in accordance Government in FY12 for the project which will add with the Government’s three stage process. In July an extra lane in each direction over the 21kms of the 2012 the decision was made to proceed to Stage 2 M5 South West Motorway. (detailed proposal) and in June 2013 Stage 3 of the The Government is contributing $50 million and process commenced. the project is expected to be completed in late In June we reached the final stage of the calendar 2014. Government’s Unsolicited Proposal process, which As at 30 June 2013, the project was 40 per cent involves development of the scope of works and complete. functional requirements, specialist investigations, environmental assessment and the tendering process CityLink for the selection of a design and construct contractor. In May 2013, the Victorian Government declared Community engagement has started on the project, its commitment to the first stage of the East-West and financial close is targeted for late 2014. Link project, which includes a tunnel connecting the Eastern Freeway to CityLink. Hills M2 Upgrade While Transurban supports the project as a critical Work to upgrade Hills M2 — the major transport missing link for Melbourne, we have announced corridor in north-western Sydney — was completed that we will not be participating in the Expression of on 1 August 2013. Interest process. The upgrade included additional lanes in both The Government has proposed the structure of the directions along a 14.5km section of the motorway, East-West Link as an Availability Public Private to ease congestion and improve access to Partnership, which is not consistent with our the motorway. strategic approach to development — and to taking Transurban and its contractors were extremely revenue and patronage risk on projects. mindful of the disruption that work on this Under an availability payment model, the scale created and worked closely with the Government will contract a private company NSW Government to minimise the impacts of to design, build and finance the tunnel with the construction work and roadwork speed limits Government providing payment for completion on the community. on-time and budget. An extensive communications program was put in The Government will initially retain tolling place to ensure motorists and the community were and traffic risk. kept informed about progress and construction We will, however, continue to foster open dialogue activities. with the Victorian Government on the project and Unfortunately, the upgrade was completed later if, in the future, the Government identifies the need than we had expected due to wet weather delays, to look at alternate funding approaches, we would the significantly worse than anticipated condition of support them in exploring those options. the M2, scope increases and enhancements. These We are continuing to work with the Victorian factors added to the works schedule and increased Government on improvements to traffic flow on the costs by approximately 10 to 15 per cent against the Bolte Bridge, CityLink, and to address some of the original cost estimate of $550 million. congestion points on the Western Link. Congestion is particularly evident in the morning peak and we are focused on finding a solution. SUSTAINABIILITY MARKETPLACE REPORT 2013 24 95 Express Lanes Working with our suppliers Work on our other project in Virginia — the 95 Express Lanes — is progressing well after Hills M2 and Lane Cove Tunnel we reached financial close on 1 August 2012. In April we consolidated our operations and The project is a partnership with Virginia maintenance contracts for Sydney’s Hills M2 Department of Transportation. and Lane Cove Tunnel as part of a move towards The project involves extending, widening and bringing our operations in-house for the LCT and improving the existing High Occupancy Vehicle Hills M2 motorway in FY14. lanes system and converting it into a 29 mile (46km) Transfield Services (TSL) was appointed the subhigh occupancy or toll lane facility along I-95. contractor for both operations and maintenance for the M2 and LCT rather than the previous Advocacy arrangement with two separate contracts by In the US, we worked with lawmakers to influence different contractors. changes to the Public-Private Transportation Act Under the new model we expect to have more to promote increased transparency and public consistency around service provision, while it will engagement in the development of projects, as well allow us to ensure a smooth transition to in-house as clarify user requirements for High Occupancy operations, which will be run by Tollaust (a wholly Toll lanes. The team also joined a broader coalition to successfully advocate for increased revenue owned Transurban subsidiary). for transportation, including a portion allocated to The recruitment of a new operations team, which support future public-private partnerships. will take control on 1 April 2014, has been a major At the federal level, advocacy efforts focused focus of both Tollaust and TSL. Many staff from the on promoting best practices for public-private previous contractors have transferred to TSL or partnerships, tolling and innovative finance. Tollaust so the expertise and capability is retained. Over the coming year, Transurban will continue In Australia, CEO Scott Charlton spoke at a number to build the capacity of Tollaust, expanding of events to outline Transurban’s views on topics Transurban’s operational capacity as a long-term that impact our business. operator and a partner in management of In September, he spoke at Infrastructure the network. Partnerships Australia’s 2012 and advocated more efficient use of transport networks to manage F3-M2 proposal demand, promote public transport and fund the On the F3-M2, project sponsors Transurban and upgrading of transport infrastructure. the Westlink M7 shareholders are working with Mr Charlton also spoke at the Roads Australia contractors to embed sustainability early in the conference in June 2013 where he and our then project. This will help support strong sustainability US Vice President Public Affairs Jennifer Aument outcomes across all stages of the F3-M2, from discussed ways to manage our existing assets design to construction to operation. and create more efficient transport networks for We are asking the contractors to: our cities. >> Demonstrate leadership by achieving an We also responded to the Victorian Government’s excellent ‘as built’ rating using the Infrastructure Metropolitan Planning Strategy Discussion Paper, Sustainability Council of Australia tool contributing potential solutions for current and future congestion affecting the productivity and >> Better manage resources by cutting down on liveability of Melbourne. waste, reusing materials and incorporating materials with a lower environmental footprint Political donations >> Consider new approaches, including smart Maintaining strong relationships with governments technologies, to reduce energy use during at both the political and bureaucratic level is design, construction and operations, and critical to our business. We have separate policies for political donations in the US and Australia in >> Support economic development in the local line with jurisdictional laws and we report our community by purchasing from businesses in contributions accordingly. the area, and training and hiring labour within the project corridor. In line with our policies we do not make donations either directly or via fundraising organisations. The principal contractor will be responsible for achieving F3-M2 sustainability targets in In the US, we paid US$60, 000 in FY13 to attend collaboration with the project sponsors. political events. In Australia, Transurban paid $1,700 to attend political fundraising events through the year. MARKETPLACE SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 25 Board and management Elizabeth Mildwater resigned as Group General Manager, Victoria, and left the Group in March Scott Charlton joined Transurban as Chief Executive 2013. This role was filled by Vin Vassallo, who Officer and a Board member in July 2012. commenced in February 2013. Professor Bob Officer resigned as a Non-Executive Andrew Head continues in his role as Group General Director on 7 August 2012. Professor Officer, who Manager NSW. was on the Board for two years, was the nominee In the US, Ken Daley resigned as President, of CP2 Limited, Transurban’s largest security International Development, in February 2013. holder at that time. As CP2 Limited was no longer a This role was not replaced. Michael Kulper substantial holder, Professor Officer stepped down. (President, North America) will leave the Group in Our Board once again received a ‘green light’ in September 2013. Jennifer Aument, previously Vice the Women on Boards assessment of ASX200 President of Public Affairs, was appointed Group companies, recognising that we had ‘good’ General Manager, North America in June 2013. representation of women on boards and in senior Profiles of the Executive Committee are available management and had been seeking to improve at transurban.com. gender diversity at all levels for some years. In June 2013, we closed our New York office to We have two women on our Board — Samantha consolidate our operations in northern Virginia. Mostyn and Christine O’Reilly, while our nine-member Executive Committee includes four women. Industry involvement Executive team In Australia, we continue to be involved with groups A major restructure of our Executive Committee in the transport and infrastructure sector. was announced in December 2012 following the We are members of infrastructure peak body appointment of Scott Charlton as the new Chief Infrastructure Partnerships Australia where CEO Executive Officer. Scott Charlton joined the Board in 2012. Mr Charlton, from Lend Lease, replaced Chris We are also a member of the Business Council of Lynch who left the business in July 2012. Australia (BCA), Roads Australia and Committee The new executive team reflects the focus on for Economic Development of Australia (CEDA), the delivering and enhancing Transurban’s core Transport Reform Network and the Tourism and competencies, providing a balance between regional Transport Forum. Mr Charlton also sits on the BCA accountability and core Group-wide capabilities. Infrastructure and Sustainable Growth Committee. The structure includes four newly created GroupIn NSW, we are members of the Sydney Business wide roles — strategy, technology, human resources Chamber and Sydney First, while in Victoria, we are and delivery and operations. members of the Victorian Transport Association. Wes Ballantine, previously our General Manager Our team in the US belongs to a number of industry of Investor Relations, Media and Government bodies. They are included in our Stakeholder Relations, heads up Strategy, while Tim Steinhilber, Engagement section. previously our Vice President, Major Projects US, has moved to the role of Group General Manager In FY11 we joined the Australian Green Delivery and Operations. Infrastructure Council, now known as Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia Sue Johnson, who leads our Human Resources (ISCA). As part of our Sustainability Strategy, team, was appointed to the Executive team in August 2012. Transurban has committed to applying the ISCA rating tool on the F3-M2 project. The lessons from The other new appointee was Lisa Tobin, who joined this will be applied to future projects. Transurban in February 2013 from Australia Post, to head up Technology. The Chief Financial Officer, Samantha Hogg, is the other Group-wide role, while other roles are market focused — US, Victoria and NSW. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 26 Communities Community investment Express Lanes grants Transurban and our construction partner Fluor A new approach are partners in the 495 Express Lanes Community Transurban is taking a new approach to community Grant Program. investment. Through the program, we support non-profit and Since the development of our revised corporate grassroots organisations that sustain, enhance or strategy in FY13, we are aligning our approach to protect the local environment and neighbourhoods social investment with the strategy and its related in the project’s corridor — a section of I-495 in objectives. Northern Virginia. In FY13 we started work on the revised Community The grants are up to US$5,000 each, and, on Investment Strategy which will focus on three main average, between five and 10 are awarded areas: each quarter. More than US$300,000 has been distributed since the program’s inception. >> Advance transport solutions — by contributing to the development of transport infrastructure In FY13 some of the projects we supported in the 495 corridor included planting activities for a >> Connect people — by enhancing social inclusion homeowners association, a community jazz festival, through improved mobility, and neighbourhood street lights and restoration of >> Develop communities adjacent to our local parks. assets — by addressing social needs for During the year, the grants program was communities supporting our roads. also extended to our adjoining project, the We expect to roll out our new Community 95 Express Lanes. Investment Strategy and report on it in FY14. In the program’s first quarter, six organisations This year, in line with the previous two years, in that corridor received grants worth more than we used the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) US$22,000. Some of these initiatives included methodology to measure our social investment. neighbourhood clean-up activities and a program However in FY13 we discontinued our LBG on storm water management. membership. This means the information we gather annually for LBG will no longer be assured by them. Run for the Kids Our total FY13 contribution to community In FY13 CityLink co-sponsored the Run for the Kids investment — measuring both time and money — with the Herald Sun newspaper for the eighth straight was $469,827. year. In FY13, the event generated $1.95 million, and CityLink contributed an additional $50,000 to take the TransGiving total to $2 million. Since its start, the fun run has Transurban has a workplace giving attracted more than 160,000 participants and raised program — TransGiving — that allows employees more than $8.5 million for the Royal Children’s to support a range of nominated charities. In FY13, Hospital in Melbourne. More than 280 Transurban employees donated $24,070 to these charities and employees and their families and friends were Transurban matched the amount dollar for dollar. involved in Run for the Kids, either as participants or volunteers on the day. They joined 35,000 others to Due to contributors to the program leaving the break the previous attendance record for the event. company, participation in the TransGiving program this past year was down 4 per cent (to 12 per cent) Run For the Hills compared to FY12. Hills M2 was a major sponsor of Run for the Hills, an eight-kilometre fun run held in October 2012 within the M2 corridor in Sydney. The event, which is co-sponsored by Fairfax Community Newspapers, attracted more than 400 athletes. Through their participation, they raised $30,000 for Reach for the Rainbow, a charity supporting early intervention services for children in the Hills District. In addition, Hills M2 made a $25,000 cash donation toward the cause. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 27 Community education Orange Cones. No Phones. In May 2013 Transurban extended its ‘Orange RoadSTART Cones. No Phones’ driver safety campaign to the CityLink has joined government, local businesses 95 Express Lanes project corridor in Northern and community organisations as a major partner, Virginia, US. providing financial support to RoadSTART, a driver The initiative, first introduced on the adjoining 495 education program for migrants and refugees Express Lanes during that project’s development, training for their Victorian driver’s licence. raises awareness of the dangers of distracted The program — based in the Flemington-Kensington driving in a construction zone. Since it started, it has area within the CityLink corridor — is an 18-month received widespread recognition both in the region pilot project largely funded by the State Government. and nationally, and has earned several awards. It matches adult learner-drivers with mentors who To launch the campaign on the 95 Express Lanes, help them gain 120 hours of supervised driving Transurban held a joint press conference with the practice before taking their licence test. Virginia Secretary of Transportation, the Virginia State Police and motoring body AAA Mid-Atlantic. Project managers—Flemington Neighbourhood Regional and local law enforcement also attended to Renewal and Moonee Valley City Council—have support the campaign, which was covered by estimated that more than 3,000 people within television, radio and newspaper outlets in the region. the catchment area would directly benefit from RoadSTART. In particular, the program helps The campaign urged drivers to prepare for the busy women over 21 years who are often the sole construction season and regularly reminds them supporting parent in a family. to slow down and avoid using cell phones when travelling through the work zone. Without the opportunity for driver education to prepare for the exam, learner-drivers can resort to unlicensed driving, which is unsafe and illegal. Community engagement The mobility that comes with getting their licence 495 Express promotion and information can help participants gain employment and become more active members of the community, according In FY13, 495 Express Lanes staff attended some to the program. of largest community festivals and events in the corridor to share information on the Express Lanes bstreetsmart and hear from motorists. These events included In August 2012, Transurban and Lane Cove Tunnel Viva Vienna, Celebrate Fairfax and McLean Day. participated in the bstreetsmart Youth and Road 495 Express Lanes representatives also interacted Trauma Forum in Sydney — Australia’s largest road with customers on Bike to Work Day, an annual safety education event. event in the Washington, DC, area which we were The initiative helps secondary school students sponsoring for the fifth year. understand their roles as both responsible drivers The event — which attracted more than 14,000 and passengers. Through this, the program aims cycling commuters from Virginia, Maryland, to reduce risk taking behaviour by raising and the District of Columbia — featured more awareness of the consequences of distracted than 70 ‘pit stops’ run by area organisations and driving, inattention, speeding, driver fatigue and sponsors along the route. driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol. The 495 Express Lanes pit stop was located on Westmead Hospital’s Trauma Department the Washington and Old Dominion Trail, a popular organised the three-day forum, which gave walking and cycle path. Cyclists stopped to pick Transurban an opportunity to work together with up their Bike to Work and 495 Express Lanes State Government, health professionals and the giveaways, and Transurban employees answered emergency services to promote safe driving. customer questions and passed out information. Transurban contributed $17,000 to support bstreetsmart and worked with contractor Transfield Services on an interactive display featuring one of Lane Cove Tunnel’s tow trucks. SUSTAINABIILITY COMMUNITIES REPORT 2013 28 Sydney community partnership Community and the environment Transurban is contributing seed funding to a partnership addressing long-term social 1,000 Trees in 1,000 Days disadvantage and promoting economic Transurban is working with residents near the development in Woolloomooloo, an inner-city 95 Express Lanes to improve the project’s corridor area of Sydney near the company’s Eastern by planting ‘1,000 Trees in 1,000 Days’. Distributor motorway offices. Residents or organisations can apply for trees The partnership involves the City of Sydney and other to plant throughout the project’s 29-month organisations with interests in the area, where construction schedule. homelessness is an ongoing issue. It grew out of Over 25 per cent of the trees have been planted in discussions with the city’s Homelessness Unit, and communities near the project corridor and over one has developed into a broader, more holistic approach half have been committed to other local areas. At the to supporting existing services. Transurban will end of FY13, the project was ahead of schedule to contribute $50,000 in funding and provide mentoring meet the overall target. and training to help people in the local community become more employable. Some of the other In FY13, the program’s flagship planting initiative organisations may provide funding, corporate took place at one of the 95 Express Lanes exit volunteers or project support. ramps in Stafford County, Virginia. Local elected officials who had applied for the trees joined media This collaborative approach to a social issue in outlets and the local Boy Scouts, who were enlisted a location where Transurban is active could be to help with the landscaping effort. applied to some of the Group’s future projects and assets. Sydney street count In FY13, Transurban staff joined other volunteers and the City of Sydney to help conduct the city’s bi-annual homelessness street count. Volunteers visited parks, streets and other public places in the city to determine the number of people sleeping rough within Sydney’s Local Government Area. The street count results are used to raise awareness of homelessness in the inner city and to campaign for ongoing services and policies to address the issue. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 Engaging with our stakeholders 29 With nine assets in two countries, Transurban has a wide range of stakeholders — with a wide range of interests. Our success in understanding and responding to these interests can influence our ability to do business, our reputation and, ultimately, our long-term sustainability. Our Approach Our Stakeholder Engagement Framework helps 1 Thinking ensure a consistent approach across all of our strategically markets and business activities. It has tools 10 2 Review Identify that support the development of stakeholder the engagement process stakeholders engagement processes at a corporate level and S M on our operating assets and development projects. ES g Thi A N rin nk The Stakeholder Engagement Framework also su in g TE ON 9 ea 3 has a step-by-step process for determining and ITY SI AL Measure Identify RI performance material issues Responding a ing VE prioritising material issues for our business. We go RESP lann through this process each year to ensure we have a dp clear understanding of the issues that are important nd STAKEHOLDER an m ENGAGEMENT to stakeholders such as customers, communities and governments. 8 4 Convert lessons Create The materiality process is linked to our Risk learnt into actions and engagement strategy Management Framework, which helps us identify strategies Pr epa ng opportunities and risks stemming from ring and engagi engagement activities. COM 7 PLETENESS 5 Each year we also ‘map’ all our stakeholders. Engage in ways that increase Determine understanding, ways of This occurs as part of the formal business planning learning and 6 engaging improvement that work process and feeds into the corporate and asset Establish engagement stakeholder engagement plans. Mapping also plan happens during any planning for new projects. A list of our stakeholders, their main issues and our response to those issues can be found in the Key Issues and Engagement Activities in FY13 table. SUSTAINABIILITY ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS REPORT 2013 30 Memberships >> Eastern Henrico Business Association >> Greater Washington Board of Trade Transurban participates in the following sustainability-related initiatives: >> Quantico/Belvoir Regional Business Alliance >> Dow Jones Sustainability Indices >> Northern Virginia Transportation Alliance >> Global Reporting Initiative >> Virginia Chamber of Commerce >> Infrastructure Sustainability Council of >> Greater McLean Chamber of Commerce Australia, and >> Greater Reston Chamber of Commerce >> United Nations Global Compact. >> Dulles Chamber of Commerce In Australia we are corporate members of the >> Dulles Area Transportation Association following industry, business, transport and other groups: >> Tysons Regional Chamber of Commerce >> Tourism and Transport Forum >> Alexandria Chamber of Commerce >> Infrastructure Partnerships Australia >> Transportation Association of Greater Springfield >> Roads Australia >> American Road and Transportation Builders Association >> ITS [Intelligent Transport Systems] Australia >> Better Business Bureau, and >> Business Council of Australia, and >> The Reason Foundation. >> Sydney First / Sydney Chamber of Commerce. In the US we were members of the following industry, business, transport and other groups during FY13: >> Intelligent Transportation Society of Virginia >> Jefferson Davis Association >> Fairfax County Chamber of Commerce >> Greater Springfield Chamber of Commerce >> Prince William Chamber of Commerce >> Greater Richmond Chamber of Commerce >> Chesterfield County Chamber of Commerce ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 31 FREQUENCY ISSUE STAKEHOLDER KEY ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES IN FY3 OF ENGAGEMENT CONGESTION AND Customers Opened our dynamically-priced 495 Express Lanes on the Capital Beltway in Ad hoc TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT Washington, DC Transitioned to full cashless tolling on the M5 South West motorway from 1 July 2013 Ad hoc Government Reached Stage 3 for our proposal to the New South Wales Government to develop one Ongoing of Sydney’s missing links, the F3-M2 project Continued with the M5 West Widening project in New South Wales Ongoing Alliance partners/ Communicated regularly with communities and motorists on our roads via electronic Ongoing contractors messaging, direct mail, face-to-face visits with residents, print and radio advertisements, community safety days and through our websites ROAD SAFETY AND Customers Extended our ‘Orange Cones. No Phones’ campaign to the 95 Express Lanes project Ongoing EMERGENCY RESPONSE in Washington, DC Launched ‘Look Up Stay Back’ campaign in Victoria in December 2012 Ongoing Industry Completed safety improvements on the Hills M2 Upgrade, including tunnel safety Ad hoc systems enhancements, additional breakdown bays, new variable speed signs and improved CCTV camera coverage Contractors Installed new electronic speed limit signs on the Bolte Bridge in Victoria Ad hoc Continued our extensive campaign to educate drivers on using the new 495 Express Lanes Ongoing CONTRIBUTING TO Communities Started work on a revised community investment strategy to be rolled out in FY14 Ongoing COMMUNITIES ALONG OUR CORRIDORS Co-sponsored Run for the Kids event in Melbourne for the eighth consecutive year, Ongoing helping to raise A$2 million for the Royal Children’s Hospital Provided grants (along with project partner Fluor) to nonprofit groups along the 495 Ongoing and 95 Express Lanes corridors Contributed seed funding to a partnership addressing long-term social disadvantage Ongoing and promoting economic development in Sydney’s Woolloomooloo area (near our Eastern Distributor offices) NOISE, VISUAL AND Communities Upgraded existing noise walls on the 495 Express Lanes as part of the project Ad hoc TRAFFIC IMPACTS ON LOCAL RESIDENTS DURING Installed new low noise pavement on the entire length of the Hills M2 motorway Ad hoc CONSTRUCTION as part of its upgrade Government Offered architectural treatments to properties expected to be affected by operational Ad hoc noise exceeding set criteria on the Hills M2 Upgrade EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Employees Revised and rolled out our new company vision and values Ad hoc Conducted ‘Pulse’ survey, following on from the full Employee Opinion Survey in FY12 Ad hoc Established a Diversity Committee in North America and Australia Ongoing Launched the company’s new Sustainability Strategy centred on being good neighbours, Ongoing using less and thinking long-term WORKPLACE SAFETY Employees Achieved our company-wide safety Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Ongoing Changed and redesigned activities that may be repetitive through automation of tasks Ongoing within credit and customer service areas of our business Began an internal safety audit program to review work and customer safety Ongoing ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Communities Teamed up with project partner Fluor to run the ‘1,000 Trees in 1,000 Days’ campaign Ongoing FROM CONSTRUCTION within both the 495 and 95 Express Lanes corridors in Washington, DC Contractors/partners Expanded and upgraded stormwater ponds in the motorway corridor as part Ongoing of the Hills M2 Upgrade and Lane Cove Road on ramp (eastbound) construction REDUCING ENERGY USE Alliance partners / Ongoing AND WASTE IN OPERATIONS Adopted a new energy reduction target for assets under our management control contractors (10 percent reduction in 10 years on a 2013 baseline) Reduced electricity consumption in our corporate offices in FY13 by over 30 per cent Ongoing Installed low energy LED feature lights on CityLink’s International Gateway in Ad hoc FY13— expected to cut electricity use by up to 83 per cent Expanded CityLink’s email notification system to include low balance and account alerts Ad hoc for customers, leading to a saving of approximately 50,000 letters being sent to customers per month. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 32 Commitments Progress on commitments from FY13 In FY13 we completed 62 per cent of the commitments that we set in FY12 (which includes ongoing commitments). 19 per cent are currently in progress and 19 per cent were not started but are planned for FY14. SUSTAINABILITY FY13 COMMITMENT LOCATION PILLAR STATUS COMMENTS Review Transurban Environmental Australia Environment Ongoing Review focused on extending our EMS Management System to improve to new assets in the US and EMP alignment with ISO14001 development for Australian assets. Conduct infrastructure climate change Australia Environment On hold We have re-assessed the business case risk assessment for NSW assets for these risk assessments. Our focus (Hills M2, Eastern Distributor, Lane is to assess climate change risks during Cove Tunnel) the design of new assets to ensure our roads are built to be resilient to climate change impacts. While there is less capacity to retrofit our existing assets, we will consider doing climate change risk assessments for our NSW assets to evaluate our exposure. Introduce new IT hardware with enhanced Global Environment Completed Electricity consumption in our corporate energy efficiency into corporate offices offices in Australia has declined by over 30 per cent in FY13. Install a bypass valve in Hills M2’s Australia Environment Completed Norfolk Tunnel so water used for deluge testing can be stored in tanks and potentially reused Initiate a trial on CityLink’s Burnley Australia Environment On hold Trials have been placed on hold pending Tunnel to evaluate potential to reduce further discussions with EPA and timing ventilation during low usage periods to around other road projects. save energy and reduce carbon emissions Complete LEED certification process US Environment In Certification is still being assessed by for Express Lanes Operations Centre progress the US Green Building Council (USGBC), with review of technical data on 28 of the 52 elements still pending. Target for finalisation is now FY14. Implement an integrated Human Global Employees Completed The new system gives the Group better Resource Information System to replace people reporting capability, data integrity Transurban’s existing payroll, HR and and process improvements. other satellite systems Implement a new company-wide intranet Global Employees Completed The new intranet was successfully implemented with an emphasis on improving communication. As part of our diversity objectives, Australia Employees Completed Areas of focus for FY14 will be gender establish a Diversity Committee, diversity, flexible work practices and implement a mentoring program and cultural diversity. provide further education for managers on importance and benefits of diversity Continue to roll out the Manager’s Australia Employees Ongoing Essentials training program for Transurban managers to develop future leadership capabilities Conduct a Group-wide ‘pulse’ survey of Australia Employees Completed We will conduct a full employee opinion employees in FY12 followed by another survey during FY14. full employee opinion survey in FY14 Introduce new variable speed limit Australia Marketplace Completed signs on CityLink’s Bolte Bridge to improve safety SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 33 SUSTAINABILITY FY13 COMMITMENT LOCATION PILLAR STATUS COMMENTS Expand email notification system for Australia Marketplace Completed CityLink customers to include low balance and account alerts Extend ‘Orange Cones. No Phones’ US Marketplace/ Ongoing This will continue throughout and community grant program from Communities construction on the project. the 495 Express Lanes to our 95 Express Lanes project Finalise and roll out company-wide Global Communities In Our Community Investment Strategy will Community Investment Strategy progress be completed during FY14. Implement initiatives to increase Australia Communities On hold We plan to incorporate TransGiving into our employee participation in our workplace Community Investment Strategy which will giving program, TransGiving be finalised and communicated in FY14. Commitments for FY14 SUSTAINABILITY BE GOOD THINK FY14 COMMITMENT LOCATION PILLAR NEIGHBOURS USE LESS LONG-TERM Promote the Group’s flexible work practices and increase employee participation Global Employees   Implement an electronic document management system on the company intranet Global Employees  Continue to roll-out the Manager’s Essentials training program for Transurban managers with Global Employees   a new coaching and feedback module Conduct a Group-wide employee opinion survey in FY14 Global Employees   Register the Turner St water tanks under the Bolte Bridge as an alternative water source Australia Environment    on the VicRoads registry Complete LEED certification process for Express Lanes Operations Centre US Environment   Endorse an Environment Policy for Transurban and further align our Environment Management Global Environment    System to ISO 14001 Develop specific energy reduction targets for assets under Transurban management control Global Environment   as part of our ‘10 in 10’ target Install over height vehicle sensors in both Burnley and Domain tunnels Australia Marketplace   Install Operations Management and Control System on the Eastern Distributor to improve Australia Marketplace   safety and incident detection times Install automated incident detection system in the Lane Cove Tunnel Australia Marketplace   Introduce new technology in customer service area to reduce repetitive movement activities Australia Marketplace  Finalise and roll out company-wide Community Investment Strategy Global Communities   Extend ‘Orange Cones. No Phones’ and community grant program from the 495 Express US Marketplace / Communities   Lanes to our 95 Express Lanes project SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 34 Appendix 1 Currency inclusion Australian Government NGA Factors July 2012 have been used to calculate Transurban’s Scope All financial amounts are reported in Australian 3 emissions from waste, fuel use (for incident dollars unless otherwise stated. response and operations and maintenance vehicles), fuel refining and transport and electricity UN Global Compact transmission and distribution losses. Emission factors for embodied energy in construction Throughout this report we have communicated our materials are sourced from SimaPro and the progress against the ten principles of the United Australian LCA Dataset 2010. Nations Global Compact focusing on human rights, labor practices, the environment and anti-corruption. Customer travel The Global Compact is the largest corporate We have calculated the Scope 3 emissions produced responsibility initiative in the world, with more by customer vehicles travelling on CityLink, Hills than 10,000 participants from more than M2, Lane Cove Tunnel, Eastern Distributor and 130 countries. Transurban became a signatory the M5 South West. GHG emissions from these to the Compact in 2009. roadways were calculated using our traffic model developed in-house. Environmental data The model uses traffic data that is extracted from our tolling system and represents actual trips along This year our Sustainability Report is being released the roadway. The tolling system records information earlier in October than the previous year to coincide such as vehicle class and entry and exit points with Transurban’s Annual General Meeting for of vehicles, giving an accurate representation of security holders. To achieve this, some data for the vehicle types and trip lengths. fourth quarter of FY13 has been estimated based on Travel speeds are an additional contributing factor to previously reported data for that quarter. calculating GHG emissions. Our tolling systems on The actual figures will be updated in our report some of these roads time stamp each transaction, for FY14, and if there are material changes to any so it is possible to estimate average travel speeds figures, this will be declared in that report. for each individual trip. For roads with only single toll points — such as the Eastern Distributor — we have Data methodologies used surveyed average travel speeds. Fuel type is also important in the calculation of GHG emissions GHG emissions. Vehicle fuel type is estimated Transurban uses The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: from information on fleet mix and fuel type for A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard each state and city documented in the 2012 motor (Revised Edition) to draw boundaries around vehicle census. emission sources when quantifying our Scope 1, Transurban’s in-house traffic model uses the above Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. information and applies emission factors sourced Emission factors and calculation methodologies from the University of South Australia that are outlined in the Australian Government Department sensitive to average travel speeds to calculate the of Climate Change National Greenhouse Accounts GHG emissions from customer vehicles on the (NGA) Factors July 2012 are then applied to each specified Australian roads. data source. We have also calculated the Scope 3 emissions For our US operations, we calculate Scope 1 GHG produced by customer vehicles travelling on emissions using emission factors and calculation Pocahontas 895 and the new 495 Express Lanes methodologies outlined by the US Environmental in the US. Protection Agency (EPA) for the calculation of GHG Customer vehicle miles travelled and vehicle class emissions from transportation and mobile sources. are derived from tolling system information on The EPA’s eGRID2010 Version 1.1 (May 2011) Year those roads, and relevant emissions factors from 2007 Summary Tables are used to calculate Scope 2 US EPA Highway Vehicle Emission Factor Models GHG emissions. are applied to calculate the associated Scope 3 Transurban applies the GHG Protocol‘s air emissions. travel method and emission factors to individual flight details to generate our Scope 3 emissions associated with corporate air travel. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 35 Safety How we operate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Sustainability governance Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is a For internal reporting purposes, sustainability is generally accepted way of measuring the safety a regular agenda item at Executive Committee performance of many companies in Australia. In meetings. Every six months, sustainability issues the interest of consistency, we have adopted this are reviewed by the full Transurban Board. approach to present US safety data in this report. The Chief Executive Officer and Group General LTIFR is defined as the number of Lost Time Injuries Manager of Strategy both have Key Performance per million working hours for FY13. A Lost Time Indicators (KPIs) regarding the delivery of Injury is a work injury or illness where the injured Transurban’s Sustainability Strategy. party has at least one complete day or shift off work. It extends to contractors working under Safety at Transurban Transurban’s safety management system. In FY13, Transurban set an ‘aspirational’ goal Recordable Injury Frequency Rate to become a safety leader and innovator in the Australian transport sector and to reduce and The Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RFIR) is the ultimately eliminate injuries in our workplace. LTIFR plus medical treatment regardless of lost time. It also extends to contractors working under As part of our overall effort to reach this goal, Transurban’s safety management system. we have added a customer safety measure to our business-wide KPIs. This measure will come into Lost Work Day Case effect in FY14. In the US our contractors monitor the number of Our Executive Committee is also accountable for man hours worked without a Lost Work Day Case. safety plans within their areas of responsibility. The term Lost Work Day Case means a non-fatal, The committee members are evaluated annually traumatic injury causing any loss of time from work on their success in meeting safety targets related beyond the day or shift in which it occurred — or a to those plans. job-related non-fatal, non-traumatic illness/disease In addition, our approach to safety involves: that causes disability at any time. Our contractors also track their safety performance against industry >> Work safety — we use accredited safety systems peers through the nationally accepted Occupational in Australia and the US, and safety is also Safety and Health Administration Recordable incorporated into our project and customer Incidence Rate benchmarks. processes. In FY13, the US office was accredited to OHSAS 18001, which is broadly equivalent to Collision index the Australian AS/NZS4801 safety standard. We use an internationally recognised index1 to >> Risk profile — we ensure that our safety report collision information on roads where we have initiatives and KPIs on improvement reflect our management control — CityLink, Hills M2, Eastern risk profile, including the risks for customers Distributor and Lane Cove Tunnel. and contractors. The collision index shows the number of collisions >> Customer safety — we are considering extending per 100 million vehicle kilometres travelled. our safety system to include ISO 39001 Road Traffic Safety Management Systems, which were released in 2012. 1 Our index uses a methodology consistent with the International Traffic Safety Data and Analysis Group, a permanent working group of the Joint Transport Research Centre of the OECD and the International Transport Forum. SUSTAINABIILITY APPENDIX 1 REPORT 2013 36 Risk management Emergency, threat and crisis response Transurban has a company-wide risk framework In FY13 Transurban’s majority-owned assets to ensure we have a consistent, rigorous approach continued to work on their capability to respond to identifying, analysing and evaluating risks to our to emergencies or crises. This involved additional business. This framework has various policies, training, emergency exercises and the review and standards and guidelines attached to it, including refinement of emergency management processes. the Risk Management Policy which can be found at Key activities during the year included: transurban.com/37.htm. The framework is overseen by the Audit and Risk Eastern Distributor Committee of the Board and is actively managed The Eastern Distributor held a desktop exercise by the Executive Committee. It is consistent with the simulating a major collision that resulted in serious AS/NZ31000:2009 and is subject to regular review injuries, damage to the motorway, a full closure by internal audit. Our Audit and Risk Committee of one carriageway and an extended period of Charter is available at transurban.com/37.htm. disruption to operations. The exercise helped In FY13, we started an internal audit of our risk strengthen the link between incident response and management infrastructure to determine our business continuity plans and increased awareness ‘maturity’ within this area and to look at where of critical needs when managing incidents of we might need to increase our risk management this magnitude. capabilities across the business. Lane Cove Tunnel At the time of this report, the audit was in its final The Lane Cove Tunnel conducted an exercise stages. The results and subsequent activities will be involving three simulated fire scenarios. One of reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee. the primary objectives of the exercise was to test Transurban will continue to build on its capability the Operations Management Control System’s and capacity in risk management during FY14. automated response to activate fire safety systems in the tunnel. The exercise also gave the tunnel’s operators additional experience in deploying critical safety systems and gave the emergency services an opportunity to see those systems in operation. Hills M2 The scenario for Hill M2’s exercise involved extreme storms causing extensive flooding and multiple collisions on the motorway. The desktop exercise allowed Hills M2 management and the emergency services to test the latest version of their business continuity plan and to familiarise employees with procedures for incident management and recovery. APPENDIX 1 SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 37 CityLink Operating our assets Every three years CityLink undertakes a full field Transurban’s Project Delivery System for running exercise involving management and employees, our roads has been accredited under ISO 9001:2008. key operations and maintenance contractors and In FY13, this delivery system passed a thirdemergency services. In the FY13 scenario, CityLink party surveillance audit reconfirming it met this was notified of a credible terror threat following the international standard. Each year the system also detection of an abandoned truck and nearby load of undergoes an internal review to ensure it still meets dumped material in the tunnel. An electronic device our requirements and is aligned to best practice. was identified in the vicinity of the dumped load. Key management plans were activated and teams were The next three-yearly re-accreditation audit of the formed to provide a tactical and strategic response system will occur in FY14. to the incident. New plans and processes will Governance and Code of Conduct incorporate what was learned during the exercise. In FY13 our corporate governance framework In FY13, emergency teams within Transurban were and main governance practices complied with the called on for two actual incidents on CityLink — the 3 Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate October 2012 systems issue that forced the closure Governance Council’s Corporate Governance of both CityLink tunnels and a collision on 17 May Principles and Recommendations. 2013 that resulted in a truck suspended over the edge of the Western Link’s elevated roadway. Both Transurban has a Code of Conduct that guides incidents were handled through our emergency employees, consultants and contractors in making management framework. decisions that are consistent with our values and the way we want to conduct business. 495 Express Lanes Any alleged or reported breaches of this code are To prepare for the start of operations, the 495 investigated by Human Resources. If they determine Express Lanes team coordinated a desktop exercise that a breach has occurred, the issue and any to test emergency response planning, coordination, disciplinary actions are recorded. familiarisation and training. The exercise simulated As indicated in the Breaches of Code of Conduct a variety of likely incidents, including an accident table, there was a reduction in the number of blocking the Express Lanes, an accident blocking breaches in FY13. Five of the eight breaches during the adjacent general purpose lanes, a hazardous the year were related to inappropriate use of materials spill, and a regional evacuation event. technology. To help address this we ran refresher Participants included the Virginia Department training related to information security and this of Transportation, Virginia State Police, Fairfax program will be offered annually. Police, Fairfax Fire & Rescue, and our control room operator and incident response contractor. Our investigations into breaches in FY13 resulted in verbal and written warnings. The 495 Express Lanes also worked with an external consultant to develop business continuity and disaster recovery plans prior to opening. Business continuity training was rolled out to the operations management team, which was followed by a formal desktop exercise simulating an evacuation of the operations facility and subsequent recovery. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 38 Appendix 2 Transurban’s key figures for 2013 FINANCIAL STATUTORY 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Toll revenue ($million) 384.2 467.3 626.2 678.3 684.4 724.1 765.4 801.2 Total revenue ($million) 437.1 506.9 770.5 834.0 817.2 1,036.5 1,154.5 1,195.1 Profit before depreciation and amortisation, net finance costs, 266.4 327.4 407.0 479.4 527.5 603.9 636.9 676.2 equity accounted investments and income taxes ($million) Net profit ($million) (60.9) (152.2) (105.3) (16.1) 59.6 118.2 58.6 174.5 Distribution paid per security (cents) 50.0 54.0 57.0 22.0 24.0 27.0 29.5 31.0 ENVIRONMENT 2005-06a 2006-07b 2007-08c 2008-09d 2009-10e 2010-11f 2011-12g 2012-13 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions 35,802 41,081 53,949 54,519 65,631 113,597 160,216 142,159 (tonnes CO2-e), of which: Scope 1 (tonnes CO2-e)h 6 117 212 231 201 160 143 147 Scope 2 (tonnes CO2-e) i 33,200 36,477 47,301 45,459 45,871 60,726 59,111 57,348 Scope 3 (tonnes CO2-e)j 2,595 4,487 6,436 8,828 19,559 52,711 100,961 84,664 Customer travel emissions (tonnes CO2-e) N/D 369,735 392,842 412,569 428,467 659,321 661,280 677,082 Transurban’s potable water use (m3 ‘000) 35.7 24.3 27.3 23.9 23.4 44.6 35.5 42.5 CityLink total water withdrawal of which: 347.2 286.9 292.9 267.9 263.7 297.4 257.6 237.5 Groundwater from tunnels (m3 ‘000) 311.5 265.7 275.5 251.9 243.2 258.5 242.4 222.3 Potable water use (m ‘000) 3 35.7 21.2 17.4 16 20.5 38.9 15.2 18.0 CityLink volume of water recycled/ reused (m ‘000) 3 223.5 170.2 190.7 192.5 183.9 183.4 149.5 193.8 CityLink percentage of water recycled/ reused (%) 64 59 65 72 70 62 58 81 Compliance with EPA Victoria waste discharge licence for 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 CityLink tunnels (%) e-TAGS issued — CityLink, Roam and Roam Express – 305,487 318,388 327,594 292,179 292,836 290,205 286,939 e-TAGS recycled — CityLink, Roam and Roam Express 207,741 86,700 98,649 126,079 97,193 88,829 140,233 k 94,884 a F Y06 data for CityLink only. g F Y12 data — GHG & customer travel as per FY11, except a full year reported for Lane Cove b F Y07 data — GHG includes CityLink, Hills M2, M5 South West Motorway, Pocahontas Tunnel. Potable water data includes CityLink, Hills M2, Eastern Distributor, Lane Cove 895 and Corporate Office; Customer travel emissions includes CityLink, Hills M2 and Tunnel, M5 South Motorway, Pocahontas 895 and Hills M2 Upgrade. Pocahontas 895; Potable water includes CityLink, Hills M2, M5 South West Motorway and h S cope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Pocahontas 895. business. For Transurban, this includes the fuel used in our maintenance and emergency c F Y08 data — GHG includes CityLink, Hills M2, Eastern Distributor, M4 Motorway, M5 vehicles. South West Motorway, Pocahontas 895 and Corporate Office; Customer travel emissions i S  cope 2 emissions are indirect emissions associated with the generation of purchased includes CityLink, Hills M2 and Pocahontas 895; potable water includes CityLink, Hills electricity. For Transurban, this includes electricity used on our roads and tunnels, and in M2, Eastern Distributor, M4 Motorway, M5 South West Motorway and Pocahontas 895. our offices and other facilities. d F Y09 data — as per FY08 for GHG and potable water. Customer travel emissions includes j S  cope 3 emissions are indirect emissions that arise as a consequence of the activities CityLink, Hills M2, Eastern Distributor and Pocahontas 895. of the business but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the business. For e F Y10 data — as per FY09 for potable water and for customer travel emissions. GHG Transurban, these are associated with air travel, fuel refining and transport, electricity includes CityLink, Hills M2, Hills M2 Upgrade, Eastern Distributor, M4, M5 South transmission and distribution loss and GHG emissions produced by contractor vehicles West Motorway, Pocahontas 895, Capital Beltway Upgrade and corporate offices. M4 used on our roads for operations, maintenance and incident response purposes, waste to Motorway data up to Feb 10 only. landfill and embedded energy in construction materials. f F  Y11 data — GHG includes CityLink, Hills M2, Hills M2 Upgrade, Eastern Distributor, k T  his figure includes 15,500 of CML & ROAM tags from FY11 which were not recycled until Lane Cove Tunnel,M5 South West Motorway, Pocahontas 895, Capital Beltway Upgrade 1/7/2011. and Corporate Offices; Customer Travel emissions include CityLink, Hills M2, Eastern Distributor, Lane Cove Tunnel, M5 South West Motorway and Pocahontas 895; Potable water data includes CityLink, Hills M2, Eastern Distributor, Lane Cove Tunnel, M5 South West Motorway and Pocahontas 895. Lane Cove Tunnel data from August 2010. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 39 EMPLOYEES 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Total number of employeesl 706 798 712 605 640 643 628 644 Employees leaving Transurban — voluntary (%) m N/A 18 19 12 8 10 11 7 Employees leaving Transurban — involuntary (%)m N/A 5 8 11 3 4 5 5 Australian employees Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) n N/A N/A 7.37 6.94 3.64 1.17 5.63 3.49 Australian employees and contractor Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIFR)o N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 3.96 5.46 3.49 US employees incidence rate p N/D N/D N/D N/D 0 0 0 0 Employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employee engagement score (%) 83 N/A 79 81 80 N/A 66 N/A Number of unplanned absences (days) N/D N/D 7.7 8.1 6.2 7.2 7.3 6.5 Average training hours per employee (hours) q 18.8 15.5 16.5 11.1 11.7 10.78 10.1 12.5 Women in leadership (%) r N/D 6 10 22 27 29 33 40 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) N/D 38.7 37.1 37 37.2 33.3 29.6 28.7 Breaches of Transurban’s Code of Conduct (number of incidents)s 7 8 4 6 15 12 11 8 MARKETPLACE 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Transurban Customer Resolution Group — number of enquires 5,787 6,900 5,300 5,764 4,564 4,984 10474 t 7671 Number of complaints escalated to Ombudsman 81 150 154 178 178 234u 341v 454 Fatalities on Transurban’s roads — CityLink 1 4 1 2 0 2 0 0 Fatalities on Transurban’s roads — Hills M2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities on Transurban’s roads — Eastern Distributor N/A 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 Fatalities on Transurban’s roads — Pocahontas 895 N/D 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities on Transurban’s roads — 495 Express Lanes N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 1 Fatalities on Transurban’s roads — Lane Cove Tunnel N/D N/D N/D N/D N/D 0 0 0 Customer satisfaction — CityLink Service Centres (%) N/D N/D 86.6 86.1 83.7 85 82.6 83 CityLink Incident Response time — traffic lane (mins:secs) 4:07 4:11 4:39 4:27 4:44 4:46 4:37 4:38 CityLink Incident Response time — emergency lane (mins:secs) 6:40 6:55 7:52 7:00 7:46 7:29 7:00 7:05 COMMUNITY 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Total community contributions ($ thousands approx) N/D 800,000 600,000 560,000 450,000 750,000 495,260 469,827 Total employee contributions matched by Transurban through Transgiving ($) 37,815 41,831 45,982 31,584 26,099 36,432 30,457 24,070 Number of employees participating in Transgiving (% as at June 30) 29 28 22 20 18 18 16 12 l E xcludes Non-Executive Directors, maternity leave employees and employees on r T  ransurban definition of ‘Position of Leadership’ refers to employees within CEO, senior salary continuance for more than 12 months. Non-Executive Directors excluded as executive and senior management roles.The Seniority Level definitions has been revised they do not fit into defined employee types; this is consistent with reporting in prior for FY11 and the figures for 2010-11 reflect the FY11 classification. By applying the years. Maternity leave positions are usually backfilled and are excluded to avoid double 2009-10 definition to 2010-11 data, the figures are 9 females (27.3%) and 24 males (72.7%). counting. Total workforce is a snapshot in time (as at 30 June) rather than the maximum s R epresents breaches reported and investigated by Human Resources. workforce number over the financial year due to system limitations. Contractor total excludes Master Vendor contractors and subcontractors working on site at Transurban. t T  here was an increase in the number of CityLink enquiries following the implementation Transurban definition of ‘Position of Leadership’ refers to employees within CEO, senior of a new customer management system in mid-December 2011. CityLink experienced a executive and senior management roles. higher than usual volume of enquires during the initial period post implementation. In addition, the way in which some enquiries were categorised led to enquiries escalating to m Includes all permanent full-time and part-time employees. the Customer Resolutions Group rather than going to other teams, as they would have in n LTIFR = (number of lost time injuries/number of hours worked) x 1,000,00 hours over a the previous system. 12 month period on a rolling basis. u T  ransurban’s dispute resolution process continues to be available to all customers. o In FY12 Transurban adopted Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIFR) as its method Of note, it appears a larger number of customers are taking their enquiry directly to the to record and monitor injuries. RIFR = (number of medical treatment and lost-time Tolling Customer Ombudsman as evidenced by the increase in escalations compared to injuries / number of hours worked) x 1,000,000 hours shown over a 12 month period on previous years. a rolling basis. Hours worked includes Transurban’s Australian full-time and part-time v T  he increase in Ombudsman cases reflects the increase in the number of CityLink permanent and fixed term employees and direct contractors. It excludes US personnel. customers who raised their concerns with the Ombudsman’s office post the implementation p Incidence rate = (total number of lost time injuries x 200,000) / number of hours worked. of CityLink’s new system. q T hese figures represent hours spent on in-house training courses offered by our Learning and Development team. It does not capture hours spent on external training courses. SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 40 EY Assurance Statement Ernst & Young Tel: +61 3 9288 8000 8 Exhibition Street Fax: +61 3 8650 7777 Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia ey.com/au GPO Box 67 Melbourne VIC 3001 Independent Limited Assurance Report in relation to Transurban Limited’s 2013 Sustainability Report To the Management and Directors of Transurban Limited Scope We have carried out a limited assurance engagement in order to state whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: • Transurban has not adhered to the AA1000 AccountAbility principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in the preparation of the 2013 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’), and • Transurban has not met the requirements of an application A+ level as detailed in the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) Content Index referenced in the Sustainability Report, and • the sustainability priorities and disclosures, as detailed below, have not been reported and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria The sustainability priorities and disclosures for the year ended 30 June 2013 comprised: • Greenhouse gas emissions, including: Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, which include emissions from employee air travel, fuel refining and transport, electricity transmission and distribution losses, contractor vehicle use for operations, maintenance and incident response, and waste, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from customer travel on Transurban’s roads • Potable water use on road assets • Customer safety, specifically collision indices • Gender diversity, specifically women in leadership • Gender pay equity The five sustainability priorities were selected by Transurban. Its process for identifying the priorities selected for review is recorded in the ‘Accuracy’ section of the Report. The subject matter did not include: • Assessing the accuracy, fairness or balance of data sets, statements, information, systems or approaches relating to areas other than the five sustainability priorities. • Management's forward looking statements. • Sustainability priorities and disclosures as reported in the hardcopy summary document (‘2013 Sustainability Highlights’) Criteria The following criteria have been applied to the subject matter described above: 1. The Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, as defined in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 2. Transurban's reported criteria as detailed in the ‘Data methodologies’ section of the Report 3. Global Reporting Initiative G3 Guidelines Management’s responsibility The management of Transurban is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report in accordance with the above Criteria, and is also responsible for the selection of methods used in the Criteria. No conclusion is expressed as to whether the selected methods used are appropriate for the purpose A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 41 Page 2 described above. Further, Transurban’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate criteria; maintaining adequate records and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Federation of Accountants' International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information ('ISAE 3000') and in accordance with the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Transurban. Our procedures were designed with regard to 'Type 2 – AccountAbility Principles and Performance Information' assurance engagement. Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion and, as such, do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance. The procedures performed depend on the assurance practitioner’s judgement including the risk of material misstatement of the subject matter, whether due to fraud or error. While we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. Our procedures did not include testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT systems, which would have been performed under a reasonable assurance engagement. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions. Inherent limitations There are inherent limitations in performing assurance – for example, assurance engagements are based on selective testing of the information being examined – it is possible that fraud, error or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. An assurance engagement is not designed to detect all instances of non-compliance with the criteria, as an assurance engagement is not performed continuously throughout the period and the procedures performed in respect of compliance with the criteria are undertaken on a test basis. The opinion expressed in this report has been formed on the above basis. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such data. Work Performed In order for us to provide a conclusion in relation to the above scope of work, we have considered the criteria specified in AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008, and considered the following questions: • Inclusivity: Has Transurban demonstrated a commitment to be accountable to stakeholders on whom it has an impact or to those stakeholders who have an impact on it? • Materiality: Does Transurban have in place a process for determining material issues that results in a balanced understanding and prioritisation of its material sustainability issues? • Responsiveness: Does Transurban have a process in place that enables it to respond to stakeholders in a way that addresses their needs, concerns and expectations in a comprehensive, balanced and timely way? Our assurance procedures included, but were not limited to: • Gaining an understanding of Transurban's business and approach to sustainability. • Conducting interviews with key personnel and collating evidence to understand: The process for stakeholder engagement across the organisation The process for determining material issues and reporting against them, and The activities relating to the five sustainability priorities during the reporting period. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation SUSTAINABIILITY ASSURANCE STATEMENT REPORT 2013 42 Page 3 • Performing a gap analysis between Transurban’s implementation of the principles of materiality, inclusivity and responsiveness based on the evidence gathered, and the guidance outlined in the AccountAbility AA1000 Principles standard 2008. • Conducting limited assurance procedures for the five sustainability priorities: Checking that methodologies have been correctly applied as per the methodologies outlined in the ‘Data methodologies’ section of the Report Undertaking analytical review procedures to support the reasonableness of the data Identifying and testing assumptions supporting calculations Testing on a limited sample basis underlying source information to check accuracy of the data, and Assessing the reliability of specific sustainability performance information. • Checking the Report to determine whether material risks and opportunities and performance issues identified during our procedures on the five sustainability priorities had been adequately disclosed. • Checking that Transurban’s reported compliance as detailed in the GRI Content Index reflects disclosures included in the Report. Use of our Report Our limited assurance report has been prepared for distribution to the management and directors of Transurban. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this assurance statement or on the subject matter to which it relates, to any person other than management and directors of Transurban, or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. Independence, Competence and Experience In conducting our assurance engagement we have met the independence requirements of the APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. We have the required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on our limited assurance procedures, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: • Transurban has not adhered to the AA1000 AccountAbility principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness in the preparation of the 2013 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’), and • Transurban has not met the requirements of an application A+ level as detailed in the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’) Content Index referenced in the Sustainability Report, and • the sustainability priorities and disclosures, as detailed above, have not been reported and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria above. Matters Relating to Electronic Presentation of 2013 Sustainability Report Our review was of the web-based information that was available via web links as at the date of this statement. We provide no assurance over changes to the content of this web-based information after the date of this assurance statement. Ernst & Young Melbourne, Australia 8 October 2013 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation SUSTAINABIILITY REPORT 2013 GRI Application Level Check Statement 43 Statement GRI Application Level Check GRI hereby states that Transurban Group has presented its report “2013 Sustainability Report” to GRI’s Report Services which have concluded that the report fulfills the requirement of Application Level A+. GRI Application Levels communicate the extent to which the content of the G3 Guidelines has been used in the submitted sustainability reporting. The Check confirms that the required set and number of disclosures for that Application Level have been addressed in the reporting and that the GRI Content Index demonstrates a valid representation of the required disclosures, as described in the GRI G3 Guidelines. For methodology, see www.globalreporting.org/SiteCollectionDocuments/ALCMethodology.pdf Application Levels do not provide an opinion on the sustainability performance of the reporter nor the quality of the information in the report. Amsterdam, 7 October 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Nelmara Arbex Deputy Chief Executive Global Reporting Initiative The “+” has been added to this Application Level because Transurban Group has submitted (part of) this report for external assurance. GRI accepts the reporter’s own criteria for choosing the relevant assurance The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. The GRI Guidelines set out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. www.globalreporting.org Disclaimer: Where the relevant sustainability reporting includes external links, including to audio visual material, this statement only concerns material submitted to GRI at the time of the Check on1 October 2013. GRI explicitly excludes the statement being applied to any later changes to such material. transurban.com
