Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 Cybercom This is Cybercom’s second sustainability report. In this report, we present Cybercom’s sustainability work from the tenets of economic, environmental and social responsibility. This follows from the definition of sustainable development. The sustainability report is published in conjunction with the annual report no later than April 2, and is a complement to the annual report. The sustainability report is aimed specifically at those groups who are interested in sustainability information, such as interest groups, customers and sustainability analysts. Cybercom reports in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative, GRI level C. In the future the intention is to also submit the report to the GRI. The sustainability report is structured as follows: We start with Cybercom’s vision and strategic objectives. This is followed by a description of Cybercom as a company and Cybercom’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) work during the year. We also describe the management and governance of the CSR work and stakeholder expectations of Cybercom’s sustainability efforts. Cybercom’s work is described and analysed against economic, environmental and social responsibility. This work is then summarised in the GRI table, which presents the indicators with which Cybercom fully or partially complies. For additional information please contact: Anna Trane PR and press manager Cybercom Group +46 (0) 708 84 74 69 anna.trane@cybercom.com Cybercom and UN Global Compac During 2012 Cybercom has been affiliated to the UN Global Compact network which is an initiative to promote responsible corporate practices in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 1 Content CEO Comment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 – Cybercom’s sustainability vision and strategic objectives. . . . . . . . . . . 3 This is Cybercom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Cybercom’s CSR work during the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Governance and management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 – UN Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 – Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Stakeholder expectations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 – Stakeholder interview with Second AP Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Economic responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 – Donations to Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation and SOS Children’s Villages. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Environmental Responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 – Cybercom’s internal environmental efforts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 – Environmental certification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 – Products and services that reduce environmental impact . . . . . . . . . 15 Social responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 – Employees and the workplace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 – Employee satisfaction survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 – Stakeholder interview with HR Cybercom. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Development and retention of expertise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 – Gender balance, absenteeism. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Customers and suppliers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 – Customer satisfaction survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 – Responsibility in relation to customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 – Responsibility to make demands of the supplier chain . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Community involvement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 – Stakeholder interview with CSR ambassador at Cybercom. . . . . . . . 22 – Choice of projects, SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda . . . . . . . . . . . 23 – Cooperation with the Childhood Cancer Foundation. . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Cybercom’s code of conduct in brief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 GRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 2 Cybercom’s sustainability vision and strategic objectives CEO Comment For Cybercom to be able to grow with continued profitability, it is important to take responsibility for how people and the environment are affected by the company’s activities. We therefore work with long-term sustainability issues and believe it is important to report and follow up on Cybercom’s sustainability efforts. Our view of social responsibility begins, particularly, in our assignments as an IT consultant to our customers. This includes our impact on our employees, our Niklas Flyborg, President and CEO, Cybercom Group. partners, investors, and society and the environment as a whole. This means that we evaluate our business both in Cybercom has three strategic advance and when conducting work. This is relevant, sustainability objectives for example, when we work in, or procure from, firms in countries that lack democratic government, have Our sustainability work has three strategic and longflawed environmental laws or where human rights may term objectives that we will actively work with in 2012. be violated. Moreover Cybercom scraps equipment in 1) W ith regard to the environment, we are working an environmentally sound manor. to reduce our impact by measuring our energy We also work proactively with solutions that allow consumption and our emissions from travel with our customers in turn to reduce their environmental the objective of achieving a 5 percent reduction impact. This may be digital solutions for government in our CO2 emissions per revenue krona by agencies, systems for web-based meetings to reduce 2015. travel and various forms of so-called green IT where 2) F or our social responsibility, we are working to Cybercom, for example, offers hosting of servers. provide our employees with a good working During 2012 Cybercom was affiliated to the UN Global environment, good conditions and opportunities for Compact network. development. We measure this using an annual group-wide employee survey intended to During the year, we completed a successful programme improve employee satisfaction. with CSR ambassadors at Cybercom. In addition to their regular jobs, three IT consultants were assigned to 3) W e take a social responsibility by actively gain an understanding of Cybercom’s sustainability eftrying to influence the suppliers we work with. forts, develop these in collaboration with management In 2012, we will communicate Cybercom’s code and CSR managers and to communicate the work of conduct to our suppliers and monitor them to internally and externally. Another important event ensure compliance. was the introduction of the Lync video conferencing In a broader sense, social responsibility is also about system at all offices within the Cybercom group. Lync using our core business and expertise for improvement. will replace some physical meetings, thereby reducing Cybercom therefore supports organisations such as Cybercom’s environmental impact from travel. During the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation and SOS 2011, the company also conducted a first group-wide Children’s Villages in the developing world. We see employee survey. This survey will form the starting ourselves as an active partner and not just a contribupoint for Cybercom’s efforts to improve both the tor. Learn more about our commitment and ongoing workplace and employee development opportunities efforts in our sustainability report and please offer at Cybercom. Simultaneously, we conducted a first suggestions as to how we can improve even more! group-wide customer satisfaction survey. This will be the starting point to better understand and meet our customers’ requirements, including sustainability issues. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 3 About Cybercom This is Cybercom Contracts in the telecom segment make up the largest share of Cybercom’s sales, at 45 percent. Cybercom Cybercom is a consultancy that creates value was founded in 1995 and has been quoted on the for its customers by delivering business NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange since 1999. For solutions of the highest quality, primarily in more information about Cybercom as a company, telecom management, connected devices, please refer to our annual report, published on Internet services and security. Thanks to our www.cybercom.com. approximately 1,600 employees with extenCybercom has developed the company’s mission: sive industry experience and operational ex“Boosting your performance in the connected world“, pertise, the company is able to offer strategic the company’s vision: “We are our clients’ most trusted­business partners in the connected world” and and technological proficiency to companies Cybercom’s three core values​​: “Innovation, Passion, in telecom, industry, media, government, Trust”. retail, and banking and finance. With 22 offices in nine countries, Cybercom undertakes assignments throughout most of the world. Cybercom collaborates closely with its customers and can also offer global delivery capabilities. Cybercom’s business has a strong platform in the Nordic countries and facilities in Eastern Europe and Asia, and sales offices in Dubai. Cybercom is a growing company that has mainly expanded through acquisitions, from sales of approximately SEK 535 million in 2006 to SEK 1,481 million in 2011. Largest shareholders per 31 December 2011, by holdings. Source: Euroclear* Name No of shares Holding % JCE Group AB* 12 965 290 35,93 Accendo Capital 3 685 527 10,21 Swedbank Robur Fonder 2 958 176 8,20 Livförsäkringsaktiebolaget 2 926 243 8,11 Skandia (publ)* Didner & Gerge Aktiefond 1 674 779 4,64 JCE SecuritiesAB 945 232 2,62 Försäkringsaktiebolaget, 759 202 2,10 Avanza Pension Ålandsbanken Fonder AB 698 000 1,93 Cybercom in Rwanda where the company has built the third national mobile network for operator Tigo. JP Morgan Bank 609 360 1,69 Second AP Fund 349 027 0,97 Total 27 570 836 76,40 Other 8 517 063 23,60 Total shares 36 087 899 100,00 * JCE Group bought 1 million shares in Cybercom on 29 December and subsequently owns 13,965,290 shares, corresponding to 38.70 percent of the company. Livförsäkringsaktiebolaget Skandia has simultaneously reduced its ownership in Cybercom. These ownership changes were not registered with Euroclear until after the year end. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 4 Cybercom’s CSR work during the year Governance and management GOAL: RAISING AWARENESS AND ENGAGEMENT In order to increase internal awareness and engagement for our work, we have established CSR ambassadors at the company. Our CSR ambassadors work with CSR issues both internally and externally. OUTCOME: CSR ambassadors and CSR managers have held talks internally across the organisation. Cybercom has been invited to give talks externally, such as for SOS Children’s Villages in Almedalen and for the accounting firm KPMG, and representatives of Cybercom have been interviewed in the press about the company’s CSR work. This in turn has increased awareness of Cybercom’s work externally, and has improved engagement in sustainability issues internally. DEVELOPMENT: Cybercom has for the second consecutive year appointed CSR ambassadors who work internally and externally with CSR issues. The purpose of this is that the ambassadors will help develop Cybercom’s sustainability efforts and help to increase awareness of the company’s sustainability efforts internally and externally. GOAL: IMPROVING AWARENESS OF OUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES Cybercom’s values, norms and principles were laid down in the code of conduct that was introduced in 2004 and revised in 2010. In order to enhance awareness and understanding of this, we initiated an internal communications campaign. OUTCOME: The campaign was conducted during the year, and the main principles and guidelines of the code were communicated and discussed internally at the various offices. The campaign has helped to increase awareness and understanding of the code of conduct, partly through the discussions that arose in connection with the campaign. DEVELOPMENT: The next step is to spread awareness of Cybercom’s values, norms and principles externally through our code of conduct; partly to customers and partly by requiring that our contractors comply with the requirements and expectations of our code of conduct. Economic GOAL: MORE VIDEO CONFERENCES Introduction of the Lync video conferencing system to increase the proportion of conferences over the Internet and reduce the proportion of conferences that require travel. OUTCOME: Since the end of 2011, employees at all Cybercom offices have had access to Lync. DEVELOPMENT: In 2012, we estimate that more virtual conferences will take place and conference travel will be reduced. This will in turn help to reduce emissions due to travel, and will reduce the group’s travel expenses and reduce the economic burden on society. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 5 Cybercom’s CSR work during the year Environmental GOAL: REDUCING EMISSIONS In the long run reduce travel emissions through the introduction of the Lync IT-based conference system. Reducing environmental impact by scrapping equipment in an environmentally sound manor. OUTCOME: Emissions per employee increased in 2011 from 0.482 tonnes to 0.51 tonnes. Scrapping reduces negative environmental impact. DEVELOPMENT: In 2012, all employees have access to Lync and the objective of reducing travel per employee has been initiated. GOAL: REVIEWING CYBERCOM’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Identifying services that can reduce the negative environmental impact of our customers. OUTCOME: We identified server hosting services. Packaging of services for government agencies, municipalities and counties to reduce negative environmental impacts through services for remote meetings, meeting management (paperless), sustainability reporting and compliance with environmental policies. The Swedish tax authority’s Dialog project, an e-government service. Rovdjursforum, a national database of predatory animals that creates the conditions for sustainable and long-term wildlife management. A video conferencing system for Telia. DEVELOPMENT: Cybercom will develop a government agency mailbox that individuals can choose to direct their communications to. Cybercom in Sweden will reduce its environmental impact through this type of service. Cybercom’s sales force will continue to develop and provide information about services that also contribute to reduced negative environmental impact for the customer, such as hosting of customers’ servers. Employees and the workplace GOAL: MEASURING EMPLOYEE PERSPECTIVE OF CYBERCOM Implementing a group-wide employee survey to capture how employees feel, develop and perceive Cybercom as a workplace in any country where we operate. OUTCOME: Cybercom’s first group-wide employee survey has been conducted, with the overall result that Cybercom is just below the average for companies that have carried out a similar staff survey through research firm Zondera. DEVELOPMENT: Cybercom aims to improve the result in the employee survey in 2012 including skills development and career planning. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 6 Cybercom’s CSR work during the year Customers and suppliers GOAL: IMPROVING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Implementing a group-wide customer satisfaction survey to find out what customers think of Cybercom and what the company can improve in relation to them. OUTCOME: Cybercom’s rating is slightly above the average for other companies that used research firm Innolink’s customer satisfaction survey. 99 percent of Cybercom’s customers would recommend the company to their colleagues. DEVELOPMENT: In 2012, Cybercom continue working with the precision of its delivery and to better meet customer expectations. Community involvement GOAL: IMPROVING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES Developing cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages. OUTCOME: In 2011, Cybercom was one of the companies that represented SOS in Almedalen. Cybercom’s staff made an additional collection for books and computers for SOS Children’s Villages. DEVELOPMENT: Informing employees about more approaches to support the children helped by SOS Children’s Villages. GOAL: IMPROVING CIRCUMSTANCES FOR CHILDREN IN THE NORDICS Encouraging employees to acquire a payment card that Cybercom developed with the Swedish Childhood­Cancer Foundation, where SEK135 per card goes to the foundation. OUTCOME: In 2011, the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation received SEK 75,000 through ­employees’ credit card purchases. At the end of 2011, 551 employees had this card. DEVELOPMENT: Continuing to promote the card among our staff in order to increase the funds raised for the foundation. Start similar cooperation in our other operating countries for community engagement. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 7 Governance and management Cybercom’s CSR work is governed primarily Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors and CSR networks by the company’s code of conduct and its in the organisation are another important part of compliance and monitoring procedures. Our Cybercom’s governance and management of CSR issues. The ambassadors work in close partnership code of conduct was introduced in 2004 and with Cybercom’s communications department, HR was updated in 2010, and the revised code department and management to bring into effect the was implemented in the organisation in guidelines and objectives Cybercom has established 2011. The code sets out the company’s social and to communicate these issues internally and and environmental values, norms, principles externally. and the requirements and expectations we A third tool for governance and management of have of our employees. Cybercom’s CSR work is the guidelines for sustainability and social responsibility of the UN Global Compact. This means that Cybercom as a company is The code covers ten different areas, including human committed to: rights, labour standards, environment and business ethics, including anti-corruption. The code is used as 1) Implementing changes in activities if necessary an aid to solving ethical dilemmas in the organisaso that the UN Global Compact and its 10 printion with regard to issues of responsibility. The code ciples in the areas of human rights, labour rights, complies with the UN Global Compact’s ten moral environment and anti-corruption become part of principles in these four areas. Cybercom’s strategy, culture and daily operations, including subsidiaries and subcontractors. The basis for the code’s contents includes our customers’ requirements and expectations regarding our 2) Advocating and promoting the UN Global Compact sustainability efforts. Cybercom’s code should therefore and its ten moral principles. be able to match the demands and expectations of 3) A nnually measuring, presenting and communicating customers and suppliers. This includes minimising Cybercom’s CSR efforts and how we work with the adverse environmental impacts. Furthermore, the UN Global Compact’s principles. code should address the dilemmas that Cybercom encounters in its daily activities. It is very important for employees and partners to know where Cybercom stands on issues such as workers’ rights, and desired behaviour in terms of ethics and morality in business. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 8 Cybercom’s CSR ambassadors Cybercom has since 2010 had a programme of CSR ambassadors. Each year, all the employees in the company are invited to apply, and three to four people are selected. They are trained in Cybercom’s CSR work and also visit Cybercom’s community engagement projects in Rwanda. Ambassadors play a key role in implementing and explaining Cybercom’s CSR work to colleagues, customers and other stakeholders. This implementation work includes the CSR ambassadors recounting Cybercom’s CSR work internally, including via our intranet and newsletters as well as externally when Cybercom is CSR ambassador Pernilla Hulth in Rwanda. invited to give talks about our CSR work. Ambassadors give lectures, blog in Cybercom’s newsroom on the web and address the key CSR issues for internal and What role do you play as ambassadors­ external discussion. in terms of governance and ­management­ Cybercom also has an internal CSR network with of Cybercom’s sustainability efforts? around 30 employees in nine countries who support I think we can help spread information and to initiate the company’s CSR work. They help with specific a discussion within the business areas and units about actions, such as workplace interaction regarding CSR what CSR means in everyday work. The hope is that and they collect donations, for example for books and the units themselves can set goals based on their toys to provide to children in Rwanda. circumstances and that in turn will support the overall objectives of Cybercom. To achieve this, ambassadors need to be able to take part in, for example, unit Interview with CSR ambassador meetings and business area meetings to be able to Pernilla Hulth: start up these discussions. I think CSR is sometimes perceived as abstract and ”it doesn’t affect me”, but it very much does. Why did you apply for the role of CSR ambassador? I think it’s an exciting and above all important area to How do you regard CSR and business? work with in a company. Besides, I was curious and It’s essential these days. CSR is an important area that wanted to learn more about CSR and Cybercom’s can support business, and that is also required by work on CSR. So I saw it as an opportunity to get to customers, suppliers and potential employees, who know more, and to use the knowledge of my role are increasingly aware of sustainability, environmental as a consultant and to make sure the importance of impact and health and safety issues. It can be a working with CSR is shared within the company. decisive argument in, for example, procurement and can be a decisive competitive factor. What does a CSR ambassador at Cybercom do? How do you use CSR in your job I see my role as a disseminator of information about as a consultant? CSR. It’s also surprising how many people don’t know First and foremost it’s about keeping our code of what CSR means and above all what it means for the conduct in mind. I also talk about our Rwanda trip and employee and the company. I hope I can help raise Cybercom’s commitment to SOS Children’s Villages. It’s awareness about our CSR activities and CSR in general. about saying that we as IT consultants think this is an important area to work with. I can also help my clients to eventually become aware in their own companies and organisations what they themselves can do in this field. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 9 Stakeholder expectations Cybercom’s key stakeholders are those on on Cybercom in various ways. This mutual which Cybercom believes it has a substantial interaction is a very important factor for impact through its activities in various Cybercom’s ability to pursue and develop its respects and those that have a major impact business. Cybercom has identified employees, customers, investors, suppliers, society and the unions as its key stakeholders. The table below shows how the company interacts with these stakeholders. Stakeholder Group Issues Dialogue Outcome Employees Professional development, health and safety, Employee survey Training, management company culture, organisation conferences, meetings about vision, values Customers Value proposition, quality, delivery, security Customer survey Sales training, security management, integrity systems Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility AGM, board work, meetings Sustainability report, corporate governance report Suppliers Delivery, environmental work, ­credit Procurement, negotiations Increased sustainability worthiness focus Social/voluntary Climate issues, electronics, waste, charity Meetings with charities, schools, Donations to charities, organisations companies presentations in schools Unions Labour rights, health and safety, Workplace meetings, board meetings Support in salary ­co-determination, board issues negotiations CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 10 Stakeholder interview with Second AP Fund One of Cybercom’s major shareholders is the Second AP Fund. The shareholder representative for this government pension fund, Christina Olivecrona, is also a sustainability analyst therefore also makes her assessments from a sustainability perspective. For this reason, Cybercom thought it would be interesting to interview Christina to get a better understanding of our stakeholders’ views on our sustainability performance. What does sustainability mean to you as a shareholder? The Second AP Fund believes that companies can generate attractive returns by taking into account sustainability issues. We therefore think it is positive that companies such as Cybercom are identifying and working with the opportunities and risks in the area of sustainability. Christina Olivecrona, shareholder representative for Second AP Fund and sustainability analyst. What are the key social issues for IT companies like Cybercom? Also, it’s important to provide information on, and For IT companies that offer Internet services, issues offer customers, green IT solutions, even if they do not regarding access to information are important. directly ask for them. When equipment is scrapped, it Furthermore, it is essential to protect customer privacy. should be done in an environmentally sound manner. Sweden and the EU have developed systems for this. What does this mean for how IT companies like Cybercom should act? What do you see as the risks here? IT companies should have a policy describing the I don’t see any direct environmental risks of Cybercompany’s position on issues such as freedom of com’s business. One potential risk for IT companies like expression and access to information. To implement a Cybercom is if the company does not take responsibilpolicy the company must then produce more detailed ity for scrapping equipment correctly. guidelines and train staff in how to act. In Cybercom’s code of conduct this is dealt with under the section on human rights. What opportunities do you see for Cybercom working on sustainability issues? What environmental issues Cybercom’s work on sustainability issues will provide are most important? knowledge that you can use in your sales and developAn IT company like Cybercom should ensure that the ment of new products and services. Cybercom can equipment the company uses and/or provides to its develop and inform customers of services that also customers is energy efficient as possible to reduce the contribute to reduced environmental impact for the need for cooling. them, such as hosting of customers’ servers. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 11 Economic responsibility Cybercom is a listed company with the Cybercom group: Created and distributed requirement from its owners to generate direct economic value, 2010 – 2011 profitability through corporate responsibility, SEK thousand 2011 2010 where the company acts in accordance with Revenue 1 481 074 1 528 928 its code of conduct and the guidelines of the Distributed value UN Global Compact. Employee benefits -950,797 -989,669 Other external expenses -464,839 -427,056 Depreciation, amortisation, In 2011 the retained value in Cybercom became and impairment losses -190,817 -50,677 negative. The company has undergone leadership and Net finance income/expense -19,058 -21,077 organisational changes during the year, designed to Tax 224 2,247 create better conditions for profitability onwards. Retained value -144,213 42,696 In addition to the values Cybercom creates through its core business, Cybercom contributes financially to a more sustainable development through the donations the company makes to the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation and SOS Children’s Villages. In 2011, Cybercom donated SEK 135 per payment card through its specially developed business payment cards with the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation. In 2011 this was about SEK 75,000. Cybercom donated around SEK 500,000 to the activities of SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda during 2011. This replaces Christmas gifts to customers and staff. In addition, the staff raised nearly SEK 30,000 for books and computers through payroll deductions. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 12 Environmental Responsibility Cybercom’s internal CO2 Emissions environmental efforts Cybercom Group At Cybercom we continuously work to raise Electric Air Travel employees’ environmental awareness and Power 71% 29% integrate environmental considerations into daily tasks. Cybercom’s business overall has a relatively low environmental impact. Carbon dioxide from passenger transport is the most As shown in the graph air transportation accounts for more than significant direct environmental impact. After that are 70 percent of the group's carbon dioxide emissions. consumption of office supplies and disposal of comput(Figures are excluding Singapore and India.) ers. Cybercom places requirements upon providers of office supplies and computers. It is necessary that they can meet the environmental requirements of TCO 95 Cybercom now wants to influence this in a posiand TCO 99 and that the material is recyclable. tive direction. In 2012, the goal is to bring down As a tool for raising awareness of the company’s enthe company’s CO2 emissions per revenue krona vironmental impact, Cybercom conducted a survey in by 5 percent until 2015. 2010 among its employees in Gothenburg, Stockholm The introduction of online meetings through the and Malmö regarding their travel habits. The survey IT-based communication tool Lync throughout the showed that employees’ work-related travel and travel organisation will in part replace physical meetings and to and from work form Cybercom’s most significant help to reduce the number of flights. environmental impact. It is mainly employees’ air travel In addition to Lync, Cybercom is conducting a systemthat accounts for emissions. atic effort to reduce the group’s environmental impact. In 2010 and 2011, Cybercom has measured carbon Some examples of actions taken are: dioxide emissions from air travel (excluding India and • Lights switched off by timer after business hours. Singapore). As shown in the table, these increased between 2010 and 2011 by 6 percent. • Handling of old IT equipment which, when possible, is sold for reuse or otherwise goes to partners for recycling. Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in relation to the company’s sales, 2010 – 2011 • Handling of discarded electronic products that are Percentage recycled where possible. 2010 2011 change • All printers are by default set to duplex printing, Carbon dioxide emissions 0.482 kg 0.510 kg +6% and employees are encouraged to avoid using hard copies as far as possible. • Recycling of paper and other waste. The increase is due in large part to increased travel within Sweden. This in turn stems from the reorganisa• Procurement of products, consumables and tion that Cybercom conducted, in which the comservices must, if possible, meet high environmental panies in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö were standards.­ merged into Cybercom Sweden. This process involved • Purchase of renewable electricity. many physical meetings between the different units and, in other words, increased travel. Air travel Cybercom Group 2011 No. of flights 2,982 Total airline miles 3,110,546 CO2 emissions (tonnes) 748.3 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 13 Environmental certification Cybercom is working with environmental certification of the firm’s activities in accordance with ISO14001. Energy Use by Energy Source, 2011 Cybercom Group Cybercom is striving for all our businesses to eventually Peat, 0.3% be certified, and work has begun. The Gothenburg Oil, 2.5% office was the first part of Cybercom to be certified Nuclear Power, Water, and this was achieved in 2010. The objective is for 7.0% 30.0% all of the Swedish operations to obtain certification. Wind, 8.4% In 2011 the work on this was at the same level as in 2010. However, Cybercom has expressed an ambition to develop this work in 2012 and onwards. Natural gas, Coal, 22.5% 29.3% Total energy use 3.024.3 thousands of kWh CO2 Emissions by Energy Source, 2011 Cybercom Group CO2 emissions, tonnes 300 269,2 250 200 150 100 50 0,0 0,0 0,0 3,2 0,0 0 er al as in d cle il O at W Co lg Po ar w Pe at ra W er tu Nu Na CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 14 Products and services that reduce environmental impact Green IT is growing in importance as the impact of climate change becomes clearer. Green IT includes ”environmentally friendly and energy efficient” computers. But Green IT is also about how Cybercom can offer services that help its customers reduce their environmental impact. To some extent, Green IT is about reducing the industry’s energy consumption, but the really big environmental benefits are created by IT being able to reduce environmental impact in other parts of society. Some examples of areas where IT can improve efficiency and reduce the consumption of resources are industrial processes, traffic flow and indoor climate. Environmental Protection Agency’s national database of predators Cybercom has, for example, developed a remote is a examples of services that Cybercom developed and that reduce control system for elevators. environmental impact. Cybercom provides what is known as hosting of servers. This means that customers’ servers are run for them. Cybercom can carry out this work in a Cybercom’s infrastructure services also contribute more energy efficient manner than if each individual greatly to the convenience of the citizen and make customer were to run their own servers. it easy to access services digitally and thereby reduce Furthermore, IT can replace physical products and environmental impact. activities with electronic information. Some examples http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/CCE-110 that are increasing in scope are e-commerce, electronic The Cybercom group is active in interest groups that documents instead of paper and video conferencing promote e-government issues in Sweden. Examples instead of travelling. In addition the company can, include the tax board’s Dialog project, where the board by using the proper equipment, create the right has special responsibility for the services addressed environment for telecommuting, something that not to private individuals. An exciting service that will be only reduces physical journeys but also creates a more launched as soon as rule changes are implemented at flexible workplace. the Ministry of Finance is a so-called authority mailbox Cybercom has a well-tried offering of bundled services to which individuals can choose to direct their commufor government agencies, municipalities and county nications. Sweden will reduce its environmental impact councils. Many of these services are designed specifithrough this type of service. cally to reduce environmental impact by using services Cybercom has developed a national database of for remote meetings, meeting management (paperpredators, called the Rovdjursforum, for the Swedish less), sustainability reporting and compliance with Environmental Protection Agency. This database, and environmental policies. If you would like to find out the digital functions that Cybercom is developing, is more about these services they are described in detail about creating the environment for sustainable and in Cybercom’s catalogue of services. long-term wildlife management. http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/FPP-003 Cybercom has developed the MyRoc video conferenchttp://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/CCE-124 ing system for Telia. Video conferencing reduces http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/SOF-001 the need for physical travel and the emissions they (please see video of paperless office) generate. http://public.cybercomgroup.com/wiki/SOF-012 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 15 Social responsibility Employees and the workplace To obtain a good understanding of employee satisfaction and development at Cybercom, the company conducted a group-wide employee survey in 2011. The survey showed that employees generally feel very committed to their work and can to a large extent influence their daily tasks. Furthermore, employees believe that communication within the company is frank and open. The work environment was perceived as good, with people showing respect for each other. Employees are particularly satisfied with their manager. As an employer, Cybercom has plans to further strengthen the company’s brand and the career opportunities for employees. Cybercom has in 2011 implemented a number of changes among senior executives. In the context of this work, Cybercom has developed the company’s mission: ”Boosting your performance in the connected world”, the company’s vision: ”We are our clients’ In 2011, Cybercom implemented a group-wide employee survey. most trusted business partner in the connected world” The measurement was carried out by Zondera. Cybercom’s and Cybercom’s three core values: Innovation, Passion, approximately­1 600 employees were asked in a web survey. Trust”. Visions, goals and values will be rooted in various forums in which employees interact. In 2012, Cybercom will conduct a new employee Strengths survey, which will also measure the effects of Cyber– Great commitment at work com’s work in the areas of improvement. – Satisfied with immediate manager One of Cybercom’s three major objectives is to – Frank and open communication – Opportunity to influence daily work increase employee satisfaction by the time of the next employee survey in 2012. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 16 Stakeholder interview HR Cybercom Carolina Jonnor, HR Cybercom. Carolina Jonnor, human resources, about the Cybercom group-wide employee survey Why has Cybercom conducted an What should Cybercom employee survey? improve given the results? The purpose of this survey is to further strengthen Cybercom should invest more in professional developCybercom’s role as an employer of choice for employment to even better engage employees. Furthermore, ees and as a partner for its customers. The employee it is important to reinforce our common values and survey is a tool that enables Cybercom to continue thereby strengthen Cybercom’s employer brand. to improve our business. We examine areas such as leadership, information, professional development, knowledge of the group and terms of employment. What can we be proud of? The survey data indicates very strong and genuine leadership and a deep-seated culture of respect and appreciation from colleagues. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 17 Development and retention of expertise Cybercom has solid knowledge assets that Training hours per employee, 2010 – 2011 the company must continually develop to Cybercom Group remain at the forefront of the IT industry. No of Cybercom must ensure that it has the right hours 30 skills within the company to meet customer +40% +40% 25 27 needs. hours 20 15 19 hours Therefore Cybercom invested in education during 10 2011. Training hours increased by 40 percent 5 compared to the year before. The increase occurred 0 primarily in Sweden. Among other things, Cybercom 2010 2011 has worked to develop its internal network of expertise; internal networks of consultants where different participate in lobbying activities or support these experts teach each other and share knowledge. financially. All employees have read Cybercom’s code An important part of this is to have structured methods of conduct and will be trained in the code’s content. to monitor the skills development of individual Cybercom acts in accordance with the conventions employees. Cybercom achieves this through annual and recommendations of the International Labour performance reviews, where the manager and the Organisation (ILO) and our remuneration exceeds employee draw up individual development plans and minimum wage. The company’s remuneration must be goals for future years. competitive, as this is a very important factor in attracting and retaining skills. Cybercom supports the right to Well-being of our employees freedom of organisation and association. In Sweden, around half of employees are union members. For the Employee well-being is of paramount importance to entire group it is a smaller proportion. Cybercom and a prerequisite for us to be competitive and to grow our business. All employees must feel Since Cybercom has operations in countries where respected and relevant. No matter where in the world freedom of association may occasionally be threatened, people work for Cybercom, they have the same rights. it is important to emphasise that this should not restrict Through Cybercom’s code of conduct the company employees’ ability to influence their work situation lays the foundation for the rights and opportunities within Cybercom or restrict their rights. that each employee has. Cybercom has zero tolerance for discrimination or unethical behaviour towards a Cybercom Group: Total number of employees­by colleague or business partner. All employees must, gender, 2008 – 2011 regardless of where they operate, have access to 2008 2009 2010 2011 a healthy and safe working environment. Where Female 377 327 328 288 relevant, staff are trained in health and safety. In our Male 1,605 1,491 1,399 1,276 code we also state that Cybercom does not participate in political parties or organisations, and does not Total 1,982 1,818 1,727 1,564 Cybercom Group: Workforce by country, 2011 Country Sweden Denmark India Poland Finland Romania China Singapore Total No of female employees 180 3 13 14 39 6 27 6 288 No of male employees 746 34 65 65 224 10 100 32 1,276 Total no of employees 926 37 78 79 263 16 127 38 1,564 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 18 Development and retention of expertise Cybercom works actively to ensure that men and Cybercom Group, Employees, 2011 women have equal opportunity to be home with their children. This applies to both care of sick children and No of female employees in senior positions 41 parental leave. Among other things, the company has No of employees covered by collective agreements 73% created economic opportunities for employees to take Sick leave taken (as a percentage of working hours) 2% parental leave, with a parental supplement. In 2011, Training hours per employee 27 hours 60 people claimed parental supplement in Sweden. Cybercom Sweden, Labour force by gender and sick leave, 2008 – 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 Women 200 186 165 180 Men 857 791 705 746 Total 1,057 977 870 926 Sick leave 1) 2.4% 2.6% 1.7% 1.8% 1) Sick leave as percentage of working hours. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 19 Customers and suppliers Cybercom is constantly striving to accomplish When Cybercom has completed a customer order, the what we call +1. This means that Cybercom customer fills out a questionnaire so that Cybercom will always do its utmost. To find out what can monitor how it has delivered and what can be improved. customers think of Cybercom, the company conducted a group-wide customer satisfaction survey in 2011. Strengths – Brand Cybercom’s customer – Range of services satisfaction survey – Service level among sales force In a group-wide customer survey, Cybercom asked more than 140 of its most important customers what they thought of Cybercom. The survey conducted shows that Cybercom’s customers are satisfied with Cybercom’s brand, its range of services and the sales force’s service-oriented approach to customers. Cybercom will concentrate even more on precision in the company’s delivery times and to further be responsive of customer expectations. In addition to the group-wide customer survey Cybercom measures customers’ satisfaction on a regular basis. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 20 Customers and suppliers Cybercom’s responsibility in relation citizens. One example of services where this is a central to customers issue is the securing and certification of payment card solutions and internet bank platforms for the banking Being responsible in relation to our customers includes and finance sector. Cybercom also actively combats observing what the customer’s and Cybercom’s IT crime through fraud investigations and industrial products and services are used for. For example, if espionage investigations in collaboration with internaCybercom is invited to do business in an undemocratic tional police and law enforcement authorities. country or a country with a high risk of human rights violations, Cybercom evaluates the risk of making the Like many other IT and telecom companies, Cybercom situation worse for the people of the country. As part has chosen to actively combat the spread of child of the evaluation, dilemma discussions are held with pornography on the Internet. We do not collaborate the relevant functions within Cybercom. Rwanda and with this type of company or companies related to China are two examples where we decided to enter these types of activity. into business following an evaluation of the customer. In both cases Cybercom felt that improved internet and Cybercom’s responsibility to make mobile telephony access are two vital tools in creating a more transparent society and for people to be able to demands of the supplier chain practice their human rights and rights such as freedom Cybercom’s responsibility does not stop with what of expression. In many cases, the Internet and mobile the company does. It is also about influencing the phones are crucial in pursuing business activities and company’s suppliers and business partners. Cybercom being able to support oneself. Providing these services has therefore set as one of its goals in 2012 to ensure enables Cybercom to contribute to economic developthat all subcontractors the company chooses to work ment. In other cases, Cybercom has found the opposite with comply with Cybercom’s code of conduct. and has chosen to turn down assignments. In 2012,Cybercom will therefore communicate Cybercom is obligated to do all it can to combat and monitor that subcontractors comply with the criminality within the framework of its business activicode. ties. Developing products that fulfil customer security requirements helps reduce the risk of them being used in irregularities. This is not only an obligation towards our customers but also to society in general and its CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 21 Cybercom’s community involvement When Cybercom chooses community projects Cybercom and SOS Children’s to become engaged in, the company starts Villages in Rwanda with the markets in which it operates and In 2011, our work continued with SOS Children’s looks at how Cybercom can contribute. Villages in Rwanda. Cybercom signed a long-term Cybercom pays particular attention to the agreement with SOS Children’s Villages in 2009, and groups that are in need of support, groups finances a major part of the activities at a primary whose development is particularly important school for 200 children in Gikongoro, Rwanda. Several trips were made to Rwanda by employees during the for the development of a society, and which year and executive management also visited the project products and services that are of greatest to show its support for the CSR work there. benefit to these groups. Therefore, Cybercom has chosen to support two organisations: SOS Children’s Villages and the Childhood Cancer Fund. Ammar Raza on being a CSR ambassador for Cybercom I have always believed that life is all about helping others, especially those in need. Peeping through the window on my past, the most memorable moments I can see are the ones in which I did something good to help others. I wanted to get more and more involved in such activities, but never got a chance until I got to know about the Cybercom CSR programme and was then selected as a CSR ambassador. That was indeed a great moment for me, as now I knew Cybercom had given me the chance to be involved in social activities Ammar Raza with one of the 200 orphanage children at SOS Childrens’ Villages in Gikongoro, Rwanda. throughout the year. Being a CSR ambassador, I considered it my responsibilAs they say, “Many a drop makes an ocean”, and as ity to not only think of different ways to help the almost all employees got involved in the CSR activity­ children in SOS Childrens’ Villages Rwanda, but also to and donated funds, we were able to make very help all other Cybercom employees understand what handsome amounts, sufficient for a new computer CSR is and to get them involved in it as well. lab. A lot of orphans will now have a good computer I thus came up with the idea of giving all the employeducation because of the combined effort of all of you. ees an option of donating to help these children in You have taken a step towards building a better society SOS Children’s’ Villages Rwanda by briefing them on and if all of us keep up this good work we sure will how and where the funds they donate are going to be make a big difference. utilised. The donations from employees are a clear indication­ Moreover, as collecting funds is normally not easy that each and every one of us wants to help contribute because of employees being spread out on different to a better society; it’s just that a good platform projects throughout the world, I suggested that they get is­needed. And now we have the Cybercom CSR the amount they want to donate to be deducted from platform we should not just stop here but carry out their monthly salary by sending an email to the payroll the CSR activities throughout the year. Thanks to department. In this way we had one easy central point Cybercom for giving us the opportunity to get involved of collection and the response from the employees­was in CSR activities and help in making a better society. simply remarkable. Within one week the funds donated by the employees jumped to SEK 30,000. Ammar Raza The CSR team has planned to use these funds to set up a new computer lab with the latest computers at an SOS School in Rwanda. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 22 Choice of projects The choice of project has a direct link to In addition to the annual donation that Cybercom as a Cybercom’s operations. Cybercom runs company contributes to SOS Children’s Villages, there customer projects worldwide, including in was a collection among the employees. Those who wanted to could donate a portion of their monthly Rwanda, where the company has built the salary. The funds of a total of SEK 30,000 that were country’s third national mobile network for collected during one week have been put towards a operator Tigo and is optimising the netnew library with English books for the SOS Children’s work’s performance. Cybercom contributes Villages’ school in Gikongoro and will be invested in to improving the living conditions in Rwanda new computers in the new computer lab that an SOS by increasing the availability of cheap telephChildren’s Villages’ school in north-eastern Rwanda ony. The new telephone network improves needs. access to telephony, increases competition SOS Children’s Villages helps vulnerable children and cuts call prices, which benefits the user. around the world. They give orphaned and abandoned children a home, a family and an education. SOS Children’s Villages has been active in Rwanda for 30 years. SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda The primary school in Gikongoro was built in 1992 and consists of six classrooms that provide education Through the Rwanda project, Cybercom supports for around 200 children from the Children’s Village, SOS Children’s Villages as a way of helping to further SOS Children’s Villages’ family assistance programmes develop the country. Cybercom is an international and the surrounding neighbourhood every year. The knowledge-based company looking to contribute primary school has doubled in size since it was opened. to knowledge development in countries in which Computers were recently bought for the school to it has projects. Education is the basis for a child’s assist the teaching and for children to learn computing. development and gives children a chance to escape poverty. Cybercom’s partnership with SOS Children’s Instead of giving Christmas presents, Cybercom Villages is a long-term project with repeat activities. donates funds to Rwanda. To customers and other All the subsidiaries are engaged in the children’s stakeholders the company sends Christmas cards that village in Gikongoro, and Cybercom’s commitment to have pictures of Cybercom’s support for vulnerable SOS Children’s Villages is a source of pride among its children in SOS Children’s Villages in Rwanda. employees. Season’s Greetings from Cybercom and SOS Children’s Village in Gikongoro, Rwanda. Cybercom is a partner to SOS Child ren’s Villages, supporting the Village and it’s scho ol in Gikongoro in lieu of gift-giving during the holid ay season. During 2011 the Village has given 120 children a home, a loving family, and the opportunity to educate themselves. The school has also become very important to the Gikongoro area in general, providing an education to 400 children in total. This year, the children’s education was enhanced by the receipt of new computers, and several children will soon start college . CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 23 Cybercom works with the Childhood Cancer Foundation Cybercom also works on a project together This CSR activity strengthens the company culture at with the Swedish Childhood Cancer FoundaCybercom through the company and its employees tion. When employees at Cybercom Sweden being able to rally around an important issue. Cybercom is a young company with a relatively low average use payment cards in their work, SEK 135 per age and at Cybercom many employees have families card per year is donated to the Childhood with small children. Approximately 300 children are Cancer Foundation. The organisation has its diagnosed each year with cancer in Sweden and logo on the company cards and Cybercom Cybercom want to do something to help, while giving helps to promote the Foundation to other expression to Cybercom’s corporate culture. potential donors. Cybercom also aims to launch a similar partnerIn 2011 a total of SEK 75,000 went to the Childhood ship with the equivalent of the Childhood Cancer Cancer Foundation through this scheme. In 2012, the Foundation in Finland. The idea is that the company’s goal is to increase this collection by ensuring that more employees in the Finnish offices will also be able to employees obtain this card. obtain company payment cards. Cybercom stödjer Barncancerfonden 5275 0012 3456 7890 NAME NAMESSON CYBERCOM GROUP AB C O R P O R AT E CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 24 Appendix 1 Cybercom’s code of conduct in brief Cybercom’s code of conduct is based on the UN Global Compact principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The code is for the employees. In 2012, Cybercom also intends to adapt the code to the company’s suppliers. One of Cybercom’s goals in 2012 is that the company’s suppliers are to meet Cybercom’s Code of Conduct. 1 – Comply with laws, rules and regulations All Cybercom employees are responsible for acting in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. They are responsible for gaining knowledge of the local conditions in the places where Cybercom operates. In the event of an individual issue demanding it, they will seek legal advice. Cybercom applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. As a listed company on NASDAQ OMX, Cybercom follows the agreements for this listing and undertakes to provide relevant knowledge to all employees concerned. Cybercom must present and report financial and corporate information in compliance with the provisions laid down in national legislation, stock-exchange listing requirements and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 2 – Human rights Cybercom respects human rights as laid down in UN conventions. Everybody in the organisation must show respect for the integrity and dignity of all people. Cybercom will not in any way contribute to the violation of human rights. 3 – Labour law and working conditions Cybercom supports freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Cybercom does not permit child labour. Cybercom applies the principle that a child is a person younger than 15 years of age unless national legislation states an older age, in which case the older age applies. Cybercom applies the definition of child labour as laid down by the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Cybercom does not tolerate any forms of discrimination. All employees have equal rights and must never be subjected to unjust treatment due to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or disability. All employees must show respect for each other and for Cybercom’s business partners and will take responsibility for combating discrimination. Cybercom works unabatedly to combat discrimination. This permeates the company’s policies and processes during, for example, recruitment, setting of wage rates, and skills enhancement. Cybercom offers salaries that comply with the minimum wage, as laid down in national legislation, with correctly prepared employment contracts. Cybercom also ensures that working hours are not unreasonable and are at minimum compliant with national legislation. Cybercom seeks to give all employees time for rest with economic compensation. Cybercom shall not in any way utilise forced labour and will always ensure that the working relationship between employee and organisation is at the employee’s own free will. 4 – Health and safety Cybercom shall provide a healthy and safe workplace in compliance with internationally acknowledged standards. Cybercom works proactively to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employees are offered health and safety training when and if required. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 25 Appendix 1 Cybercom’s code of conduct in brief 5 – Environment Our aim is to minimise the company’s negative environmental impact. Cybercom respects the Precautionary Principle and seeks to actively contribute to reducing negative environmental impact through responsible measures and technological advancement. Cybercom is in the process of environmentally certifying its offices. Cybercom always acts in compliance with laws and internationally recognised directives. 6 – Prohibited business practices Cybercom works actively to combat corruption and unethical practices. Employees must not give or receive gifts, benefits or bribes that constitute a breach of applicable law. Cybercom is politically independent and does not sponsor political organisations. Cybercom is opposed to any form of money laundering and will take the necessary measures to prevent financial transactions that are of criminal intent. Cybercom and its employees must never in any way play a part in anti-competitive activities. 7 – Promote accurate disclosure in financial reports and other public communications Cybercom shall be transparent and provide relevant information when so required. This means that the company shall always provide fair and correct information. Cybercom’s goal is for all communication to contribute to a stronger brand. 8 – Properly use and protect company assets and confidential information All business decisions shall be made with the good of the company in mind. All consultants will be professional in their relationship with Cybercom and will not pursue competitive activities. Customer trust is of vital importance to Cybercom. All employees will treat customer information in complete confidentiality. Information about Cybercom’s customers may only be used in the implementation of the project in question. This confidentiality remains in force even after the project has been completed. Cybercom has clear guidelines for the handling of confidential information. 9 – Protect our customers’ and partners’ confidential and proprietary information Cybercom requires all employees to sign a confidentiality agreement. There are clear rules for the handling of, and access to, material belonging to Cybercom. 10 – Take a professional pride in the consultancy role Freedom with accountability, and focus on the individual are contributory factors in Cybercom being able to attract highly skilled staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all employees the opportunity for personal and professional development. A workplace that is open, creative and flexible sets the course for being able to offer customers professional and attractive products and services. To sum up, Cybercom shall always conduct itself ethically in its dealings with all its stakeholders. Cybercom shall be characterised by professionalism and integrity. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 26 Appendix 2 The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles At the World Economic Forum in Davos in 1999, the UN’s secretary general, Kofi Annan, challenged the business community to take global responsibility. The secretary general’s initiative led to the formation of the Global Compact, which includes principles of human rights, labour rights, environment issues and corruption in business. The principles are based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO core conventions on human rights in the workplace, the Rio Declaration and the UN Convention against Corruption. Human rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human approach to environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8 Principle 2 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmake sure that they are not complicit in human mental responsibility; and rights abuses. Principle 9 Labour encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Anti-corruption collective bargaining; Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Principle 4 forms, including extortion and bribery. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 27 GRI Index This is Cybercom’s second sustainability report and website, as being sufficient to meet GRI’s information ­covers key impacts and the 2011 financial year. requirements at application level C. Cybercom has in ­Cybercom has chosen to apply the Global Reporting cooperation with Sustania Sweden AB produced the Initiative (GRI) voluntary guidelines for reporting sustainability report 2011. sustainability information, G3, at application level The information provided refers to the entire group C. In drawing up the report Cybercom has taken unless otherwise specified. Certain limitations of the into consideration GRI’s ten reporting Principles. The performance indicators have been necessary based information contained in the Sustainability Report on relevance and access to reliable information. This has not been audited by a third party, but Cybercom chiefly concerns energy consumption and carbon regards all the information in the 2011 Annual and dioxide emissions. Sustainability Reports, along with that on the company Reference abbreviations: Relationship Annual Report = AR, Sustainability Report = SR, Website = www with UN Complete: Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Partial Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and/or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments 1.Vision and strategy 1.1 CEO’s comments AR 4-5, Interview with CEO Niklas Flyborg that Account of SR 4 starts on P 4 of Annual Report 2011 (AR) continued and Cybercom’s sustainability vision and support for Global strategic objectives in Sustainability Report Compact P 4 (SR) 1.2 Description of SR 6 Cybercom's CSR efforts during the year Account of key impacts, risks and and governance and management of CSR continued opportunities efforts support for Global Compact 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the AR 9 Cybercom Group AB (publ) organisation SR 1, 5 2.2 Primary brands, AR 2 Summary P 2 of AR P X in SR. The products and services SR 5 company’s most important products are detailed in the AR P 12-13 2.3 Operational AR 10 Description and organizational diagram can structure SR 5 be found on P 10 of AR 2.4 Location of AR 69 P.O. Box 7574, SE–103 93 Stockholm. headquarters Visiting address: Lindhagensgatan 126, SE–112 51 Stockholm, Sweden 2.5 Countries in which AR 10 Sweden, Finland, India, Romania, Denmark, the organisation Singapore, China and Poland operates 2.6 Nature of ownerAR 2, 21 Cybercom Group AB is a market-listed ship and legal form SR 5 company traded on the NASDAQ OMX exchange 2.7 Markets AR 8, 11 Cybercom’s home market is the Nordic SR 5 countries, but the company provides its services internationally. (More details in first paragraph AR P 11.) Information about different sectors/customers on P 8 of AR 2.8 Scale of the AR 2 AR P 2 contains a description of the organisation SR 5 company’s scope (sales SEK 1,481m and 1,564 employees) 2.9 Significant AR 2-3 AR P 3 summarises the company’s events changes during the during the year and P 3 lists key events per reporting period quarter 2.10 Awards received Nominated in in reporting period Jönköping County as outstanding company for CSR issues CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 28 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and/or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments 3. Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period SR 2 3.2 Date of most SR 2 recent report 3.3 Reporting cycle SR 2 3.4 Contact point for SR 2 questions regarding the report or its contents Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for definSR 2 ing report content 3.6 Boundary of the SR 2 report 3.7 Limitations on the SR 2 scope or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting AR Note 1 Note 1, P 31 of AR details accounting See Note 1 on accounton joint ventures, P 31 policies ing policies subsidiaries, etc 3.9 Data measurement GHG and energy calcutechniques and the lations based on World bases of calculations, Resources Institute including assumptions (2011) GHG protocol and techniques tool for stationary underlying estimacombustion, version 4.3 tions applied to the and 1995 IPCC second compilation of the assessment report indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Comparability with previous reports 3.11 Significant The 2011 AR also changes from previous includes the indicatorsreporting periods in Many indicators and the scope, boundcalculations include ary, or measurement all Cybercom group’s methods applied in companies and the report countries. But some are still reported only for Sweden. GRI table 3.12 Table identifying This is Cybercom's the location of the complete GRI table Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and The information in current practice with the SR has not been regard to seeking audited by a third external assurance for party, but Cybercom the report believes that the information in the AR and SR 2011, together with information on Cybercom’s www meets the disclosure requirements of GRI for application level C CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 29 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and/or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance AR The company’s board and management Activities and structure Corporate structure are detailed in the Corporate decisions taken GovernGovernance Report P 61-67 of AR, with a for implementaance figure illustrating the structure on the first tion 110 Report P page of this section. 61-67 4.2 The chairman of AR Chairman Jon Risfelt is described on P 64 Activities and the board’s role in the Corporate in the AR. He is not included in Cybercom’s decisions taken organisation Governmanagement group. for implementaance tion 110 Report P 61-66 4.3 Independent and/ AR The company has an executive manageActivities and or non-executive Corporate ment and a board with various members. decisions taken board members GovernRefer to table P 63 in the AR regarding for implementaance dependent/indendent board members. tion 110 Report P 61-66 4.4 Mechanisms for AR Contact information and information about Activities and shareholders and Corporate the AGM is presented in the AR, Corporate decisions taken employees to provide GovernGovernance report P 61-66 for implementarecommendations ance tion 110 or direction to the Report P highest governance 61-66 body 4.12 Externally SR 4, 6, 9, Activities and UN Global Compact developed economic, 26, 28 decisions taken principles and environmental, for implementaguidelines and social charters, tion 110 principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder SR 8, groups engaged by 10-12 the organisation 4.15 Basis for identiSR 11 fication and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches SR 11 to stakeholder engagement 4.17 Key topics SR 11 and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 30 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments 5. Economic performance indicators Economic performance EC1. Direct economic SR 13 Heading: Economic responsibility. Table 3: value generated and Cybercom Group Cybercom group: Created distributed, including and distributed direct economic value revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2. Financial SR 16 Heading: Products and services that reduce Partial Principle 7 implications and other environmental impact. Describes how risks and opportunities Cybercom’s products and service create for the organisation’s opportunities for companies that need to activities due to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases climate change EC3. Coverage of AR ‘EmEmployee benefits are presented under Cybercom only has the organisation’s ployees, 'Employees, employee benefits expense defined contribution defined benefit plan employee and remuneration to senior executives' pension provisions. obligations benefits Note 3 P 40 AR expense and remuneration to senior executives’ Note 3 P 40 EC4. Significant finanCybercom has not cial assistance received received any significant from government financial assistance from government in 2011 Market presence EC5. Range of ratios SR 7, Heading: Well-being of our employees Principle 1 of standard entry level 17-19 wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 31 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments 6. Environmental performance indicators Energy EN4. Indirect SR 15 Table 6: Cybercom group: Energy use Principle 8 energy consumption and carbon dioxide equivalents by energy by primary source source, 2011 EN5. Energy saved due SR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods Principle 8 & 9 to conservation and for reducing energy use and reducing efficiency improveenvironmental impact on P 14 SR ments EN6. Initiatives to SR 16 The Products and services that reduce Principle 8 & 9 provide energyenvironmental impact” section P 16 SR efficient or renewable describes how Cybercom assists its customenergy based products ers to reduce their environmental impact and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7. Initiatives to SR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for Principle 8 & 9 reduce indirect reducing energy use and environmental energy consumption impact P 14 SR and reductions achieved Emissions, effluents and waste EN16. Total direct and SR 14 Table 3A and Graph 1: Cybercom group’s Principle 8 indirect greenhouse air travel, Table 5: Cybercom group: Energy gas emissions by use and carbon dioxide equivalents by weight energy source EN18. Initiatives to SR 14 A list of some of Cybercom’s methods for Principle 7, 8 & 9 reduce greenhouse reducing energy use and environmental gas emissions and impact P 14 SR reductions achieved Products and services EN26. Initiatives to SR 16 The Products and services that reduce Principle 7, 8 & 9 mitigate environenvironmental impact” section P 16 SR mental impacts of describes how Cybercom assists its customproducts and services, ers to reduce their environmental impact and extent of impact mitigation Transport EN29. Significant SR 14 Table 3A and Graph 1: Cybercom group’s Principle 8 environmental impacts air travel, Table 5: Cybercom group: Energy of transporting use and carbon dioxide equivalents by products and other energy source goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 32 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments 7. Social performance indicators Employment and working conditions Employment LA1. Total workforce AR 10 Total staff by region can be found in by employment type, SR 19 AR p 10 – Operations and organisation. employment contract, Heading: Well-being of our employees. and region Table 8: Cybercom group: Total number of employees by gender 2008-2011, Table 9: Cybercom group: Workforce by country Employee/management relations LA4. Percentage of SR 19 Heading: Well-being of our employees. Principle 1 & 3 employees covered by Table 10: Cybercom group employees, collective bargaining 2011 agreements Health and safety LA7. Rates of SR 19 Heading: Well-being of our employees. Principle 1 Cybercom measures injury, occupational Table 10 Cybercom group employees, 2011 only absence due to diseases, lost days, Table 11: Labour force by gender and sick illness, since other and absenteeism, leave parameters required for and total number of the indicator are not work-related fatalities relevant to our activities by region Training and education LA10. Average hours SR 19 Heading: Development and retention of training per year of expertise. Table 10 Cybercom group per employee by employees, 2011 employee category LA12. Percentage of SR 19 All employees have employees receiving annual employee regular performance reviews and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity LA13. Composition AR 41-42, Table 10 Cybercom group employees, Principle 1 & 6 of governance bodies 62-65 2011. The AR contains tables for this on and breakdown of emP 41 and detailed info on the company’s ployees per category management on P 62-65 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 33 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments Human rights performance indicators Investments and procurement practices HR1. Percentage SR 22 This process is described under the heading Principle 1, 2, 3, Investment decisions and total number of “Cybercom’s responsibility in relation to 4, 5 & 6 include requirements significant investment customers” and surveys but agreements that statistics are not include human rights currently maintained clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Non-discrimination HR4. Total number Principle 1, 2 & 6 No cases of discriminaof incidents of tion were reported in discrimination and 2011 actions taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5. Operations SR 78, 22 This process is described under the heading Principle 1, 2 & 3 identified in which the “Cybercom’s responsibility in relation to right to exercise freecustomers” Heading: Well-being of our dom of association or employees. Table 10: Cybercom group collective bargaining employees, 2011 may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Society performance indicators Anti-corruption SO3. Percentage of SR 6, 19 Principle 10 employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4. Actions taken in Principle 10 No incidents of corrupresponse to incidents tion or anti-competitive of corruption actions have arisen in 2011 CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 34 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments Political performance indicators SO5. Public Principle 10 Cybercom takes no policy positions and political positions participation in public or participates in policy development policy development and and lobbying lobbying. SO6. Total value of Principle 10 Cybercom does not financial and in-kind engage in corruption, contributions to politiextortion or bribery. cal parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Anti-competitive practices SO7. Total number No such incidents in of legal actions for 2011 anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance with applicable laws and regulations SO8. Monetary value In 2011 Cybercom was of significant fines and not fined or sanctioned total number of nonfor non-compliance monetary sanctions for with laws and non-compliance with regulations laws and regulations Product responsibility performance indicators PR5. Practices related See heading Cybercom’s customer to customer satisfacsatisfaction survey tion, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 35 GRI Index Relationship with UN Global Compact's Principle 1-10. See Reporting Appendix 2 for Indicator Reference Description and or Table/Diagram scope more information. Comments Marketing communications PR7. Total number No such incidents in of incidents of 2011 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer integrity PR8. Total number Principle 1 No such incidents in of substantiated 2011 complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9. Monetary value No such incidents in of significant fines for 2011 non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 36 Definitions Biodiversity ILO Biodiversity secures the necessary eco system services International Labour Organization (ILO) is the UN spesuch as supplying us with food and water, and buffers cialised agency for employment and workplace issues. the effects of climate change. ILO seeks to promote social justice and internationally recognised human and labor rights. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The concept of corporate social responsibility includes Stakeholders the responsibility a company takes for its activities, Stakeholders mean stakeholders who have mutual products and services, environmewntal, social and influence and activities of the company, its services and economic impact on society and stakeholders. its processes, both directly and indirectly. For example, employees, shareholders, customers, consumers, UN Global Compact suppliers and partners. Is the UN’s strategic policy initiative to promote corporate social responsibility in the areas of human ISO 26000 Social Responsibility rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption. An international guidance, standard and method for (www.unglobalcompact.org/) organisations to define, implement and monitor their social responsibility. The standard consists of seven Fossil carbon dioxide main areas and seven principles. Carbon stored in the ground for a long time (over 10 000 years) and is formed into oil, natural gas and ISO 14001 coal. Combustion increases carbon dioxide in the An internationally recognised standard for certifying atmosphere and thus further increases the greenhouse ones EMS. ISO 14000 is the name of the standards effect. dealing with environmental management. These standards in turn, create an environmental manageThe precautionary principle ment system that can be easily integrated into existing The precautionary principle in the EC Treaty from 1993 operations. is a basic principle of EU environmental policy. This principle means that action should be taken against Carbon offsetting a product, production or activity if there is evidence A measure that provides a reduction of greenhouse that they pose unacceptable risks to humans, animals, gases equal to the emissions of greenhouse gases that plants or the environment, although there is some the business would like to compensate for. uncertainty regarding the risks. Carbon dioxide (CO2) Sustainable development Carbon dioxide occurs naturally in the atmosphere and The Brundtland Commission coined the term sustainis involved in the photosynthesis and is also an effect able development in 1987 and it had an impact during of combustion. the Rio conference 1992. The UN General Assembly decided in 2010 that a UN Conference on Sustainable SOS Children’s Villages Development (also known as Rio +20) will be held SOS Children’s Villages Sweden is a member associain Brazil in June, 2012. The parameter is “develoption and part of the international umbrella organisation ment that meets the needs of the present without SOS-Kinderdorf International, which has its headquarcompromising the ability of future generations to meet ters in Innsbruck, Austria. SOS Children’s Villages is their own needs.” The three dimensions of sustainable an independent, non-governmental organisation. The development economic, social and environmental organisation takes care of orphaned and abandoned should be coherent and mutually reinforce each other. children and provides them a home, family and education. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI is an international organisation that has developed global guidelines for how companies should report on their sustainability efforts. The framework includes indicators for the organisation, stakeholders and the economic, environmental and social aspects. CYBERCOM · SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 · PAGE 37 Cybercom Group AB (publ.) P.O. Box 7574 SE-103 93 Stockholm · Sweden Tel + 46 8 578 646 00 cybercom.com
