2013 Teijin Group CSR Report [Achievements in FY2012] Endeavoring to Provide New, Technology-driven Solutions Globally The Teijin Group upholds its brand statement “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as its promise to society and its customers. Under the statement, we are globally expanding our wide range of businesses that include advanced fibers & composites, electric materials & performance polymer products, healthcare, products converting and IT. In line with our corporate philosophy, we continue striving to enhance the quality of life of people everywhere. Progressing with technological innovation at the core of operations, we will continue to create new solutions in response to various global issues and needs. In doing so, our aim is to evolve as an organization that is worthy of society’s highest expectations and esteem. Corporate Philosophy Quality of Life The Teijin Group´s purpose is to enhance the quality of life through a deep insight In Harmony with Society into human nature and Empowering Our People needs, together with the application of our creative abilities. Brand Statement Our promise is to keep delivering real value through the development of chemical technologies that are friendly to both people and the global environment, and through the provision of solutions that society and our customers expect. 1 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Editorial Policy CONTENTS Explanatory Note Message from the President ..................................... 3 In creating the 2013 Teijin Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Profile of the Teijin Group ........................................ 5 Report, we have considered the following points, aiming to increase the report’s audience and their understanding of the Teijin Group’s CSR activities. Features Completeness and Materiality The 7th Stakeholder Dialogue ............................... 7 The contents of this year’s CSR Report have been chosen according to 10th Anniversary of ECO CIRCLE™ ........................ 13 strict criteria, referring to the following guidelines and questionnaires on socially responsible investment (SRI), and considering the business News Flash .................................................. 17 Social Report conditions of our group. Notably, the features section describes initiatives relating to themes that are important to both the Teijin Group and society. Vision and Strategy Reference Guidelines • “Environmental Reporting Guidelines, 2012” (Ministry of the CSR Management ............................................ 19 Environment, Government of Japan) FY2012 Plans, Goals, Performance and • “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2006” (Global Reporting Initiative) Self-evaluations ............................................ 23 Reporting that corresponds to items in the GRI guidelines is marked with Corporate Governance ...................................... 27 the applicable number as follows: ** Coordination between CSR Report and Website Social Report Information that could not be included in this CSR report due to space Compliance and Risk Management ............... ....... 29 restrictions is published on the website. Relevant pages in the report are marked for reference on the left-hand side of the page and a full list of Quality Assurance ............................................ 31 Human Resources Management and Labor CSR ...... 33 Environment, Safety references is included on the final page. Web CSR Procurement ...................................... ....... 37 Website-only item and Health Report Social Contributions .................................. ....... 39 See website for more See website for more detailed information detailed information URL: http://www.teijin.com/csr/ Environment, Safety and Health Report Clarity ESH Management (Environmental Preservation, This report predominately targets readers who are interested in CSR, and Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) ......... 41 at the same time endeavors to promote understanding of our activities Environmental Management .............................. 43 across a wide audience. To this end, we have minimized the report’s Environmental Management 1 length as much as possible, and adopted a layout arranged according to Environmental Preservation ...................... ....... 45 specific features of our group’s CSR management. As well as emphasis on Environmental Management 2 making the report easy to understand and view, we have considered Design for Environment .................................. 51 ease of searching via features such as cross-referenced pages. Economic Report Environmental Management 3 Reliability Environmental Businesses ............................... 53 Emphasizing transparency in all aspects of management, the Teijin Group Disaster Prevention Activities .............................. 55 is committed to active disclosure of information that can be trusted. On Occupational Safety and Health ................... ....... 57 this basis, this report has been independently reviewed by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., who have provided assurance of its reliability. Indicators on which assurance is provided are marked with a red star ( ). Economic Report Time Period/Boundaries 3.1 3.6 3.7 Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders........... 59 In principle, this report includes information corresponding to the period from April 2012 to March 2013. However, some information is included Independent Assurance Report ........................... 60 that corresponds to the 2012 calendar year or activities implemented after April 2013. Furthermore, information in this report generally refers to all Teijin Group companies (Teijin Limited, plus 61 in Japan and 86 overseas). Opinions from Third Parties However, in some sections, such as environment, safety and health Opinions from Experts ....................................... 61 management and human resource management, we have included notes indicating the use of a separate time period and boundaries. Comparative Table with ISO 26000 ................ ....... 63 Additional Information List of Website References .................................. 64 Please refer to the following documents which also contain information Editor’s Postscript ...................................... ....... 64 related to our CSR activities. • CSR Report (Japanese) • Teijin Group Company Profile (Japanese/English) All product and service names in this report are trademarks or registered • Annual Report (Japanese/English) trademarks of the Teijin Group. Other names of products and services are • Fact Book (Japanese/English) trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. • Financial Statements (Japanese/English) • Shareholders’ Report (Japanese) Publication Date 3.2 Published in September, 2013 Contact 3.4 Corporate Communications Department URL: http://www.teijin.com/ Teijin Limited Phone: +81-3-3506-4408 Fax: +81-3-3506-4150 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 2 Message from the President Aiming to be a Company with a Strong Global Presence Efforts to Realize “CHANGE for 2016” Outline of Mediumto Long-term Management Vision Long-term Vision In FY2012, the world economy was characterized by a wayward European economy, which had a significant impact on the Chinese 1. Secure profitable, sustainable growth by providing customers with needed solutions. and other emerging economies, and also by growing concerns over 2. Build value that also benefits society, and contribute to the the future of the US economy. advancement of humanity by focusing on businesses that leverage These effects were felt very strongly by the Teijin Group, which Teijin’s cutting-edge technologies. 3. Be recognized as a leading player that has attained global excellence.* has important business bases in Europe and China, and resulted in a * In our view, a company that has attained “global excellence” is one sharp decline in performance, particularly in the materials segment. that is recognized as a key global player in its core businesses, has On top of this, the healthcare business failed to achieve the business activities worldwide, is evaluated positively by society and is a source of pride for its employees. anticipated results due to the effect of pharmaceutical price revisions and intensifying competition. As a result, earnings of all but Basic Policies a few businesses decreased significantly and the Group as a whole is 1. Press forward with growth strategies for green chemistry, health care experiencing difficult circumstances, recording a loss for the period and overlapping domains. ending March 2013 with the inclusion of extraordinary loss. 2. Advance and expand existing businesses by broadening scope and The Mediumto Long-term Management Vision, “CHANGE for adding depth. 3. Bolster R&D aimed at fostering new businesses. 2016 – Innovation and Execution,” announced in February 2012 4. Enhance implementation of strategies through organizational outlines our objectives to provide the market and customers with reforms. the solutions they need, to secure profitable, sustainable growth, 5. Promote decisive and ongoing efforts to reform cost structure. and to contribute to enhancing the quality of life, which is also part of our corporate philosophy. As a medium-term management strategy designed to achieve these objectives, we have set and are engaged in implementing bold transformation of our business, geographic, technology and human resources portfolios. Despite Organizational Reform for a Stronger “One Teijin” the very challenging conditions, we will execute the reforms presented in our mediumto long-term management vision with an Since adopting a holding company system in 2003, the Teijin Group unwavering resolve and aim to attain global excellence; that is, has promoted group and global management, and has achieved become a company with a strong global presence. stable results under this system. In order to demonstrate even further strength as a group, and to aggressively implement our growth strategy based on this strength, we are implementing 3 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 organizational reforms while retaining the holding company system. One example is ECO CIRCLE ™, a closed-loop recycling system Specifically, our approach features simplification of our for polyester based on a world-first chemical recycling technology organizational structure, integration of major group companies and developed by the Teijin Group. In 2012, ECO CIRCLE™ celebrated its reform/streamlining of the back-office structure at head office. Our 10th anniversary. During this time, owing to the strong support of aim in integrating businesses and functions is to concentrate our many stakeholders, the reach of ECO CIRCLE ™ has been steadily strength as “One Teijin.” Through comprehensively reinforcing our expanding worldwide. strengths, particularly in technological development and market We are also aggressively pushing forward with efforts to expand responsiveness, we aim to build a system that can provide optimal use of our unique thermoplastic carbon fiber reinforced plastic solutions to market and customer needs. (CFRP) in automotive applications, and we are working steadily Under the banner of “One Teijin, we will fully maximize our towards realization of this goal. This project, which will reduce management resources (human resources, technologies and automobile body weights and thus assist in reducing worldwide information) and, united as a group, make efforts toward reaching CO2 emissions, typifies our environmental businesses and will the best possible results. become a model for evolving as an organization that creates value for customers. Accelerating Progress Towards Diversity Significance of CSR in Management The Teijin Group established the Diversity Development Section at the end of the 1990s. As part of accompanying measures, we set a The Teijin Group is now facing tough circumstances, but the more goal for the ratio of females among newly recruited university severe the management environment is, the more important it graduates to 30% or more and have been actively working to becomes for a company to reflect on its own corporate philosophy increase the ratio of females in managerial positions. We have also and prepare for the future. The basic foundation for the Teijin Group’s worked hard to address issues relating to work–life balance through CSR is made clear in its corporate philosophy established in 1993: measures such as a work-at-home system and shorter working “Enhancing the quality of life through a deep insight into human hours, taking the view that providing child-rearing support and nature and needs together with the application of our creative maintaining a pleasant working environment are essential elements abilities,” “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering Our People.” in promoting female career development. In terms of management, I am constantly mindful of creating To implement our growth strategy, it is important that diverse value society needs, both in harmony with society and while human resources, including women, enhance their capabilities and empowering our people. To put it more simply, my perspective is maximize their potential to improve the results of the Teijin Group. one of “creating shared value.” What is required of us now is to take On this basis, in FY2007, the Diversity Development Section on the challenge of providing solutions that meet the expectations expanded its role beyond gender issues. As one the keys to of society/customers. This will allow us to contribute to accelerating the progress of global expansion and diversity, in terms resolving/improving social issues through initiatives that tackle of human resources, we are promoting diversity in these issues directly. Moreover, I am convinced that this is the key to recruitment/discovery, faster development and suitable placement the Teijin Group’s sustainable growth. worldwide regardless of nationality, age, gender, etc. This will enable us to reform the human resources portfolio, one of the main medium-term issues. CSR Corresponding to Management Strategy Based on these activities, the Teijin Group will continue aiming to enhance the quality of life. I look forward to the ongoing support The following introduces main initiatives of the Teijin Group under of all stakeholders in these and other efforts. this management strategy and approach to CSR focusing on the concepts of “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering Our People.” June 2013 Creating Sustainable Value In the growth strategy set forth in the Mediumto Long-term Management Vision, environment and energy is positioned as one of the five key fields. A part of this, a future focus will be forging even Shigeo Ohyagi further ahead in providing solutions that create sustainable value President and CEO driven by Teijin Group technologies. Teijin Limited TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 4 Profile of the Teijin Group Global Expansion in Diverse Businesses The Teijin Group’s promise embodied in the statement, “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions,” signifies the deep integration of our diversified, advanced technologies, and vast “solutions knowledge” in the lives of people, achieved through the help of our customers and their activities. The Teijin Group was established in 1918 as the first manufacturer of rayon yarn in Japan. Starting with the launch of our polyester business, Teijin Limited Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2013) and building on the foundation of our strong technological prowess Established: June 17, 1918 in fibers, we have expanded our business to a broad range of fields. Capital: 70,816 million yen Today, Teijin Limited and 147 group companies are active in our Osaka Head Office Advanced Fibers & Composites, Electric Materials & Performance 6-7, Minami-honmachi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-8587, Japan Polymer Products, Healthcare, Products Converting and IT Phone: +81-6-6268-2132 businesses. We continue to expand these businesses on a global Tokyo Head Office scale in Asia, the Americas and the EU. The restructuring of our business Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, has led to changes in the number of our employees. Currently, there 2-1 Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Phone: +81-3-3506-4529 are 16,637 group company employees, including 7,021 overseas (201 transferred from Japan). In FY2012, the average annual number Representative Shigeo Ohyagi, President and CEO of temporary employees in companies in Japan was 2,047. The Teijin Group is primarily involved in business activities in URL: http://www.teijin.com which we do not have direct contact with consumers, such as the production of materials. Despite this, through our involvement in various industrial fields, our innovative and numerous products and Data on the Teijin Group (As of March 31, 2013) services have become strongly integrated in the lives of consumers. Holding company: 1 Group companies in Japan: 61 Raw Group companies overseas: 86 Materials materials Customers Total: 148 Consumers Number of employees in Japan: 9,616 Number of employees overseas: 7,021 Customers Total: 16,637 Finished * Excluding temporary employees. Services products Trends in No. of Group Employees Trends in Consolidated Net Sales and Operating Income Trends in Main Management Indexes In Japan Overseas Consolidated net sales Return on assets (ROA) Consolidated operating income Debt equity ratio (D/E) (Persons) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (%) 25,000 1,200 120 8.0 1.18 1.18 1.2 1,000 100 0.94 1.00 20,000 19,453 18,778 943.4 6.0 0.89 0.9 17,542 16,819 16,637 800 765.8 815.7 854.4 745.7 80 15,000 8,785 6.1 4.5 8,581 7,588 7,111 7,021 600 60 4.0 0.6 10,000 48.6 400 34.0 40 5,000 2.0 0.3 10,668 10,197 9,954 9,708 9,616 200 18.0 13.4 12.4 20 1.9 1.6 1.6 0.0 0 0 0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Breakdown of FY2012 Consolidated Net Sales (As of March 31, 2013) Sales by Business Segment Sales by Domicile of Customers Others Products Converting Business EU/Other Japan 83.5 billion yen (11.2%) 237.2 billion yen (31.8%) 48.9 billion yen (6.6%) 491.3 billion yen (65.9%) The Americas Total Total 51.4 billion yen (6.9%) 745.7 745.7 Advanced Fibers & Composites Business 111.2 billion yen (14.9%) billion yen Asia billion yen Electric Materials & 56.3 billion yen (7.5%) Performance Polymer Healthcare Business Products Business China 138.3 billion yen (18.6%) 175.5 billion yen (23.5%) 97.8 billion yen (13.1%) 5 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Business Overview Advanced Fibers & Composites Business Group As a global market-leading company in advanced fibers such as aramid fibers and High Performance Carbon Fibers & carbon fibers as well as in Fibers Business Unit Composites composites, we are aspiring to Business Unit expand our business further. New Business Development Group We conduct R&D realizing sustainable growth of our businesses and promote new business creation Healthcare Business Group with a global perspective. We provide unique, breakthrough medical solutions, leveraging our strength in the pharmaceuticals and home healthcare fields. IT Business Group We provide various IT services, also branching out in internet-based digital content distribution/e-commerce businesses. Films Business Unit Resin & Plastic Processing Business Unit Products Converting Business Group Electric Materials & We provide wide-ranging solutions from Performance Polymer Products Business Group materials development to products to We are expanding globally, holding a major share meet a variety of needs in the markets of of the polyester films market worldwide and of apparel and industrial materials. polycarbonate resin in growing Asian markets. Organizational Chart (As of April 1, 2013) High Performance Fibers Advanced Fibers & Business Unit Composites Business Group Carbon Fibers & Composites Toho Tenax Co., Ltd. Business Unit Resin & Plastic Processing Electric Materials & Performance Business Unit Polymer Products Business Group Films Business Unit Products Converting Business Group Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. Teijin Limited Healthcare Business Group Teijin Pharma Limited IT Business Group Infocom Corporation New Business Development Group TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 6 Feature 1 The 7th Stakeholder Dialogue How Teijin Aramid Creates Qualitative Value in the Chain Teijin Aramid B.V., a subsidiary of the Teijin Group, is a global leader in aramid fibers. Such a position comes with great responsibility for the company, employees, customers and the environment. During the 7th stakeholder dialogue held in March 2013 at the boardroom of the Teijin Aramid headquarters in Arnhem, the Netherlands, stakeholders and representatives of Teijin Aramid had an in-depth discussion on topics including the expanding scope of CSR, chain value and the growing influence of society on the industry as exemplified by the demand for transparency. Discussion of Four Main Themes Related to Theme 3 Supply Chains Theme 1 CSR procurement Since 2004, long before CSR became a mainstream topic in the Responsible care industry, Teijin Aramid was aware of its responsibility towards its customers, employees and society. For example, the company Procurement/ invested in infrastructure to reduce aramid waste and recycle Production Production Twaron® aramid fibers. This recycling program received the 2012 site Responsible Care Award from the Association of the Dutch Chemical Industry (VNCI), a prize awarded annually by the VNCI R&D to enterprises in the chemical industry that have excelled in the fields of environment, safety, health and sustainability. The scope of Teijin Aramid activities has also expanded and we Chain Transport have embraced the idea of chain responsibility. Teijin Aramid Responsibility has worked on CSR as a key element of its business in line with Theme 4 the brand statement of the Teijin Group: “Human Chemistry, Ethical Human Solutions.” Teijin Aramid recognizes and understands responsibility the growing demands from society regarding safety and transparency. Over the years, Teijin Aramid has given account Customer of its actions in its annual CSR reports. The tradition of End user “stakeholder dialogues” as a part of these reports shows the open mind of the company. In this 7th stakeholder dialogue, four themes were discussed: responsible care, eco-efficiency Theme 2 Eco-efficiency services services, CSR procurement and ethical responsibility. Facilitator ing. Antoon Drs. Harrie Bosman Dr. Ir. Colette Alma Ir. Mark Claassen Drs. Marcel Werner Ms. Tae Maki van den Boogaard Manager, Director General, Association Head of Purchasing, Manager, CSR / TRM / QHSE, Manager, KPMG Ethics advisor, founder of Eco-efficiency Services, of the Dutch Chemical Teijin Aramid B.V. Teijin Aramid B.V. Copenhagen Climate Ethiek ZAAK Teijin Aramid B.V. Industry (VNCI) Change & Sustainability 7 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 a thing for the tier-1 suppliers. Now it extends further AkzoNobel N.V. Theme 1 Responsible Care than that. Companies are developing indicators to In 1972, AkzoNobel developed the first see what happens to their products all along the para-aramid fiber, which at Don’t Hide it, Show it supply chain. The area it concerns is large and the the time was called Arenka®. demands are very high. The demand for transparency Due to certain circumstances, Tae Maki: What kind of activities does Teijin is also increasing. Accidents in the past have shown actual production did not start until 12 years later at the Aramid promote to meet the requirements of the public that there are some risks involved and new plants in Delfzijl and responsible care? people are reacting to that. Inspections became Emmen. In the meantime, Wessel Bruining: For a long time, we have been stricter and there is also political pressure. That is the the fiber was renamed Twaron® and it entered the participating in a national responsible care program reason we are in an ongoing dialogue with the market in 1987. As part of under governance of the Association of the Dutch government. Recently, we agreed on how the results improvement measures, Chemical Industry (Vereniging van de Nederlandse of inspections of individual companies will be AkzoNobel moved its fiber activities to a separate legal Chemische Industrie, VNCI). The program sets a published in the future as part of transparency. entity (Acordis) in 1999, and framework for activities/operations which allow the We also participated in some regional community sold 78% of it to CVC Capital real effects of operational standards to be seen discussions. As result of the increasing transparency, Partners in 2000. Teijin Ltd. based on a best-in-class approach. It is all about the Dutch safety standards are now high. took over all Twaron® activities in 2000. In 2007, optimization and improvement. In some areas, like Wessel Bruining: Transparency in what you are Teijin Twaron B.V. was recycling, we are quite good, but in other areas we doing creates public trust and it shows that you are renamed Teijin Aramid B.V., lack the scale to develop an integrated system open to discussions with stakeholders about what is and it now markets four different brands of aramid further. That is why we are in talks with AkzoNobel, going on. The flip side is that it is getting more fibers worldwide. who we have a long and close relationship with, difficult to handle perceptions. I think VNCI did a very about using parts of their framework to move ahead. nice job of creating the perception about the value Last year, we implemented a major recycling project that chemistry offers; that is, chemistry as part of the aiming to recover used products for reuse. Since solution of the society of tomorrow and the image of 2004, we have invested in infrastructure to reduce chemistry offering solutions. However, changing aramid waste and recycle Twaron® aramid fibers. We perceptions is a long process. If an incident with have a quite advanced technology in recovery of acid. chemicals involved happens it is one step back again. Through our recycling program, we address customer Marc Poortenga: Society sets the standards. These problems by looking at the remaining value of are not in but outside the product supply chain. products at the end of their life cycle and acting What if there is someone from outside that has a accordingly. We try to bring responsible care to the different perception? whole chain. Colette Alma: We engage in public debate in Tae Maki: Supply-chain management can also be newspapers and help individual companies that are considered a part of responsible care? in the center of debate or inspection. We advise Colette Alma: Yes. Responsible care used to be only companies to ask their customers for their inspection Mr. Tatsuya Ono Ir. Marc Poortenga Mr. Wessel Bruining Mr. Gerard van den Hondel Dr. Christoph Hahn Senior Manager, Environmental Product & Key Account Director of Manufacturing, Sales Account Manager, Director of Marketing & Sales, Management CSR Planning Manager, Chlorine & Hydrogen, Teijin Aramid B.V. Elastomer Reinforcements, Teijin Aramid B.V. Office, Teijin Limited AkzoNobel N.V. Teijin Aramid B.V. Via video connection TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 8 Feature 1 The 7th Stakeholder Dialogue External Stakeholders ing. Antoon van den Boogaard Dr. Ir. Colette Alma Ir. Marc Poortenga Ms. Tae Maki Antoon van den Boogaard, founder of Colette Alma is the Director General of Marc Poortenga is a Product and Key Account Tae Maki is a manager at KPMG Copenhagen Ethiek ZAAK, studied construction, Association of the Dutch Chemical Manager in the Chlorine & Hydrogen department Climate Change & Sustainability in Denmark. specializing in technical business studies. Industry (VNCI). After working as a chemist (mainly Western Europe) of the Industrial She has provided services for the Teijin Group He uses this education background in his for Royal Dutch Shell plc, she took up a Chemicals Business Unit at AkzoNobel N.V. He for more than ten years and has extensive work as a business ethics advisor and he position at the Dutch Initiative for has been working for the company since 1999 knowledge and experience in auditing has been working as a business consultant Sustainable Developments, a foundation and has vast experience addressing sustainability global manufacturing companies in the for many years. that supports sustainable development. and CSR issues within the company. electronics, chemical and other industries. reports. Many companies have good practices and perspective of every participating chain partner. are in a dialogue with local communities. When The goal of this business model is to maximize cost difficulties occur they can easily contact these performance in the chain in a sustainable way. communities. So being in touch with locals is very With the CBM we can show, both financially and worthwhile, even during quiet times. A new ecologically, that the profit with our product is higher phenomenon is the social media. Nowadays people than that of comparable products. For example, we are informed in a split-second and companies have to did calculations on gas cylinders and found that gas be aware of that. cylinders using our aramid would be 40% more Marcel Werner: A small issue can turn into a huge profitable than steel gas cylinders. The ecological thing when it is caught by the media who put advantages are 33% less energy consumption and their own spin on it. We cannot use social media 33% less CO2 emissions (depending on the grid). but we have to realize its existence. It may change Based on literature, the positive effects of less weight our behavior. during transport are significant, and these transport Marc Poortenga: Local communities also include effects have not been taken into account yet. workers at the facility and this creates a kind of Wessel Bruining: Steel is a hard, loyalty. These people know more from the inside than maintenance-sensitive material. This is the old the general public. On the other hand, workers can mindset that still is common in the industry. become critical; they demand to have an explanation. Our lightweight material can compete with steel and with our model we are able to quantify it per specific application and show what it really means. The CBM increases awareness of whether all Theme 2 Eco-efficiency Services elements have been included and also creates the possibility of seeing the value for each element; Teijin Aramid Solutions it helps people to become more aware that all the Creating Higher Value elements are important. Harrie Bosman: With the CBM, for each one of our Tae Maki: Teijin Aramid took eco-efficiency to the customers, we can calculate the financial and next level with the development of the Customer ecological benefits of our product. Together with the Benefit Model (CBM). Can you elaborate on this and customer we can consider all kinds of scenarios. explain the advantage of this model for the What would happen if the energy price rises by 30%? customer? What would happen if the rubber price rises by 15%? Harrie Bosman: We developed the CBM by We can show the outcome of these kinds of combining the results of eco-efficiency analyses with questions in real-time. customer data. In this way, we can calculate the value Gerard van den Hondel: It is very important to of the product over the total value chain from the make things visible. Our material disappears into a 9 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 cable, into a tire or into a conveyor belt. We produce varies by company, by country or by region. the material, a weaver makes the fabric, a belt maker For example, in some regions the resolve to save produces the conveyor belt, a construction company energy is hardly present. builds the installation, and at the end, a mining Tatsuya Ono: I introduced this tool to our company saves energy through use of the belt thanks management team in Tokyo and other business to our product. However, how would they know groups such as Carbon Fiber & Composites because about our product? It becomes even more composites can contribute to reducing CO2 emissions complicated when we suggest removing the heavy in finished products in the automotive and other steel and using our material instead because it industries. I think this tool can be very useful for these requires adjustments to the construction process. groups and their customers. In the future, we will In this complex picture, the CBM proves its value. move towards implementing eco-efficiency analysis. Harrie Bosman: Customers are happy that they can show to other parties in the supply chain that their product is not only profitable, but saves energy, raw materials and diminishes CO2 emissions. Another Theme 3 CSR Procurement aspect from financial and ecological points of view, is that Twaron® is more expensive per kilogram than Quality Control as a Driver steel and it has a larger eco-footprint compared to steel or polyester. However, when you look at the for Engagement Along the functionality, it is inexpensive and very ecologically Supply Chain friendly. Per kilogram it is expensive but in terms of Mark Claassen: In approximately 2007/2008, functionality it is quite an inexpensive material. we started thinking how we could fit CSR into the The Project Tae Maki: Can you give an update on the project in procurement discipline. We drafted a CSR declaration in South Africa A mining company in South South Africa? for suppliers together with procedures on how to act. Africa runs a conveyor belt Gerard van den Hondel: The belt maker is now One of the general aspects of our CSR declaration is 10km long that brings coal going to install the first belt using our material at a that suppliers should act in a fair way and comply from the pit to the production facility. mining company. In this project different parties in with local regulations. Specifically, we focus on This installation uses a the chain are involved and they all want to see how people aspects like worker safety, being a good tremendous amount of the new belt will run and if it really saves as much employer, ensuring prevention of child labor and the energy. The company energy as we have calculated. Our calculations with freedom to organize. We also want to know about foresees that the price it pays for its electricity will rise by the CBM showed energy savings of approximately topics like environmental permits, how the supplier 25% each year. In addition, 12.5% for both Twaron® and Sulfron® and combining deals with waste, hazardous substances and the electricity supply and both solutions leads to savings as high as 25%. prevention. The final point is corporate ethics where transport is unreliable which results in blackouts. The Depending on the energy source used, there will be we zoom in on disclosing information, protection of company wants to reduce huge savings in CO2 emissions too. During the trial intellectual property and other issues like corruption energy consumption of its there will be also concerns about reliability. and extortion. existing installation by 7–10% a year. Using the CBM, Teijin Disruption of operations is the biggest fear for Tae Maki: Have there been any changes in your modeled the case for anyone running continuous operations. declaration since the start in 2008? replacement of steel with Colette Alma: Usually better performance means Mark Claassen: Not really. We mainly buy in Western Twaron® in the conveyor belt. higher costs, whereas, in this case, better Europe from companies like AkzoNobel and BASF performance creates lower costs. It shows that which makes things in this respect easy because we there are still opportunities in the value chain to know the precise situation in the factories. achieve both better environmental performance Colette Alma: I’ve heard about the practice of and lower costs. visiting customers to see how they are managing. Harrie Bosman: At the moment we are making Have you ever de-selected a supplier? calculations together with five deep mining Wessel Bruining: We’ve rejected some suppliers companies in Canada to see what happens if we because, in our opinion, their way of operating their replace steel hoisting cables with Twaron® hoisting plant was very poor. Poor handling by a supplier can cables. A steel cable weighs approximately 60 tons jeopardize our continuity and our business, and that but a cable with Twaron® weighs only 18 tons. puts our reputation as a reliable company at risk. Looking at the hoist, the change means many more Mark Claassen: Even when a supplier is ISO-certified, tons of payload. For some mines that is important, we visit their facility to see how it looks and check for others the reduction of energy use is of more their procedures. importance. The need for better performance Marcel Werner: In general, customers respond TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 10 Feature 1 The 7th Stakeholder Dialogue positively to our approach. One of our Indian businesses we don’t want to be in; for instance, the customers didn’t handle one of our products safely business of animal testing. Furthermore, we don’t enough. We went there with experts to explain and want our materials being used in weapons of mass educate them on safe handling. destruction or other offensive weapons like land Tatsuya Ono: Supply-chain management is mines. We do allow Twaron® to be used in defensive important to the Teijin Group. We promote CSR applications like bulletproof vests. We also make activities globally. exclusions for countries that we don’t want to supply Tae Maki: What actions should companies take to to. We do not want to partner with companies who further strengthen the supply chain? actually harm people’s lives with their product. Of Marc Poortenga: We need to work towards real course we cannot prevent someone down the line engagement, stakeholder engagement. We should using the product in a way we don’t want it to be be much more open towards each other. We visit our used. However, for almost all businesses, we know the customers to see what they are doing, to see whether whereabouts of our products. At Teijin, we respect they handle the chemicals in the right way. We’d like stakeholders, other companies and people outside to have an active discussion on how to use our who to contribute to society. This respect is also products. Mind you, it is not all about us telling them reflected in our ethical ambitions. how to do certain things. We also invite customers to Antoon van den Boogaard: What does business our place to show them how we manage things. It is ethics mean? Ethics is mainly a way to reflect a certain Risk Assessment about joint risk assessment and that goes both ways. set of norms and values, or in other words, morals in a Risk assessment is the certain type of business. We can always evaluate identification, evaluation and whether this set of norms and values is still good, estimation of the levels of especially when there’s a new kind of technology or a risks involved in a situation, their comparison against Theme 4 Ethical Responsibility new product. You always have to ask yourself, “What is benchmarks or standards, our responsibility and what does it mean for Teijin?” and determination of an acceptable level of risk. It Pride in What Teijin Aramid and “What about sensitive topics like who do you provide your service to?” Mr. Hahn says that Teijin characterizes the nature and magnitude of health risks to Does, and What it Doesn't wants Twaron® to only be used in defensive humans (e.g., residents, Christoph Hahn: For Teijin, ethical responsibility applications. How do you determine that? In the workers and recreational visitors) and ecological means complying with all kinds of regulations. It also ballistic market even defensive products can receptors (e.g., birds, fish and means an intrinsic consciousness within the company contribute to the spiral of violence. wildlife) from chemical of what are the dos and the don’ts. It is also related to Christoph Hahn: Our materials should not contaminants and other the overall mission that Teijin has to contribute to contribute to a product that is primarily used for stressors that may be present in the environment. Risk quality of life. From this, one can retrieve our four core destruction. For example, bulletproof vests are made assessment also identifies the values: Passion, Unity, Respect and Excellence (PURE). for protecting lives. Our criteria for not allowing controls or improvements These core values lay the platform for our code of supply are known among all the salespeople. In the that need to be put in place to avoid or to reduce the risk. conduct and explicit rules on the dos and don’ts and case there are doubts, it will first be discussed at the Risk management is the these are communicated within the company. sales department. If a clear conclusion is not action based on Tae Maki: Bearing these values in mind, are there any reached at the sales department, it is discussed consideration of this and other information. areas that Teijin doesn’t want to be in? with me. If a decision still cannot be reached, the Christoph Hahn: We have a list of criteria for CSR Ethics Committee must become involved. Teijin Aramid B.V. Teijin Limited Drs. Harrie Bosman Mr. Gerard van den Hondel Ir. Mark Claassen Mr. Wessel Bruining Mr. Tatsuya Ono 11 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Antoon van den Boogaard: If Teijin does not “improving the quality of life,” “in harmony with deliver, someone else will. How do you deal with this? society.” Not only on an abstract level, but also on an Christoph Hahn: If it is against our principles, emotional level. We all feel very connected to that in we don’t deliver. It is the same with corruption. our business. We don’t go into businesses with bribery. Christoph Hahn: The intrinsic motivation is that you Tae Maki: How do you build up such internal also want to be proud. We are very proud of the discipline with regards to business ethics? company and the product Twaron®. With Twaron® Marcel Werner: By creating awareness. Make our we want to contribute to society in a positive way. people aware of the dilemma when we are entering Tatsuya Ono: Ethical issues are important to us and certain areas in sales. Of course there is a wide gray we should discuss them more. As part of area where we can discuss whether things are sustainable management we will improve these in offensive or not. This is never a clear line. Japan gradually. Antoon van den Boogaard: A question that can be Tae Maki: How can a company be prepared for the topic of a dialogue in the company is “What is the risk of a potential exposure of business violations? most important motivation to improve our business?” Antoon van den Boogaard: Part of the answer can There are internal and external drivers. External drivers be to care about identity. If you want to find out who can be public opinion, the image surrounding the we are as a company, where would be the first place company of Teijin Aramid, the image of its to find your answer? stakeholders and legislation. Wessel Bruining: We want to be a respected and Wessel Bruining: I think at heart we all feel very proud company. connected with Teijin’s corporate philosophy of Comment from the Facilitator The CSR to Aim for Is Business Innovation through Stakeholder Collaboration There are varying degrees in the depth to which CSR trends to build platforms for new activities rather than is implemented, but an end point that should be simply seeing them as risks. Stakeholders in the value aimed for is business innovation centered on CSR. chain are an essential element of this and collaboration For example, new product development with these stakeholders should be able to lead the way incorporating the perspective of resolving global to innovative solutions. social issues and the resulting expansion of new The eco-efficiency analysis service that became a customers/markets and sales channels. Most of the main topic in the dialogue this time is a good example Ms. Tae Maki business successes in Europe have been based on a consistent with this deepening process. In the future, Manager, stance that seeks to create future business chances I would like to see this linked to Teijin’s global strategy KPMG Copenhagen Climate Change & Sustainability from trends related to sustainability and using these based on wide-ranging trends. Comment from Teijin Aramid Looking Back at the Dialogue As the topic for discussion in the dialogue this time, themes in depth within three hours but it was a great we chose “chain responsibility,” an area where an even help that the facilitator, Mrs. Maki, had prepared the higher level of commitment towards society is being items well and that she was able to oversee the progress demanded. During the preparation stage, we were in of the discussions. The opportunity to have this dialogue frequent contact with Mr. Ono of the CSR group, Teijin with several stakeholders sitting together at the one Limited and we held repeated discussions on the basis table was a great and positive experience for us. of our presentations. This worked to great effect and all On the basis of this experience, we will continue Drs. Marcel Werner participants joined in the discussion enthusiastically. aiming to build good relationships with various Manager, CSR / TRM / OHSE, It was an ambitious attempt to cover all four stakeholders. Teijin Aramid B.V. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 12 Feature 2 10th Anniversary of ECO CIRCLE ™ New Expansion Underway in China and Japan Further Expansion of ECO CIRCLE ™ to Closed-loop Recycling for Polyester The current global annual production of major fibers is approximately 78.11 million tons. Synthetic fibers account for more than half of this amount, approximately 45 million tons, of which approximately 80% is polyester. That’s why we have started a new challenge of aiming to promote the widespread use of a closed-loop recycling system for polyester in China and Japan. Activities in China We contribute to creating systems that fit Recycling system unique to China with the national strategy and respond to social issues in the world’s largest Produce polyester producing country. Product manufacturers Products China, the world’s largest polyester producing country Annual production Annual domestic input in China* Fiber products 26 million tons 24.6 million tons (Over 60% of global production) (Over 60% of global input) Recycle Use Zhejiang Jiaren Consumers New Materials Social issues Co., Ltd. Film PET Securing products bottles Mass generation Environmental resources such of waste pollution as petroleum Used Technology products provision Collect Small/ National strategy Mass retailers Energy-efficiency/Environmental Protection • Chemical recycling specified as strategic emerging industry in the 12th five-year plan technologies • Knowledge developed through ECO CIRCLE ™ * Domestic input in China = Production + Imports Exports 13 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Creating an Original Closed-loop Recycling System Expansion Throughout China in Partnership with Using Teijin Group Technologies and Knowledge Industry Organizations and National/Local Governments The polyester commonly used in apparel features high tenacity, low Zhejiang Jiaren New Materials Co., Ltd. utilizes a chemical recycling moisture absorption, quick drying and wrinkle resistance, and technology to produce dimethyl terephthalate (DMT), the raw production continues to increase every year. On the other hand, the material for recycled polyester, from recovered apparel and waste depletion of petroleum resources for use as the raw material and the textile. Predicting future growth in demand for polyester, the large amount of waste created have been raised as issues, with calls facility’s DMT annual production capacity will be 20,000 tons in the for the need to reuse resources. In this situation, there would be a first phase, with plans to increase this by 50,000 tons in the second very positive effect on society if polyester recycling became widely phase, for a total of 70,000 tons. adopted in China, the world’s largest polyester producer, producing Working through the China Chemical Fibers Association, our approximately 26 million tons annually, which is over 60% of global future plans are to lobby not only industry organizations and local production. At the same time, the Chinese government is now governments but also the national government to make promoting energy-efficiency/environmental protection as one of institutional design and legislation changes, and aim to establish a the strategic emerging industries in their 12th five-year plan and closed-loop recycling system matched to the particular recycling activities are gathering momentum. circumstances in China. Against this backdrop, Teijin Limited announced a partnership with the China Chemical Fibers Association in 2012 to pursue business opportunities in cooperation with businesses introduced A Sense of Making the First Step by the Association. A joint venture, Zhejiang Jiaren New Materials Employee Voice Forward in a New Era for ECO CIRCLE ™ Co., Ltd., was established in Shaoxing, one of China’s largest production bases for fiber products, and preparations are underway After we acquired the operating license at the end of 2012, plant construction and premarketing activities for operations of a closed-loop recycling system for polyester to start started smoothly, and we began there by March 2014. taking the first sure steps To date in China, there has been material recycling involving forward in a new era for ECO crushing and remelting of PET bottles to recycle them into polyester CIRCLE ™. Working through the products, but almost no closed-loop recycling using chemical China Chemical Fibers recycling technologies. Since 2009, the Teijin Group has been Association, we will lobby the expanding its ECO CIRCLE ™ closed-loop recycling system for Chinese government to make polyester based on a chemical recycling technology in China in the institutional design and cooperation with domestic sports apparel brands. Now, through this legislation changes needed to Nobuyoshi partnership with the China Chemical Fibers Association and Shaoxing establish a closed-loop Miyasaka city, and by utilizing our chemical recycling technologies and the recycling system and promote Deputy General Manager Zhejiang Jiaren knowledge accumulated over the ten-year span of the ECO CIRCLE™ expansion of ECO CIRCLE ™ to all New Materials Co., Ltd. parts of China. business, we are confident of increasing the scale of our closed-loop recycling business and achieving widespread adoption in China. What is ECO CIRCLE ™? ECO CIRCLE™ is a closed-loop recycling system Chemical Recycling Process that utilizes a chemical recycling process to remove impurities from recovered used polyester products, decompose them to the Crushing/ Chemical molecular level and purify them to raw Granulation purification materials of the same quality as those made Used Granules Polyester raw material from petroleum. ECO CIRCLE™ recycling realizes fiber products (DMT) an approximate 80% reduction in CO2 Polymerization emissions compared to newly producing polyester feedstock from petroleum. Many partner companies who have a shared resolve to utilize this system have joined the project, and since 2002, we have built up a network of Fiber products Filament Polyester polymer over 150 companies. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 14 Feature 2 10th Anniversary of ECO CIRCLE ™ Activities in Japan We provide children with an experience of recycling through a gym uniform recycling project in partnership with local governments. Kyoto, a Model for the Gym Uniform Recycling when they hand them over to teachers. This helps to remind Project Supported by the Local Government children that the uniforms will be recycled and returned to them as In chemical recycling, polyester fiber is recycled multiple times, so new clothes and is a good tool for instilling a high level of awareness the ratio of polyester fiber in the recovered clothes needs to be high about recycling. enough for recycling to be viable. School gym uniforms are well suited in this regard because the main material is polyester featuring Towards Expansion to All Schools in Japan quick-drying as a consequence of the fact that they often become The “Gym uniforms! Have a nice trip and welcome back” project is dirty and need to be washed frequently. This was noticed by three now in its fifth year and continues to gradually increase in scale. We parties; namely, environmental producer Mr. Tatsuhei Okabe, Asahi plan to expand the project nationwide using Kyoto as a model for Kasei Fibers Corporation and Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. (formerly Teijin proposals to local governments throughout Japan and promote Fibers Limited), who created a joint project in progress since 2007 recycling awareness among an even greater number of children. that utilizes ECO CIRCLE ™ and targets schools all over Japan called “Gym uniforms! Have a nice trip and welcome back.” Kyoto city started support for the project after Kyoto public Hoping to Expand the schools began participating in 2012. This encouraged 49 public Employee Voice Project with the Help of All Related Parties schools in Kyoto to join the project and the case has become a future model for expanding the number of participating schools. While the support provided by local governments to schools and children made it possible for many schools to Example of project in Kyoto join the project, we also need the understanding and Gym uniforms for 100,000 students: Approx. 100,000 students cooperation of apparel stores Equivalent to in Kyoto public schools and manufacturers. I hope that 6,458 bags of waste (30L bags) full cooperation of all related parties will allow us to further expand this project and that the everyday gym uniform will A Clever Catchphrase Encouraging Recycling become a tool to teach children Awareness in Children about the satisfaction of looking Although clothes are an indispensable part of life, awareness about after things properly and a way Miwa Yoshida recycling them has yet to permeate widely in society as evident in for them to experience recycling. Sports & Lining Section Sports Inner Sales Department the fact that most old clothes are still disposed of as waste. That’s Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. why we suggest to schools participating in the project that they encourage students to say “Have a nice trip” to their gym uniforms Students handing over old gym uniforms to Kyoto Mayor Mr. Kadokawa (left) and saying “Have a nice trip!” at a ceremony in July 2012. 15 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Future Challenge: Recycle Polycarbonate and Aramid Fibers Too The Teijin Group is also undertaking the challenge of recycling the engineering plastic, polycarbonate (PC), as well as advanced fibers such as aramid fibers. In 2005, at a pilot plant, we started continuous operations to chemically decompose and recycle PC resin, aiming to realize the world’s first practical implementation of this process. To recycle aramid fibers, we recover waste fiber and aramid fiber scraps, and after processes including sorting and quality testing, we recycle them into thread or pulp form. Polycarbonate Aramid pulp The 10-year History of ECO CIRCLE ™ 2002 2009 2012 • ECO CIRCLE™ closed-loop recycling system begins • First non-Japanese member joins the ECO CIRCLE™ Garment Accessories Association Approx. 150 2004 • Li Ning Co., Ltd., one of China’s leading sports companies • ECO CIRCLE™ recycling of uniforms with Heiwado begins apparel companies, becomes the first Chinese • ECO CIRCLE™ receives the Environment Minister’s Award for company to join ECO CIRCLE™ Global Warming Prevention Activity (Japan) 2009 Approx. 120 2005 companies • US company Patagonia, Inc. becomes 2008 the first non-Japanese company to Approx. 100 join ECO CIRCLE™ companies “Fiber to fiber” recycling facility 2005 at the start of the project Approx. 70 companies 2010 Number of • ECO CIRCLE™ receives an ICIS Innovation ECO CIRCLE™ Award in the category of Innovation with member Best Environmental Benefit companies Awards ceremony of eco japan Approx. 30 cup 2012 companies 2008 2013 • ECO CIRCLE™ FES ‘08 is held to promote • ECO CIRCLE™ receives Environmental ECO CIRCLE™ among general Business Award at eco japan cup 2012 consumers • ECO CIRCLE™ Garment Accessories 2012 Association is formed • ECO CIRCLE™ is used to recycle uniforms for the first time in China ECO CIRCLE™ FES ‘08 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Aiming to Realize a Sustainable Society As we celebrate the 10th anniversary of ECO growth strategy in its Mediumto Long-term CIRCLE ™, we would like to express our sincere Management Vision. With this in mind, and with appreciation to member companies and customers the cooperation of member companies and for participating in the project and supporting users, we will make strong efforts to further the concept. When the project began in 2002, expand the applications of the environmental ECO CIRCLE™ was mainly being applied to technology-based ECO CIRCLE™ globally, company uniforms and interior items but this ultimately seeking to contribute to reduced has now expanded to diverse uses including environmental impact and a sustainable society. sports/outdoor and material applications. Jun Suzuki The Teijin Group has set environment and Executive Officer, Member of the Board energy as one of the five key fields of its Teijin Limited TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 16 News Flash Major topics relating to FY2012 Teijin Group CSR activities are presented below. A Resin Material Enabling New and Lighter EnviTeijin’s Bio-derived Polyester Fiber Used in Environment ronment Automobile Body Designs Nissan Leaf Electric Vehicle A current challenge in the automotive industry is reducing vehicle In November 2012, the ECO CIRCLE™ Plantfiber bio-polyester was body weight to enable enhanced fuel efficiency. Part of this is the selected for use in the seats and interior trim* surface of the 100% trend towards the use of resin for automotive parts such as electric Nissan Leaf. windows, frames and body components. Till now though, it has Approximately 30% of ECO CIRCLE ™ Plantfiber’s composition is been difficult to satisfy the needs for dimensional precision, bio-derived yet it still offers the same characteristics and quality of moldability and appearance characteristics for large parts such as petroleum-derived polyester. Teijin Limited aims to increase sales of rear doors and fenders. ECO CIRCLE™ Plantfiber to over 50% of its total polyester fiber sales In July 2012, as a solution to these issues, Teijin Chemicals, Ltd. for automotive seats and interiors by FY2015. announced the new material Panlite® AM-9937F, a co-development with Toyoda Gosei Co., Ltd. This polymer alloy is made by combining polycarbonate and polyester resin, and will enable automotive Nissan Leaf manufacturers to reduce the weight of components such as exterior panels by approximately 20% compared to metal. Panlite AM-9937F also features high dimensional precision and excellent appearance characteristics. Its ECO CIRCLE ™ Plantfiber is used for the seats, moldability allows designs previously part of the door trim, headrests and center armrest. unachievable due to the limitations of conventional metal and it has recently * Interior trim: Upholstery inside automobiles. been adopted in the Lexus HS250h premium sedan. Plans to Build a Large-scale Solar Power Environment Generation Facility at Mihara Factory Lexus HS250h (photo courtesy of Lexus) Teijin Limited will build a large-scale solar power generation facility Luggage door garnish capable of generating 1,990 kilowatts of power on unused land at its made using Panlite AM-9937F Mihara Factory (in Mihara, Hiroshima). The facility will cover an approximate area of 37,500 m2 and will start generating power from July 2013. It will be the first solar power generation facility with a capacity of over 1 megawatt in Mihara and the amount of power generated annually Mass-production Technology to Mold Envi(average over 20 years) is estimated to be approximately 2.9 million Automobile Bodies in One Minute Wins ronment kilowatt-hours, enough Nikkei Environmental Technology Award power for 530 In March 2011, the Teijin Group successfully developed a new material, standard households. thermoplastic carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP), and established a We plan to sell all of mass-production technology to mold components such as automobile the generated power bodies in one minute. This technology was highly evaluated and received to Chugoku Electric the Award for Excellence in the 2012 Nikkei Environmental Technology Power Co., Inc. Image of the completed facility Awards (sponsored by Nippon Keizai Shimbun) in October 2012. In December 2012, a pilot plant for mass production of thermoplastic Matsuyama Factory Continues Power Supply EnviCFRP composite products* was constructed at the Teijin Limited ronment to Shikoku Electric Power Co., Inc. Matsuyama Factory. * Composite products: Products For almost three months from July 2 to September 28, 2012, the Teijin made combining different materials, such as fiber and Limited Matsuyama Factory (in Matsuyama, Ehime) supplied surplus resin, possessing characteristics electricity (2,000 to 3,000 kilowatts per hour) from its in-house power that cannot be acquired generation facility to Shikoku Electric Power Co., Inc., which had independently. expressed concerns about power shortages in the summer of 2012. Power is still being supplied as requested by Shikoku Electric Power, Awards ceremony and this is expected to continue through 2013. 17 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Infocom’s Emergency Contact/Safety Teijin Named to Multiple Socially Environment Society Confirmation System Receives Special ASPIC Society Responsible Investing Indexes Chairperson’s Award Teijin Limited was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Infocom Corporation’s Emergency Call ™ system received the Special Index (DJSI World), a global benchmark for socially responsible ASPIC Chairperson’s Award in the ASP-SaaS division of the ASP-SaaS investing (SRI), for the fourth consecutive year. Teijin Limited is the Cloud Awards 2012 sponsored by the non-profit organization, only Japanese company among the 11 firms in DJSI World’s ASP-SaaS-Cloud Consortium. Emergency Call™ is a service designed chemical sector. In total, 340 companies were selected for the 2012 to secure quick and reliable contact and safety confirmation through index (including 20 Japanese companies). Teijin Limited was also diverse communication means at the time of an emergency or included once again in the FTSE4Good Index and the Ethibel disaster. It has been adopted by over 600 organizations including Sustainability Index. large corporations and government offices. In FY2012, Teijin Limited was selected for inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the first time. The How Emergency Call ™ Works index examines approximately 5,000 companies worldwide (1) Emergency contact including 500 major Japanese companies. Companies are selected General notice of disaster sent General Office Notice notice sent Users for inclusion on the basis of their approach to climate change, which is evaluated from the viewpoints of disclosure and performance. Emergency Call™ Mobile phone, PHS, e-mail, phone, pager, fax, Inclusion in the index indicates excellence in disclosure of data satellite mobile phone related to climate change. A total of 22 Japanese companies were Office Information on safety Users send information Users named to the index and Teijin Limited was one of only two Japanese of users Confirm information on safety of users on own safety companies selected in the materials sector. (2) Safety confirmation The Gifu Factory of Teijin DuPont Films Receives Society Award for Excellence from Japanese Government The Gifu Factory of Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited received the 2012 Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare Award for Excellence presented to workplaces, organizations or individuals who have made outstanding contributions to safety and health. Winners of this award must have maintained a very high standard of safety and health over a long period, made significant contributions to Two Textile Group Companies in Thailand Society Receive Awards From Thai Government improving and developing the safety and health standards of a region, organization or related workplace, and be considered an In July 2012, Teijin Cord (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (TCT) received the exemplary model for others. National Occupation Safety and Health Award, the most prestigious safety award in Thailand, for the fifth consecutive year from the Thai government (Ministry of Labor). Joint Development of Flame-resistant Products Society Additionally, in November 2012, Teijin Polyester (Thailand) for HomeUse with Nitori Co., Ltd. Limited (TPL) received the Award for Excellence in Labor Relations Since August 2012, Teijin Limited and Nitori Co., Ltd. have been and Welfare for the 10th consecutive year, also from the Thai Ministry jointly promoting a project to develop new functional products. In of Labor. Of the 718 companies that received the award in FY2012, October 2012, the N-Guard Flame-resistant Series of bedding and TPL was one of only six companies which have received the award interior fiber products for ordinary residential use was developed as for 10 years in a row. the second product series in the project and products are being launched successively. In Japan, residential fires are caused by ignition of bedding in approximately 14% of cases (source: 2011 Firefighting White Paper). These products have been designed with the aim of contributing to the prevention of fires using a unique fiber structure that suppresses the spread of flames. N-Guard Conventional product Awards ceremony for the Awards ceremony for Award for Experiment performed National Occupation Safety and Excellence in Labor Relations by Nitori to compare Health Award and Welfare combustion 87 seconds after ignition TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 18 Vision and Strategy CSR Management 4.8 4.9 4.12 4.13 The Teijin Group has appointed a Chief Social Responsibility Officer under whose strong leadership we are implementing comprehensive group-wide CSR management. We classify various CSR issues into three fields, and have created a CSR management system that is appropriate to each respective field. CSR Basic Policy (2012–2015) 1. To recognize common value of business strategy and CSR management as a driving force toward sustainable development of the society 2. To contribute to Teijin’s achieving the global excellence as a global player, by obtaining and maintaining a global recognition as “CSR champion” in Teijin’s way. 3. To realize “co-existence with global environment” by actively promoting environmental management. 4. To help realize improvement of “Quality of Life,” by providing safe and reliable products and services. 5. To be recognized as a benchmark of Basic CSR activities such as compliance and risk management by their thorough implementation. 6. To build “Win-Win” relationships with stakeholders in and outside the Teijin Group by two-way dialogues and active involvement in their development and enhance their satisfaction. Chief Human Resources Officer and the General Manager of the Raw Features of Activities to Promote CSR Materials, Polymers & Procurement Division on “expansive” CSR issues. We consider CSR to be an important element of corporate Selective CSR management, and aim to promote CSR as an integral part of In “selective” CSR, companies conduct voluntary activities management. We have created the new post of Chief Social irrespective of legal obligations. The Teijin Group is proactively Responsibility Officer to act as proxy for the Chief Executive Officer engaged in this field and is strongly committed to various social (CEO) in managing all CSR-related affairs and we are promoting contribution activities. activities under the strong leadership being shown. To implement the Teijin Group’s CSR management in a unified, efficient manner, various CSR issues are classified into three fields, The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid “basic,” “expansive” and “selective.” A main division/organization in charge is specified for each field, and starting with planning for the mediumto long-term and single fiscal years, we implement the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) approach. Selective CSR Social contribution activities Basic CSR The Teijin Group’s “basic” CSR is directly controlled and supervised by the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. While observing laws and international standards, we are striving to reach a level beyond these standards. Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Expansive CSR In this field, human resources/labor is directly controlled and supervised by the Chief Human Resources Officer, and Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; purchasing/procurement to meet supply chain needs by the Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, General Manager of the Raw Materials, Polymers & Procurement and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Division. As of recently, in order to respond to advancing social needs, the Chief Social Responsibility Officer advises/supports the 19 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 The Teijin Group’s CSR Management System From April 1, 2013 Chief Social CSR and Compliance Responsibility Officer Department TRM Group Activities relating to operational risk management (ORM) and compliance. Activities relating to environmental preservation, safety/disaster prevention, and occupational safety ESH Group and hygiene. Compliance Group Activities relating to product liability/quality assurance and secure export control. Environmental management (including Design for Environment), corporate ethics activities, and CSR Group reporting and consultation center operations With the CSR Group as its secretariat, the subcommittee consists of representatives of Group CSR Committee Group CSR Promotion Subcommittee business units and the New Business Development Group and representatives from related divisions (human resources, materials/distribution, raw materials and polymers, corporate communications, marketing, management auditing, and environment, safety and health). With the CSR Group as its secretariat, the subcommittee consists of representatives of business Committee members Group Environmental Management units and the New Business Development Group and representatives from related divisions Chief Science and Technology Officer Promotion Subcommittee (marketing, environment, safety and health, technology strategy, intellectual property, corporate Chief Marketing Officer communications, engineering, materials/distribution, and raw materials and polymers). Chief Human Resources Officer With the ESH Group as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in charge of Assistant to the Chief Social Responsibility Group ESH Subcommittee environment, safety and health activities for each business group or business unit, and Officer (in charge of disaster prevention) integrates, manages/operates the relevant activities. General Manager, Raw Materials, Polymers & Procurement Division With the TRM Group as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in charge of General Manager, Engineering Division Group Compliance and Risk Management Subcommittee compliance and risk management for each business group or business unit, and integrates, Business Group General Managers manages/operates the relevant activities. New Business Development Group General Manager With the Compliance Group as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in Corporate Communications Office General Group Product Liability/ Quality Assurance Subcommittee charge of product liability/quality assurance activities for each business group or business Manager unit, and integrates, manages/operates the relevant activities. Legal Affairs Office General Manager Management Anditing office General With the Compliance Group as its secretariat, this conference raises awareness of issues Manager Group Secure Export Control Conference relating to secure export control at the applicable business group or business units and General Manager in Charge of Investor Relations manages/operates the relevant activities. of the Finance/Investor Relations Office The Teijin Group has made changes to its organizational system as of April 1, 2013. assurance system, and promoting environmental management. Role of the Teijin Group CSR Committee Under the Group CSR Committee, there are six subcommittees or conferences. Four of these subcommittees discuss and address The Teijin Group has established the Group CSR Committee to discuss “basic” CSR issues, a focus of the Teijin Group. “Expansive” and and take action on key issues and initiatives relating to group-wide “selective” CSR issues are discussed and addressed by the Group CSR CSR. The Committee meets twice a year: in FY2012, meetings were Promotion Subcommittee consisting of representatives from the held in May and October. The main agenda included serious risk and related divisions of Teijin Limited and representatives of business countermeasures, disaster prevention and occupational safety units and the New Business Development Group. measures, enhancing operations of the product liability/quality PDCA Approach to CSR Activities • Long-term policies: • Teijin Group programs: Corporate philosophy, Corporate Code of As part of short-term plans, each division implements measures Conduct, Corporate Standards of Conduct relating to environmental protection, safety/disaster prevention, • Environmental policy: Plan Do product liability/quality assurance, compliance, risk management, Midand long-term environmental targets human resources/labor, purchasing/procurement, and social • Action plans: contributions. Midand short-term CSR action plans • Business group programs: Implement respective plans at individual companies. • Self-check by CSR-related division of the Teijin Group (included in the CSR Report) (see pages 23–26) • Chief Social Responsibility Officer specifies next • Self-check by business groups year’s challenges Act Check • Assurance by an assurance provider • Report to the Group CSR Committee • Chief Social Responsibility Officer review (see page 29) • Assessment and guidance by four external experts (see pages 61–62) • SRI assessment TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 20 Vision and Strategy CSR Management Start of Standards to Promote Understanding of ISO 26000 – Utilization in Self-checks of CSR Activities The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact One of the items in the Teijin Group’s CSR Basic Policy is “To contribute Human Rights to Teijin’s achieving the global excellence as a global player, by Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human obtaining and maintaining a global recognition as “CSR champion” in rights; and Teijin’s way.” Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human As initiatives to realize this, in FY2011, we invited independent rights abuses. outside experts to the Group CSR Committee and educated Labour business group representatives about ISO 26000, international Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the standards for social responsibility. In FY2012, we checked Teijin right to collective bargaining; Group CSR activities against ISO 26000 core subjects/issues, and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and reconfirmed the current status of our activities (see page 63). compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and To make future improvements, we will identify new issues Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of through dialogues with stakeholders and experts, and at the same employment and occupation. time, we will promote greater awareness of employees through Environment education/training and the internal newsletter. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Participation in the Global Compact environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Teijin Limited joined the UN Global Compact* in March 2011. Anti-Corruption Participation in this global initiative for sustainable development is Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. voluntary. Participating companies are required to follow the 10 basic principles of the Global Compact relating to “the protection of human rights,” “the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor,” “initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility,” and “anti-corruption.” As a global company, in order to practically implement high-quality CSR management, in FY2011, the Teijin Group reviewed its Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate Standards of Conduct based on the principles of the UN Global Compact. In addition, in terms of business activities, we clarified policies to practically implement the basic principles such as respecting human rights. In FY2012, through the internal newsletter and the Corporate Ethics Month Campaign, we promoted greater understanding by employees of the UN Global Compact and the Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate Standards of Conduct. * UN Global Compact: A set of voluntary corporate-action principles proposed by the former Secretary General Kofi Annan during the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) held in January, 1999. Global Compact Japan Network meeting held at the NYK Hikawamaru 21 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Looking Back at FY2012 CSR Activities In FY2012, we made steady progress in a wide range of CSR also occurred that require serious reflection. At chemical activities in areas such as compliance, risk management plants of overseas subsidiaries, two accidents occurred, which (operational risk management [ORM]), ESH, product although small-scale, involved leakage of chemical substances. liability/quality assurance and social contributions. Fortunately, there was no effect on the environment, but we The following focuses on advances made in regrettably caused much concern among local residents. As a strengthening ORM and enhancing product liability/quality chemical company, the Teijin Group regularly focuses on assurance activities. measures to prevent explosions, fires, leakages of hazardous substances and workplace accidents such as rotor accidents, 1) Strengthening ORM but we will seek to raise our activities to an even higher level From FY2012, with the aims of quantifying and visualizing risk, in the future. we used a new risk classification chart to comprehensively In FY2013, in line with group-wide structural reforms, we identify various risks relating to operational management, and changed the organizational system for CSR functions from a created a “risk map.” Moreover, from within this risk map, we three-office system (Risk Management Office, ESH Office and identified/evaluated serious risks that need to be addressed CSR Planning Office) to a system of one department and four and, together with businesses, we promoted countermeasures groups (CSR and Compliance Department, and TRM Group, for serious risks, such as making improvements to business ESH Group, Compliance Group and CSR Group), and we are continuity plans (BCPs) to ensure their effectiveness as a expanding CSR activities under this new system which has a measure to counter the risk of a large earthquake. clearer division of roles. As the Chief Social Responsibility Officer, I will work to 2) Enhancing product liability/quality assurance activities steer a forward course for the CSR management of the Teijin In FY2012, with the aim of ensuring the full functioning of Group and I look forward to the guidance and support of all quality assurance systems of businesses that have products stakeholders. with high risk related to people’s safety, we confirmed the implementation status of recurrence measures for past serious product claims and shared information on current issues group-wide. This was implemented through the Group CSR Committee, the Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee and product liability/quality assurance audits. Osamu Nishikawa Continuing on, we will review the standards/regulations and Senior Executive Officer, system/mechanisms of product liability/quality assurance. Representative Director of the Board, Chief Social Responsibility Officer While advances such as these have been made, accidents Teijin Limited TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 22 Vision and Strategy FY2012 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations The Teijin Group organizes CSR issues into three categories; Basic, Expansive and Selective. We set mid-/long-term and fiscal-year goals for each area and self-evaluate achievements to reflect them in the goals for the next fiscal year. CSR issues Midand long-term goals FY2012 goals Enhance corporate governance and ensure compliance with laws Respond appropriately to reorganization of the Teijin Group and group Corporate governance and regulations. companies and reinforce/improve governance further. Keep careful track of social demands and use the knowledge Identify issues through continuing to hold stakeholder dialogues (at least once gained to enhance management. a year). CSR general Instill and enhance CSR activities by applying CSR performance indicators. Apply CSR performance indicators to all core companies (100%). Promote common CSR education. Promote understanding of ISO 26000. Publish the 4th edition of the Corporate Ethics Handbook in July 2012. Promote corporate ethics/compliance education activities. Have all Teijin Group employees participate in the Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees. Corporate ethics/Compliance Hold global compliance meetings organized by Teijin Limited (at least two locations a year). Continue to promote use of the consulting and reporting center in the Teijin Operate the consulting and reporting center. Group. Basic CSR Promote risk management using the risk countermeasures sheet (achieve submission rate of the risk countermeasures sheet of at least 90% in Japan and at least 50% overseas). Increase recognition and enhance risk management activities. Risk management Continue to implement earthquake drills (in Japan, conduct EMC reporting drills at all group companies and evacuation drills at all business sites twice a year). Create and improve BCPs. Expand BCPs to directly managed companies. Continue to implement measures for enhanced operation. Product liability/ Secure globally high level of effectiveness. Quality assurance Continue secure export control operations. Promote work–life balance measures. Enhance our various systems and increase users. Promote work–life balance as a platform to “accelerate globalization and diversity” as part of the reform of the human resources portfolio in the mediumto long-term management vision “CHANGE for 2016.” Expand definition and awareness of work–life balance. Increase the ratio of career-oriented female employees. • Maintain the hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates at 30% or more. Human resources/ Labor Promote diversity. Increase the ratio of female employees in managerial positions. Expansive CSR Promote greater awareness about diversity. Expand the training locations of group-wide leadership training program, Establish global human resources management. EaGLES, and increase the number of employees taking the course. Instill the Teijin way at all group companies and promote recruitment of global human resources. Increase the number of overseas employees selected for the core human resources training program. Evaluate the CSR performance of suppliers through surveys and provide improvement guidance. Purchasing/ Formalize and enhance activities for CSR procurement. Procurement Expand cooperation with other companies in CSR procurement activities. Work towards full-scale CSR procurement activities in China. Continue to spend at least 1% of current profits on donations converted to a monetary value. Selective Manage group-wide donations (monetary and other) and Social contributions support volunteer activities of employees. CSR Expand the volunteer support program. 23 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Social contribution activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate SelfFY2012 performance and results evaluation FY2013 challenges Reference page(s) Upgraded governance systems with respect to company and group A P27 reorganization. Review corporate governance periodically. A Identify issues through continuing to hold stakeholder dialogues (at least P7–12 Held a dialogue at Teijin Aramid B.V. once a year). Not necessary to instill individual CSR performance indicators because of C — P19–22 group company integration and structural reorganization. Improved understanding of Teijin Group activities in relation to ISO 26000 B Instill and enhance CSR activities through employee training and the internal P19–22 core subjects. newsletter. Published revised version of the Corporate Ethics Handbook in July 2012 A P29–30 (4th edition). Revise versions of the Corporate Ethics Handbook for China and the US. Participation rate in the Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees: Japan: 91%. A Have all Teijin Group employees participate in the Corporate Ethics P30 Overseas: 50%. Workshop for All Employees. Held a global compliance meeting in China in January. B Hold global compliance meetings (at least two locations a year). P29 Japan: Responded to 40 cases of reporting/consultation and continued total disclosure of operating status within the group. B P30 Overseas: Made preparations to set-up Customers’ Reporting Desk on Set-up Customers’ Reporting Desk on global website (English). global website (English). With the aim of refining risk assessment, created a new risk countermeasures sheet and used it to promote risk management A P30 (submission rate of new risk countermeasures sheet of 85% in Japan and Formalize risk management using the new risk countermeasures sheet. 63% overseas). At all group companies in Japan, implemented EMC reporting drills and Continue to implement earthquake drills (in Japan, implement EMC A reporting drills at all group companies and evacuations drills at all P30 evacuation drills twice in the year. business sites twice a year). Lateral expansion of BCPs to directly managed companies. B Continue to expand BCPs to directly managed companies. P30 Review and formalize simulated earthquake damage. Discussed system maintenance after organizational reforms. A P31–32 Continued to hold group product liability/quality assurance training. Continue to implement measures for enhanced operation. Held a group secure export control conference in September and shared A P32 information on law amendments and trading performance within the group. Continue secure export control operations. Created handbook for female employees relating to issues before and A P35 after maternity leave/pregnancy. Review systems (operations) with a view to enhancing work–life balance and motivation and increase users. Surveyed work-at-home system users (22 responses; response rate of 71%). A • Childcare part-time work system. P35 • Work-at-home system. The number of work-at-home system registrants was 33 (including 5 men). A • Childcare leave system. P35 • Nursing care leave system. The number of employees taking childcare leave was 187 (including 33 men). B P36 Expand definition and increase awareness of work–life balance. Raised awareness and introduced systems through level-based workshops A • Hold awareness-raising seminars on successfully combining work and P35 (e.g., new recruits, newly assigned section/department managers). family care. • Workshops on work–life balance systems targeting newly assigned managers. Accelerate female career development. The ratio of career-oriented female employees was 17%. • Maintain the hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates at A 30% or more. P35 The hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates was 31%. • Take positive action in the pharmaceutical sales division (career development support for female MRs). The ratio of female employees in managerial positions was 3.8%. A Increase the ratio of female employees in managerial positions. P35 A total of 44 participants took part in the 1st/2nd female leadership trainings. A Continue to hold female leadership training. P35 Raised awareness through internal-use diversity handbook called “together” B P34 (published annually) and the internal newsletter (published six times a year). Promote greater awareness about diversity. • Publish internal-use diversity handbook called “together.” Surveyed department managers regarding promotion of diversity (71 A • Post articles in the internal newsletter. P34 responses; response rate of 56%). Secure, discover and develop outstanding human resources in an open manner. Held EaGLES training in four regions (EU, USA, China and Japan). The A • Enhance global recruitment competitiveness. P34 number of participating companies increased in EU, USA and China (by • Maintain infrastructure for optimum assignment and utilization of human one company in the EU, and two each in the USA and China). resources. • Continue/Expand EaGLES. The number of overseas employees selected was 21 (out of a total of 212). A Follow-up on selected overseas human resources. P33 Evaluate the CSR performance of suppliers through surveys and provide The number of major suppliers evaluated was 511 companies. A guidance for improvement. P37–38 Select and evaluate/rate main suppliers: 500 companies or more. Started cooperation with Asahi Kasei Corp. in CSR procurement activities. (Toray Industries, Inc. & Teijin Limited Toray Industries, Inc., Teijin Limited A Expand cooperation with other companies in CSR procurement activities. P37–38 and Asahi Kasei Corp.). • Raised awareness of CSR procurement policy and activities in China. B P37–38 Work towards full-scale CSR procurement activities in China. • Conducted a trial CSR supplier survey on Chinese suppliers of the Teijin Group. Spending on social contribution activities totaled 1.0 billion yen (10% of current profits). A Continue to spend at least 1% of current profits on donations converted to a monetary value. P39 Donated 100,000 yen each to four volunteer organizations that employees A P40 Expand the volunteer support program. participate in. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 24 Vision and FY2012 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations Strategy CSR issues Midand long-term goals FY2012 goals Conduct ESH audits in Japan and overseas. Audit I: Conduct at 31 sites. Audit II: Conduct once a year at eight business groups, New Business Development Group and Raw Materials and Polymer Division. Audit III: Conduct once a year at eight business groups, New Business Development Group, Raw Materials and Polymer Division and three directly ESH general Enhance ESH management. managed companies. Hold ESH training in Japan and overseas. Japan: At least once a year. Overseas: At least once every two years. Hold an ESH compliance internal auditor training course (at least once a year). Newly establish the Teijin Group Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee and review the overall system to promote environmental Environmental Actively promote environmental management aiming to coexist management activities. management with the global environment. Calculate avoided CO2 emissions using the c-LCA method. Group-wide: Achieve a CO2 emissions*1 reduction ratio*2 of 1% Group-wide: Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per year or more per year (compared to the level in the base year (overseas targets are integrated into group-wide targets). FY2011). Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 20% or more compared to Efforts to by FY2020. the FY1990 level by FY2020. prevent global warming Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount by 1% Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount by 1% or more or more compared to the previous year’s level. compared to the previous year’s level. Reduce chemical substance*3 emissions by 80% or more Managing/ Maintain proper management of the group-wide chemical substance emissions. compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. EnvironReducing ment chemical Adopt LIME2, the second version of the Life Cycle Impact substance Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling (LIME) Continue to promote chemical substance reduction through use of LIME2. emissions developed in Japan and focus on reducing chemical substances that have a large environmental impact. Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use*4” by 85% or Basic CSR more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Group-wide: Achieve zero emissions*5 at all major business sites Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more compared in Japan and overseas. Waste to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Japan: Excluding coal ash and similar waste, endeavor to reduce reduction Japan: Reduce the total waste generated per unit of production amount by the amount of waste generated, and achieve zero emissions*5 1% compared to the preceding fiscal year. for group companies in Japan. Japan: Reduce the total waste generated per unit of production amount by 1% compared to the preceding fiscal year. Design for Design products/services with less environmental impact. Instill the Design for Environment concept both internally and externally. Environment Environmental As sustainable solution proposals, strive to increase the Develop technologies and promote products to realize advanced materials business widespread use of environmentally friendly products, contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions and recycling of resources technologies and systems. and water. Enhance disaster prevention management. Achieve zero serious accidents. Disaster prevention Implement disaster prevention assessment at one plant and mini disaster prevention assessment at six plants. Take measures for 19 buildings under a 2006 revision of the Take measures for 18 remaining buildings under a 2006 revision of the Promotion of Building Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law. Promotion of Building Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law. Maintain the lost time injury frequency rates at under 0.25. Maintain the annual lost time injury frequency rates at under 0.3. Enhance recognition of the three major occupational accident prevention guidelines. Occupational Safety Diagnose stress levels at all workplaces and continue activities to improve and Health workplace environments. Strengthen measures for early prevention through creating an easily approachable counseling environment and increased interview opportunities. Enhance the individual counselling system to promote healthy minds and bodies. *1 CO2 emissions include methane and N2O emissions. *2 CO2 emissions reduction ratio: Reduction ratio of absolute CO2 emissions when setting FY2011 as the base year (previously, this was described as CO2 emissions per unit of production amount). *3 Chemical substances: 462 chemical substances listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the Chemical Substances Management Law (Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management) revised in April 2010, and 433 substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. Excluding duplicated listings, there are 575 specified chemical substances. 25 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Social contribution activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate SelfFY2012 performance and results evaluation FY2013 challenges Reference page(s) Conduct ESH audits in Japan and overseas. Conduct ESH audits in Japan and overseas. Audit I: Conduct at 29 sites. Audit I: Conduct at 31 sites. Audit II: Conducted at five business groups, New Business Development Audit II: Conduct once a year at five business groups, New Business Group, Raw Materials and Polymer Division and three directly managed B P41–42 Development Group and Raw Materials and Polymer Department. companies. Audit III: Conduct once a year at five business groups, New Business Audit III: Conducted at five business groups, New Business Development Development Group, Raw Materials and Polymer Business Department Group, Raw Materials and Polymer Division and three directly managed and three directly managed companies. companies. Hold ESH training in Japan and overseas. Japan: Held training at the Osaka head office (July). A Japan: At least once a year. P41 Overseas: Held mini-workshops (one each in Singapore and Thailand). Overseas: At least once every two years. Held training courses at the Osaka head office (January) and Matsuyama A P42 Hold an ESH compliance internal auditor training course (at least once a year). Factory (February). Started Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee and held B P43 Review mid-term targets (environmental management indicators). meetings (twice). Held LCA training (six times) and reviewed the framework for future B P43 Increase the number of LCA-evaluated products and formulate guidelines. implementation. Group-wide: Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per Group-wide: 9% reduction compared to the FY2011 level. A year (compared to the level in the base year FY2011). P45–46 Japan: 51.1% reduction compared to the FY1990 level. Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level by FY2020. Promote measures such as further expansion of modal shift initiatives, improved loading efficiency through batch transportation and reduced CO2 emissions per unit of transportation were 0.58% worse than in C number of shipments. P46 FY2011. From April 2013, through a joint initiative with a leading logistics company, start transportation using a roll-on roll-off vessel for product shipments from the Matsuyama Factory to the Kanto district. 69% reduction in chemical substance emissions compared to the C Promote the reduction of total chemical substance emissions geared P47 FY1998 level. towards achieving midto long-term targets. • Indicated priority reduction substances by business and implemented Continue to promote chemical substance reduction through use of LIME2. follow-ups. A Start reviewing factors causing environmental impact other than chemical P47–48 • Reported progress to the LCA Japan Forum. substances. Group-wide: Reduced “waste with no effective use” by 92% compared to Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more the FY1998 level. A compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. P49 Japan: Improved the total waste generated per unit of production Japan: Reduce the total waste generated per unit of production amount amount by 6% compared to the FY2011 level. by 1% compared to the preceding fiscal year. Received first application for approval from overseas. C Review measures to promote Design for Environment (e.g., review guidelines). P52 Promoted widespread use of carbon fiber and resin in the transportation field. Expanded ECO CIRCLE® in China. Develop technologies and promote products to realize advanced P13–16, Promoted the spread of renewable-energy-related products. B materials contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions and recycling of Expanded wastewater treatment business in Japan and overseas. resources and water. 53–54 Promoted the spread of energy-efficiency-related products. Achieved zero serious accidents through accident prevention activities A Promote measures to prevent explosions, fires and leakages of chemical P55 and sharing of information. substances and maintain zero serious (level A) accidents. Adopted new measures such as earthquake resistance for facilities and A P55–56 Systemize facility earthquake-resistance assessments/countermeasures. implemented as planned. Formulated plan to take measures for all 18 remaining buildings. B Complete measures for all of the 18 remaining buildings by the end of FY2014. P56 The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.30. C Maintain the lost time injury frequency rates at under 0.25. P57 Worked to enhance recognition through raising awareness of guidelines and explaining an outline at audits and each workshop. A Prevent accidents caused by rotors and damage to health caused by P57–58 As a measure to prevent occupational accidents, created a check sheet chemical substances. based on the guidelines. The number of workplaces where stress levels were diagnosed: 796. Coordinate with human resource managers to implement assertive/active Of the above, the number of workplaces needing improvement: 63. B activities as preventative measures for mental health (hold regular meetings P58 The number of workplaces currently subject to improvement activities: 59. with employees with high workload; i.e., those who do many hours of (There are four workplaces being handled independently.) overtime, or those who have recently been transferred or promoted). Set-up consultation center in the Health Care Administration Office. * Support provided by clinical psychotherapists, counselors and public health nurses. A Improve training, education and awareness-raising activities centered on P58 Enhanced consultation center response with regard to external employee preventive measures for mental health. assistance program (EAP). * Started consultation visits to sites throughout Japan. *4 Waste with no effective use: Waste that is simply incinerated or put directly into landfill. *5 Zero emissions: Reducing the ratio of “waste with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste generated. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 26 Vision and Strategy Corporate Governance 4.1 4.2 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.10 The Teijin Group positions corporate governance as an essential element in realizing sustainable improvements in shareholder value and fulfilling our responsibility to stakeholders including employees, customers, the local community and residents, and we are implementing measures to strengthen corporate governance. History of Corporate Governance Improvements Business Activities that Reflect the Advice/ Suggestions of the Advisory Board In 1999, the Teijin Group began a series of groundbreaking In June 1999, Teijin Limited established the Advisory Board to further increase management reforms with the aim of achieving corporate the level of management transparency. Since that time, the Advisory governance that is built on fairness, transparency, quick Board has fulfilled its role as an advisory body for the Board of Directors. decision-making, and ensuring objectivity. These reforms include establishing the Advisory Board, reducing the number of directors, Advisory Board Functions as the Nominating and Compensation Committee introducing a corporate officers’ system and establishing a Teijin Limited’s Advisory Board consists of five to seven outside compensation system for directors in accordance with consolidated advisors (including two to three non-Japanese) who satisfy the return on assets (ROA). prerequisites required of independent outside directors, the Further evidence of our progressive actions was our pioneering chairperson (counselor in the case that the chairperson is absent) release of the Corporate Governance Guide 2003, guidelines that and the CEO. Pluralistic and objective judgments are possible integrated the Teijin Group’s corporate governance and the through the eyes of members from Japan and overseas and from supporting areas of compliance and risk management. In response both inside and outside the company. to changes in social and legal circumstances, we have continued to The Advisory Board has functions including to give advice and revise these guidelines to reflect content such as an increased make suggestions regarding overall management, deliberate a number of independent outside directors. These guidelines are now change of CEO and nomination of successor (nominating published as the Teijin Group Corporate Governance Guide. committee function) and to give advice and make suggestions It is our practice to adopt corporate governance systems regarding compensation and evaluation of Teijin Group directors considered most appropriate to achieve our goals at that point in (compensation committee function). Regular meetings are held time. At present, we have judged that the best system of twice a year (once in Japan and once overseas). In FY2012, meetings governance as a company with auditors is the following. First, the were held overseas in May and in Japan in November. function of monitoring and supervising management fulfilled by a board of directors including independent outside directors, a Members of the Advisory Board As of the end of March 2013 corporate officer system and a board of corporate auditors system including independent outside corporate auditors, and second, the Mr. Toru Nagashima (Chairperson) function of a nominating and compensation committee fulfilled by Chairman of the Board, Teijin Limited Mr. John W. Himes Former Senior Vice President, DuPont an advisory board. Lord Leon Brittan Vice Chairman, UBS Investment Bank As another measure based on our basic approach to corporate Mr. Hajime Sawabe Executive Advisor, TDK Corporation governance, in FY2012, we implemented organizational reforms of Mr. Yutaka Iimura Special Envoy of the Government of Japan for the Middle East and Europe the Teijin Group and group companies (see the Message from the Mr. Nobuo Seki Former President/Chairman, Chiyoda Corporation President on page 3). Mr. Kenichiro Senoh President & Chairperson, The Industry–Academic Collaboration Initiative (NPO) Mr. Shigeo Ohyagi President and CEO, Teijin Limited Example of Advisory Board Deliberation Items Meeting Venue Agenda Date region Report on previous fiscal year performance Report on business plan for the new fiscal year Report on mediumto long-term plan May Evaluation of CEO performance for the Overseas 14, 2012 previous fiscal year and discussion of the bonus amount Deliberation on CEO’s targets for the new fiscal year First-half performance report November Japan Report on prospects for the second half 16, 2012 Successor plan 27 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Teijin Group’s Corporate Governance System Governance System Board of Advisory Board Board of Directors Corporate Auditors (Function of Nomination and (10 members [4 external]) Compensation Committee) (5 members [3 external]) Majority of members are external Committee of Teijin Group TRM Committee Corporate Auditors CEO Group Strategy Committee Group Management Committee (Functional Coordinators, Business Group General Managers) Advanced Electric Materials & Fibers & Performance Healthcare Products Converting IT New Business Composites Polymer Products Business Group Business Group Business Group Development Group Business Group Business Group Four of the 10 directors are independent individuals appointed Internal Control from outside the Group. To separate responsibilities for monitoring/supervision and those for internal operations, the Teijin The internal control system was established and is operated and Limited Chairman of the Board (counselor or outside director in the improved according to annual decisions made by the Board of case that the chairman in absent) is not involved as a corporate officer. Directors regarding its functioning. The Board of Corporate Auditors consists of five members and is An internal control report is also submitted every year. In in charge of overseeing and auditing management. The majority accordance with the Financial Investments & Exchange Act, this (three) of the Corporate Auditors are independent and appointed report includes the opinions of an accounting auditor regarding from outside the Group to ensure outward transparency in system maintenance/operating status and helps to ensure the management. Additionally, we have established the Committee of reliability of financial reporting. Teijin Group Corporate Auditors (which meets once every two In addition, an internal auditing body under the direct control of months) consisting of auditors of Teijin Limited and core group the CEO has been established in order to increase the effectiveness companies and other members. Through sharing of group auditing of our internal control activities. policy and auditing information, this board, which integrates management of the group, seeks to increase the effectiveness of group-wide monitoring/auditing and maintain a fair auditing system. Separation and Strengthening of Decision-making, Internal Operation and Monitoring/Supervision Roles Total Risk Management Our articles of incorporation limit the size of Teijin Limited’s Board of Directors to 10 members with the goal of realizing quick decision-making and clear accountability. We have also introduced a To protect itself from the uncertainty that it faces, the Teijin Group corporate officers’ system and delegated considerable authority and established the Total Risk Management (TRM) Committee under the responsibility to corporate officers. We have established the Group Board of Directors to manage risk in an integrated manner from Strategy Committee and Group Management Committee as bodies strategic and operating perspectives. deliberating on decision-making of the CEO to ensure quick and highly transparent decision-making processes in the presence of full-time auditors. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 28 Social Report Compliance and Compliance and Risk Management Promotion System SO2 Risk Management Under the Group CSR Committee chaired by the Chief Social Responsibility Officer, the Teijin Group has established the Group Compliance and Risk Management Subcommittee chaired by the General Manager of the Risk Management Office (General Manager Basic Stance of the CSR and Compliance Department as of April 1, 2013). We believe that compliance and risk management Subcommittee members include business group representatives are the two pillars of internal control. They form and back-office staff and meetings are held twice a year. the basis for sound corporate governance and are a focus of our CSR activities. We are working hard In Japan, at each group company, we have appointed a person to ensure that corporate ethics are followed closely in charge of promoting compliance/risk management who at all group companies and to implement business manages/operates activities at respective workplaces and attends continuity plans. training once a year. Overseas, each business group conducts its own independent training, and global compliance meetings organized by Teijin Positioning of Compliance and Risk Management Limited are held in main overseas regions every year. In FY2012, we had originally aimed to hold the meetings in two or more locations Corporate Governance every year, but in practice, one meeting was held in China (in A fair, transparent and objective management system January). As a substitute for additional meetings, we maintained close contact with bases in the USA and the EU through information exchanges. In FY2013, we will continue to strengthen coordination with overseas bases and work to revise each regional version of the Internal Control Corporate Ethics Handbook. Compliance Risk Management Results of Reviews by Chief Social SO2 SO4 Activities focusing on legal Mechanisms, systems and Responsibility Officer (Law Violations and ethical compliance, as well as on internal training for evaluating, preventing, and and Occurrence of Accidents) F Y2012 regulations, to create a controlling corporate risks sound corporate culture Since FY2003, every February, the Chief Social Responsibility Officer has reviewed the activities of the previous calendar year. This review assesses whether there were any serious violations of laws or accidents in this area, and confirms the compliance and risk Corporate Code of Conduct management activities of group companies and business groups on 8. Observe laws and customs In conducting its business activities, the Teijin Group observes the laws the basis of the compliance and risk management activity survey and customs of the country or the region in which it operates. The submitted. In FY2012, 47 of 49 group companies in Japan and 41 of Teijin Group also maintains upright and lawful relations with 69 companies overseas submitted a survey form. politicians and governments and avoids relations with any individual or organization that obstructs social order or its healthy operations. For major incidents and accidents in the group reported to the CEO and Chief Social Responsibility Officer during FY2012, there were no reports of serious accidents. However, there were two Reference information on website small-scale accidents involving leakage of chemical substances at plants of an overseas subsidiary. Neither accident had an effect on • PDCA Cycle of Compliance and Risk Management Activities the environment. • Group-wide Application of Corporate Ethics and Compliance Corporate Ethics and Compliance Web • Check Sheets to Survey All Employees at the Corporate Ethics Workshop Activities F Y2012 • Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey • TOPICS Revised Version of the Teijin Group Corporate Ethics Handbook Published • Information Security In FY2011, Teijin Limited reviewed the Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate Standards of Conduct to more clearly define our 29 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 approach to environmental management and our response to Overseas, in addition to accepting reports/consultation by international standards such as the UN Global Compact. In July 2012, employees at Teijin Holdings USA, Inc. and Teijin Aramid B.V., we we published the Japanese version of the Corporate Ethics have set-up a customers’ reporting desk on the Teijin Group global Handbook which reflected the results of this review. For overseas website (English) and started its operation in April 2013. Social Report versions, we plan to publish the version for China in July 2013, the version for the USA in December 2013 and versions for Risk Management Activities 4.11 EU/Thailand/Indonesia from 2014 onwards. F Y2012 Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees SO3 In FY2012, the Risk Management Office, newly established under the Teijin Group holds the Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees Chief Social Responsibility Officer, made changes to the risk every year targeting all executives and employees (including countermeasures sheet used to identify/evaluate risks in order to contract/temporary employees). refine the previous risk identification/evaluation method. The participation rate in FY2012 in Japan was 91%, the same The new risk countermeasures sheet is based on data on risks in rate as the previous fiscal year. Overseas, from FY2012, we started to the manufacturing industry and risks that have been apparent at the Environment, Safety calculate the participation rate and the result was 50%. Furthermore, Teijin Group in the past five years. A new risk classification chart has in FY2012, for teaching materials of the workshop for all employees, been created with 113 items (compared to 48 items in the previous we covered case studies of each item in the Corporate Standards of chart), and we used this chart to identify risks. Regarding risk and Health Report Conduct, and used our initiative to ensure that cases that could evaluation, we made changes to the standards for risk occurrence possibly occur at each workplace were studied. frequency and the amount of loss due to onset of risk in order to enable quantitative evaluations to a greater degree. Furthermore, we Counseling and Reporting Center Operations 4.4 asked for specific entry of risk countermeasures and we required The Teijin Group counseling and reporting system was launched for residual risk evaluation and countermeasures in relation to risk Japan in 1999 on the intranet and via a consultation center operated occurrence frequency, scale of loss and risk characteristics. through a contract with an external organization. Since 2006, a consultation link for business partners has been available on our website. Progress of BCPs and BCM 4.11 Economic Report This system is operated under the direction of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer. Reports/Consultations which could possibly F Y2012 become major risk issues are also reported to the Total Risk Teijin Group positions business continuity management (BCM) as an Management Committee (see page 28), and are handled by top important issue in risk management. management. While protecting privacy, the content and responses In Japan, after the results of a review of the simulated damage to all issues raised by employees via consultation/reports are of a large earthquake in Tokyo were made public, in FY2012, we summarized and disclosed to employees every six months on the started reviewing the business continuity plan (BCP) for core intranet for the purposes of raising employees’ awareness and as a management functions (top management functions under the preventative measure. In FY2012, there were 40 cases of CEO), and we are aiming to complete this review by FY2013. In reporting/consultation by employees and others outside the group; addition, we are gradually moving forward with development of this figure has been maintained between 40 and 50 over the past BCPs for each group company, and in FY2012, we promoted lateral several years, showing that the presence of the center is well expansion to directly managed companies excluding the six core recognized by employees. group companies, which have already formulated BCPs. As is the case every year, earthquake drills were conducted twice in FY2012. These drills were conducted at approximately 300 Content of Reports/Consultation From Employees/ sites and 12,375 people participated in the reporting drill utilizing a Those Outside the Group in FY2012 system to verify employees' safety in emergencies provided by Personal information handling Others Infocom Corporation in the Teijin Group . 2 cases 3 cases Overseas, three companies* in Thailand that sustained flood Sexual harassment Treatment, labor management, 3 cases employee benefits damage in October 2011 were completely restored as of October 31, 40 cases 11 cases 2012. We established a full-scale system to prepare for recurrence of Unfair practice at work, rule violations floods through measures to maintain floodwalls, reinforce drainage Abuse of authority 4 cases 10 cases pumps, install fixed-point observation bases for flood forecasting Personal relationship and develop a countermeasures manual. 7 cases * Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited, Teijin (Thailand) Limited and Teijin Cord (Thailand) Co., Ltd. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 30 Social Report Quality Assurance Teijin Group Management System The Teijin Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Regulations apply to all Teijin Group products and services and can be considered the base for our product safety and quality assurance activities. Based on these regulations, we are promoting product Basic Stance liability/quality assurance activities for our business groups through The Teijin Group conducts its product liability/quality basic policies and associated targets set by the Group CSR assurance activities under an original management Committee and the Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance system to enable quick responses to the diversifying social environment while ensuring provision of Subcommittee. safe products to our customers. We have also created a product liability/quality assurance unit system for the product range of each business group. This quality assurance management system, which is unique to the Teijin Group, Corporate Code of Conduct aims to enhance customer satisfaction, prevent product defects, and 1. Respect human life and give due consideration to safety and ensure appropriate responses in the event of that defects occur. The health concerns system not only covers the whole scope of the ISO standards for The Teijin Group has respect for human life and strives to maintain quality management systems but also incorporates perspectives of people´s safety and health at all stages of its business activities. product liability/quality assurance such as the response to 5. Respect stakeholders customers and product safety. In conducting its operations, the Teijin Group respects the interests of its stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, Based on creation/operation of this unique management suppliers, local community residents and others, and strives to engage system, the Teijin Group is establishing an integrated quality in dialogue with them. In addition, with the exception of trade secrets management and quality assurance system. and other confidential information, the Teijin Group is committed to disclosing publicly, in an appropriate manner, any information that is both related to its operations and important to society. Implementation of Product Liability/ PR1 8. Observe laws and customs In conducting its business activities, the Teijin Group observes the laws Quality Assurance Audits F Y2012 and customs of the country or the region in which it operates. The In the Teijin Group, product liability/quality assurance activities are Teijin Group also maintains upright and lawful relations with politicians and governments and avoids relations with any individual conducted as the responsibility of each respective product or organization that obstructs social order or its healthy operations. liability/quality assurance unit (nine business groups and six directly managed companies as of March 2012). The CSR and Compliance Department, which is in charge of supervising group-wide quality, Reference information on website audits these activities and checks that quality assurance Web • Examples of Efforts to Ensure Customer Satisfaction mechanisms are operating appropriately. In FY2012, we continued our regular audits of each product liability/quality assurance unit, and conducted special audits of specified units with the objective of preventing recurrence of claims. Based on feedback of audit results, we are aiming to continually enhance the quality assurance system and process. 31 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Group-wide Product Liability/Quality Assurance System From April 1, 2013 CEO Chief Social Responsibility Officer Social Report CSR and Business Group (Unit) General Manager Compliance Department Business Group CSR Committee Group CSR Committee Business Group (Unit) Product Liability/ Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee Business Group Product Liability/Quality Assurance Committee Chairperson (CSR and Compliance Department Manager), Deputy Chairperson (Compliance Group Manager) Chairperson (Administrator), Deputy Chairperson, Business group representative members (administrators), Committee members, Secretariat back-office staff members Secretariat: Compliance Group Quality Assurance System Manager Manager Product liability/quality assurance unit system Product liability/quality assurance unit system Environment, Safety and Health Report that the training was a chance to learn useful skills applicable to Measures to Enhance Operations PR1 their role as product liability/quality assurance managers in the F Y2012 context of the Teijin Group’s global expansion. Enhance Operations of Product Liability/Quality Assurance Assessments We are continuing to implement product liability/quality assurance Continuing Operation of and Strengthening 4.11 assessments to examine safety/reliability in terms of R&D of new the Secure Export Control System F Y2012 Economic Report products and at the time of changes to 4M.*1 To ensure that assessments are conducted in a fair and objective manner, documents For the Teijin Group, whose business is expanding globally, that show evidence of safety and reliability are important. With the compliance with laws and a fully functioning secure export control cooperation of each product liability/quality assurance unit and the system are vitally important. In light of this, we have established the CSR and Compliance Department, we are working to incorporate Group Secure Export Control Regulations governing the product liability/quality assurance assessments and enable the corresponding Secure Export Control Regulations and Detailed documents showing the required evidence to be presented. Implementation Rules, which apply to each group company that *1 4M: Stands for man, machine, material and method, which are management conducts exports. We implement this via a dual-level control system, resources affecting quality. placing specialist back-office staff at the head office and business Conduct Thorough Product Liability/Quality Assurance Education groups to ensure a highly reliable level of secure export control. Once again in FY2012, we held group product liability/quality The laws that must be complied with in secure export control assurance training for newly appointed administrators and managers are frequently revised, so an important factor in training activities is on July 27. A total of 35 trainees deepened their understanding of to ensure high levels of awareness and thoroughness in regard to management systems and rules, and learned about implementing the latest information. In this regard, we conduct regular training product liability/quality assurance audits/assessments. and make sure that back-office staff at head office quickly pass on In addition, with the goal of increasing understanding of the the latest information they receive to business groups. In FY2012, risks involved in global expansion, we invited guest lecturers from business group committee members gathered in September for the outside the group to the Group Secure Export Control Conference. Laws and regulations that training to talk about were revised between 2011 and 2012 were reconfirmed, and “Product liability/quality information regarding trading performance in the group was shared assurance risks facing while also clarifying precautions for secure export control. companies” and “Product In addition, in FY2012, despite the major organizational reforms liability in the USA and in which group companies were integrated into Teijin Limited, we around the world.” Many were able to realize a smooth transition through regulationand participants commented Group product liability/quality assurance training system-related adjustments. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 32 Social Report Human Resources Management Teijin Group Human Resources Policy and Labor CSR The Teijin Group established the Teijin Group Basic Human Resources Policy in 2003. As the objective of human resources management, we are aiming to improve employees’ quality of life under our corporate philosophy of “Empowering Our People.” Basic Stance As a basic human resources policy, the Teijin Group aims to improve employees’ quality of life under our Increase the Number of Overseas LA11 corporate philosophy of “Empowering Our People.” Employees Selected for the Core As part of this management, which is being carried out from group-wide and global perspectives, we are Human Resources Training Programs F Y2012 pushing ahead with group-wide measures to secure The following programs are designed to develop core human employment, promote diversity and realize work–life resources who will forge the future of the Teijin Group. In FY2012, balance while considering the sense of value of all setting a goal to increase the number of overseas employees group employees, and aiming for a smooth handover of technologies and skills to the next generation. selected for these programs, we selected 21 overseas employees, 10 more than the FY2011 figure of 11. 1) STRETCH I, II Corporate Code of Conduct The Strategic Executive Team Challenge (STRETCH) I and II are 1. Respect human life and give due consideration to safety and health concerns group-wide core human resources development programs used to The Teijin Group has respect for human life and strives to maintain develop human resources who can work actively on the global people´s safety and health at all stages of its business activities. stage. The programs target employees at all group companies 5. Respect stakeholders including overseas. In conducting its operations, the Teijin Group respects the interests of In FY2012, 17 employees took part in STRETCH I, a program for its stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, local community residents and others, and strives to engage department manager level employees, and 33 employees took part in dialogue with them. In addition, with the exception of trade secrets in STRETCH II, a program for the section manager level employees. and other confidential information, the Teijin Group is committed to disclosing publicly, in an appropriate manner, any information that is both related to its operations and important to society. 2) SLP 6. Protect human rights The Strategic Leader Development Program (SLP), aimed at employees The Teijin Group respects the human rights of its employees and all in mid-level positions, seeks to foster candidates for core human other people involved in its business activities and does not allow resources. In FY2012, 99 employees participated in the program. In child or forced labor. With respect to these policies, the Teijin Group the future, we plan to expand the program to overseas employees. strives to obtain the positive understanding and cooperation of concerned parties in the value chain in which it is involved. 7. Respect the personality and individuality of employees Global Management of Human LA11 The Teijin Group respects the personality and individuality of its employees and accepts their diversity including nationality, gender, Resources F Y2012 religion and attributes. The Teijin Group also secures safe and comfortable working environments, while encouraging its employees In 2009, we established the Global Human Resources Office in the to realize an affordable and fulfilling lifestyle. Human Resources Division to facilitate creation of personnel management and appointment systems to aid Teijin Group employees to be active on a global basis. Reference information on website One specific example of this is the group-wide leader training • Mediumto Long-term Personnel Plan program, EaGLES, which started in FY2011 and has expanded to five • Teijin Group Basic Human Resources Policy regions worldwide. • Human Resources Development Additionally, since FY2011, we have been sending new recruits Web • Job Rotation/Transfer System of the six core group companies in Japan for training in China and • Maintaining Sound Industrial Relationships India. The aim of this is to strengthen the fast-tracking of human • Employee Satisfaction Survey resources development in response to the globalization of business • Data on Human Resources and to foster globally-minded employees. In FY2013, we will add Vietnam as a new destination for training, and allow recruits to gain 33 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 firsthand experience of various cultures through discussions with Promoting Diversity Among LA13 high-achieving local human resources of the same generation, visits to companies, participation in NGO activities and so on. Employees F Y2012 Respecting Diversity in Sense of Value Social Report Group-wide Leadership Training Program, EaGLES In the Teijin Group, in all facets of our business, but particularly in To develop leaders capable of responding to the globalization of recruiting, employment and promotion, we respect the individuality human resources and our business, the Teijin Group runs EaGLES, a of all our employees regardless of gender, age, nationality, race, disability group-wide training program targeting newly assigned managers of etc., and support our employees in reaching their full potential. group companies in Japan and overseas. The training program is To promote employees' awareness of diversity, every year we implemented in four languages (Japanese, English, Chinese and publish a diversity handbook called “together” for internal use (in Thai) and consists of three steps, (1) e-learning, (2) group training in Japanese and English) including articles such as “Tips for dealing five regions (Japan, EU, USA, China and Thailand) and (3) measuring with bias as told by pioneers.” In FY2012, we also surveyed 126 learning outcomes. In the group training in the EU, USA and China, department managers of Teijin Limited and Teijin Pharma Limited meetings are held with regional representatives of Teijin Limited. regarding promotion of diversity. The response rate was 56% and we Environment, Safety In FY2012, participants from overseas group companies learned from the responses that awareness of managers has clearly consisted of 14 from four EU companies, 11 from four US companies been raised since we started measures to promote female career and 14 from seven Chinese companies. This was an increase of five development in 2000 and that managers now specifically recognize and Health Report companies and four employees from FY2011. Participation from Thai points for improvement. companies was temporarily suspended due to the flood damage in autumn 2011 but is planned for resumption in FY2013. In the future, EaGLES will be positioned as a training program for all managers rather than only newly appointed managers, and we plan to increase the number of participants and the regions where trainings are held. Within e-learning, from FY2012, we are utilizing the Teijin Economic Report Standard, which summarizes content such as the Teijin Group sense of value, management policy and history, to train new recruits group-wide. We are expanding applications and use of this approach as a tool to instill the concept of One Teijin (see Message from the President on page 3). Internal-use diversity handbook “together” (Japanese and English versions) Participant Participating in EaGLES Voice • Through EaGLES, I not only learned managerial methods and skills but also a new way of thinking. • I learned that it is important to respect opinions different from my own, and to trust and get to know others well. • I learned that it is very important to get myself fully prepared and control myself in order to lead others in the right way. • Participating in EaGLES changed my fundamental outlook. It was very influential. EaGLES training TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 34 Recruitment of Global Human Resources Re-employment Systems The six core group companies in Japan* have set a target to achieve As re-employment systems, the Teijin Group has established the a 10% or higher ratio of foreign nationals to the total number of Hello Again System at Teijin Limited and Teijin Pharma Limited and newly recruited career-oriented university graduates, and a 20% or the Senior Partner System at all group companies in Japan. higher ratio of personnel with experience living abroad. To this end, The Hello Again System targets employees who left the we hold information sessions for foreign students in Japan and also company for reasons including marriage, pregnancy, child-rearing, participate in overseas job fairs (company information session for nursing care, or work transfer of their spouse. Employees in this students) in the USA, China, and elsewhere. In FY2012, we achieved situation who wish to return to the Teijin Group due to the reason for ratios of 11% and 27%, respectively, for the above targets. leaving no longer applying will be rehired as full-time employees on * Six core group companies in Japan: Formerly the 12 core group companies in Japan, the condition that it is not more than 10 years since they left and but changed to the six core group companies as a result of the group reorganization in 2012. Employees of these six companies account for 76% of the total number of provided that the need exists. To date, seven people have been group employees in Japan (up to FY2012, employees of 12 core group companies rehired under this system. Additionally, regardless of whether the accounted for 77% of the total number of group employees in Japan). employee’s spouse is an employee of the Teijin Group, if an employee Promotion of Female Career Development wishes to accompany his/her spouse to a transfer destination, we will Since December 1999, the Teijin Group has been engaged in efforts to try to arrange the employee’s transfer to an appropriate location to promote and support female employees to work to the best of their abilities. avoid the employee having to leave his/her job. Overall, there have For recruitment at the six core group companies in Japan, we been 25 instances of such cases including one instance in FY2012. have set a goal of maintaining the ratio of newly recruited The Senior Partner System aims to facilitate re-employment of career-oriented female university graduates at 30% or more. The former employees after mandatory retirement if they wish to rejoin a ratio was 41% in FY2012 and 31% in FY2013. In addition, the number group company in Japan. In FY2012, of the 138 employees who of females in managerial positions was 85 at the end of FY2012. retired at the fixed age and wished to be re-employed, 116 (84.1%) Aiming to increase this figure to 120 by the end of FY2014 and 160 were re-employed (total for 41 group companies) . by the end of FY2016, we are focusing on continuing a training program for female leaders and carefully reviewing workplace Employment of People with a Disability LA13 practices from the standpoint of female employees. As of April 1, 2013, at 27 group companies in Japan, the total number of employees with a disability was 209, failing to reach the legal requirement of 225 . Changes in the Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Career-oriented In FY2011, 11 individual companies failed to meet the legal Female University Graduates requirement for employment of people with a disability. In FY2012, Females Males Percentage of females as a result of a change to the employment rate required by law (2%) (Persons) (%) 200 100 as of April 1, 2013, 14 companies did not meet the required rate . In 150 160 75 FY2013, we will further increase efforts geared towards achieving 142 the employment rate required by law at all group companies. 100 91 102 50 79 111 31% 100 30% 57 74 19% 41% 70 31% 50 71 15 % 28 % 60 25 54 8 49 42 41 16 14 37 Measures to Promote Work–Life 0 32 0 1999 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Balance F Y2012 In FY2012, as measures to promote work–life balance, we focused on activities to raise awareness, enhance various systems and Changes in the Number of Female Employees in Managerial Positions increase the number of users of these systems. No. of females in managerial positions (equivalent of section manager or above) At group companies in Japan, as an awareness-raising activity, Percentage of females in managerial positions* level-based workshops (e.g., new recruits, newly assigned (Persons) (%) 100 3.80% 4.0 section/department managers) were held to explain the content 3.15% 3.45% 75 2.83% 2.87% 3.11% 3.0 and significance of various systems. In FY2013, we plan to hold 2.50% 50 2.0 awareness-raising seminars on “successfully combining work and 79 85 25 62 64 69 71 1.0 family care” targeting all employees, and workshops on work–life 52 0 0 balance systems targeting newly assigned managers. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) * Percentage of female employees in managerial positions of the total In FY2012, as efforts designed to increase users of our various number of managerial positions in the companies. systems, we created a handbook relating to issues before and after maternity leave/pregnancy to encourage greater understanding and 35 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 smooth communications between female employees and their In FY2012, a total of three employees from the three companies managers. We surveyed 31 employees who are users of the (including one male) used the system . work-at-home system and 126 department managers with the objective of researching and raising awareness of the actual state of Volunteer Leave System Social Report systems related to work–life balance. In FY2013, we plan to review With a view to encouraging volunteer activities, the Teijin Group has and expand our various systems. introduced a Volunteer Leave System (paid) at four group companies Group companies in Japan have also been enforcing a system in Japan. As of March 31, 2013, there were six employees using the of prior application for overtime work and strict implementation of Volunteer Leave System . the no-overtime-day rule to decrease the number of working hours. Despite this, in FY2012, the average overtime per month for Determining the Status of Group-wide employees at the six core group companies in Japan was 12.9 hours Labor Management (0.6 hour increase from FY2011), and the rate of taking annual paid holidays was 67% (10 point downturn from FY2011), an end result of See website for more detailed information F Y2012 longer working hours . A contributing factor may have been the The Teijin Group carries out regular surveys on labor management at Environment, Safety increased workload due to large-scale organizational changes group companies. We identify management issues in our group associated with group realignment. Nevertheless, compared to personnel management system and implement effective measures as FY2010, the average overtime decreased by 0.9 hours and the rate of required, particularly from the viewpoint of labor CSR. Survey forms are and Health Report taking annual paid holidays increased by 3 points. From FY2013 sent to 53 group companies, 41 in Japan and 12 overseas, every year. onwards, given the absence of special circumstances, we will From the survey, we obtain data on basic labor CSR indicators. continue with improvements aiming to exceed the FY2011 results. After amendments to labor-related laws or if otherwise needed, Overseas, in the Netherlands, which has an advanced work-sharing the Teijin Group reviews the labor management status, employment system, almost 60% of female employees at Teijin Aramid B.V. including rules and personnel systems of all group companies in Japan. In those in managerial positions use a short-time work system. FY2012, targeting 41 group companies in Japan, we reviewed the status of responses to the amendment of the law concerning Promoting Childcare Leave for Employees LA15 re-employment after age-limit retirement. The results revealed that Economic Report To promote childcare leave for male employees, group companies in 26 companies have already responded or are in the process of Japan have submitted action plans based on the next-generation law responding. To assist the remaining group companies to respond to (stage 1: FY2005–2006, stage 2: FY2007-2011, stage 3: FY2012–2014). the changes, Teijin Limited will follow-up on and provide the As specific measures, this action plan lists expanding the system for necessary support. promoting short-term childcare leave and awareness-raising activities. In FY2012, at the six core group companies in Japan, 187 Respect for Human Rights HR8 employees (including 33 males) took childcare leave. F Y2012 To raise group employees’ awareness of human rights, a message Trends in the Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave from the CEO (Japanese, English, German, Thai and Indonesian Female employees Male employees versions) is distributed during Corporate Ethics Month in October. (Persons) Additionally, discussions about human rights and corporate ethics 250 201 are held at each workplace. 200 187 154 171 171 In FY2012, following on from the previous year, training sessions 150 143 129 100 104 117 133 162 154 were held during Corporate Ethics Month at each workplace 100 101 50 targeting all employees and focusing on respect for human rights 0 43 28 50 54 38 39 33 (see page 30). For example, Teijin Pharma Limited held a workshop 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) on abuse of authority and sexual harassment at a meeting of the branch managers and business site managers, using actual case Nursing Care Leave System examples as training materials. Our nursing care leave system operating at three of the six core Overseas, in the sewing industry, there is still no end to child group companies in Japan allows each applicant to take up to 730 labor. However, as a company deeply involved in the industry, Teijin days of nursing care leave per reason, which can be taken in portions. Frontier Co., Ltd. takes exhaustive measures in employee training This far exceeds the 93 days of leave specified under the Child Care and enforces strict management of CSR procurement to ensure that and Family Care Leave Law. it is never complicit in such human rights problems. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 36 Social Report CSR Procurement HR2 Overall Consideration of Supply Chains Based on CSR Procurement Guidelines To manufacture and distribute its products, the Teijin Group procures a large amount and wide variety of raw materials, equipment, components and services from many companies around the world. When selecting suppliers, we adhere to our Basic Stance purchasing guidelines based on fair and rational judgments. As part of CSR in supply chain management, we Furthermore, to implement CSR throughout the supply chain, we clarify and put into practice our viewpoints and established the CSR Procurement Guidelines (see below) and we require standards relating to CSR procurement and purchasing. Examples of this relate to improving our suppliers to conduct activities in compliance with our guidelines. the environmental performance of procured The basic policies for purchasing and procurement activities goods, encouraging environmental consideration, and CSR procurement guidelines are posted on the Teijin Group legal compliance and protection of human rights website (in Japanese and English), and a Chinese version was added by suppliers, and also promoting fair trade in FY2012. In addition, to promote our CSR procurement practices with suppliers. policy/activities in China, we conducted information sessions at Teijin Group companies in China. Currently, the Teijin Group’s CSR procurement activities are Corporate Code of Conduct being implemented centering on the Machinery and Material 6. Protect human rights Procurement & Logistics Management Department of Teijin Limited. The Teijin Group respects the human rights of its employees and all other people involved in its business activities and does not allow child or forced labor. With respect to these policies, the Teijin Group strives to obtain the positive understanding and cooperation of CSR Procurement Guidelines (excerpt of main items) concerned parties in the value chain in which it is involved. 1. Quality and safety 9. Ensure fair and proper transactions 2. Human rights and labor In its operations, such as procurement and product sales, the Teijin 3. Safety and health Group negotiates in good faith and observes fair and proper practices. 4. Fair trade and ethics In addition, the Teijin Group neither accepts bribery nor is involved in 5. Information security any type of corruption. 6. Philanthropy 7. Biodiversity 10. Respect intellectual property rights 8. Specific minerals The Teijin Group respects intellectual property rights, including trade 9. Environment secrets, and vows not to violate the effective rights of other 10. Management of chemicals contained in products companies or groups, as well as to protect, preserve and utilize its own 11. Management of chemicals used in the manufacturing process intellectual property rights. 12. Approval and license concerning environmental conservation (air, wastewater, noise, vibration, etc.) 13. Environmental management system 14. Minimize impact on the environment (air, wastewater, soil) Reference information on website 15. Reduce the discharge of chemicals into the environment 16. Effective use of resources/energy • Green Procurement/Purchasing 17. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Web • Management of Contractors and Work Contracts 18. Waste reduction (3R) 19. Disclosure of commitment to environmental conservation Surveys and Ratings of Suppliers F Y2012 In FY2007, the Teijin Group launched an originally developed system to grade the CSR of suppliers. The system uses an online questionnaire to confirm whether or not suppliers are complying with the Teijin Group CSR Procurement Guidelines, and the results are used to grade suppliers from I to V. Suppliers respond to 70 questionnaire items and receive a score indicating the extent of compliance with standards specified in the Teijin Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. Suppliers are then ranked 37 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 according to this score and their credit status as ongoing suppliers. Using a matrix of these two rankings, suppliers are ranked from I to V Voice of Supplier Moving Forward Together as (ranks I to III equate to a compliance ratio with CSR guidelines of Partners Sales Manager 40% or more, and ranks IV and V with a ratio of under 40%). Social Report Operations of this system were taken over by Fiberfrontier Co., Teijin conducts regular surveys of its suppliers, and I have Ltd.* and joint management/cooperation began with Toray the impression that it is a company actively engaged in CSR. Industries, Inc. in FY2008 and was then joined by Asahi Kasei My company has been a supplier for Teijin for over 40 Corporation in FY2012. This has realized use of common standards years. During this time, there have been changes in social to evaluate the CSR performance across a wide range throughout conditions and differences have arisen between each other’s sense of value. supply chains of the chemical synthetic fiber industry. * Fiberfrontier Co., Ltd.: An electronic commerce textile sales and procurement CSR involves working out how to management company jointly established by chemical synthetic fiber companies overcome and resolve these in Japan. differences in sense of value. In other words, I think it is important to not only simply adhere to rules, but to also Results of FY2012 Supplier Surveys understand the objectives behind the Environment, Safety F Y2012 rules and to link this understanding to Mr. Hiroshi Ooike and Health Report business. In the future, I hope we can Sales and Marketing In FY2012, 511 suppliers, accounting for 76% of the total purchasing Department, West Japan value handled by the procurement department in Japan, were continue moving forward together to Corrugated Packaging resolve issues. Business Unit Packaging surveyed. This is 98 more suppliers than in FY2011 and the same Division Rengo Co., Ltd. percentage of total purchasing value as last year. Furthermore, in FY2012, as a result of adding items to the FY2011 survey—namely, the approach to biodiversity conservation and management of mineral resources in conflict zones—the Guidance/Support to Improve CSR ranking of 34 suppliers fell from groups I–III to groups IV–V. In response, we set a goal for the fiscal year to improve the ranking of Activities of Suppliers F Y2012 Economic Report these 34 suppliers to groups I–III and implemented individual Suppliers corresponding to groups IV–V in the results of the survey improvement guidance for each supplier. are the target of improvement guidance; that is, they receive individual The results of the survey revealed that, compared to 86% in guidance/support to enable them to continue as suppliers. FY2011, 94% of suppliers corresponded to groups I–III, the groups In FY2012, 38 of the 56 suppliers who were ranked in groups where continuing to do business is no problem. In addition, the ratio IV–V in FY2011 improved their ranking to groups I–III. In FY2013, we of purchases from group I, II and III suppliers was 99%, compared to will continue improvement guidance for the 38 suppliers that 98% in FY2011. This resulted from 38 suppliers improving their corresponded to groups IV–V in the survey this time, aiming for ranking from groups IV–V last year to groups I–III this year. qualitative improvements in CSR procurement. Breakdown of Suppliers Breakdown of Purchase Value Introduce/Expand CSR Procurement by Rating by Rating Activities with a Global Perspective F Y2012 4% 3% 4% 1% In line with its global expansion, the Teijin Group is continuing 4% preparation of surveys to expand CSR procurement to overseas suppliers as well. FY2012 FY2012 In FY2011, we trialed a printed version of the questionnaire, and in FY2012, it was implemented at 13 suppliers in the EU/the USA/China. The results of the survey, which used the same items as those of the survey for Japan, were that 12 suppliers corresponded to groups I–III 17% 73% 95% and 1 to groups IV–V. Group I Group II Group III Group IV Group V This result is thought to be due to the comparatively high level of awareness of CSR at our overseas suppliers, who are large corporations. In FY2013, we plan to expand the number of suppliers subject to the survey, and by FY2015, implement the survey for all main suppliers worldwide. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 38 Social Report Social Contributions Teijin Group System to Promote Social Contribution Activities Based on the Corporate Code of Conduct, the Teijin Group promotes social contribution activities in each business group and business site from the standpoints of science and education, culture, sports activities, environmental preservation activities and disaster prevention activities. Basic Stance In addition, the CSR Planning Office (Corporate Communications To practically implement our corporate philosophy Department as of April 1, 2013) plays a central role in supporting of “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering Our volunteer activities and proposing group-wide social contribution People,” we conduct social contribution activities that draw on the unique characteristics of business programs which employees can easily engage in. Through these groups and business sites in order to support the programs, we are fostering human resources who can participate development of local communities. In addition, we independently in and promote social contribution activities. are engaged in group-wide activities and we are working to foster a corporate culture that vitalizes development of volunteer personnel. Expenses of Social Contribution Activities EC1 in FY2012 See website for more detailed information F Y2012 Corporate Code of Conduct Since joining the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) 1% Club in 3. Contribute to society and support the development of local FY2003, the Teijin Group has been setting aside at least 1% of communities The Teijin Group contributes through its business operations to the current profits for social contribution costs. Expenses of social development of the economy of the countries or regions in which it contribution activities in FY2012 were approximately one billion yen locates its bases. In addition, from the perspective of promoting (12% decrease from the previous fiscal year). mutually beneficial coexistence with society, the Teijin Group conducts appropriate activities to contribute to society as a responsible corporate citizen, and actively participates in and supports the fields of science, education, culture, and athletics, as well as Expenses of Social Contribution Activities in FY2012 preservation of the environment, prevention of disasters, and rescue operations. Total amount 1,018 million yen Science and research 79.1% Health, medicine and sports 4.7% Culture and the arts 4.3% Reference information on website Education and social education 3.5% Social welfare and social inclusion 2.7% • The categories in the above graph correspond to Environment 1.2% Web • Support of Disaster-affected Areas the items of the Keidanren 1% Club of which the Teijin Group is a member. Others 4.4% Main Social Contribution Activities of the Teijin Group Supporting the Development of Local Communities • Scholarship system (Japan and China) • Commemorative lecture by Dr. Eiichi Negishi (Matsuyama Factory) Science and • Open lecture for citizens on home healthcare education • Donation activities in China • Donation of 570 T-shirts to children from disaster-affected areas (Iwate, Japan) • Provision of products to an art museum in the Netherlands Culture • Co-sponsored movie screening in disaster-affected area (Iwate, Japan) • Co-sponsored All Japan High School Soccer Tournament Sports • Donation of soccer balls (Iwakuni Factory) activities • Japan Dream Football Association official sponsor (Thailand) Environmental • Ekiden clean-up project, cleaning activities (Tokuyama Factory) preservation activities • Donation of eco-bags to Japan–U.S. cultural exchange event in New York Disaster • Contributions to enhancing local disaster prevention capabilities prevention activities (Mihara Factory) Fostering Volunteer Personnel • Promotion of Volunteer Support Program • Picture book donation activities Group-wide • Support for school lunch project in developing countries activities • Nature observation leader workshops • Environmental photo contests Business site • Participated in social contribution activities as part of employee training activities (Matsuyama Factory) 39 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Supporting the Development of Local Communities Fostering Volunteer Personnel See website for more detailed information F Y2012 See website for more detailed information F Y2012 Science and Education Promotion of Volunteer Support Program Social Report Scholarship System in Japan and China In June 2011, we established the Volunteer Support Program. Under Since 1953, the Teijin Group has offered the Teijin Kumura this program, the administration committee decides which Scholarship named after Seita Kumura, a pioneer in the Japanese volunteer activities are to be supported from volunteer activities chemical fiber industry, aiming to pass on and develop an original that group employees in Japan are engaged in, and partial financial R&D spirit, as well as foster young scientists who will contribute to support for the activities is provided via the Teijin Group Social social development and the creation of new culture (reorganized to Contribution Fund made up of donations from volunteer employees the Teijin Scholarship Foundation in 2011). It was Japan’s first and directors as well as from companies. scholarship created by a private company and approximately 1,500 In FY2012, we provided financial support to the following four science and technological students have so far benefited from the non-profit organizations (NPOs), donating 100,000 yen to each scholarship over a period of close to 60 years. organization. Additionally, in June 2010, we established a scholarship system • The Children’s Heart Disease Association of Japan, supporting children with heart disease and their families 1st time Environment, Safety in China offering annual scholarships of 8,000 yuan per student with • and Health Report The Teijin Junior Soccer School, contributing to the local community through no repayment obligation. Recipients are technical master’s degree soccer Ongoing students of Peking University, Tsinghua University, Fudan University • KAPATID, supporting activities such as management of kindergartens in the Philippines Ongoing and Shanghai Jiao Tong University. In FY2012, there were 36 recipients, a 1.5-fold increase from FY2011 (24 recipients). • The Nature Conservation Society of Osaka engaged in activities such as nature observation programs and conservation of forest reserves Ongoing Culture Provision of Aramid/Carbon Fibers to an Art Museum in the Netherlands The Teijin Group has been a sponsor of the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam in the Netherlands since 2007. Economic Report On the occasion of the addition of a new wing to the museum Children’s Heart Disease Association of Japan KAPATID in 2012, we provided 4,850 kg of Twaron®, a para-aramid fiber manufactured by Teijin Aramid B.V. and 4,050 kg of Tenax®, a carbon Picture Book Donating Activities –Book Dream Project– fiber manufactured by Toho Tenax Europe GmbH. The Book Dream Project, which started in FY2008, uses money received in exchange for used books provided by group employees in Japan to buy Japanese picture books and donate them to libraries overseas. Translated caption sheets are added to the picture books by volunteer employees. In FY2012, we donated 72 books to libraries in Indonesia. We also donated 65,000 yen from the money received in exchange for used books to Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam support libraries in Thailand. Children listening intently to a book reading Sports Activities Support of School Lunch Project for Children in Developing Countries Supporting Youth Football in Southeast Asia The Teijin Group has been participating in the TABLE FOR TWO social Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited (TPL) became an official sponsor contribution program since FY2011. Activities, which initially started of the Japan Dream Football Association (JDFA) in 2012. at the Matsuyama Factory, were introduced at the Iwakuni Factory The JDFA is aiming to produce the first J. League player from and Osaka head office in FY2012. Southeast Asia through activities in Southeast Asian countries such When a donation-linked menu item is ordered at the company as holding football clinics for children, observing local league games cafeteria, 20 yen per meal is donated to a school lunch project in and scouting activities. TPL is committed to supporting the dreams developing countries. The donation-linked menu items show regard of children in Thailand and other countries in Southeast Asia for a good balance of nutrition and calories, helping to prevent through this sponsorship. obesity and lifestyle-related diseases. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 40 Environment, Safety and Health Report ESH Management Group ESH Management System (Environmental Preservation, The Teijin Group established the Group CSR Committee to perform Safety and Disaster Prevention, integrated ESH management. This committee is chaired by the Chief Social Responsibility Officer who has authority and responsibility and Health) delegated from the CEO. Under the Group CSR Committee, is the Group ESH Subcommittee, which is chaired by the General Manager of the Teijin Limited CSR and Compliance Department and has members consisting of those in charge of ESH activities at each business group or business unit. The subcommittee discusses and makes decisions on various Basic Stance measures and activities regarding ESH management, and oversees the The Teijin Group positions ESH as a key issue expansion of these measures/policies to each business group. relating to all business operations and is engaged in activities to reduce environmental impact, in In addition, once a year, audits are performed by the terms of both the global environment and local Chairperson of the ESH Committee for each business group and the communities, and to ensure the safety/health of Chief Social Responsibility Officer. As part of the audit process, each local citizens and employees. Furthermore, we business group reports on ESH management status, any accidents, quantitatively measure ESH-related status of countermeasures, and status of ESH activities. This content investments/expenses and link this to efficient progress and improvements of ESH activities. is then audited, and confirmation and guidance is provided in relation to future issues and actions required before the next audit. Corporate Code of Conduct Outline of the ESH Audits 2. Coexistence with the global environment The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, Outline of to exist in harmony with the natural environment and to cherish Auditors FY2012 audit results the audits nature and life. ESH ESH audits at Chairperson of Audit production Business Group 17 in Japan, 12 overseas I sites ESH Committee Reference information on website Audits mainly Five business groups, New ESH Chairperson of Business Development Group, concerning • Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual ESH General Assembly Audit II environmental activities Business Group ESH Committee Raw Materials and Polymer Department and three directly managed companies Web • Breakdown of ESH-related Costs of the Teijin Group in FY2012 ESH Audits of the Chief Social Five business groups, New Business Development Group, • Current Status of Teijin Group Management System Certifications Audit III results of ESH Audits I and II Responsibility Officer Raw Materials and Polymer Department and three directly managed companies Group ESH Education F Y2012 To enhance the level of group-wide ESH management, we established the ESH Education Program for presidents and executives involved in ESH management, ESH staff, and production line managers in individual group companies. We hold a workshop once a year for group companies in Japan, and every two years for overseas group companies. In FY2012, an ESH education workshop for group companies in Japan was held in July at the Osaka head office, with the participation of 154 employees (51 in the basic class, 51 in the management class, and 52 in the applied class) . Overseas, workshops were held at Teijin Polycarbonate Singapore in November and once each at four companies in Thailand in January. In total, 47 employees participated . 41 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 and effect of activities for environmental preservation, energy Training Seminar for Internal savings, reduced use of natural resources, and recycling are Auditors of ESH Compliance F Y2012 calculated with reference to the environmental accounting To enhance compliance with laws and regulations related to ESH, guidelines published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. Social Report we held ESH compliance training seminars for internal auditors at We also calculate the investments and expenses for safety and the Osaka head office in January, and at the Matsuyama Factory in disaster prevention, and health. February, 2013. As a result, 96 employees were newly approved as 1st-grade auditors and six as 2nd-grade auditors . Since the system Current Status of Teijin Group Management System Certifications started in 2005, there have been a total of 766 internal auditors of ESH compliance. Current Status of ISO 14001 Certification Japan (21 companies, 41 factories) ESH-related Accounting EN30 Overseas (14 companies, 17 factories) F Y2012 Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification Environment, Safety Japan (19 companies, 31 factories) The Teijin Group calculates the investments, expenses, and effect of Overseas (6 companies, 8 factories) ESH activities at all group companies. The investments, expenses and Health Report Current Status of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, ISO 16949 and Other Certifications Trends in ESH-related investments Japan (26 companies, 49 factories) Overseas (16 companies, 19 factories) Environmental preservation investments Japan Overseas Safety and disaster prevention, and health investments Japan Overseas (Billions of yen) Boundaries for Environmental Performance Indicators 3.0 and Reporting of ESH Accounting 2.5 2.4 2.0 2.0 Japan: Union Tire Cord, Teijin Monofilament, Unisel, Economic Report 1.3 1.3 1.3 HighTeijin Cordley 1.0 0.8 0.9 0.7 1.0 performance Overseas: Teijin Polyester (Thailand), TEIJIN Fibers (THAILAND), TEIJIN CORD (THAILAND), Nantong 0 Teijin Automotive Fabrics Finishing, Teijin Aramid 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Japan: Toho Tenax • Environmental preservation investments in FY2012 were 1.3 billion yen, the Carbon Fibers same as in the previous fiscal year. Investments related to safety and disaster & Composites Overseas: Toho Tenax Europe, Toho Tenax America, prevention, and health were 1.3 billion yen (27% increase from the previous fiscal Diversified Structural Composites year) as a result of active disaster prevention measures continuing on from the previous fiscal year, and increased investments for occupational safety measures. Japan: Teijin DuPont Films Films Overseas: P.T. INDONESIA TEIJIN DUPONT FILMS Japan: Teijin Chemicals, Hiroshima Plastic, Kinkai Chemicals, Teiyo Trends in ESH-related expenses Plastics Overseas: TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE SINGAPORE, Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai, Environmental preservation expenses TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE CHINA Japan Overseas Safety and disaster prevention, and health expenses Japan: Teijin Pharma, Teisan Pharmaceuticals, Teijin Healthcare Japan Overseas Home Healthcare (Billions of yen) Japan: Teijin Frontier, Teijin Modern Yarn, Wako, 15.0 Teijin Associa Retail, Shinwa Gosen, Teikyo Lace, 12.6 Teisho Sangyo, Techset, Folkner Products 10.0 9.9 9.7 Converting 8.1 8.4 Overseas: Nantong Teijin, Teijin Modern Yarn (Nantong), Teijin Frontier (Vietnam), Thai Namsiri 5.0 Intertex 2.9 2.2 2.0 2.1 2.6 0 IT Japan: Infocom 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Directly Japan: Teijin Kosan, Kure Kogyo, Teijin Logistics, Managed • Environmental preservation expenses in FY2012 were 8.4 billion yen (3% Teijin Eco-Science, Teijin Engineering Companies increase from the previous fiscal year) as pollution prevention costs increased. Expenses related to safety and disaster prevention, and health • Company names are correct as of the end of March, 2013. were 2.6 billion yen (24% increase from the previous fiscal year) as a result of • Limited (Ltd.), Co., Ltd., Inc., GmbH, Corporation, B.V. and the like have been increased disaster prevention expenses overseas. omitted from the company names. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 42 Environment, Safety and Health Report Environmental Management Declaration of Sustainable Environment Initiatives The Teijin Group announced the Declaration of Sustainable Environmental Initiatives in 2007. In it, we declare our intention to incorporate into the inner workings of our management, a perspective that environmental management refers to reducing Basic Stance environmental impact over the entire life cycle of products The Teijin Group Global Environmental Charter including all processes from material procurement to production, was established in 1992. Subsequently, in 2007, use and disposal. The three core elements of our environmental we announced the Declaration of Sustainable Environmental Initiatives. Recognizing the management are environmental preservation, Design for substantial impact of our business activities on Environment and environmental businesses. the global environment, we promote In FY2012, we established the Teijin Group Environmental environmental management in the three core Management Promotion Subcommittee based on the fact that elements of environmental preservation, Design environmental management and its application has expanded for Environment and environmental businesses. globally and become applicable to all business groups (see page 20: The Teijin Group’s CSR Management System). This subcommittee will have a central role in promoting environmental management based Corporate Code of Conduct on the three core elements, while integrating the growth strategies 2. Coexistence with the global environment of the entire Teijin Group. The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, to exist in harmony with the natural environment and to cherish nature and life. Start of the Group Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee F Y2012 The Teijin Group Global Environmental Charter In FY2012, the Group Environmental Management Promotion To fulfill the Teijin Group´s corporate philosophy “We place the highest priority on safety and the preservation of our natural environment” to Subcommittee met twice as part of activities in its initial year. At the ensure society´s sustainable development, we will: meetings, the subcommittee reviewed and discussed the future of the Teijin Group’s environmental management as well as targets and 1. Strive to promote efficient use of resources and energy and reduction of environmental impact to preserve the global indicators to be used in its implementation. In FY2013, we plan to environment. review our approach to promoting LCA and mid-term targets 2. Provide products and services that reduce the environmental (environmental management indicators) looking ahead to 2020. impact for society through progress in science and technology with a focus on global environmental consciousness. LCA Working Group Established to Start Calculating Avoided CO2 Emissions 3. Participate in social activities aiming at conserving the global In April 2012, an LCA working group formed by representatives of environment through education and raising awareness for group employees, and cooperation with local communities involved in our each business group was established under the Group business activities. Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee. In FY2012, LCA workshops were held six times, starting in August. External (Established in December 1992; revised in July 2007) lecturers were invited to the workshops, and we discussed the LCA evaluation method and the evaluation processes used by business groups based on examples of representative products. Using these evaluations as a base, we will promote activities to calculate avoided CO2 emissions of each product/material. In FY2013, besides establishing LCA guidelines so that each business can engage in LCA, we plan to increase the number of products for LCA evaluation. LCA workshop 43 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Teijin Group Business Flow and Three Core Elements of Environmental Management Social Report Development/ Procurement Manufacturing Logistics Sales Recycling Design Disposal To implement environment-conscious management, the Teijin Group promotes the reduction of environmental impact based on three core elements that cover all of its corporate activities. Environment, Safety ProcureManuLogistics Disposal Development/ and Health Report Sales Recycling ment facturing Design 1. Environmental 2. Design for 3. Environmental preservation Environment businesses Activities aimed at reducing the Evaluation of the environmental Business activities aimed at negative impact our daily impact of products throughout contributing to environmental business activities have on the their life cycles and product improvement. The Teijin Group is environment including efforts to design aimed at reducing this focusing on developing reduce CO2 emissions and impact. We use an original technologies/products that Economic Report chemical substances, system for approving Design for contribute in areas such as manage/reduce waste and Environment products. reducing CO2 emissions and use preserve biodiversity. of resources. See pages 45–50 for details. See pages 51–52 for details. See pages 53–54 for details. Structure of concept car made using Clean-up day at a factory site REFTEL ® thermoplastic CFRP Biological field study Tenax ® MSABP ® TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 44 Environment, Safety and Health Report Environmental Management 1 Initiatives for Processes from EN1 EN3 EN6 Environmental Preservation Procurement to Disposal F Y2012 In addition to compliance with rules and regulations and agreements with local governments relating to environmental impact, the Teijin Group is carrying out various voluntary activities aiming to further reduce the overall environmental impact of our Basic Stance business activities. These include efficient use of energy and various As measures to reduce our environmental impact, resources, minimizing chemical substance emissions, we ensure that all employees have a clear managing/reducing waste, preventing soil and groundwater understanding of the impact of business activities on biodiversity, and we evaluate the pollution, and conserving biodiversity. environmental impact of our business activities over the entire life cycle of each product, aiming to reduce CO2 emissions and chemical substances, Environmental Impact of the Teijin Group in FY2012 by Input/Output and reduce/manage waste. See website for more detailed information INPUT Corporate Code of Conduct • Freshwater consumption • Energy 31.0×10 6 GJ 82 million tons 2. Coexistence with the global environment • Chemical substances handled • Seawater consumption The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, to exist in harmony with the natural environment and to cherish 1.258 million tons 46 million tons nature and life. Manufacturing Intermediate and Products processing Products Raw Materials Use Recycling Recovery Disposal OUTPUT • Waste with no effective use • 2.04 CO2 million tons 4.1 thousand tons • Chemical substances • Total water discharged 2,820 tons 121 million tons Climate Change EN5 EN16 EN17 EN18 Initiatives F Y2012 Reducing Greenhouse Gases Emitted During Manufacturing Targets for FY2012–2020 Group: Achieve a CO2 emissions reduction ratio of 1% or more per year (compared to the level in the base year FY2011). Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level by FY2020. 45 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 In FY2012, Teijin Group CO2 emissions were 2.04 million tons, a 9% system of recording fuel consumed and distance driven. decrease from FY2011. As a result of these initiatives, CO2 emissions associated with use of In Japan, CO2 emissions were 1.27 million tons (4% decrease from company vehicles in FY2012 were 8,314 tons (2% decrease from FY2011). FY2011) owing to active promotion of energy-saving projects such as Social Report increased efficiency of steam usage in the polymerization process at Reducing CO2 Emissions in Logistics the Teijin Limited Matsuyama Factory (South) and use of inverter-based In FY2012, Teijin Group CO2 emissions associated with logistics refrigerator pumps at the Tokuyama Factory, and also thanks to the amounted to 13,046 tons, a decrease of 1,170 tons from FY2011. effect of 100% external supply of electricity at the Tokuyama Factory. Based on a reference value of 0.038 kL (crude oil equivalent) per Overseas, CO2 emissions were 0.77 million tons (17% decrease from 1,000 ton-kilometers, the CO2 emissions per unit of transportation FY2011). While this can be attributed in part to the decreased operations amount equaled 1.024 in FY2012 as indexed by setting FY2006 to 1. at three plants in Thailand, which had to suspend operations temporarily This represents a 0.58% increase, at odds with our annual target of due to flood damage, other efforts which also contributed to this reducing CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount by 1% or reduction included increasing the efficiency of cleaning-water usage more compared to the previous fiscal year. at Teijin Aramid B.V. in the Netherlands and exhaust gas processing The main reason for this was the changes to logistics resulting from Environment, Safety improvements at Toho Tenax America Inc., a carbon fiber plant in the USA. the reorganization of business groups in FY2010. Regarding products In FY2012, we fulfilled the target to achieve a CO2 emissions whose overseas production ratio increased, we continued to promote reduction ratio of 1% or more per year (compared to the base year a further shift to railway transportation, which has less environmental and Health Report FY2011), with a 9% reduction from FY2011. impact, and we reduced the number of shipments through batch transportation as a response to decreased shipping of these products in Japan. Despite these efforts, CO2 emissions per unit of Trends in Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Operations transportation amount for these products increased by 6% compared Japan (Million tons-CO2) Overseas In Japan,51% decrease compared to FY1990 to the previous fiscal year. On the other hand, regarding products that continued to be produced in Japan, there was a 2% improvement in 4 Achieved target to reduce emissions by 20% 3.50 3.41 or more compared to the FY1990 level CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount compared to the 3 3.25 0.90 2.86 previous fiscal year. This was made possible by promoting use of sea 1.45 2.57 1.48 2.25 Economic Report 2 1.34 2.04 and railway transportation, and improving the truck loading ratio. 1.00 0.93 0.77 1 2.60 1.96 1.77 1.52 1.57 1.32 1.27 0 Trends in CO2 Emissions in Logistics 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (Absolute Volume and Per Unit of Transportation Amount) (Base year) CO2 emissions per unit of Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Overseas Companies in FY2012 transportation amount Comparison with previous (compared to the 17% decrease (Million tons-CO2) CO2 emissions fiscal year level (1) in the 0.58% worse 0.75 base year FY2006) Overseas, (tons-CO2) 0.50 compared to the previous fiscal year 30,000 1.05 27,576 1.018 1.024 0.25 0.286 0.282 0.183 25,000 1.00 0 0.019 0.963 21,823 USA EU China Southeast Asia 20,000 19,260 0.95 18,500 • Includes CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. 15,000 0.930 0.928 14,216 0.90 13,046 • Calorific values and CO2 emissions are calculated according to the coefficient specified in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to 10,000 0.887 0.85 Cope with Global Warming (an emissions factor for electricity of 0.555 kg-CO2/kWh is used for every fiscal year). For power purchased overseas, 5,000 0.80 where known, the relevant emissions factor is used for calculations. • There was a substantial decrease in FY2010 because TIFICO, who emitted 0 0.75 0.47 million tons of CO2 in FY2009, was excluded from the calculations. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) • In FY2006, Teijin Fibers Limited, Teijin Chemicals Ltd. and Teijin Dupont Films Japan Limited were classified as Teijin Group specific consignors under energy-saving laws in Japan. As such, the boundary of CO2 emissions in logistics applies to these Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Use of Company Vehicles businesses. However, Teijin Fibers Limited no longer exists; in April 2010, its raw materials and polymer business, and in October 2012 all other businesses except In Japan, we set independent numerical targets by business site for its apparel business, were divided/taken over by Teijin Limited. To retain the CO2 emissions associated with use of company vehicles. Common comparability with past years, we are continuing to use the boundary of CO2 emissions in logistics as it was in FY2006. Incidently, Teijin Limited absorbed/merged measures include updating vehicles used for sales activities to with Teijin Chemicals Ltd. in April 1, 2013. eco-cars and promoting fuel-efficient driving. At Teijin Pharma • The calorific value of light oil was changed to 37.7 GJ/kL in FY2010 (38.2 GJ/kL till FY2009) Limited, in addition to the above measures, we have introduced a TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 46 In FY2013, among other measures, we will further expand modal shift initiatives, improve the loading efficiency through batch Trends in Chemical Substance Emissions transportation and reduce the number of shipments. Notably, since Japan Overseas April, we have started a joint initiative with a leading logistics (t) company for transportation using a roll-on roll-off vessel for product 10,000 shipments from the Matsuyama Factory to the Kanto district and 8,989 from the Kanto district to the Chugoku district. 8,000 6,000 69% decrease compared to FY1998 Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions from Offices We are taking measures to improve the efficiency of energy use at 4,000 the Osaka head office (company-owned building), group company 2,883 3,026 2,677 2,820 head offices, sales branches and other business sites. A particular 2,000 2,279 measure in summer/winter, besides encouraging suitable operation of office air-conditioning, is the Teijin Cool Biz/Warm Biz initiative, which 0 encourages clothing appropriate for the season (dress code) to facilitate 1998 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (Base year) less power consumption and comfortable office environments. • Emissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances As a result of these activities, CO2 emissions from offices in Management Law and chemical substances specified by the Japan Chemical FY2012 were 11 thousand tons (1% decrease from FY2011). Industry Association. The figures shown are the total of emissions into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount within factories. Reducing Chemical Substance EN8 EN20 EN21 Emissions F Y2012 Top 10 Chemicals Substance Emissions Details of Chemical Substance Emissions Inorganic cyanogen compound (excluding complex salt and cyanate) Propyl alcohol 1.7% Targets for FY2012–2020 2.1% Toluene 1.7% Reduce chemical substance emissions by 80% or more compared Tetrahydrofuran to the FY1998 level by FY2020. 2.4% Others 5.3% Xylene The Teijin Group is actively committed to reducing emissions of all 2.8% Total Dichloromethane chemical substances listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the emissions (methylene chloride) N-Methylpyrrolidone Chemical Substances Management Law* revised in April 2010 (462 3.3% 2,820 50.4% tons/year substances), and those specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Acetone Association (433 substances). Excluding duplicated listings, there are 4.9% 575 specified chemical substances. Methyl ethyl ketone N,N-Dimethylformamide The Teijin Group emitted a total of 2,820 tons of chemical 10.8% 14.6% substances in FY2012 (24% increase from FY2011). Despite efforts made at each plant in Japan to reduce emissions by ensuring • Red text denotes chemical substances specified as Class 1 in the Chemical Substances Management Law. proper maintenance of production lines and other measures, emissions increased by 11% from FY2011 as the use of solvents increased. Overseas, despite measures including repair of recovery Focus on Reducing/Managing Chemical Substances with Large equipment, the effect of increased production and other factors led Environmental Impact through Use of LIME2 to a 46% increase from FY2011. In terms of the target to reduce The Teijin Group utilizes LIME2* to focus on managing/reducing chemical substance emissions by 80% or more compared to the chemical substances that have a large impact on the environment FY1998 level by FY2020, a 69% reduction has been achieved so far at and ecosystems. the FY2012 stage. LIME2 allows quantitative measurement of the environmental In FY2012, of the total chemical substances emitted into the impact of chemical substances on human health, biodiversity and environment, 98.8% was released into the atmosphere, 1.2% into the sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and forestry. To focus on water, and 0% into landfill or the soil. management and reduction of substances that have a large impact * Chemical Substance Management Law: Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of on the environment even in small amounts, we have set targets not Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management. only for the volume of chemical substance emissions but also 47 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 reduction targets that consider environmental impact. SOx Emissions and Wastewater Loading (COD, BOD) EN8 EN20 In FY2012, we started a chemical substance reduction In FY2012, the Teijin Group generated 4.1 thousand tons of SOx as a campaign based on a determination to reduce emissions of each result of fuel use (7% decrease from FY2011). In Japan, the amount business group decided in FY2011. We reported this campaign to was 4.0 thousand tons (5% decrease from FY2011), and overseas, Social Report the LCA Japan Forum (JLCA) in November 2012. In FY2013, we plan 0.1 thousand tons (50% decrease from FY2011). to review environmental factors other than chemical substances. In FY2012, the Teijin Group used a total of 82 million tons of * LIME2: The second version of the Life Cycle Impact Assessment Method Based on freshwater (industrial water, tap water and groundwater). In addition, Endpoint Modeling (LIME), a life cycle assessment (LCA) method developed through a national project of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science we used 46 million tons of seawater, mainly for cooling applications. and Technology (Japan). Both freshwater and seawater consumption was reduced compared to FY2011. Group-wide, a total of 121 million tons of water was discharged (21% decrease from FY2011) as a result of efforts to reduce the discharge amount. The total amount of chemical oxygen Environmental Impact of Chemical Substance Emissions Using LIME2 demand (COD) load and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) load (indexed by setting FY2005 to 100) associated with the water discharged group-wide was 767 tons Environment, Safety Worse-case scenario (in the case (%) of reducing low-impact chemical (18% increase from FY2011). 120.0 substances) and Health Report 100.0 100.0 94.5 Trends in SOx Emissions 80.0 60.0 Estimated Japan Overseas reduction based (thousand tons) on reduction plan 40.0 10.0 7% decrease 9.5 8.9 20.0 compared to the previous 0 12.5 7.5 7.3 fiscal year 2005 2020 (FY) Forecast 5.0 5.1 4.4 4.1 Economic Report 2.5 Taking on the Main Responsibility 0 Employee Voice for LIME2 Utilization 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Until this area became part of my actual work responsibilities, I had imagined the impact of chemical substances emissions on the global ecosystem, but I had Trends in Water Consumption and Total Water Discharged never thought about it deeply. Water consumption Total water discharged LIME2 has proved to be an effective tool to determine Japan Overseas Japan Overseas 21% substances that have a large impact on the environment (million tons) 5 300 even in small amounts. Last year, Teijin was able to report our initiatives externally. The application scope of LIME2 % decrease 250 decrease compared to the previous fiscal year itself is now being expanded to compared to the previous fiscal year allow evaluations of not only 211 200 196 chemical substances but also factors 182 such as the impact on use of water 150 154 resources. In the future, we plan to 121 further review ways in which we can 100 97 91 87 86 82 contribute to protection of the global environment through 50 activities at business sites in both Mr. Keijiro Hattori Japan and overseas. Environment, 0 Safety and Health Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Tokyo Head Office Teijin Limited • Water consumption amount includes industrial water, groundwater and tap water. • Total water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 48 improvement per unit of production amount compared to FY2011. Trends in COD/BOD Load Overseas, two factories achieved zero emissions. In FY2012, we promoted sorting of waste at Teijin Polycarbonate China Ltd. (TPC), COD (Japan) BOD (Japan) COD (overseas) BOD (overseas) which increased the recycled amount and facilitated effective use 18 (t) 1,500 of resources. % increase compared to the 1,000 1,046 previous fiscal year 936 Trends in “Waste with no Effective Use” 779 797 767 652 Japan Overseas 500 (t) 50,000 46,184 0 40,000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) • Based on a review of data, we revised the overseas BOD load for FY2007 through FY2011. 30,000 92% decrease compared to FY1998 Achieved group target to reduce • Applies to wastewater discharged into rivers, oceans and lakes. “waste with no effective use” by 85% 20,000 or more compared to the FY1998 level • COD data is used in cases where both COD and BOD data are available. 10,000 7,780 6,240 5,691 4,598 4,149 Reducing/Managing Waste EN22 0 F Y2012 1998 (Base year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Reduction of “Waste with No Effective Use” • In FY2012, in addition to the 4,149 tons shown in the graph above, 7,862 tons of sludge was generated as a result of dredging a discharge reservoir Target for FY2020 and was put into landfill at an external site. Group: Reduce “waste with no effective use” by 85% or more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Preventing Soil/Groundwater The Teijin Group is committed to reducing the amount of waste it Pollution F Y2012 generates, as well as to reducing “waste with no effective use” In FY2006, the Teijin Group formulated guidelines for preventing soil through promoting a shift to reuse and recycling based on material, and groundwater pollution. Under the guidelines, we are striving to chemical or thermal processing. “Waste with no effective use” is prevent soil and groundwater pollution resulting from our business waste that is either put directly into landfill or incinerated without operations in Japan and overseas. heat recovery. Each factory in Japan has implemented appropriate notification In FY2012, group-wide, we generated 4.1 thousand tons of responses to revisions of the Water Quality Pollution Control Act “waste with no effective use” (6.9% of the total 60 thousand tons of effective as of June, 2012. In addition, we will summarize data of the waste transferred). We achieved the target to reduce “waste with no past soil surveys at the composites factories in the Setouchi district effective use” by 85% or more compared to the FY1998 level by in order to realize practical benefits for future land utilization. FY2020 ahead of schedule, with a 92% reduction. Moving forward, we will continue to maintain “waste with no effective use” within the target level. Improvements through Use of Zero Emissions and Waste Per Unit of Production Amount as Indicators The Teijin Group has defined zero emissions as reducing the ratio of “waste with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste generated. In Japan, factories that produce 500 or more tons of waste all achieved zero emissions by FY2011. Starting from FY2012, we have set a new target to reduce the total waste generated per unit of production amount by 1% compared to the previous fiscal year. The total waste generated in Japan in FY2012 was 32 thousand tons, a 6% 49 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 particularly interesting to find that these areas are a breeding Biodiversity Conservation EN14 ground for water birds including the precious yellow-billed egret. F Y2012 Experts commented on the importance of maintaining the green Biodiversity is affected by chemical substances, greenhouse gases, areas within the factory in their current state based on the excellent Social Report waste and other forms of environmental impact resulting from condition of these areas and the fact that they are rare breeding business activities. grounds for birds. To enable this situation to be visualized, the Teijin Group has created a map showing risks relating to loss of biodiversity due to business activities and activities to conserve biodiversity. This will facilitate all employees having a clear awareness of the impact of business activities on biodiversity, helping to propel conservation activities forward. Future efforts will involve reviews aiming towards quantifying the effect of each initiative. We also became a promotion partner of the Keidanren (Japan Environment, Safety Business Federation) Declaration of Biodiversity and we are engaged Eastern balancing-reservoir at the Iwakuni Factory where the biological field studies in activities as part of a working group as a member of the Japan were conducted Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), which conducts joint research and Health Report on the conservation of biodiversity from international perspectives. Biological Field Studies Using the JBIB Monitoring Sheet In FY2012, external experts and employees from the Iwakuni Factory and Osaka Research Center took part in biological field studies using the JBIB monitoring sheet. For example, in August 2012, at the Iwakuni Factory, birds and insects sightings were recorded at two balancing reservoirs and a Economic Report nearby green area. Many living organisms were observed and it was Employees taking part in the study Map of Risks (Biodiversity Loss Due to Business Activities) and Initiatives (Biodiversity Conservation) (Loss-of-biodiversity risk) Design for Chemical substance emissions into Environment • Loss of habitat the atmosphere, water and soil • Introduction of foreign species Environmental preservation activities • Pollution • Climate change • Excessive consumption Design for Products Environment Intermediate products Use Renewable resources Production/ Energy resources Processing Waste Substance introduction Petrochemical /removal resources Land reform Land use (plant construction, etc.) Chemical substance emissions into the Raw atmosphere, water and soil materials Recovery (Loss-of-biodiversity risk) • Loss of habitat • Introduction of foreign species Green Recycling • Pollution procurement • Climate change Design for Design for Environment • Excessive consumption Environment TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 50 Environment, Safety and Health Report Environmental Management 2 Promoting Design For Environment and the Design for Environment Approval System Design for Environment We established the Teijin Group Design for Environment Guidelines in January 2008, and we design our products based on comprehensive evaluations of their impact on the environment throughout their life cycles. Using a special checklist, we evaluate Basic Stance new/improved designs of products, manufacturing processes and IT The Teijin Group defines Design for Environment services. We review various measures to reduce environmental as product design that aims to reduce the impact and apply the results of these reviews in product design. environmental impact of each product through evaluating the overall environmental impact Furthermore, we operate an original Design for Environment throughout the product life cycle including Approval System, under which 31 products have received Design for procurement, production, use and disposal. In Environment approval. Even after approval, we conduct product addition, we use a unique system of labelling liability/quality assurance audits, and make decisions on whether to products that have received Design for Environment renew or withdraw approvals. approval with the “Earth Symphony®” logo, aiming to raise public awareness of our Design for Environment products. Summary of the Design for Environment Evaluation Checklist 1. Safety 2. Energy saving Corporate Code of Conduct 3. Resource saving 2. Coexistence with the global environment 4. Environmental conservation The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, 5. Provision of information to exist in harmony with the natural environment and to cherish nature and life. 6. Environmental impact reduction in the manufacturing stage Under the six major items, there are sub-items and spaces for Reference information on website scoring evaluations. The checklist is available in three versions with sub-items/spaces for scoring evaluation relating to either raw materials/materials, finished products, or IT services. Web • List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for Environment Approval 51 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Design for Environment Approved Products Supporting Widespread Use of the Guidelines for “Earth Symphony®” Calculating Avoided CO2 Emissions F Y2012 See website for more detailed information F Y2012 The Teijin Group has been participating in an LCA working group of Social Report “Earth Symphony®” is the name displayed as a logo on products that the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA) since FY2011. In have received Design for Environment approval. In June 2010, “Earth FY2012, we worked hard to promote the widespread use, both Symphony®” became a registered trademark of the Teijin Group (in internally and externally, of guidelines for calculating avoided CO2 Japan). The aim is to promote widespread awareness of Design for emissions of chemical products using the c-LCA method. Moreover, Environment in an easy-to-understand way both internally and as part of this same working group, we reevaluated the c-LCA externally. The “Earth Symphony®” logo is displayed on approved evaluation results based on these guidelines, and a report called “Life products in various situations. Cycle Assessments of Chemical Products in Japan and Overseas” Since FY2011, we have been continuing with processes to (JCIA report, 2nd Ed.) was published (in Japanese) introducing register the name overseas in order to increase global awareness. In specific examples (10 in Japan, 4 overseas) of avoided CO2 emissions. FY2011, it was registered in the EU, China and Singapore, and in Through the International Council of Chemical Associations Environment, Safety FY2012, in India and Indonesia. (ICCA), we are assisting in efforts to establish global chemical sector In addition, in FY2012, there was an approval application from guidelines for calculating avoided CO2 emissions, and we are Teijin Aramid B.V. in the Netherlands for a pulp that uses recycled committed to expansion of these guidelines to the industry worldwide. and Health Report aramid fibers. This was the first time for an overseas group company Besides this, Teijin Limited is also participating in an LCA to apply for approval, and is a sign that awareness is gradually working group of the Japan Chemical Fibers Association (JCFA). increasing at overseas group companies. Economic Report This logo is used to promote awareness among the general public of our initiative for harmonization with the global environment through environmentally conscious corporate activities based on the Teijin Group Design for Environment Guidelines. Showcase of Products that Have Received Design for Environment Approval Close-up 1 REFTEL® Close-up 2 Tenax® REFTEL® is a highly transparent and heat-reflective insulating film Tenax ® is a carbon fiber used in applications such as automobiles, which enables energy-savings through improving the temperature aircraft and the blades of wind power generators for its conditions near windows. It provides a level of brightness not high-strength, high tensile modulus and lightweight characteristics. attainable with other materials such as evaporated aluminum film, and Use of Tenax ® carbon fiber leads to reductions in weight and power possesses superior durability/thermal insulation and high transparency. consumption, thereby contributing to reduction of CO2 emissions. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 52 Environment, Safety and Health Report Environmental Management 3 Contributing to the Realization of a EN26 Low-carbon Society Developing Environmental Businesses Technologies, Promoting Products F Y2012 Carbon Fiber and Polycarbonate Resin Contributing to Weight Reductions in Transportation In order to realize lighter automobile bodies and aircraft fuselages, and Basic Stance thereby contribute to enhanced fuel efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions, With the ultimate aim of helping solve global the Teijin Group is working hard to develop and increase the widespread environmental issues, we are utilizing our use of Tenax® carbon fiber, composite materials that use Tenax®, and technologies cultivated over many years to focus efforts on developing cutting-edge materials Panlite® polycarbonate resin, materials which are more lightweight and that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, stronger than conventional materials such as iron, aluminum and glass. recycling technologies that enable reuse of water In 2011, we established a mass-production technology enabling and other resources, as well as wider adoption of components that use thermoplastic carbon fiber reinforced plastic our products. (CFRP) to be molded in less than one minute. We also designed a concept car with a thermoplastic CFRP body structure that weighs a mere 47 kg, approximately one-fifth the weight of a steel structure, Corporate Code of Conduct showing that incredible weight reductions can be realized. 2. Coexistence with the global environment The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, to exist in harmony with the natural environment and to cherish For more information on our automotive products, please see the News Flash on pages 17–18. nature and life. Mediumto Long-term Management Vision Weight Reductions of Body through Use of Thermoplastic CFRP and “CHANGE for 2016” the Resulting Spiral Effect As a basic policy, press forward with growth strategies in green Automobile chemistry and provide sustainable value in the form of solutions. Body weighing 1,100 kg Engine Weight reduction spiral Transmission Electric Steering components Brake Suspension Other 35% components 710 kg reduction in total Promoting the Spread of Renewable-energy-related Products Teijin Group products are making vital contributions in renewable energy fields where CO2 is not emitted at the time of power generation, such as photovoltaic (PV) and wind power generation. For example, in PV generation, PET film is used in back sheets of PV panels. Furthermore, through use of silicon nano-ink, currently under development, for power generation materials, we will aim for improved productivity leading to cost reductions. In wind power generation, Tenax ® carbon fiber enables larger wind turbine blades, contributing to improved power generation efficiency. 53 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Teijin Group Environmental Businesses • Wind turbines • LED lighting Weight (carbon fiber) • Organic EL related materials reduction Social Report • Highly transparent & heat reflective insulating film (carbon fiber) • Photovoltaic panels (PET/PEN films, silicon nano-ink) • Wastewater treatment Weight reduction (carbon fiber, polycarbonate resin) • Flue gas NOx/SOx • Closed-loop recycling system equipment • Bioplastics removal equipment • Bioplastics Environment, Safety and Health Report Promoting the Spread of Energy-efficiency-related Products The Teijin Group provides various products that facilitate further advances in energy efficiency. A shining example of this is the LIELSORT ® separator for lithium-ion secondary batteries used in large storage batteries and electric vehicles. LIELSORT® is an innovative separator that realizes astoundingly higher capacity without deteriorating under high voltage. In June 2012, we started production of these separators at a joint venture in South Korea. Economic Report A further addition to our product line-up as of January 2013 is a polycarbonate resin sheet that realizes the world’s highest level of MSABP ® flame resistance and transparency as a LED lighting material, and contributes to enhanced performance and safety of LED lighting. See pages 13–16 for our feature on ECO CIRCLE ™ Contributing to Realization of a EN26 Recycling-oriented Society Developing Towards Expansion of Technologies, Promoting Products F Y2012 Environmental Businesses F Y2012 Expanding our Wastewater Treatment Business in Japan and Overseas Utilizing the knowledge gained through experiencing the The Teijin Group promotes recycling/reuse of wastewater through its environmental problems during Japan’s period of rapid economic wastewater treatment business. The core technology of our wastewater growth, the Teijin Group proposes products and services that purification treatment system is the multistage activated biological process contribute to reducing environmental impact in emerging countries (MSABP®). As well as purifying wastewater via microorganisms, MSABP® in Asia and other regions where strong economic growth is expected. uses the microbial food chain to control the generation of excess sludge. As part of this, in March 2013, we participated as an exhibitor at MSABP® has been highly evaluated for its sludge volume reduction, the Eco-products International Fair, one of the largest international low maintenance, low power consumption and low cost, and its use is environmental exhibitions in Asia. This year, our exhibition booth continuing to expand in emerging countries such as Angola and China, showcased solutions where urbanization and industrialization is progressing. In FY2012, under the main MSABP ® was adopted as part of a package contract in Shenyang city, themes of “clean China as equipment that can realize ideal decentralized treatment. transportation,” We have also developed technologies for wastewater reuse, including “effective use of ELCAT®, an electro catalytic method, and HiPOx®, an advanced oxidation resources” and water treatment. Besides these technologies, we also provide total solutions “enhancing quality that include wastewater analysis, assessment and consulting services. of life.” Eco-products International Fair TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 54 Environment, Safety and Health Report Disaster Prevention Activities System to Promote Disaster Prevention Management The Teijin Group is engaged in disaster prevention management and has established group-wide Disaster Prevention Guidelines. For each fiscal year, we design plans based on these guidelines relating to preventative measures such as disaster prevention assessment, fire Basic Stance prevention and earthquake countermeasures as well as disaster In order to prevent accidents and disasters such prevention training, drills and upgrading of fire prevention equipment. as explosions, fires, and leaks/spills of hazardous Business groups manage the implementation status and substances, we adhere strictly to disaster prevention management standards, and we are achievements of these disaster prevention activities, and they give committed to preventative action/recurrence guidance to improve any areas of non-compliance. The results of prevention including earthquake/tsunami this are then audited by the Chief Social Responsibility Officer at the countermeasures. end of each fiscal year. Corporate Code of Conduct Activities Aimed at Realizing Zero 1. Respect human life and give due consideration to safety and Serious Accidents F Y2012 health concerns Aiming to realize zero serious accidents such as explosions, fires, and The Teijin Group has respect for human life and strives to maintain people´s safety and health at all stages of its business activities. leaks/spills of hazardous substances, we are enhancing disaster prevention management group-wide. In FY2012, at another companies’ chemical plants in Japan, there were multiple accidents involving fires caused by explosions. Information regarding the accident circumstances, cause and countermeasures were shared among our factories and we implemented group-wide measures to prevent a similar accident. Activities such as these enabled us to achieve zero serious accidents. Trends in the Number of Serious Accidents and Disasters Explosions/Fires Leaks/Spills/Other (Number of events) 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) • Figures are calculated based on calendar years. Implementing Disaster Prevention Assessments F Y2012 The Teijin Group has been conducting disaster prevention assessments since 1980 and mini disaster prevention assessments since 2008 in line with our own independent standards. In disaster prevention assessments, safety is assessed every five years by experts in manufacturing, facilities and environment, safety and health at a total of 20 plants in Japan and internationally. These are plants where large amounts of high-pressure gases or hazardous substances are handled. In FY2012, we trialed facility earthquake-resistance 55 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 assessments/countermeasures, which we plan to systemize in FY2013. Fire Prevention Activities Mini disaster prevention assessments mainly examine fire prevention, focusing on locations where there may be a risk of F Y2012 small-scale fires, such as near boilers and places where hazardous Since 2008, November 10 has been the Teijin Group Fire Prevention Social Report materials and combustibles are stored (20 factories). In FY2012, as Day. On this day each company conducts its own fire prevention planned, we conducted a disaster prevention assessment at one activities as well as group-wide activities such as the periodical fire plant and mini disaster prevention assessments at six factories. prevention check. These activities are shared group-wide, helping to strengthen the fire prevention system. Trends in the Number of Disaster-prevention-assessed Plants Disaster prevention assessments (Number of events) 20 Mini disaster prevention assessments TOPICS 17 Focusing on Fire Prevention Activities at Teijin Limited’s Matsuyama Factory 10 Environment, Safety 8 7 7 At the Teijin Limited Matsuyama Factory, as activities for Fire 5 5 5 6 4 2 2 2 Prevention Day, in addition to communicating the factory and Health Report 0 0 1 manager’s message, all divisions conducted the following 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) activities: 1) fire prevention talk from division manager, 2) fire prevention patrol, 3) fire prevention training, 4) disaster prevention drill, 5) inspection based on fire prevention Activities of the Specialist Disaster management checklist, 6) check of update status of fire Prevention Team F Y2012 extinguishers and 7) independent fire prevention activities of each division. Besides these activities, we are proceeding The Teijin Group has set-up a team consisting of current/former with plans to enable all factory employees to undergo training employees and external experts who have vast knowledge and involving actual use of fire extinguishers. As a result of these experience in disaster prevention. This specialist disaster prevention activities, the fire-prevention awareness of each and every Economic Report team works to upgrade Teijin Group disaster prevention both in employee is increased, laying the foundation for a serious Japan and overseas, through providing technical support for approach to fire prevention and the ongoing result of zero fires. voluntary disaster prevention activities at our chemical plants and in-house power generation plants. In FY2012, the team provided guidance to the division responsible for implementing disaster prevention assessments and supported accident-prevention measures being put into practice at each plant. In addition, the team decided the content of group-wide measures in response to accidents involving fires caused by explosions at another company’s chemical plant. Training involving actual use of fire extinguishers Disaster Prevention Management Skills Training F Y2012 Earthquake Countermeasures With the objective of developing managers who possess both knowledge of disaster prevention and practical on-the-spot F Y2012 capabilities, we held disaster prevention management skills training In order to minimize damage caused by a large-scale earthquake, starting in May 2012 and running for approximately one year. This we conduct earthquake-resistance assessments and we are time, 20 participants completed the program, which discussed the continuing with measures for the 19 buildings that were found not main themes of disaster prevention skills related to operation/facility to comply with a 2006 revision of the Promotion of Building management, training through hands-on experience and case Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law. examples of accidents. After completing the training, participants In FY2011, we finished reinforcing the earthquake-resistance of one wrote a short essay on the topic of how they would apply what they building, and in FY2012, we made plans to implement measures for the had learned in the training in their respective divisions and they will remaining 18 buildings. We plan to complete earthquake-reinforcement report on the results of this in a year’s time. measures by the end of March, 2015. TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 56 Environment, Safety and Health Report Occupational Safety and Health Promoting the Three Pillars of Safety Activities LA9 In order to prevent occupational accidents, the Teijin Group has established three pillars of safety activities: the “5S” initiative (five Japanese words [seiri, seiton, seisou, seiketsu and shitsuke] which correspond to organization, tidiness, cleaning, hygiene and discipline), the “Hiyari-Hatto” Basic Stance (meaning close call or near miss) initiative and safety patrols. A company cannot hope to grow sustainably Utilizing the information obtained through these activities, we without ensuring the occupational safety and aim to enhance individual awareness of risks, and communication in health and hygiene of its employees. In order to provide workplace environments that consider the workplace. safety and health, we are taking steps to realize zero occupational accidents, redress long working hours and improve the mental health of Initiatives Aiming for Prevention of Lost LA7 employees by implementing the necessary Time Injuries F Y2012 improvement measures. In FY2012, the Teijin Group set a target to maintain the annual lost time injury frequency rates* to under 0.25, promoted the three pillars of our safety activities, shared occupational accident Corporate Code of Conduct information and applied it group-wide, and conducted ESH training 1. Respect human life and give due consideration to safety and and guidance in Japan and overseas. health concerns The Teijin Group has respect for human life and strives to maintain However, the target was not achieved, with lost time injury people’s safety and health at all stages of its business activities. frequency rates for the 2012 calendar year of 0.32 in Japan, 0.28 overseas, and 0.30 group-wide. Of the occupational accidents, in regard to the accidents involving being caught in rotors (accidents Reference information on website caused by rotors) that occurred at Teijin Group factories in • Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification December 2012 and February 2013, we strengthened Web • Teijin Group Health Walk Held recurrence-prevention measures. • Preventing Nano-material-related Health Problems In FY2013, we will continue aiming to maintain the annual lost time injury frequency rates to under 0.25, and focus especially on activities to prevent accidents caused by rotors and damage to health caused by chemical substances. * Lost time injury frequency rate: The number of occupational accidents resulting in leave of absence per one million working hours. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates Japan Overseas Teijin Group Manufacturing industry average (Japan) Chemical industry average (Japan) 1.2 1.12 1.05 1.0 0.99 0.98 1.00* 0.88 0.84 0.85* 0.8 0.72 0.72 0.4 0.35 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.32(Japan) 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.25 0.30(Teijin Group) 0.2 0.32 0.28(Overseas) 0.22 0.20 0.0 0.11 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) • Figures are calculated based on calendar years. * Source: Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, Japan: Survey on Industrial Accidents. 57 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Enhance Recognition of the Three LA9 Enhancing Mental Health LA8 Major Occupational Accident Measures/Preventative Action for Lifestyle Prevention Guidelines F Y2012 Diseases to Ensure Health and Hygiene Social Report The three major kinds of occupational accidents have been specified The Health Care Administration Office is responsible for as: 1) accidents involving being caught in rotors, 2) accidents involving planning/promoting health management measures of Group employees contact or collision with transport equipment, and 3) falls or slips on in Japan. Every month, the Health Care Administration Office collects data walkways or staircases, and we have established prevention on the mental health of employees and reports to the management and guidelines for these three major kinds of occupational accidents. each business. It also diagnoses stress levels at all workplaces every March, In FY2012, in order to enhance recognition of these guidelines, and for workplaces where health risk values exceed the Teijin Group an overview of the guidelines was given at each training session and workplace improvement standard, it proposes improvement activities (e.g., at audits in Japan. Additionally, in order to apply recurrence-prevention setting times for bosses to communicate information/hold discussions). measures for accidents caused by rotors, we created a checklist in In April 2008, it became mandatory for health insurance providers accordance with the guidelines. As a trial, in December 2012, we in Japan to provide specific medical check-ups and guidance (also Environment, Safety started checking the status of safety measures at some relevant known as metabolic syndrome check-ups/health guidance). Under business units. In FY2013, we plan to review the checklist based on the national standard, all employees aged 40 or over are subject to the the results of this trial, and apply it group-wide. check-ups. However, the Teijin Group encourages check-ups for all its and Health Report employees regardless of age. Check-ups are conducted by industry medical staff at head offices and other business sites on a group or Group-wide Sharing of Occupational LA9 individual basis, and ongoing support is provided for six months. Accident Information and Responses at the Time of an Accident F Y2012 Diagnosis of Stress Levels at All LA8 Information relating to all occupational accidents resulting in lost Workplaces and Enhancing the time due to injury that occur at Teijin Group companies is distributed via an Intranet to enable these experiences to be used as a reference, Individual Counseling System F Y2012 Economic Report and to help prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. The Health Care Administration Office diagnoses stress levels at all In particular, in the case that the circumstances and cause of the workplaces every March. For workplaces where health risk values accident satisfy the requirements for a special audit as described in exceed the Teijin Group workplace improvement standard, it proposes the ESH Audit Regulations, a special audit is performed with the improvement activities matched to the workplace (e.g., setting times Teijin Group ESH Subcommittee Chairperson as the auditor. Special for bosses to communicate information/hold discussions at audits check the status of onsite investigations to determine the weekly/monthly meetings). In FY2012, we diagnosed stress levels at cause of the accidents, the progress of recurrence-prevention 796 workplaces, proposed improvement measures for 63 workplaces measures and whether or not there are any points for improvement. and implemented improvement measures at 59 workplaces. The two accidents caused by rotors that occurred at Teijin In FY2013, we plan to coordinate with human resource managers Group factories in FY2012 satisfied the requirements for a special to promote assertive/active mental health measures, such as regular audit, and special audits were carried out in May 2013. meetings/talks/surveys, targeting employees in environments where work-related problems are relatively more likely to occur such as workplaces with high workloads. TOPICS Posting Useful Health Advice on Our Intranet Since November 2012, we have been running a health advice column that explains issues relating to mentality and problem-solving skills. Intranet Health-advice column TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 58 Economic Report Distribution of Added Value Distribution Results in FY2012 4.14 EC1 to Stakeholders The added value obtained in FY2012 was distributed to major stakeholders as follows. The total amount of added value was calculated by subtracting expenses for transportation, R&D, marketing promotion and Basic Stance tenancy, tariffs, depreciation, and other selling, general and There are a wide range of stakeholders in the Teijin administrative expenses (SGA) from gross operating profit (net sales Group. With this in mind, as the social responsibility minus cost of sales), and adding independently calculated social of the Teijin Group, we place importance on maintaining a profit through our business, and contribution expenses and environmental preservation expenses. distributing the resulting added value to These final two expenses are included in either other SGA or stakeholders in an appropriate manner. manufacturing costs. Additionally, social contribution expenses include the use of company facilities by local residents and services provided by employees converted to a monetary value. For Corporate Code of Conduct distribution of added value, the stakeholder classification is listed as 2. Coexistence with the global environment “local communities.” The Teijin Group aspires to ensure society´s sustainable development, to exist in harmony with the natural environment and to cherish nature and life. Percent Allocation of Added Value to Stakeholders 3. Contribute to society and support the development of local The environment Shareholders communities 11.0% 5.1% The Teijin Group contributes through its business operations to the Local communities development of the economy of the countries or regions in which it locates its bases. In addition, from the perspective of promoting 1.3% Administrative Employees mutually beneficial coexistence with society, the Teijin Group conducts organizations appropriate activities to contribute to society as a responsible (national and local 72.6% governments) corporate citizen, and actively participates in and supports the fields 5.5% of science, education, culture, and athletics, as well as preservation of Creditors the environment, prevention of disasters, and rescue operations. (financial institutions) 5. Respect stakeholders 4.5% In conducting its operations, the Teijin Group respects the interests of its stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, local community residents and others, and strives to engage in dialogue with them. In addition, with the exception of trade secrets Trends in Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders and other confidential information, the Teijin Group is committed to disclosing publicly, in an appropriate manner, any information that is Gross operating profit both related to its operations and important to society. (Billions of yen) 229.3 225 225.2 7. Respect the personality and individuality of employees The Teijin Group respects the personality and individuality of its employees and accepts their diversity including nationality, gender, 200 191.9 190.5 religion and attributes. The Teijin Group also secures safe and 108.2 comfortable working environments, while encouraging its employees 100 4.9 to realize an affordable and fulfilling lifestyle. Total 95.5 42.8 5.9 Total 42.4 Shareholders 2.0 75 53.9 3.9 Reference information on website Company (Teijin Company Limited) 59.4 (Teijin 50 -37.9 4.4 Limited) -34.1 Web • Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Employees 54.2 Creditors 5.8 12.0 0.9 55.5 25 Administrative Company 4.9 organizations (national and 7.8 (Teijin Limited) 9.9 3.4 local governments) 22.4 1.2 4.2 Local communities 1.0 6.1 1.0 0 The environment 9.9 9.7 8.1 8.4 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 59 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Independent Assurance Report TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 60 Economic Report Environment, Safety Social Report and Health Report Opinions from Third Parties (Opinions from Experts) Aim for CSR Activities with Practical Meaning Considering Interest/ Mainly on Corporate Governance and Corporate Ethics Issue Differences in Japan and Overseas Firstly, the report has become much easier to Countermeasures Sheet used in risk read overall. This year, the report states the management. The originality of the activities and Basic CSR Policy, and then the basic stance for Teijin’s seriousness about these issues are clear. each item. Each activity is an expansion of the There is also room for further ideas outlined in the basic stance so the improvement. In this year’s report, Teijin has relevance is very clear. For employees too, I shown awareness that it is reporting as a think the report will be very satisfying because global company by including a comparative it shows the positioning of activities they are table with ISO 26000. In regard to the involved in in a well-organized manner. initiative to self-evaluate activities at their Summarizing information posted on the current stage in accordance with ISO 26000, I website for each item is also effective. It is easy would like Teijin to be aware that issues and Yoshinari Koyama, Ph.D. (Commerce) to see how the report and website link the content of activities may differ from one Professor of Business Administration, College of together and I can see the ingenuity and region to another, even for the same theme. Economics Kanto Gakuin University efforts that have gone into improving the For example, human rights activities is an After serving as an assistant professor at the School of layout according to each medium. internationally important theme but the Commerce of Yamanashi Gakuin University and associate professor at the College of Economics of Improvements have also been made with feelings toward human rights are substantially Kanto Gakuin University, Dr. Koyama assumed his respect to providing more details on each different between Japan and other countries. current position in 2010. He is also a senior researcher at the Business Ethics Research Center and a part-time individual initiative, one of the issues I pointed Next year, I would like Teijin to aim for lecturer at the School of Business Administration of out last year. For instance, there is detailed activities that have more practical meaning Yokohama National University. He is the author of many literary works including “CSR Management” reporting of the training materials for the by demonstrating the differences between published by HAKUTO-SHOBO Publishing Co., “Gendai Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees Japan and overseas in terms of requirements CSR Keiei Youron” (Modern CSR Management Summary) published by SOSEISHA Co. and “Nihon no and the content of changes in the Risk and responses. Kigyou Rinri” (Corporate Ethics in Japan) published by HAKUTO-SHOBO Publishing Co. Moving Beyond an “Activity Report” to Becoming a New Mainly on Environmental Preservation Activities “Future-oriented Report” Last year, regarding compliance with ISO 26000, participating companies in the section showing I pointed out the need to check Teijin’s initiatives the ten-year history. against each of the 37 issues. Progress has been In addition, I suggest a review of item 2 of made this year in the form of self-evaluations in the CSR Basic Policy where it states “as a ‘CSR the comparative table with ISO 26000. The next champion’ in Teijin’s way” because it is step is to extract issues from those self-evaluations. ambiguous and misleading. Clarifying the sufficiencies and insufficiencies of What I expect from Teijin hereafter is a initiatives will show readers that Teijin is making “future-oriented report” that is wittingly purposeful efforts to improve and will make the integrated. Presently, the report only goes as far report more convincing. as being a summary of the activities undertaken The report has also been improved in that in the year gone by. Setting achievement Masahiko Kawamura Senior Research Fellow, Insurance Research Group, it shows the Corporate Code of Conduct and targets for future initiatives and clarifying short-, NLI Research Institute basic stance for each item, clearly showing the mediumand long-term implementation Mr. Kawamura graduated from the Graduate School of starting point and target point of activities. In challenges will give readers a clear picture of the Engineering, Kyushu University. After being engaged in offshore oil-related project management at MODEC, Inc., terms of content, the feature on ECO CIRCLE™ is future and will provide employees with he joined NLI Research Institute in 1988. His research has commendable. It represents a challenge indicators of the progress of each activity. centered on environmental management, environmental ratings, corporate social responsibility, and environmental undertaken to resolve social and environmental For this purpose, I suggest introducing a business. Mr. Kawamura is the author of many papers issues through Teijin’s main business. In CSR, typical key performance indicator (KPI). Doing so including “CSR Keiei de Nani wo Mezasu no ka?” (What to Aim for in CSR Management), “CSR Houkokusho Kara there is often an impression that the social would be very effective to promote global Tougou Houkokusho e” (From a CSR report to an contributions and main business do not link to business as it provides a common indicator for Integrated Report), “CSV wa CSR no Shinkakei Darou ka?” (Is CSV an Evolved Form of CSR?) and other publications such each other, but for the ECO CIRCLE™ project, countries with different cultures and languages. as “Kankyou Keiei Nyuumon—Sustainable Management much can be expected from both environmental The process would be to implement the PDCA wo Mezashite” (An Introduction to Environmental Management—Aiming for Sustainable Management) and business perspectives. The only thing I think cycle using a KPI as the target and then to present (Nippon Kogyo Shimbun), “SRI to Atarashii Kigyou/Kinyuu” needed improving was to show the changes in the results in a report. I look forward to seeing (SRI and New Corporations/Finance) (Toyo Keizai Inc.), and “Carbon Disclosure” (Zeimukeiri Kyokai Co., Ltd.). recycled volume in addition to the number of such a report based on a new model of reporting. 61 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 Endeavor to Become Transnational and Bring Together Positive Mainly on Human Resources and Labor Management Elements From Each Region of the World Last year, I pointed out the importance of the globally shared values/standards could then response to cultural diversity as a global be created from these points in common. corporation and made suggestions such as From a transnational perspective, the introducing a personnel system operated ratio of females in managerial positions at according to the same standards globally. This Teijin is not high. In other Asian countries and year, I would like to additionally propose a in the West, it has become a matter of course viewpoint that could be important for such that there are women in important positions. initiatives to progress. That is, rather than Having said that, there is no sense in simply basing everything on the values of a specific aiming to improve the ratio of females in place, such as head office in Japan, the starting managerial positions. The important point is point should be to respect each country’s whether females can serve out their Kohji Okubayashi, Ph.D. culture and to bring together the positive managerial positions. It will be necessary to (Business Administration) elements of each region. The reason I say this is consider work–life balance and make efforts Vice President & Professor, Faculty of Business Administration, DBA, Osaka International University because of the strong effect that foreign to enhance motivation. After serving as a visiting researcher at the University of cultures will have on Japan as globalization Furthermore, whether talking about men California, Berkeley, Dr. Okubayashi was a visiting fellow accelerates and the exchange of human or women, promoting work–life balance of at the Industrial Relations Research Institute, the University of Wisconsin, a professor at the School of resources with other countries in Asia and in employees is linked to their subsistence, Business Administration at Kobe University, and a other regions around the world increases. which is in itself linked to the sustainability of visiting professor at Aix-Marseille Université. He was Vice President of Setsunan University, and then assumed his I would like Teijin to aim to become society. A relationship is established where the present post in April 2012. Dr. Okubayashi is the author transnational in the sense of going beyond company provides employees with a of many books including “Nyuumon. Jinteki Shigen Kanri” (Introduction to Human Resources Management) national borders. The wider the variety of sustainable working environment and published by Chuokeizai-sha and “Kyuu-Sorenpo no cultures included in this process, the easier it employees contribute to the sustainable Roudou” (Labor in the Former Soviet Union) published by Chuokeizai-sha, and “Keiken Kara Manabu Keieigaku will be to see points in common. Teijin’s development of society and the company. Nyuumon” (Introduction to Business Administration Learned from Experience) published by Yuhikaku. It Is Necessary to Be Aware of, Review and Appeal to What Teijin’s Mainly on Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Activities Are Last year, I suggested that priority fields and reviewing once again how it perceives social the breakdown of categories be organized contributions. Generally speaking, the appropriately. In response to this suggestion, objective of companies is to achieve profits. organization has been carried out based on My perspective of this is that the objective of two key areas: “Supporting local community companies should be to realize affluence and development” and “Fostering volunteer comfort in people’s lives, and contribute to personnel.” It would also be good to take one developing society. Profits should only be a step further in regard to the activities in means to achieve this. From this perspective, various regions reported in “Supporting local Teijin aims to create a better society not only community development.” That is, I would like through what are generally recognized as Teijin to identify issues that need to be social contribution activities but also through Yoko Takahashi President, Japan Philanthropic Association addressed in local community development their main business, a prime example being Ms. Takahashi joined the Japan Philanthropic as well as initiatives to resolve the issues. For ECO CIRCLE™. Projects such as ECO CIRCLE™, Association in 1991 after serving as a high school example, the cases in this year’s report and on which has evolved steadily and been teacher and a psychologist. After positions as a director and the secretary-general, she assumed her the website clearly show a focus on sound expanded in partnership with stakeholders, present post in 2001. Ms. Takahashi is the author of development of young people. This could be are social contribution activities worthy of “Philanthropy Nyuumon” (Introduction to Philanthropy) (Kainan Shobo), “Rokujussai Kara no positioned as a priority theme and introduced special mention. I would like Teijin to take a Iki-iki Volunteer Nyuumon” (Introduction to Becoming along with relevant social issues. wider perspective on how it perceives its own an Active Volunteer After Reaching Sixty) (Nippon Kajo Shuppan) and “Shakai Koken e Youkoso” Teijin organizes CSR activities into three social contributions and present this as a more (Introduction to Social Contributions) (Kyuryudo). categories and positions social contributions convincing message. I am sure doing so will as Selective CSR. However, this may give the foster greater pride among employees and impression that Teijin only conducts social further increase the number of Teijin contribution activities if it has the supporters. time/resources. I suggest that Teijin considers TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 62 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 This table introduces Teijin Group activities as they apply to the seven core subjects of ISO 26000, international standards for social responsibility. Reference Core subjects Issues Activities page(s) CSR Management P19–22 Organizational Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations P23–26 1. Organizational governance governance Corporate Governance P27–28 Compliance and Risk Management P29–30 1. Due diligence Risk Management P29–30 2. Human rights risk situations — 3. Avoidance of complicity CSR Procurement P37–38 4. Resolving grievances Counseling and Reporting System P30 Human rights 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups Promoting Diversity Among Employees P34–35 6. Civil and political rights Corporate Ethics Month Campaign P36 7. Economic, social and cultural rights Human Resources Management P33–36 Corporate Ethics Month Campaign P36 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work Human Resources Management P33–36 CSR Procurement P37–38 1. Employment and employment relationships Human Resources Management P33–36 2. Conditions of work and social protection Human Resources Management P33–36 3. Social dialogue Maintaining Sound Industrial Relationships Website Labour practices 4. Health and safety at work Occupational Safety and Health P57–58 Human Resources Development P33–34 5. Human development and training in the workplace Risk Management P29–30 Disaster Prevention Activities P55–56 Environmental Preservation (Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions) P47–48 1. Prevention of pollution Preventing Soil/Groundwater Pollution P49 Compliance and Risk Management P29–30 Environmental Preservation (Reducing/Managing Waste) P49 The 2. Sustainable resource use Design for Environment P51–52 environment Environmental Businesses P53–54 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation Environmental Preservation (Climate Change Initiatives) P45–47 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of Biodiversity Conservation P50 natural habitats Social Contributions P39–40 1. Anti-corruption Compliance and Risk Management P29–30 2. Responsible political involvement Compliance and Risk Management P29–30 Fair operating 3. Fair competition Compliance and Risk Management P29–30 practices 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain CSR Procurement P37–38 5. Respect for property rights Compliance and Risk Management P29–30 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Efforts to Ensure Customer Satisfaction Website contractual practices 2. Protecting consumers' health and safety Quality Assurance P31–32 Design for Environment P51–52 3. Sustainable consumption Environmental Businesses P53–54 Consumer issues 4. Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Quality Assurance P31–32 5. Consumer data protection and privacy Information Security Website 6. Access to essential services Efforts to Ensure Customer Satisfaction Website 7. Education and awareness Efforts to Ensure Customer Satisfaction Website 1. Community involvement Social Contributions P39–40 2. Education and culture Social Contributions P39–40 3. Employment creation and skills development Social Contributions P39–40 Community involvement 4. Technology development and access — and development 5. Wealth and income creation — 6. Health Social Contributions P39–40 7. Social investment — 63 TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 List of Website References Information that could not be included due to space limitations has been published on our website. http://www.teijin.com/csr/ Detailed Contents of this report Reference information on website Website only content on website • PDCA Cycle of Compliance and Risk Management Activities • Group-wide Application of Corporate Ethics and Compliance • Check Sheets to Survey All Employees at the Corporate Ethics Workshop Compliance and Risk Management • Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey • TOPICS • Information Security Quality Assurance • Examples of Efforts to Ensure Customer Satisfaction • Determining the Status of Group-wide Labor Management • Mediumto Long-term Personnel Plan • Teijin Group Basic Human Resources Policy Social Report Human Resources Management and • Human Resources Development Labor CSR • Job Rotation/Transfer System • Maintaining Sound Industrial Relationships • Employee Satisfaction Survey • Data on Human Resources • Green Procurement/Purchasing CSR Procurement • Management of Contractors and Work Contracts • Other Cases of Supporting the Development of Local Communities • Other Cases of Fostering Volunteer Personnel Social Contributions • Breakdown of Spending on Social Contribution Activities in FY2012 • Support of Disaster-affected Areas ESH Management (Environmental • Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual ESH General Assembly Preservation, Safety and Disaster • Breakdown of ESH-related Costs of the Teijin Group in FY2012 Prevention, and Health) • Current Status of Teijin Group Management System Certifications Environmental Management 1 • Teijin Group environmental input/output (Trends in the past five years) Environment, Environmental Preservation Safety and Health Report Environmental Management 2 • List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for Environment Approval Design for Environment • Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification Occupational Safety and Health • Teijin Group Health Walk Held • Preventing Nano-material-related Health Problems Economic Distribution of Added Value to • Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders Report Stakeholders Editor’s Postscript In conducting its operations, the Teijin Group respects the interests of relate to ISO 26000 core subjects and conducted a its stakeholders and strives to engage in dialogue with them. In self-inspection. We will continue to make efforts to improve in FY2012, we had an opportunity to exchange opinions regarding relation to these issues. supply chains with stakeholders in the Netherlands. We reconfirmed 2. Regarding policies for CSR activities, we listed the basic stance the fact that there are different regional issues to be addressed even and relevant parts of the Corporate Code of Conduct for each under the same theme, and we were also able to identify issues for item in order to clarify the objectives of group activities. the whole group. Working towards the realization of “Human 3. To make the report easier to read, we used a dramatically different Chemistry, Human Solutions” as our promise to society and our page design this time. We used two-page spreads for each item customers, we will continue active communications with stakeholders and reduced the number of words per page. There is also a guide in various countries and fields. We wish to take this opportunity to to relevant information appearing on our website for each item. thank all stakeholders who were kind enough to provide their Finally, this year, we were once again permitted to use the real valuable opinions. names of many individuals, suppliers, NPOs and other organizations. The Teijin Group CSR Report contains opinions from third parties All of these groups and individuals understand the objectives of our given every year by experts in four fields. The advice was useful in CSR reports well, and willingly cooperated in enabling us to disclose helping us to improve not only our CSR report but also all CSR this information. We would like to take this opportunity to thank activities in general. The following are the points that we improved in everyone for their cooperation and support. this report based on the advice we received last year. 1. For compliance with ISO 26000, we used a comparative table to Corporate Communications Department organize Teijin Group activities for a total of 37 issues as they Teijin Limited J-SUS: Regarding the reliability of the sustainability information published in this CSR report, the J-SUS mark on the back cover is registration proof that the report satisfies the J-SUS mark standards formulated by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://j-sus.org/english.html). TEIJIN CSR Report 2013 64 Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585, Japan Contact: Corporate Communications Department Phone: +81-3-3506-4408 Fax: +81-3-3506-4150 URL: http://www.teijin.com/ Published in September, 2013
