James T. Prokopanko Tel 763-577-2700 President Fax 763-577-2989 Chief Executive Officer 3033 Campus Drive, Suite E490 Plymouth, MN 55441 P. O. Box 5790, MS 190 Minneapolis, MN 55440-5790 USA www.mosaicco.com Reporting Period: Jan.1, 2011-Dec. 31, 2011 Statement of continued support from Jim Prokopanko March 1, 2013 To our stakeholders: In our first annual Communication on Progress (COP), The Mosaic Company affirms our continued support for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. As one of the world’s leading producers and marketers of concentrated phosphate and potash, Mosaic’s mission is to help the world grow the food it needs. Despite rapid change in today’s business environment, our core values remain the same: Integrity, Excellence, Sustainability and Connectivity. These values, aligned with the UNGC’s ten principles, shape our strategies and goals. The Mosaic Company’s first COP highlights our company’s commitment to reinforcing the ten principles across our entire enterprise. The Mosaic Company commits to uphold the highest standard of ethical conduct, environmental stewardship and social responsibility in all we do. We are proud to share our progress since becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Very truly yours, James T. Prokopanko President and CEO, The Mosaic Company Human Rights Principles 1 & 2: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a global company Mosaic aspires to be the employer of choice in the communities around the world in which we operate. Mosaic’s cores values — integrity, excellence, sustainability and connectivity — bring us together as one organization and help us sustain a respectful and inclusive work environment. Mosaic’s employees are richly diverse in their skills, experiences and backgrounds. We are actively working to be more representative of our communities around the world. We purposefully partner, communicate openly with and invest in local and indigenous communities to develop cooperative and mutually beneficial relationships with people of all backgrounds, origins and economic status. In our supply chain, Mosaic encourages local sourcing as a means of supporting local jobs and contributing to economic viability. Additionally, Mosaic seeks to do business only with suppliers who operate ethically, as outlined in the Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. All employees receive Mosaic’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training, which addresses Mosaic's equal treatment rights of similarly situated employees and our intolerance to discrimination of any type, at onboarding and annually for management. Related matters are overseen by a corporate vice president. Mosaic maintains a 24-hour independently administered confidential, anonymous and multilingual hotline and website available to all Mosaic employees to express any concerns. In fiscal 2012, Mosaic published our Commitment to Inclusion, which recognizes and values individual employees’ similarities and differences. We believe that a diverse and inclusive company makes us stronger and better equipped to fulfill our mission. In 2011, Mosaic employees logged 3,844 training hours on Business Conduct and Ethics. Mosaic has had no reported incidents related to rights of indigenous people for the period covered in this communication. Read more about our progress on Principles 1 & 2 in GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3 and HR4. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Mosaic does not have any operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collaborative bargaining are identified as a significant risk. -2Collective bargaining is a form of collaborative employee engagement. At the end of 2011, Mosaic had 10 collective bargaining agreements with unions, covering approximately 91 percent of our hourly employees in the North America and all employees in Brazil. This represents 72 percent of our international workforce. Read more about our progress on Principle 3 in GRI indicators: HR5, LA4 and LA5. Labor Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Mosaic does not have any operations at risk regarding forced or compulsory labor practices. Mosaic adheres to all immigration standards as well as our global hiring and employment policies. Read more about our progress on Principle 4 GRI indicators: HR7. Labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Mosaic does not have any operations that are identified as a significant risk for child labor practices and follows all applicable child labor laws. Mosaic complies with all statutory requirements in the locations where we operate and Mosaic does not yet have a singular human rights policy that addresses issues of child labor. Read more about our progress on Principle 5 in GRI indicators: HR6. Labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Mosaic is strongly committed to assuring that all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, training, promotion, compensation, benefits, transfers, layoffs and leaves of absence, are carried out without regard to race, color, gender, age, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, or (in the US) status of disabled veteran or war veteran, in accordance with all local and national laws and Mosaic’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics states that we must always: Treat everyone fairly, never discriminating on the basis of race, color, sex, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, religious beliefs, job title or on any other unfair basis. Mosaic uses a variety of media sources including Intranet sites, e-screens at plants and mines, and bulletin postings to communicate our corporate stance -3on workplace discrimination. Read more about our progress on Principle 6 in GRI indicators: HR4 and LA10. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Mosaic's crop nutrients play a crucial role in nourishing the crops that are needed to feed our growing global population, and our respect for the earth is fundamental. We demonstrate our commitment to environmental sustainability through our land reclamation and water conservation efforts, our nutrient stewardship and our cogeneration projects. Mosaic works to optimize our production processes and reduce our environmental footprint. We are also committed to educating growers on the sustainable use of our products. Mosaic is the industry leader in advancing the science and practice of reclamation. Returning mined lands to productive uses for both wildlife and people is an integral part of our business. Discussions regarding ecological resource preservation are held between Mosaic and the governing regulatory agencies during the mine permitting application process. Preservation areas can include floodplains, as well as high quality wetland or upland habitats. Such evaluations include the type and quality of the habitat, but also involve balancing the supply of phosphate, an important natural resource against what is generally a temporary disturbance of ecological resources. The Mosaic Environment, Health and Safety Policy communicates our commitment to environmental protection. Additionally, Mosaic published its Sustainability Goals in June of 2012. This document outlines a number of targets for improving water and energy use as well as greenhouse gas emissions. Read more about our progress on Principle 7 in GRI indicators: EN2, EN5, EN7, EN10, EN12, MM1, EN13, MM2, EN15, EN16, EN17 and PR1. Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The Mosaic Company’s core business is an energy-intensive endeavor. Our three-pronged approach of energy management through cogeneration, conservation and greater efficiency aims to lead the industry in reducing the energy we use and maximizing the clean energy we generate. Both our Potash and Phosphates business units are committed to maximizing their use of cogenerated power. The implementation of the Environmental Health and Safety Management System (EHS MS) at our major US, Canadian and Latin American facilities is a milestone for Mosaic and has created opportunities for over 2,000 employees -4to participate on teams that identify, prioritize and reduce risks. Mosaic’s EHS MS has been validated against ISO14001 and OSHAS18001 by a third party. Mosaic is committed to the sustainable production and proper use of our products to mitigate otherwise negative environmental impacts. The 4Rs of Nutrient Stewardship is an innovative and science-based approach that when applied, offers enhanced environmental protection, increased production, increased farmer profitability and improved sustainability. The concept is to use the right fertilizer source, at the right rate, at the right time, in the right place. The 4Rs is about doing everything right in regard to fertilizer application and effectively reducing agriculture's potential for negative externalities. For fertilizer use to be sustainable, it must support cropping systems that provide economic, social and environmental benefits. Because the 4Rs is critical for sustainability, Mosaic's goal is to partner with the fertilizer industry to enhance understanding, adoption and promotion of 4R Nutrient Stewardship among stakeholders. To help address this challenge, TFI has been working collaboratively with the IFA, the IPNI and the CFI to advance the 4R Nutrient Stewardship initiative. Two goals of the initiative include establishing 4Rs as a recognizable strategy for economic, social and environmental sustainability and expanding the adoption of 4R Nutrient Stewardship globally. Read more about our progress on Principle 8 in GRI indicators: EN6, EN14, EN16 and EN29. Environment Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Mosaic builds partnerships in support of the Millennium Development Goals. The Mosaic Villages Project helps bridge the gap of food insecurity and water scarcity within participating agricultural communities. In many areas of the world smallholder farmers, in particular, are trapped in a cycle of insufficient crop yields and poverty. Generally living on one acre of land or less, they often struggle simply to feed themselves — much less generate a surplus of food. With the world’s ever-growing population, helping smallholders become more productive is imperative. The Mosaic Company and The Mosaic Company Foundation have invested in the Mosaic Villages Project with programs in Guatemala, India, Mali, Ghana, Nigeria, Malawi, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Ethiopia, along with our partners, HELPS International, the Institute of Rural Research and Development (IRRAD) and Millennium Promise. Mosaic contributes expertise in soil health and balanced crop nutrition combined with effective seed, irrigation, and fertilizer strategies for each region. Basic agronomic training is absent in remote communities—this project brings extension services to farmers. When crop yields increase, smallholders move from subsistence to surplus. -5With the world’s population expected to reach nine billion by 2050, the global food security challenge looms large — and agriculture has taken center stage. To sustainably meet the world’s ever-increasing need for food, the global agriculture industry must simultaneously increase crop yields and reduce negative environmental impacts. The crop nutrition industry is an important part of this equation. The efficient use of fertilizers has the potential to significantly reduce global greenhouse gas emissions while contributing to higher yields per acre. Proportionally, the accrued benefit of fertilizer use substantially outweighs the emissions associated with fertilizer production. Emissions associated with crop nutrient production account for 0.8 to 3.2 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions and total greenhouse gas impacts associated with agriculture and land use change (including deforestation) are estimated at 17 to 32 percent of global emissions. While Mosaic is part of the global drive to achieve greater crop yields, providing better income for farmers while reducing the pressure to clear for more cropland, we are also committed to helping farmers around the world use crop nutrients efficiently. We support the 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework, which recommends the use of the right source of plant nutrients, at the right rate, at the right time and in the right place to help deliver economic, social and environmental benefits. In 2011, Mosaic debuted Nexfos®, the next generation feed-grade phosphate that is a combined source of highly available phosphorous, calcium and sodium. Not only is Nexfos the first innovation in feed-grade phosphate in 40 years, the product is helping Mosaic reduce its environmental footprint. The Nexfos production process has significantly reduced the carbon footprint associated with the production of the traditional animal feed product by requiring approximately 90 percent less water and 55 percent less electricity per ton to produce than traditional feedstock phosphate product. Read more about our progress on Principle 9 in GRI indicators: EN18 and PR5. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Mosaic has not had any incidents of corruption during the life of our company. Our commitment to transparency is reflected in our company’s strong ethical culture. No matter where in the world Mosaic operates, we abide by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). The purpose of Mosaic’s Worldwide Anti-corruption Policy is to ensure compliance by all employees, officers and directors of The Mosaic Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates with the FCPA and related anti-corruptions -6laws of other countries in which Mosaic does or intends to do business. Additional related policies include Mosaic’s accounting policies, customer/vendor entertainment and gift policy, and country-specific entertainment and gift policies. Read more about our progress on Principle 10 in GRI Indicators: SO2, SO3 and SO4. -7-
