2013 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION ABOUT THIS REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WE BUILD Integrated Reporting Hyundai E&C has published its sustainability report in an integrated format since 2011. Through integrated reporting, we were able to TOMORROW better understand the impact of our sustainability management on the company as a whole as well as our society. Furthermore, we were able to render interrelationship of economy, environment, and society and add depth to corporate reporting. In order to enhance corporations’ integrated reporting capability, Hyundai E&C is participating in the Integrated Reporting Pilot Program managed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Ultimately, we aim to become a global leader of integrated reporting. INTEGRATED REPORTING _FRAMEWORK MI C NO EC Integrated Engagement O Integrated Strategy ▶ Integrate financial and ▶ Establish management strategies aimed non-financial information at creating long-term values e 2. ▶ Receive comments from stakeholders dV ▶ Provide concise and credible information alu ee Gr that has taken into consideration de nG Ad SUSTAINABLE materiality 1. row GROWTH th EN VIR ON ME 3. Life Quality AL NT SOCIAL 1. Added Value 2. Green Growth 3. Life Quality Create jobs and induce production in the newly Analyze per-KRW value of environmental Improve quality of life by establishing and entered regions as results of international performance linked to economic performance data operating the green management system expansion Achieve business opportunities from green R&D Grow together in a sustainable manner through Reinforce competitiveness from higher quality by activities establishment of green supply chain actively supporting partner companies Diversify portfolio by pioneering green markets Enhance employees’ capabilities through Improve productivity through fair performance environmental education appraisal of employees About This Report Reporting Standard │ This report has been prepared based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines and the Construction & Real Estate Sector Supplement. This report also reflects the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the main agenda of ISO 26000. Financial statements have been prepared based on the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Reporting Period & Scope │ This report covers Hyundai E&C’s economic, environmental, and social activities and performance of the head office as well as domestic and overseas sites from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. In addition, we partially included activities and performance from 2013. The scope of quantitative data related to environmental and social activities is mainly focused on performance of the head office and domestic sites. Assurance │ In order to ensure credibility of the Sustainability Report, an independent assurance and the GRI Application Level Check have been carried out, the results of which are available on pages 80 through 86 of this report. The Passion of Each and Every Member of Hyundai E&C is Creating a Sustainable Tomorrow. Civil Works _Challenge It is the challenge of creating something out of nothing, to achieve a more comfortable lifestyle that is in harmony with the Earth. Building Works _Imagination It is a process of building a new history, involving a careful consideration for what is best for people and using one’s imagination to create a legacy for the future generation. Plant Works _Composite Art It is a composite art that turns one’s dream into reality and creates a future that flourishes, all for a greater lifestyle of mankind. Power & Energy Works _Main Artery It is the main artery for the development of modern civilization, mankind, and the future. 2013 COVER STORY Hyundai E&C is making construction history and paving the way for a sustainable future with our corporate spirit of creative daring. The 2013 cover represents the daring and progressive mind-set of each individual member of Hyundai E&C and our collective will to build a better tomorrow. 2013 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS (Unit: no. of 02 Message from the CEO 06 STORY 1. We Build Tomorrow on a Global Scale 08 STORY 2. We Build Tomorrow with Our Business Partners 10 STORY 3. We Build Tomorrow by Setting the Standard 12 To Build 14 Company Overview & Business Portfolio 22 Business Ethics Sustainable Value 16 Management Philosophy & Core Values 24 Risk Management 19 Stakeholder Engagement 26 Sustainability Management Strategy 20 Corporate Governance 28 To Build 30 Creating Sustainable Economic Value Economic Value 31 Business Portfolio Advancement 33 Pioneering New Business Areas & Markets 36 Globalization of Management Infrastructure 38 To Build 40 Foundation for Environmentally Friendly 50 Advancing Environmentally Friendly Management Technology Environmental Value 44 Environmentally Friendly Site Operation 52 Major Environmentally Friendly R&D Achievements 48 Material Flow Analysis 54 To Build 56 Employee Value Creation 64 Win-win Cooperation Social Value 60 Corporate Culture 67 Social Contribution 62 Safety Management 71 Customer Satisfaction 74 Appendix 75 To Build Economic Value 81 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 76 To Build Environmental Value 82 GRI Index 78 To Build Social Value 86 GRI Application Level Check Statement 80 Third Party Assurance Report 87 Major Awards and Accolades & Membership As a Leading Company in Sustainability, Hyundai E&C will Grow Together with all Our Stakeholders and Create the Foundation for a Better Life. Dear stakeholders, I am truly delighted to send you greetings through the 2013 Hyundai E&C Sustainability Report. For the last 66 years, Hyundai E&C has grown together with Republic of Korea, leading national growth and improving the people’s quality of life. We never stopped challenging ourselves to create greater corporate value based on our entrepreneurial spirit and firm principles. With a strong sense of social responsibility derived from understanding the impact of our actions on stability and happiness of the nation and the society, we are striving towards not only short-term achievements but also long-term growth. We at Hyundai E&C will grow to become the world’s best construction company providing new value to all stakeholders. Our roles and responsibilities as a corporate sustainability leader Since becoming the first domestic construction company to enter the global market in 1965, Hyundai E&C’s cumulative overseas orders received recorded 10 billion USD in 1982 and 60 billion USD in 2008; in 2013, we expect to exceed 100 billion USD in overseas orders, raising the prestige of the Korean construction industry throughout 54 countries around the world. Our firm foundation for business activities allows us to achieve continuous growth. As a global integrated engineering company, we lead the convergence and divergence of cutting-edge technologies in the construction industry based on close cooperation with relevant industries. In accordance with the management principle of growing in balance of both scale and quality, we are proactively advancing sustainability management. This year, we made particularly greater efforts to further strengthen our foundation for shared growth with all stakeholders and developed a support system for sustainable partnerships with our business partners. As the result of our efforts, we have solidified our global reputation for excellence in corporate sustainability by being included in the DJSI World index for three consecutive years and being selected as the DJSI ‘Global Supersector Leader’ in the Construction & Materials supersector in 2011. Growing together with all stakeholders and creating a foundation for better quality of life Hyundai E&C strives to contribute to national development by expanding communications and interactions with more stakeholders in pursuing sustainability management. In order to do so, all members of Hyundai E&C at 28 branches and 261 sites around the world are pursuing activities in the five areas of sustainability management – site safety management, minimization of environmental Message from the CEO impact, protection of human rights and respect for cultural diversity, support for local community development, and communication with stakeholders making every effort to contribute to the society’s growth and happiness. We will continue to place ‘people’ as our top priority and fulfill our corporate social responsibility for creating customer value, endlessly challenging ourselves and inspiring innovation to make the Korean construction industry shine on a global stage. President & CEO Jung Soo-Hyun I would appreciate your continued interest and support for Hyundai E&C’s efforts to create a brighter tomorrow with customers. Hyundai Engineering & Construction Thank you. 2 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 3 HYUNDAI Hyundai E&C is Moving from Korea's Paramount Corporation E&C Story to a World-class Corporation Based on its Performance Excellence. Hyundai E&C strives to become the ‘global leader in integrated engineering.’ The Special Features of this report summarize some of Hyundai E&C’s corporate activities and performance in this regard. STORY 1 ┃ We Build Tomorrow on a Global Scale Hyundai E&C’s sustainability activities and performances in the ‘global’ market, as Korea’s construction company STORY 2 ┃ We Build Tomorrow with Our Business Partners Hyundai E&C’s win-win growth activities jointly carried out with partner companies of various capabilities in order to grow to become a world-renowned ‘integrated engineering’ enterprise STORY 3 ┃ We Build Tomorrow by Setting the Standard Major performances as a ‘leader’ that have been achieved as results of proactive activities and efforts 4 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 5 Expanding Sustainability, Globally STORY 1 WE BUILD TOMORROW On a Global Scale EXPANSION Hyundai E&C at the forefront of the global construction industry Opening a new era of corporate sustainability on the foundation of orders worth 100 billion USD globally Since winning its first overseas contract in 1965, Hyundai E&C has successfully completed 771 projects in 54 countries, raising the prestige of the Korean construction industry. The amount of orders received from overseas projects surpassed 10.2 billion USD in 2012, the highest figure among domestic construction companies; Hyundai E&C was also the first domestic construction company to exceed 10 billion USD of stand-alone orders per year and 90 billion USD of orders received (accumulated). These achievements were made possible not only based on Hyundai E&C’s technology and experience, but also by entering new markets such as Latin America and Africa. 6 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION Expanding Sustainability, Globally STORY 1 Orders received per region WE BUILD TOMORROW (Cumulative / As of the end of 2012 / unit: million USD) Branches (Including liaison offices) On a Global Scale 25 Overseas / 3 Domestic ※ P rojects in progress: 70 Overseas / 191 Domestic Europe London 877.71 Middle East million USD North America 59,108.85 / Pacific million USD Alger Tashkent 610.22 million USD Tripoli Baghdad Tehran Beijing Kuwait Muharaq Doha Joong-bu Asia Dubai Ho-nam Al Khoba New Delhi Tokyo Young-nam Houston Abu Dhabi Turkey The Third Bosphorus Bridge Dhaka Hong Kong Hanoi Uzbekistan Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant Expansion Africa Caracas Asia 253.29 Bogota India Kota Chambal Bridge million USD Kuala Lumpur 30,302.25 Latin America Singapore million USD Bangladesh New Haripur Combined Cycle Power Plant 2,384.72 Jakarta million USD Myanmar New Thakayta Combined Cycle Power Plant Johannesburg Mong Duong-1 Thermal Power Plant Vietnam and 2 other projects The Philippines Subic Bay Coal-fired Power Plant Middle East Europe Latin America South Beach Development Singapore and 15 other projects Puerto La Cruz Refinery Iraq Al Musayyib Thermal Power Plant UK Venezuela and 1 other project Malaysia Repair and maintenance of gas facilities Gas Pipeline of Kuwait Oil Company Kuwait and 4 other projects Africa Columbia Bello Wastewater Treatment Plant Peusangan Hydropower Plant Indonesia and 1 other project Ma’aden Alumina Refinery Saudi Arabia and 10 other projects Algeria Arzew Refinery Uruguay Punta Del Tigre Combined Cycle Power Plant Sri Lanka Colombo Port Expansion Lusail Expressway Tripoli West Thermal Power Plant Qatar and 5 other projects Libya and 4 other projects Japan UAE Nuclear Power Plant and 6 other projects Côte d'Ivoire Azito Power Plant Expansion North America / Pacific China Yemen Republic of South Africa USA Hong Kong 8 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 7 Expanding Sustainability, Globally STORY 1 WE BUILD TOMORROW On a Global Scale Our Key Responsibilities in Local Communities As a global leader of integrated engineering, Hyundai E&C is making various efforts to minimize the effects of our business activities on the environment and to create social values. Particularly, we selected the five key responsibilities to focus on in order to pursue sustainability management tailored to the specific traits and situations of the local communities related to our business. Social Safety Environment Respect Communication Development Safety is directly connected to domestic We ackno wledge tha t construction We treat ever y employee and local Local community development is a key Hyundai E&C considers communication and social happiness and is thus a top activities involve massive resource community of both domestic and overseas driver to achieving a successful execution with stakeholders to be as important as priority of site operations. Based on mutual consumption and dire effects on the sites with respect. We take the head in of our projects. This is why we support the aforementioned efforts. As such, we trust and cooperation, the members of environment. Therefore, we take the protecting human rights of local employees economic development, establishment will keep our ears open to invaluable Hyundai E&C are striving to achieve zero responsibility to minimize the resource and community members and respecting of key infrastructures, and the residents’ comments from our stakeholders, so as accidents and disasters across all sites. usage and to protect and restore the their culture. financial independence of the local to enhance mutual trust and be more environment. communities in which our sites are located. proactive in realizing corporate social responsibility. 10 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 7 Expanding Sustainability, Globally STORY 1 WE BUILD TOMORROW On a Global Scale Middle East S Safety E Environment R Respect S Social Development C Communication Saudi Arabia At our site (Ma’aden Alumina Refinery Project, Saudi Arabia), we are conducting business activities based on respect for Ma’aden Alumina Refinery the workers, local community members, and the environment. For improved benefits and welfare, we conduct meetings to discuss this matter with local partner companies and workers. To ensure that the local workers can secure better jobs and E Appointed an environmental manager working conditions even after the current project is complete, we provide training (run by an external specialty organization) E Prohibited the use of nightlights at spawning grounds to protect the natural habitat for approximately 300 workers and also run an internal training center to further provide the opportunity for technical skills surrounding the site development. R Monthly meeting on employee benefits with the local partner companies and employees Particularly, we have supported the establishment of a local education center and a medical center for the community’s R Education session to advance the local workers’ technical capabilities, operated economic development and better quality of life in a long term. Furthermore, we are making efforts to minimize negative Kuwait Project Director an internal training center impact of our on-site activities on the environment; the environmental manager is responsible for protecting biodiversity of Park Sung-Boong Qatar S Donation to support the establishment of an education center and a medical center the area, by prohibiting the use of night lights in natural habitat, etc. in the local community Saudi Arabia As the project for Msheireb Downtown Doha Phase 1A progresses, we ensure that we build the best building based on the Qatar project’s specifications and our client’s needs. During construction, we make particular efforts to improve the local workers’ Msheireb Downtown Doha Phase 1A welfare and place a priority on locally procured raw materials. We believe that the most important value is continuous interaction and communication with local communities. E Recycled material usage 23%, FSC-certified wood usage 65%, recycle rate 80% We participate in the Qatar government’s Labor Day events and periodically inspect the residential facilities to ensure respect E Managed and operated the site in accordance with LEED Platinum and Gold standards, for the local workers and their human rights. In addition, we place a priority on procuring materials from local suppliers which are the two highest green building standards and Persian Gulf states, which now account for 29% of all materials used for the project, contributing to not only the local R Inspected workers’ residential facility to protect their welfare and human rights community’s economic development but also the overall construction & materials industry of Qatar. S Prioritized local procurement (29% of all materials were sourced from local suppliers) Project Director Above all, since the project is building a part of Qatar’s royal palace, we are striving to set the new green building standard in C Participated in the government’s International Workers’ Day event Sung Hwan-Don the country by managing the construction site in accordance with the LEED Platinum and Gold rating; we have achieved 23% recycled material usage rate, 65% FSC Wood usage rate, and 80% construction waste diverting rate. Kuwait The Kuwait Oil Company No.1 We at the Oil Company No.1 site in Kuwait believe that it is imperative to hire local workers, so much so that we have a set S Conducted regular safety training sessions for the site workers policy on the number of local workers to be employed. What we value the most are the workers’ safety, welfare, and human S Installed safety signs in both English and the local language rights and based on this firm belief we are making utmost efforts to create a safe and harmonious working environment. In this regard, we conduct regular safety training sessions on site and all safety signs are indicated in English and the local R Operated a prayer room language. Furthermore, we are operating a prayer room to adopt the local workers’ cultural characteristics and respect R Set a compulsory number of local workers to employee cultural diversity by operating different residential facilities by country. Project Director S Operated separate residential facilities for each nationality to respect diversity Song Yung-Ku 12 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 7 Expanding Sustainability, Globally STORY 1 WE BUILD TOMORROW On a Global Scale Asia S Safety E Environment R Respect S Social Development C Communication Vietnam For smooth and successful project management, we place an emphasis on open communication with the local community Ha Dong Residential & Commercial Complex, Hanoi and the workers. We are gaining a greater understanding of the local community’s current state of affairs and customs Korea through a local coordinator and consequently prepared open communication channels. One example of our effort would be S Monthly safety & environmental education session (with local language interpretation) providing financial support for flood victims in the region to further strengthen our relationship with the community. E Underwent evaluation for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications Furthermore, we provide an interpretation service for the local workers during our monthly safety & environment training E Environmental education session for the newly hired workers sessions. R Researched the current status of the local community through local coordinators and Apart from key management personnel, direct hiring from the local community is prioritized as a contribution to long-term collected their opinions community development. To further reinforce the local workers’ capabilities, we provide technology and quality training Vietnam Project Director S All but a few key on-site personnel were local workers; provided a technology & quality as well as environmental education especially to the new hires. In addition, we’ve obtained and maintain ISO 14001 and management training to enhance their capabilities Park Dong-Wook OHSAS 18001 accreditation to ensure on-site environmental management. S Made a donation for the flood victims Singapore Singapore South Beach Development Project At our project site we focus on ensuring mutual cooperation and respect with Singapore, environmental protection, and E Obtained OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications; hired an environmental manager safety. We are expanding local employment, placing a priority on local suppliers during procurement, supporting and R Operated a Muslim prayer room participating in charity events, and regularly interact with the local community members and government personnel, all of which sum up our effort to listen to the community’s opinion at all times. Furthermore, we obtained ISO 14001 and OHSAS S Expanded the proportion of local employees; gave priority (during procurement) to local suppliers 18001 certifications and appointed an environmental manager to improve on-site environmental management, in order to S Supported and attended charity events Project Director further strengthen the local community’s trust in our business activities. C Networked and exchanged opinions with key personnel of the local community and the Kim Choong-Jin government Korea Environmental management is at the top of our list of priorities especially because the construction is located at the upper Guri-Amsa Bridge watershed (protected area for water resources) of Han River. We have appointed an environmental manager and carried S Prevented occupational accidents by installing safety features such as a safety net out a number of environmental activities (i.e. operating automatic sprinklers and installing dust/noise barriers and silt (for fall prevention), parapet, and lifesaving ropes protectors). Not only do we actively reflect our employees’ ideas on environmentally friendly site management, all our S Organized a Safety Inspection Day and conducted regular safety training sessions employees make a concerted effort towards achieving zero accidents and protecting the environment. As a result, our site E Minimized impact on the surrounding environment by assigning environmental managers, was recognized by the local government as a green construction site as well as a site with superior safety management. operating automatic vehicle washers, and installing sound& dust-proof walls and silt protectors With concerted efforts for environmental management, we are striving to ensure workplace safety. We are preventing E Acquired a green site certification from the local government and was recognized for excellence safety accidents by installing two-tier safety measures (i.e. fall prevention nets, safety rails, and safety ropes) and regularly in safety management Project Director conducting safety training sessions to raise awareness on workplace safety. Above all, we are actively supporting and E Regular drills for special maintenance of protected waterway Lee Jong-Heop participating in the local communities’ volunteer activities for greater cooperation with and care for the locally based S Social contribution activities such as volunteering for community organizations, providing organizations and carrying out social contribution activities such as the Han River restoration. financial support, and cleaning up the surrounding areas of Han River 14 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 7 Working Together for a Sustainable World STORY 2 WE BUILD TOMORROW with Our Business Partners COOPERATION Hyundai E&C to open a new horizon of win-win growth through communication and cooperation with its partner companies In order to step up as a global integrated engineering company that leads the world’s construction industry, corporations must be equipped with both construction capabilities and state-of-the-art technology development. At Hyundai E&C, we are putting continuous efforts to jointly (with our business partners) develop new technologies and enter new overseas markets through win-win management with SMEs and partner companies (i.e. suppliers and subcontractors) with excellent technologies. We are also running a number of programs for our partner companies. 16 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION Working Together for a Sustainable World STORY 2 WE BUILD TOMORROW with Our Business Partners Technological and Educational Support for Partner Companies Support for Partner Companies’ Win-win Management At Hyundai E&C, we hold an annual Win-win Growth Technology Competition, provide supports for partner companies’ patent application, and safely deposit the technological documents of Hyundai E&C is making earnest efforts to smoothly communicate and strengthen partner companies in escrow, all of which reflect our efforts to discover good companies and We gained competitiveness by partnership with a total of 946 partner companies (as of 2012). Led by a team dedicated to enhance their technological capabilities. working on Hyundai E&C projects win-win management, we are providing financial, technological, and educational supports We conduct a quarterly education session on quality, safety, and labor management for and operating the ‘Win-win Growth Support Center’ to win through today’s stagnant qualitative growth of partner companies. As an effort to assist their international expansion, situation of construction industry. CEO Lee Sang-Bum we invited 13 partner companies to visit our overseas sites in three countries (UAE, Qatar, and Jaeho Construction Co.,ltd Kuwait) and provided them with an opportunity to explore overseas markets. Furthermore, we In recognition of our efforts, we won the Minister of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Award at the Awards for the Promotion of the Construction Industry’s Cooperation 2012. Jaeho Construction is participating in a number of Hyundai E&C’s have organized the Council of Partner Companies and regularly hold a CEO seminar and a At the ‘Evaluation of Joint Cooperation among Construction Companies 2012’ conducted win-win management programs. In 2008, we entered Hyundai E&C quarterly win-win growth seminar for all business partners across different business units. SUPPORT FOR by the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs (MLTM), we scored over 95 points Win-win Growth Technology Competition and were awarded for our and received the highest rating. The MLTM’s Evaluation is an annual review of the industry ‘automatic PHC pile cutting machine,’ which ended up being a great WIN-WIN We achieved our dream of entering overseas players’ efforts toward joint cooperation and win-win growth among integrated and special opportunity to publically gain a reputation for our construction and MANAGEMENT markets through the excellent partner company contractors as well as large corporations and SMEs, providing incentives to those with high technological capabilities, subsequently upgrading the corporate overseas site visit ratings. competitiveness. CEO Park Jung-Pil Joong Won Engineering In 2010, we had the opportunity to visit Hyundai E&C’s overseas sites in the Middle Financial Support for Partner Companies East with the CEOs of other excellent partner companies and strengthened willpower to expand to overseas markets. Later, we participated in the educational session for Proving financial support for our promising SME business partners that do not have strong overseas expansion twice and eventually won the contract from Hyundai E&C and Hyundai financial resources is essential to making meaningful progress towards win-win growth. Engineering. Overall, these experiences became a stepping stone for us to establish a Since signing the ‘Joint Cooperation and Fair Trade Agreement’ with its partner companies foreign branch in Abu Dhabi; it would be fair to say that we have received supports from in 2010, Hyundai E&C has created a 60 billion KRW fund to help the partner companies Hyundai E&C in many ways. that are suffering from financial difficulties due in major part to the stagnant economy of the construction industry. Based upon this fund, we provide zero-interest loans for them Hyundai E&C’s Technological & Educational Support Programs to secure liquidity. In 2013 before New Year’s Day, we made early payments totaling 120 billion KRW to our partner companies. As a result, a total of 458 companies were able to FINANCIAL Title Key Activities resolve hefty financial burden (including wages and payments for raw materials). In the Overseas site visit •Review trends and prospects of overseas construction industries SUPPORT for excellent partner •Prepare for overseas projects future, Hyundai E&C will strive to set an example of win-win management between a large companies •Provide the opportunity to collect information enterprise and SMEs and try to create a more cooperative partnership. Win-win Growth Seminar •Run a training session on quality, safety, and labor management (separately held by the •Hear the partner companies’ difficulties and suggestions TECHNICAL & type of work) •Share case studies of successful overseas projects We always feel secure, backed EDUCATIONAL Education: Fair •Establish a foundation of fair consignment and commission and prevent by the Working Capital Loan Program consignment and inter-corporate conflict in advance SUPPORT commission •Settle and disseminate a win-win growth culture Education: Overseas •Provide education on cultures of overseas sites, tax, and setting up a CEO Lee Yong-Wan expansion foreign branch Shin Young E&C •Provide education on ethical management Education: Transparency We greatly benefited from Hyundai E&C’s ‘Zero-interest Working Capital Loan Program’ last and business ethics •Take the pledge to act by the Code of Ethics •Establish a foundation of fair subcontracting Chuseok (Korean Thanksgiving Day). We received a loan worth 50% of a 2-month average Hyundai E&C •Discover and develop excellent technologies of SMEs value of construction completed three months in advance, which enabled us to make an Win-win Growth •Register winners of the Competition as new partner companies; provide early payment of wages for the workers before the big holiday. Technology Competition incentives and cash prize 18 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 9 Leadership for a Sustainable Tomorrow STORY 3 WE BUILD TOMORROW by Setting the Standard LEADERSHIP Hyundai E&C to build a tomorrow for everyone through its leadership in sustainability management In order to realize its sustainability vision, Hyundai E&C is participating in various global initiatives for keeping economic, environmental, and social values and receiving outstanding results at a number of sustainability assessments on the world’s leading companies of sustainability management. We will continue to expand our sustainability activities and advance our leadership in this regard, so as to set our sustainability management as an example for other global enterprises. 20 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION Leadership for a Sustainable Tomorrow STORY 3 WE BUILD TOMORROW by Setting the Standard As a global integrated engineering company, we lead the convergence and divergence of cutting-edge technologies and the construction industry based on an organic cooperation with relevant industries To Build Sustainable Value To Build Environmental Value Participation in the International Integrated Reporting Framework development Acquisition of an international carbon reduction certification As are financial statements, sustainability performance data are being increasingly utilized as For the first time in Korea, Hyundai E&C earned the Carbon Trust Standard (CTS) certificate from important indicators of a company’s valuation. On a global scale, there is an active movement to the UK’s Carbon Trust. A CTS certification is only given to companies and organizations that have develop a common standard for integrating the financial and non-financial disclosures. Hyundai established a systematic energy management system and actually reduced GHG emissions. At E&C is participating in this movement – namely, the IIRC’s pilot project on the Integrated Reporting Hyundai E&C, we were recognized for reducing our GHG emissions by over 4% compared to the Framework development – to make a contribution. previous year and earned the certification in April 2012. First Runner-up in the Best Integrated Report category at the CRRA The world’s first construction company to acquire an international energy management certification Hyundai E&C’s efforts toward integrating led the company itself to gain recognition at the Corporate Register Reporting Awards (CRRA) – which is organized by the UK’s Corporate Register – for In March 2012, Hyundai E&C became the world’s first construction company to get the ISO 50001 VISION two consecutive years. The CRRA is an international award dedicated to evaluating ‘corporate energy management certification from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). ISO sustainability reports’ only, where winners are determined based upon on-line voting by over 37,000 50001 is an international certification that promotes efficient energy use as a response to climate stakeholders world-wide. Having been awarded the Best First Time Report in 2011, we were again change. ISO 50001 was applied at Hyundai E&C’s key departments such as the Engineering Design awarded at the CRRA 2012 as the First Runner-up in the Best Integrated Report category, firmly Team at the head office and the Procurement Team, as well as the Hyundai R&D Center and all securing our reputation as a global construction enterprise. domestic sites. We plan to expand the application of ISO 5001 to all of our overseas sites. Green building certification Hyundai E&C is gaining a reputation for its environmental construction capabilities for maximizing To Build Economic Value use of environmentally friendly materials and renewable energy while reducing energy consumption by acquiring green building certifications. One example would be Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), developed by the US Green Building Council (USGBC). A number of Winning a gold medal at a global sustainability assessment our domestic and overseas projects are now LEED-certified. In 2013, Hyundai E&C received the Gold Class award (only given to companies whose score is within In Singapore, we are getting our projects certified by the BCA (Building and Construction Authority) 1% of the Sector Leader’s score) of RobecoSAM, the organization responsible for the DJSI Corporate Green Mark. We were recognized for applying environmental design factors and procuring Sustainability Assessment. Every year, RobecoSAM conducts an assessment of approximately 2,500 environmentally friendly raw materials, which led us to be awarded the ‘Platinum’ Green Mark and ‘in corporations within 58 sectors and provide the result to institutional investors around the world. 2011 and to win the BCA Construction Excellence Awards in 2012 for the Khoo Teck Puat Hospital. Hyundai E&C has been included in the DJSI World index for three consecutive years since 2009, gaining a reputation as a global leader in the construction sector. The 1st place at the National Construction Capability Survey 2012 announced by the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs (MLTM) Backed by the construction capability valuation of 11.7 trillion KRW (up by 60 billion KRW from the To Build Social Value previous year), Hyundai E&C won the first place at the MLTM’s Construction Capability Evaluation Commitment to the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact (which was carried out on 540 construction companies) for four consecutive years. Hyundai E&C also won the first place in three areas of evaluation: construction record, management evaluation, In 2012, Hyundai E&C joined the UN Global Compact, a principle-based international initiative. We and technical capability. Such result is a clear indication that Hyundai E&C is being recognized as strictly comply with the Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and antiKorea’s leading construction company continuously growing in balance of both scale and quality. corruption. 22 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 11 To Build SUSTAINABLE VALUE Direction With an entrepreneurial spirit of ‘challenging oneself with creativity,’ Hyundai E&C is writing the history of the construction industry and doing its part for the country and the society. In order to continue growth with various stakeholders amid the rapidly changing business environment, we have announced the ‘HDEC Green CSR Declaration,’ our code of conduct, and are advancing sustainability management with our partner companies. By doing so, Hyundai E&C is striving to become a company that creates tomorrow for a better future. In 2012 In 2012, Hyundai E&C has established the sustainability management strategy aimed at sharing a strategic direction with partner companies and carrying out sustainability management activities. Furthermore, we have determined sustainability KPIs in order to align our sustainability activities with the values subsequently created – a reinforced connection between the non-financial and financial performances – and established grounds for integrated reporting. We will continue to publish an annual sustainability report to transparently disclose our sustainability management performances to our stakeholders. Jaber Causeway Bridge, Kuwait | JUL 2013 JUN 2018 To Build Sustainable Value COMPANY OVERVIEW & BUSINESS PORTFOLIO To Build Economic Value Organizational Structure Backed by advanced technical capabilities and exceptional execution abilities, Hyundai E&C Orders received Revenue is providing a better foundation of life for its stakeholders world-wide and creating a better CEO 15.6 10.4 Unit: trillion KRW Unit: trillion KRW tomorrow together. As of May 2013, a total of 5,291 employees are working at the head office, 3 Auditing Group domestic and 25 overseas branches, and 191 domestic and 70 overseas sites. To Build Environmental Value Sales Net profit As a leader of the global construction industry and the development of a global village, Hyundai E&C is growing to become a company with a greater potential and competitiveness by Unit: billion KRW 415.6 Unit: billion KRW 347 Civil & Environment Division International Business Division Procurement Division Planning Division Building Works Domestic Business Finance & Accounting Research & Development expanding its regional bases in Latin America, Africa, and the Commonwealth of Independent Division Division Division Division Credit rating* Plant Management & Project Innovation States (CIS), based on a secure business foundation in Korea, Asia, and the Middle East. AA* Credit rating from Korea Ratings Corporation, NICE Information Service, and Korea Investors Service Division Power & Energy Administration Division Division Division MAY 1947 NOV 1965 JUL 1970 APR 1982 AUG 1995 APR 2010 APR 2011 SEP 2013 To Build Social Value Established as Won order for Pattani Narathiwat Completed Gyeongbu Highway Value of contracts exceeded Completed construction of Won contract for UAE Incorporated into Hyundai Cumulative overseas contract value Hyundai Civil Works Company Highway Project in Thailand 10 billion USD Seosan reclaimed land nuclear power plant Motor Group to reach 100 billion USD (projected) Appendix CIVIL WORKS BUILDING WORKS PLANT WORKS POWER & ENERGY WORKS We will take the responsibility for the humanity’s With a challenging spirit and passion, we will Backed by excellent technologies, vast experiences, We will push forward the development of a high-tech prosperity with our leading technical capabilities. create the future architectural space that will lead and a strong driving force, we will lead the global energy network for the future environment. Hyundai E&C’s Civil & Environment Division has led the development of key national the generation to come. plant construction industry. Hyundai E&C’s Power & Energy Division enjoys a strong reputation as a worldinfrastructures and the economy based on its pioneering spirit, strong will, and Creating creative space with unlimited imagination, the Building Works DiviWith its world-class technologies and reputation, the Plant Division is carrying wide leader of various energy projects such as power transmissions and industrial driving force. The Division has successfully completed a number of projects within son is responsible for construction of residential, commercial, medical, office, out the construction of various industrial facilities – such as a mega-scale petelectricity, all of which make up a foundation for developing a high-tech energy a broad range, including land development, ports, railways, roads, bridges, water educational, and cultural facilities where people and the environment can rochemical plant, steelworks/refineries, and a LNG terminal – as well as nuclear network for the future environment. Under the vision of becoming a ‘total power & resources, and the environment; being recognized world-wide for its excellent techco-exist. By developing core technologies, reinforcing design and engineering power generation projects. By diversifying the business model and developing utility provider’, the Division is actively developing technical capabilities (to obtain nical capabilities, the Division is rapidly positioning itself as the core infrastructure capabilities, and cultivating talent in the workforce, the Division will lead the core technologies, the Division is entering new, high value-added markets and high-yield orders), developing human resources, and participating in the win-win solution leader who can provide an integrated solution for construction of key infraconstruction industry’s paradigm and pioneear new overseas markets to improving its engineering, procurement, and construction capabilities to ultigrowth strategy with Hyundai Group. In this regard, we are expanding future-oristructures for various countries’ economic development. eventually grow to become a constructor & developer who can lead the 21st mately raise Hyundai E&C’s status as a leader of the global plant construction ented business areas such as the development of U-City (ubiquitous city; concept century’s new construction culture. industry. of a high-tech, future city) and renewable energy. Construction of oil pier and berthing facilities, Kuwait ┃ SEP 2005 FEB 2007 Bitexco Financial Center, Vietnam ┃ JUN 2008 OCT 2010 South Pars Field Development Phases 4 & 5 Onshore Gas Processing Facilities, Iran Jabel Ali Power and Desalination L -Phase II, UAE ┃ MAY 2005 APR 2008 │ MAR 2002 FEB 2005 14 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 15 To Build Sustainable Value MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY & CORE VALUES To Build Economic Value The times and the environment change; however, the spirit of Hyundai E&C has remained AUTOMOBILE true to its origin for the last 66 years of business and is now the source of our corporate competitiveness. Since the incorporation into Hyundai Motor Group in 2011, Hyundai E&C Lifetime Partner has shared the Group’s management philosophy and core values and is further enhancing its in Automobiles and Beyond To Build Environmental Value strengths by organically connecting with the Group. STEEL The World’s First Resource-circulating Company Leading the New Era of Steel Having begun with a passion for creating greater value, Hyundai Motor Group’s innovative ideas involve resource circulation and optimized use of resources in a wide range of areas such as auto, steel, and auto parts. Following the incorporation of Hyundai E&C in 2011, particularly, the Group came to establish an eco-circulation structure beyond To Build Social Value the existing resource circulation. Based on the improved, eco-circulation structure, Hyundai Motor Group has expanded CONSTRUCTION its business area to eco-transportation and future infrastructure development beyond simply reducing environmental pollution. With its resource-circulating structure and eco-circulation structure, Hyundai Motor Group and Hyundai E&C will We Build closely cooperate with each other and grow together for a better tomorrow. Tomorrow Appendix HYUNDAI MOTOR GROUP Customers Challenging Communication and Respect for Talented Global as Our Priority Action Cooperation Individuals Orientation We provide the best-in-class Refusing to be complacent, We create synergy from Believing that the future of our We respect diverse cultures products and services and we challenge ourselves to new sharing a sense of community organization lies in each of the and customs, aim for the best, prioritize customers among all possibilities and achieve goals known as “we,” through members’ mindset and capability, and become a trusted corporate values, creating a corporate no matter what, with passion mutual communication and we make efforts in professional citizen at both individual and LOGISTICS PARTS culture that truly impresses and a creative mind. cooperation with others and development and create a corporate organizational levels. customers. partners. culture that respects talent. Hyundai Motor Group Core Values | Based upon the DNA of success so deeply engrained in Hyundai Motor Group, every member of the Group strives to realize the future vision by pursuing the Group’s core values as a standard of their action and decision-making. The five core values are what every member of the Group must abide by, with priority; by sharing and internalizing these core values, we can challenge ourselves, cooperate with each other, and establish a creative corporate culture that respects customers and talented individuals in order to advance itself to be a global construction enterprise. FINANCE IT Aware that “being global” starts with a harmony of diversity, Hyundai E&C strives to demonstrate its power as a global citizen through respect for cultural differences, sympathy beyond race, best-in-class capabilities, sharing beyond borders, and diversity not uniformity. With every member’s open mind and global capability, Hyundai E&C’s greater tomorrow begins. ROLLING STOCK / Management Philosophy | On the basis of the Group’s management philosophy, ‘to realize the dream of humanity by creating a new future HEAVY MACHINERY through creative thinking and endless challenges,’ we are accomplishing a history of success and leading the future society. Unlimited sense of responsibility Realization of possibilities Respect for mankind Strive for the business’s continuous growth in order Engrain a DNA of pursuing unlimited growth and Provide the best-quality products and services to as to take the responsibility for our employees and their development many people as possible and contribute to the families as well Refuse to stay comfortable or complacent, yet have an development of human society’s overall standard of living GROUP VISION Seek the highest quality to unlimitedly take the entrepreneurial spirit to take the risk of failure and Proactively respond to environmental issues and responsibility for our customers’ safety and happiness pioneer new business areas Realize even the smallest possibility into a reality and participate in philanthropic activities to contribute to the world’s local communities Together for a Better Future create a fundamental, added value 16 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 17 To Build Sustainable Value MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY & CORE VALUES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT To Build Economic Value COMPANY VISION We Build Tomorrow Thoroughly aware that understanding and communicating with stakeholders is a key to sustainable development and growth, Hyundai E&C has selected the government/media/ 'A Company that Creates a Better Tomorrow, Together' associations, employees, customers, partner companies, local communities, and shareholders/ investors as the major stakeholders of the company and is operating several communication Hyundai E&C embraces respect for humanity and environmentally friendly management to create the very best value. To create a better tomorrow channels. Furthermore, the company is practicing the value of co-existence by fairly sharing To Build Environmental Value by harmoniously growing with its stakeholders, Hyundai E&C has internalized the Group’s management philosophy and core values to the most the economic values created from its business activities. fundamental level and is realizing its corporate vision: a global integrated-engineering enterprise, we lead the convergence and divergence of cuttingCommunication channels edge technologies and relevant industries, thereby creating a better foundation for life. Cyber Audit Office, community meeting, We strive to create a better future through active participation in the Midto Long-term Management Strategy | In order to successfully realize the Group’s vision, Hyundai E&C established a midto long-term general meeting of shareholders, investor Government/ government’s policy development, compliance with laws and regumanagement strategy in 2011 and reinforced the strategy to be both concrete and well-executed by determining strategic tasks for each division and information session, Customer Center, Media/ lations, and transparent corporate disclosure via media and relevant selecting core products and new growth businesses. Particularly, we newly established the Strategy Planning Group in March 2013 to enhance our Council of Partner Companies, etc. Associations associations. To Build Social Value research ability and the capability and drive to enter new markets and business areas as well as to organize the system for executing strategy. We support our employees’ professional development through fair evaluation and compensation. In addition, we guarantee work safety Employees at construction sites and provide a variety of benefits to create a pleasant working environment. Appendix We make the utmost efforts to realize the very best quality by enhancing our technical abilities, so as to gain customers’ trust, Customers construct a comfortable residential environment, and improve communication with customers. We diligently work to establish fair and transparent business relaPartner tions with our partner companies. We are also realizing the value of companies co-existence by sharing information and spreading technologies. Share and internalize Hyundai E&C’s the Group’s management vision and mission We promote environmental protection and philanthropic activities in philosophy and core values Local the regions surrounding our sites, actively communicating with the communities local communities and sharing hope. Main concept of Roles as a global engineering enterprise Management audit the Group’s management philosophy We maximize value for shareholders and investors through stable Provide integrated construction services and diversify the type of and provision of opinions Shareholders/ Unlimited sense of responsibility corporate governance and continuous improvement of corporate overseas contracts Board meetings, public hearings, formal Investors competitiveness. Realization of possibilities Establish an optimized management infrastructure reports, Junior Board, Compliance Program Respect for mankind (CP), etc. Organic cooperation with relevant industries Core values of Hyundai Motor Group Prepare the basis for sustainable growth Customer Customers first Enhance partnership with relevant industries to expand business areas Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders Challenge Aggressive execution Lead the convergence and divergence of future technologies and Collaboration Communication and cooperation industries Shareholders/ Government Employees Partner companies Local communities Investors People Respect for talent Ensure that individual technologies developed in separate work areas 206 billion KRW 744.6 billion KRW 7,654 billion KRW 7.9 billion KRW 110 billion KRW Globality Globally oriented are integrated and utilized in new areas to create new growth drivers Tax payment including corporate Wages and benefits Procurement and subcontracting Social contribution expenses Dividends and interest Fulfill the role as a catalyst of new growth business areas tax and VAT expenses We are distributing economic value We are contributing to local We are maximizing value for We are fulfilling responsibilities and to employees by means of wages We are making appropriate communities’ sustainable shareholders and investors through Create a better foundation of life obligations as a corporate citizen by and benefits and further trying to payments for goods and services development and stability through continuous improvement of profitability Value ‘people’ as a top priority and create a better foundation of life faithfully paying tax and participating create a great workplace (GWP) to we purchase from our partner donation, volunteer activities, and and efforts to reinforce stability. in the government’s policy-making. enhance employee satisfaction companies, strengthening the joint supports for the construction of by having a shared mindset with customers cooperation relationship. main infrastructures. Grow together with all stakeholders and contribute to the society 18 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 19 To Build Sustainable Value COPORATE GOVERNANCE To Build Economic Value Based on advanced corporate governance, we have established a stable management Committees under the BOD environment and are successfully operating the business. Three committees are operated under the BOD in order to enhance the Board’s transparency, ensure efficient operation, carry out specialty functions, and pursue sustainability management activities. In October 2012, we changed the name of the existing Social Contribution Committee to the Ethics Committee and further expanded the Committee’s function and Structure of the Board of Directors (BOD) To Build Environmental Value authority. In order to ensure independence and transparency of decision-making process, Hyundai E&C’s Board of Directors (BOD) is composed of one executive director, two other directors, and four external directors. The BOD is chaired by the Committee Composition Functions President of Hyundai E&C, and all external directors currently on the Board are independent external directors (hereafter referred to as external directors) that have been appointed to improve the BOD’s independence. None of the external Audit the legality of business activities carried out by the BOD and directors has belonged to Hyundai E&C or relevant subsidiaries, been specially affiliated, or had financial transactions the management Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon Audit Committee with the company in the last five years. All external directors are appointed based on their expertise and experience in at + 3 External directors Review integrity and feasibility of the company’s financial activities To Build Social Value Examine and control the company’s internal audit least one of the following fields: law, accounting, and construction. Particularly, the four independent, external directors are responsible for objective monitoring and audit of management activities and, at the same time, act as advisors and facilitators of business operations. In order to assist the external directors with their tasks, Hyundai E&C is providing Outside Director Chairman Jung Soo-Hyun Recommend nominees for external directors necessary information and educational opportunities. Nominating Committee + 4 External directors Information regarding the BOD’s articles of association, responsibilities, and resolutions can be found on Hyundai E&C’s Appendix Determine the vision for sustainability and strategic tasks website. In addition, we regularly disclose the BOD-related information that need to be publicly available at the Financial Chairman Shin Hyun-Yoon Review transparency of internal transactions and execution of ethical Ethical Management Supervisory Service’s Depository of Korea’s Corporate Fillings (DART). + 3 External directors, management Committee 1 Executive director Ensure that the Compliance Program is in practice Deliberate and resolve major social contribution policies Current Status of the Board of Directors ( As of DEC 2012) Type Name Position Title Full time Jung Soo-Hyun Executive director CEO and President, Hyundai E&C Evaluation and Remuneration of the BOD Chung Mong-Koo Other director CEO and Chairman, Hyundai Motor We are operating the BOD Performance Evaluation Program and conduct third-party evaluation for the company’s longterm growth and improvement of corporate governance. The BOD is subject to a self-performance evaluation and a Kim Yong-Hwan Other director Vice-president, Hyundai Motor third-party performance evaluation and the performance evaluation results get delivered to shareholders. Directors’ Professor of Law, Yonsei University; Chairman, Korean Association of remuneration, including severance pay, is paid within the limit determined at the generating meeting of shareholders; and Shin Hyun-Yoon External director Law Schools Part time disclosed through the Financial Supervisory Service’s Depository of Korea’s Corporate Fillings (DART) and other public Lee Seung-Jae External director Chairman, Tax Firm Samsong materials. Professor of Architectural Engineering, Konkuk University; Suh Chee-Ho External director Chairman, Architecture Institute of Korea Park Sang-Ok External director Leading Lawyer, Law Firm Do Youn Hyundai E&C’s Main Shareholder Distribution Protection of Shareholder Rights ( As of DEC 2012 / Unit: % ) As Hyundai E&C’s owner, our shareholders have the right to have a share in the profits, attend the general meeting, exercise one’s voting right, and receive significant company information in a regular, timely manner. For amendments 20.9 to the Articles of Incorporation, mergers or split offs, decrease in capital and other such matters that affect the status of 14 Performance of the BOD in 2012 the company or create a significant impact on shareholder rights, the general shareholders meeting makes decisions Board meetings 42.7 focused on preserving shareholders rights. Hyundai E&C also protects the shareholders’ right to information by disclosing 100% times On behalf of the organization and shareholders and to everyone’s benefit, the BOD sets key management goals 8.7 important management information through various channels including Annual Reports and regular Business Reports, the and fundamental principles of business operation and audits the management’s corporate activities. In 2012, 14 website, and general shareholders meeting in a timely and accurate manner. board meetings were held and the BOD had discussions on 44 issues on the agenda. The BOD fulfilled the minimum 5.2 Issues on the agenda 44 issues participation rate of 70%, as required by the company policy, and diligently carried out the BOD’s role of maximizing corporate value and establishing stakeholders’ trust. 22.5 Hyundai Motor Hyundai Mobis Foreigners KIA Motors Others 20 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 21 To Build Sustainable Value BUSINESS ETHICS To Build Economic Value In 2004, Hyundai E&C established a platform for business ethics and publicly announced the Operation of the Cyber Audit Office company’s commitment in corporate social responsibility, so as to correct any unjust practices Cyber Audit Office At Hyundai E&C, we are operating the Cyber Audit Office (http://audit.hdec.kr), an independent website provided in and cost structure in an ethical manner, thereby strengthening its corporate competitiveness, both English and Korean aimed at communicating with external stakeholders about the company’s ethical management creating new values, and fulfilling its social responsibility. From then on, we have taken a steppractices while allowing them to report on any act of violation. Hyundai E&C’s Cyber Audit Office not only discloses the To Build Environmental Value by-step approach, such as establishing an ethical management system and announcing the Code of Ethical Management and other related internal policies and regulations, it offers training and information on ethical management contributing to the awareness on the issue. HDEC Green CSR Declaration. Today, every member of Hyundai E&C complies with the company’s business ethics standard and ethical management has truly become a significant part of our Furthermore, external stakeholders can report any cases of unfair request and/or corruption of Hyundai E&C’s employees in real-time through the Cyber Audit Office. Cases are handled transparently and quickly with local hotlines for the various culture. overseas offices available on the English Cyber Audit Office for use by informants outside of Korea. Informants may choose to file the report anonymously. The Cyber Audit Office ensures that the each case is handled confidentially and that the Code of Ethics informant’s identity, confidentiality, and anonymity are protected by assigning a reference number to the case regardless of To Build Social Value Type of Reports Filed via the Cyber Audit Office whether the report was filed anonymously. The reference number can be used to track the status of the case. As a global enterprise, Hyundai E&C strictly complies with its business ethics standard to maintain positive brand image and extend ethical management practices to partner companies and the society as a whole. One such effort is the HDEC Green CSR Declaration, which allows us to share our ethical management vision with stakeholders and encourage their Consultation with businesses 47% Autonomous Compliance with the Fair Trade Program participation as well. In 2012, we updated the HDEC Green CSR Declaration particularly with regard to anti-monopoly and Hyundai E&C operates an internal compliance system, the Fair Trade Program, in order to establish a transparent and fair protection of human rights, reflecting rapidly changing industry trends and stakeholders’ needs. Consultation with clients 33% business culture. We have built a stringent system to manage risks through the Fair Trade Program, including unethical trade, cartel, subcontracting, and labeling and advertisement. In addition, we have also strengthened related internal Appendix Ethical Management System training. Code Establish a transparent management system on a global scale Corruption 20% Autonomous Compliance System | In order to emphasize the importance of fair trade among employees, our Autonomous Compliance Committee has selected the seven key components of the Fair Trade Program and implemented of Conduct Moral Pride Carry out a number of activities in this regard. In addition, internal fair trade activities are monitored and areas for improvement an in-depth training identified to prevent infractions. Outcomes and performance regarding fair trade activities are reported regularly to the in HDEC on ‘Clean Company’ management. 5 3 Expand and Supervisory Areas of Enhanced Training on Fair Trade | In order to raise employees’ awareness on autonomous compliance with fair trade Practical improve management Body Implemenevaluation tasks practices, we are carrying out training sessions on the more recent fair trade issues that are relevant to Hyundai E&C. We Elements tation Hyundai E&C in which all of strengthened training on cartel and Subcontracting Act violations in order to prevent related incidences from occurring. Build infrastructures for customers, employees, and partner ethical management companies take pride Fair Trade Autonomous Compliance Manual 7 Key Components of Autonomous Compliance with the Fair Trade Program Ethics Training Extend win-win cooperation Establishment Appointment and amendment Establishment of CEO’s of supervisors Monitoring & suRegulations on any of the Autonomous Training system documentation commitment for autonomous pervisory system act of violation Compliance system compliance Handbook HDEC Green CSR Declaration Since its foundation in 1947, Hyundai E&C has pioneered the Korean conThe Green CSR Declaration is aimed at achieving the following: Fair Trade Training Program struction industry with its entrepreneurial spirit of ‘challenging oneself with Set the direction for Hyundai E&C’s corporate social responsibility Establish the foundation for integrating Hyundai E&C’s business strategies creativity,’ taking the responsibility for the country and the society. Amid the Overview of the For domestic project directors F air Transactions in Subcontracting Act, recent trends in policy-making with corporate social responsibility Subcontracting Act and management team leaders and legal executions, etc. rapidly changing business environment, we are growing together with our Build a transparent and credible relationship with Hyundai E&C’s stakeholders stakeholders to increase corporate value. In this regard, Hyundai E&C has Publicly announce Hyundai E&C’s commitment to fulfill corporate social responsibility announced the ‘HDEC Green CSR Declaration’ which details Hyundai E&C’s Special Education For management and Key fair trade issues for Hyundai E&C and risk management measures Responsibility for Responsibility toward Responsibility toward on Fair Trade team leaders commitment in 3 areas: ‘Responsibility for Sustainable Business,’ ‘ResponSustainable Business the Environment Stakeholders sibility Toward the Environment,’ and ‘Responsibility Toward Stakeholders’ 24 Articles 14 Articles 23 Articles For employees and management with these areas further developed in 61 articles. Prevention of a Cartel Laws and cases of bid rigging, code of conduct, etc. working in contracts and sales 22 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 23 To Build Sustainable Value RISK MANAGEMENT To Build Economic Value An accurate risk analysis not only allows a company to pre-empt and respond to critical Risk Management Organizational Structure | We have established the Pre-trade Risk Management (PRM) situations but also enables it to determine strategic direction, find new opportunities, and Team, an organization responsible for effective management of various risks that are present in the stages leading to the project execution, and the Risk Management Part within each business division, setting a clear structure of risk efficiently operate the business. Hyundai E&C has established a risk management infrastructure management among relevant organizations. In addition, we are operating the new Risk Management Committee for and is making efforts to minimize risks. deliberating a project’s feasibility and monitoring and discussion of risks during the project execution stage. Also under To Build Environmental Value effective operation is the existing Contract Deliberation Committee, which we have made a significant improvement in the Defining Risks Committee’s risk management capabilities from the project planning stage to the execution stage. For effective risk management, we comprehensively take into consideration all factors such as business areas, markets Risk Reporting Structure | Hyundai E&C analyzes risks’ degree of seriousness, probability of occurrence, and extent in which our corporate activities take place, macroeconomic environment, and characteristics of stakeholders and define of influence, quantify risks, and categorize them into several stages. Our risk reporting structure is classified by each risks accordingly. At Hyundai E&C, we define and classify risks into one of the following categories: country risks, company stage, which is the sort of structure that allows us to report and manage risks in a more timely and effective manner. and market risks, and project risks. To Build Social Value Country Risks | Country risks include political, social, cultural, climate change, water, and other environmental risks Board of Directors High-level Risk that may arise from changes in and outside of Korea. We are managing these risks throughout the organization. Company and Market Risks | These are the most commonly evaluated risks related to the market situation, business, CEO Mid-level Risk and finance. Following an increase in overseas projects, it is more important than ever to stably manage overseas Appendix finances; at Hyundai E&C, we are utilizing the company intranet to check foreign currencies on a real-time basis and to CRO Low-level Risk effectively manage currency risks. Project Risks | We conduct a periodic analysis on the construction market situations to manage business risks regarding economic stagnation or overheating, procurement, etc. Particularly, in order to systematically and professionally respond to legal risks from our business activities, we are operating the ‘Hyundai E&C Conflict Management System,' Reported to the CRO The CRO directly reports to the CEO The CRO directly reports to the BOD and undertake which provides exemplary cases of legal risks and solutions and allows us to submit inquiries to in-house legal experts. (Chief Risk Officer) If a given risk is considered to be urgent and to the investigation of a given risk and the responsible have a significant effect on project(s), report to personnel both the CEO and the BOD and make a prompt Establish a risk mitigation strategy, regular monitoring decision system, and countermeasures to a crisis situation Risk Management Infrastructure Along with the restructuring of the risk management organization (aimed at systematic risk management) in 2012, Hyundai E&C improved its risk management infrastructure and prepared implementation strategies by determining key risks, defining response tactics, and developing a response manual on key risks. 현대건설 20대 핵심 리스크 Analysis of Key Risks | In order to respond to various risks in a timely and effective manner, we have selected the Hyundai E&C’s 20 Key Risks 20 key risks, monitor their current status on a monthly basis, and carry out an analysis on these risks through scenario mapping. In addition, we have determined key performance indicators (KPIs) on each of the key risks and developed a response manual, which includes the evaluation standard of four stages – attention, caution, alert, and crisis – of a risky 1 Rise of raw materials prices 11 Political uncertainties in foreign countries situation and the relevant teams functions during monitoring and crisis response. 2 Currency volatility 12 Diminished ties with partner companies Changes in the construction industry policies and 3 Intensified competition 13 regulations 4 Weakening of brand awareness 14 Damages to corporate image Domestic Business Risk Assessment Meeting 5 Failure to set appropriate management targets 15 Vulnerability in HR management Striving to further grow even in times of crisis with the company’s proactive risk management, 6 Failure of new projects 16 Non-compliance with laws Hyundai E&C kicks off each year with an annual Domestic Business Risk Assessment Meeting. In 7 Inability to qualify with the global QC standards 17 Occupational accidents 2013, the Meeting started with each business division’s presentation on major site issues, followed by the division heads’ business plans and strategies for the year. Overall, the Meeting provided the 8 Liquidity crisis 18 Information and technology leak opportunity to critically assess some of the worst practices and risk factors at sites and to discuss 9 Changes in the global economy 19 Natural disasters the measures to respond to these issues and prevent them fom recurring in the future. 10 Stagnant domestic construction industry 20 Man-made hazards 2013 Annual Domestic Business Risk Assessment Meeting 24 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 25 To Build Sustainable Value SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRATEGY To Build Economic Value To build a tomorrow with stakeholders, Hyundai E&C is pursuing sustainability management to Framework of Sustainability Management Strategy create greater social values. Our Sustainability Strategy VISION As a global integrated engineering company, we lead the convergence and divergence of cutting-edge technologies and the construction industry based on an organic cooperation To Build Environmental Value Hyundai E&C’s sustainability management philosophy is clearly present in its corporate vision: As a global integrated STATEMENT with relevant industries engineering company, we lead the convergence and divergence of cutting-edge technologies and the construction industry based on an organic cooperation with relevant industries. In order to pursue sustainability management in a more systematic manner, we have established the framework of sustainability management strategy; guided by the Business VISION WE BUILD TOMORROW Planning Group, we are carrying out sustainability activities that involve participation from all members of relevant departments. To Build Social Value Key Sustainability Issues Materiality Analysis | Every year, we undertake a materiality test targeting employees and external stakeholders The Most The Most The Most Strategic Goals to determine key issues that affect Hyundai E&C’s sustainability. After the materiality analysis, 12 key issues – economic value creation, sound corporate governance, integrated risk management, business ethics, customer Valuable Environmental Reliable satisfaction, quality capability, new market entry, attraction of talent, safety management, fair trade, compliance with laws of the project-related countries and regions, and selection and appraisal of partner companies – were selected. Company Company Company Appendix Contents of this report have been determined in accordance with the 12 issues selected, which we will continue to reflect upon when establishing goals and plans for Hyundai E&C’s sustainability management in the future. Materiality Analysis Process Step1. Put together ECONOMY ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY Strategic Directions Determine issues regarding ·Global sustainability standards ·Construction industry trends a list of issues sustainability management ·Media ·Hyundai E&C’s internal situations To Build Economic Value To Build Environmental Value To Build Social Value Enhance global integrated Realize environmentally friendly Enhance social trust engineering capabilities ‘life quality’ ·Number of participants: 2,915 stakeholders including employees, Step2. Conduct Examine stakeholders’ level of customers, partner companies, and local communities a stakeholder interest and current status ·Survey period: April 15, 2013 April 27, 2013 for each issue survey ·Survey method: Intranet and e-mail Establish Foundation for Environmental Advance Business Structure Create Greater Employee Value Management Expansion System Draw out key issues Inside Step3. Select through assessment ·Compose the materiality matrix ·Build the foundation for environmental management ·Systematic HR / welfare and benefits operation ·Advance business portfolio ·Select key issues ·Improve environmentally friendly corporate image key issues of the materiality matrix ·Priority development for core talent ·Transition to high-value business model ·Operate the Environmental Management ·Advance corporate culture Committee Detailed Strategic Directions & Tasks Materiality Matrix Create Environmentally Friendly Develop New Markets Strengthen Corporate Responsibility Important More Important Project Sites Outside A Growth B A Economic value creation G Integrated risk management ·Select new growth drivers Site ·Systematically reduce GHG emissions ·Strengthen win-win growth with business partners H ·Enter emerging markets ·Expand environmentally friendly outsourcing ·Expand strategic social contribution activities J C B Quality capability H Attraction of talent External assessment I F ·Maximize synergy with the Group affiliates ·Operate sites in an environmentally friendly manner ·Embed transparent ethical management G D E C Business ethics I Fair trade L K D Customer satisfaction J Safety management Globalize Management Infrastructure Expand Green Technologies Increase Customers’ Trust Communication E New market entry Compliance with laws of the project-related K countries and regions Security Technology F Sound corporate governance l Selection and appraisal of partner companies ·Establish effective global organization ·Secure environmental core technologies ·Expand communication with customers ·Develop global talent ·Be the first to acquire environmental original ·Maximize management for customer satisfaction Less Important Important ·Solidify global cost/quality management systems technologies ·Strengthen HSE management Internal assessment 26 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 27 To Build ECONOMIC VALUE Direction We are establishing grounds for sustainable growth towards increased economic value by receiving more orders and improving our profit model. We are also working towards the advancement of internal management systems through engraining a strong sense of business ethics and reinforcing risk management. By investing in local communities, creating job opportunities, and inducing production, we will continue to make each and every effort to become a company trusted by all stakeholders. In 2012 In order to realize the vision of becoming a ‘global integrated engineering company,’ we have reorganized the business portfolio for each business division and improved our capability to provide integrated construction services. We focused on strengthening our global organizational structure by increasing the number of overseas branches for international expansion and taking the overseas project management system up a notch by establishing systems to better manage overseas partner companies and improving operational activities. As a result, we entered emerging regions such as Latin America, Africa, and CIS and pioneered new markets. Furthermore, we developed convergent and divergent technologies based on synergy with the Hyundai Motor Group, taking one step closer to becoming a truly advanced global construction company with great technological competitiveness. Exhibition Hall 2, BEXCO, Korea | DEC 2009 MAY 2012 To Build Sustainable Value Creating Sustainable Economic Value Business Portfolio Advancement To Build Economic Value Recognized for the quality it provides, Hyundai E&C has achieved the highest record of overseas To realize its vision of becoming a global integrated engineering company, Hyundai E&C has contracts among Korean construction companies and, based on this record, created significant established a business portfolio strategy for each business division, advancing the total service economic value. Moreover, in order to meet our stakeholders’ expectations, we will continue to business model and striving to grow both qualitatively and sustainably. enhance our technical abilities, expand strategic business areas, and strengthen the capability To Build Environmental Value our sound project management. Business Portfolio Strategy Based on the strengths of each business division, industry analysis, and market forecasts, we have established a business Proportion of Overseas Projects Competitiveness in Overseas Markets portfolio strategy categorized into four areas: core products, new growth drivers, basic business and future products. For 80 73.0 core products, we focus on adding value to the business model and creating revenue by expanding the value chain to 69.0 Winning over 10 billion USD of overseas contracts in a single year for the first time in Korea in 2010 and accumulating 80 60 obtain top-tier competitiveness at the global level. Since early development of core technologies is central to securing billion USD of overseas contracts as of 2011, Hyundai E&C has opened a new era for the Korean construction industry. 41.2 businesses that can be new growth drivers, we will strive to improve technical abilities and secure technologies through 40 Amid a stagnant global economy, set a new record for the Korean construction industry by winning 10.27 billion USD To Build Social Value pilot projects. As for the basic business projects, we are strengthening each business division’s competitiveness to solidify 20 of overseas contracts in 2012 for cumulative overseas orders exceeding 90 billion USD on the foundation of excellent the overall business foundation. Lastly, our future products are currently at the stage of initial market formation, which is technology, vast construction experience, and customers’ trust. In 2013, we expect to exceed 100 billion USD in terms of why we are focusing on research and development. (Unit: %) 2011 2012 2013 (e) overseas contracts (cumulative). These achievements are the result of Hyundai E&C’s efforts to diversify its Middle Eastcentric market portfolio and proactively seek new market opportunities in Latin America and Africa. Construction Capability Appendix Hyundai E&C won first place at the Construction Capability Evaluation 2012 announced by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport (formerly known as the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs) for four consecutive t, years, reaffirming the company’s position as a pillar of the Korean construction industry. To transform into a global leader, atmen Co m r tre ple wate t Gr e not just the top contractor in Korea, we are striving to grow in both scale and quality. cti on xd ste men en tr u ev wa elop sm v t Hydro-e t ns en B ui elo en B ui a rt nm nvir nm co o ldi pm o ldi bu n on n vir vir Por reso men t en t ild i gW gW ng n ur c t & n &E &E Hyundai E&C, Global Top 4 in Middle East Revenue o rk ed o rk C i v il eC i v il Core New Growth s s According to the prominent construction and engineering magazine Engineering News Products Drivers ed rov -Record (ENR, United States), Hyundai E&C ranked 25th in the “Top 225 International En En imp erg erg ate y y rks, Contractors,” which is a ranking that highlights the largest global firms based on overseas Pla nt an dp & Pl & Steelwo er t er ow er p revenue. In addition, it ranked 4th for firms that had the largest revenue in the Middle East. Pow FBC* Pow lant Oil & C uc r Ga lea n Hyundai E&C was able to accomplish such records and stand shoulder to shoulder with s pe rp ow ly o er g ate enerat Priv global players even in the face of economic downturn and other obstacles by balancing its ion Engineering and Construction domestic and foreign portfolio and aggressively opening up new markets overseas. Magazine, “Engineering NewsRecord” (U.S.) Highrise b tio n buil uildin we r In d u st a din g, po ort g, nd ria li z sp pu wi al ent denti ent r an B ui B ui ed resi re dt o nm ldi sh o o nm ldi r es vir n stic ity vir n La n O ffide gW me cil gW do lic fa nce n n &E &E o rk b o rk C i v il s C i v il s Basic Future Business e Products i nm iro En En & env erg erg al e y y mic pow tra TL*, Pl an & ns an Pl & ar, t che t er er IGCC*, G r mis bio Petro uclea Pow sion Pow ma nd nta ss n r g ustri er lp ol en al fa ow lan ,s sp t, o C* era c tion ility, sea ff-sh IGC Over ore plant *C  FBC: Circulating Fluidized Bed Combustion IGCC: Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Asia Square Tower 2, Singapore │ APR 2011 AUG 2013 G T L : Gas-to-liquids (a technology that can convert natural gas into liquid fuel or chemical substance) 30 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 31 To Build Sustainable Value Business Portfolio Advancement Pioneering New Business Areas & Markets To Build Economic Value Business Model Advancement Backed by technical ability, expertise, and synergy with Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai E&C is Following changes in the market, the construction industry is also facing demands to expand beyond the existing EPC continuously pioneering new business areas that will lead the company’s future growth. (engineering, procurement, and construction) contracts and fulfill the role of ‘Total Service Provider.’ Based on its vast experience and advanced technology accumulated from carrying out over 771 projects in 54 countries around the world, New Business Development Strategy Hyundai E&C is capable of fulfilling its customers’ needs for one-stop services, which ranges from planning to operation To Build Environmental Value and maintenance. By doing so, we are creating various value and truly becoming an integrated engineering company that Development of New Growth Drivers | Based on market analysis results, we have determined new growth drivers of customers can rely on. each business division, selected items to be developed in the long term, and organized the Strategy Planning Group within the Planning Division to actively pursue new growth drivers. Particularly, we have newly established the Green Environment Business Group to develop capabilities to compete Planning & Financing in the global environmental industry, which is gaining attention as a new growth driver for the future. Following this Marketing establishment, we expect to reinforce the global competitiveness of our environmental business within a wide range To Build Social Value – such as water supply, hydropower generation, wastewater recycling, and waste management – and be able to expand in terms of both geography (i.e. new markets in North Africa and Latin America) and portfolio (i.e. operation and management). Operation Total Service Design & Organization Restructuring to Secure New Growth Drivers & Appendix Maintenance Provider Engineering Date Description Roles & Expected Outcomes ·Expand business areas such as environment, water resource, hydropower generation, Launched the Green Environment Business JAN 2013 water supply, Reverse Osmosis (RO) desalination, soil remediation, and waste Group under the Civil & Environment Division management Launched the International Business Planning Construction Procurement FEB 2013 Group and the Market Analysis Team under the ·Gain expertise in national-level market analysis with the aim of entering emerging markets International Business Division ·Facilitate execution based on midto long-term vision and strategies Established the Strategy Planning Group New Growth Strategy Team – Research on the global economy and real estate market; establish and MAR 2013 improve mid-term strategy under the Planning Division New Market Planning Team – Conduct feasibility studies, strategic planning and execution on new Planning & Marketing | We undertake a thorough review of a given project from the very beginning of the planning business (new market and region entry) through M&A, Joint Ventures and other options stage and determine measures to minimize cost while maximizing profit, in order to establish the most optimum integrated ·Strengthen the organization’s capability to pursue green environmental business solution while ensuring quality, meeting the deadline, and securing safety, all within the project budget. We create the Subdivided the cost estimation organization Green Environmental Cost Estimation Team I – Environmental business – Water treatment/wastewater best value throughout the lifecycle of a construction project, such as selecting an optimal location, studying economic APR 2013 under the Civil & Environment Division treatment/incinerator/desalination, etc. Green Environmental Cost Estimation Team II – Water business – Stream/dam/hydropower generation/ feasibility, reviewing the right construction methods and raw materials, planning how to procure equipment and secure irrigation, etc. skilled workers, and analyzing environmental impact. Subdivided the Plant Sales Group within the ·Subdivide the organization by region to secure expertise and efficiency JUN 2013 Plant Division Established Plant Proposal Team I and Team II for each region Financing | Hyundai E&C’s financing experts carry out a detailed risk analysis of all stages of a project before the project R&D Division Organizational Structure begins, propose the financial structure and financing terms, and support the funding process based on the company’s credibility. Head of R&D Division Design & Engineering | Based on a balanced business portfolio and over 66 years of experience, we forecast the construction and operation stages from the initial design stage and provide an optimum design and engineering solution. Enhancement of Technological Competitiveness | In order to make the leap to an engineering-based construction R&D Procurement | We are maximizing procurement efficiency by establishing a global procurement system, finding the best Planning Team company, Hyundai E&C – particularly the Research and Development Division – is continuing research and development partner(s) available in the region, working in partnership with construction material and equipment suppliers, and retaining with the aim of obtaining the world’s best technologies. At a state-of-the-art research facility, our talented researchers procurement professionals. Particularly, we have established an IT system for finding, evaluating, and managing partner Civil Plant are striving to develop competitiveness for the future by carrying out research in new business areas, contracts and Building Works companies with an excellent track record from around the world to obtain the best materials and services as needed. Engineering Environment commercialization strategy, and measures to synergy with the Group. In addition, they conduct research on providing R&D Group R&D Group R&D Group solutions to technical difficulties by way of on-site technical consulting, and registering the intellectual property rights of Construction | Perfect construction is one of the most important factors of a successful project. At Hyundai E&C, we Underground Water & developed technologies. At Hyundai E&C, we strongly encourage the application of new technologies, which leads to a provide the highest quality to our customers with a solution most optimized to the site conditions based on continuous Space Green City Environment Research Team number of achievements such as reduced construction period and cost saving. technological innovation and talent management. Research Team Research Team Cutting-edge High-rise Plant We hold the annual Technology Competition for Win-win Cooperation targeting university students and SMEs, supporting Operation & Maintenance | Hyundai E&C is gaining experiences of operation and maintenance (O&M) within a wide Material Research Team Research Team Research Team technology development and discovering excellent technologies. In addition, we are establishing a global network with range of business, such as complex facility, transportation infrastructure, industrial plant, environmental plant, and power plant. Furthermore, we are securing capabilities tailored to industrial plant operation in the areas of facilities and asset Ultra-long Offshore leading foreign contractors and technology institutions through close cooperation. Span Bridge Research Team management, wastewater management and striving to provide the world’s top-tier O&M services in various areas. ResearchTeam 32 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 33 To Build Sustainable Value Pioneering New Business Areas & Markets To Build Economic Value Reinforced Global R&D Cooperation | In order to secure top-tier technologies, we are actively partnering with Emerging Markets Strategy reputable research institutes and universities both in and outside of Korea. As a result of such cooperation, we enjoy the Expansion to Emerging Markets | Based on our overseas project experience in the Middle East, we are expanding to opportunity to adopt cutting-edge technologies from foreign countries and promote the Korean construction industry’s Percentage of Orders from Emerging Markets excellent capabilities internationally. other regions in the world such as Africa, Latin America, and Eastern Europe. In order to do so, we have newly established 40.0 the Overseas Project Development Group and the New Market Planning Team within the Strategy Implementation Group 32.1 Memorandums of Understanding for Cooperation MOUs for New Growth Drivers To Build Environmental Value 30.0 to prepare for global expansion and future businesses. 25.3 Area Date Partner Organization Area Date Partner Organization 20.0 19.4 Particularly, in order to continue long-term growth in the future, Hyundai E&C has been strategically expanding its Water/ 10.0 business to Latin America, Africa, and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) of Eastern Europe while retaining JUN 2011 Loughborough University (UK) FEB 2012 UCLA, Water Technology Research Center environment High-rise a strong basis in the Middle East. Winning the contract for a 2.99 billion USD refinery project in Venezuela in 2012 is one JUN 2013 Gehry Technologies (US) Nuclear JUL 2011 Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute (Unit: %) 2011 2012 2013 (e) example that shows our continued and systematic efforts to diversify our market. power NOV 2011 Ultra Safe Nuclear Green city JUN 2013 LBNL generation JAN 2012 Seoul National University Nuclear Engineering To further target the Latin American construction market, we have established a branch office in Columbia in 2010 Gehry Technologies _High-rise To Build Social Value OCT 2012 Tokyo Metropolitan University and another one in Venezuela in 2012, followed by a series of new orders in the region. Today, we are acclaimed to Technology JAN 2013 VTT (Finland) Long span bridge OCT 2012 Yokohama National University have successfully entered the Latin American market. In the CIS market, we won the contract for the 820 million USD management FEB 2013 AIT (Thailand) NOV 2012 Korea Railroad Research Institute Talimarjan Thermal Power Plant Expansion Project in Uzbekistan, completing the ‘construction Silk Road’ that starts from the Middle East and connects to Central Asia. Backed by such achievements, in 2012, Hyundai set the record of receiving Development of Convergent & Divergent Technologies through Synergy with the Group | Hyundai E&C is over 10 billion USD worth overseas contracts in a single year for the first time in Korea, opening a new era for the Korean carrying out a number of joint R&D projects with the subsidiaries of Hyundai Motor Group. By developing convergent and Appendix construction industry. VTT _Technology Management divergent technologies in various areas such as energy, environmental construction material, power, and transportation, we are developing new business areas and creating greater synergy within the Group. New Overseas Branches ※ Includes re-opened branches and liaison offices Synergy Amongst Hyundai Motor Group Affiliates Year New Overseas Branches R&D Tasks Partner(s) 2012 Kuala Lumpur, Johanessburg, Caracas Develop a Reverse Osmosis (RO) wastewater recycling system 2013 Toshkent, Montevideo (planned), Istanbul (planned) Research various uses of ground-granulated blast-furnace slag Hyundai Steel Develop new steel grades for the construction industry and assess massproduced structural steel Major Projects in Emerging Markets Commercialize industrial fuel cell technology Hyundai Motor Company, Hyundai Hysco Hyundai Motor Company, Hyundai Mobis, Hyundai Autoever, Hyundai Peusangan Hydropower Plant and 1 other Study the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) application methods Bello Wastewater Treatment Plant, Columbia Mnsoft project, Indonesia (MAY 2011 JAN 2016) • Project owner: ANEPM Develop a Building Energy Management System (BEMS) Hyundai Autoever • Location: Bello, Columbia New Haripur Combined Cycle Power Plant, Bangladesh • Project period: SEP 2012 SEP 2016 (49 months) Opening the Global Era at Hyundai E&C Through Overseas Training and Education (FEB 2011 JUL 2013) • P roject overview: Wastewater treatment facility with capacity of 430,000 tons/month; equipment and materials procurement, Mong Duong-1 Thermal Power Plant and 2 installment, and commissioning; standard method for activated sludge other projects, Vietnam Asian Institute of Technology / Thailand UOP / United States (DEC 2011 OCT 2015) Subject: Technology management Subject: Petrochemical process Azito Power Plant Expansion Project, Puerto La Cruz Refinery, Venezuela Period: MAY 20 JUN 1, 2013 Period: APR 27 JUN 28, 2013 Côte d’Ivoire • Project owner: PDVSA Participants: R  esearch & Development Division (Kim Participants: P lant Division (FEB 2013 MAY 2015) Sung-Ho, Im Jang-Hyuk, Kim Jun-Hyung), (Park Ji-Geun, Lee Dong-Wook) • Location: Anzoategui, Venezuela Civil & Environment Division (Song HyunBello Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), • Project period: SEP 2012 FEB 2016 (42 months) Sup, Kim Dong-Won, Cho Il-Soo) Columbia • P roject overview: Refinery capacity expansion (170,000 barrels “The R&D Division and Civil & Environment Division had the opportunity to visit Asian Institute of “I received UOP’s training at the 53rd Engineering Design Seminar. The training covered a wide variety of (SEP 2012 SEP 2016) light crude oil → 210,000 barrels heavy crude oil) Technology in Thailand for technology management education, where we completed the training for subjects, including basic engineering, fundamentals of major construction processes, types of equipment, Puerto La Cruz Refinery and 1 other project, project management and technical capability reinforcement and shared business cases regarding selection standard, selection of utilities and off site visits required for running factories, safety education for Venezuela technology and quality management of Hyundai E&C. driving vehicles and equipment, and environmental protection. (SEP 2012 FEB 2016) Mong Duong-1 Thermal Power Plant, Vietnam After the program, I was able to put what I learned at AIT in practice during the actual R&D planning. This training has enabled me to more safely manage risks during commissioning by utilizing what I have Particularly, we expect to improve performances of the researches currently being held by designing learned about each process’s fundamentals and equipment characteristics. Ain Arnat Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCPP), • Project owner: Electricity Vietnam (EVN) Algeria R&D projects based on stringent investment analysis.” I was particularly delighted to not only acquire technical capabilities from a leading organization in the United • Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (DEC 2012 MAR 2016) States but also interact with participants from diverse backgrounds and the world’s leading engineering • Project period: DEC 2011 OCT 2015 (47 months) companies, which helped me gain confidence in international business. Punta Del Tigre Combined Cycle Power Plant, • P roject overview: Four 810 tons/hour fluidized-bed combustion Uruguay boilers and two 500MW steam turbines  Kim Sung-Ho  Park Ji-Geun (APR 2013 MAR 2016) Research & Development Division, R&D Planning Team Plant Division, Plant Equipment Technology Support Group 34 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 35 To Build Sustainable Value Globalization of Management Infrastructure To Build Economic Value In 1965, starting with the first-ever overseas project by a Korean construction company, the Along with the customs manual, Hyundai E&C developed a transport management program in 2012 to easily track the Pattani-Narathiwat Highway in Thailand, Hyundai E&C has contracted over 771 projects in 54 current status and trends of transport (freight) cost by route and region. By effectively sharing such information, we can countries around the world and is now considered one of the world’s leading construction ensure accuracy of transport cost data of a given project at the preliminary bidding stage. Furthermore, we have been companies. In order to globalize not only our business portfolio but also management able to compare bids at the subcontractor selection stage and to better respond to changes in market conditions by analyzing trends of transport cost. infrastructure, we are extending our cost, project, organizational management systems to the To Build Environmental Value overseas branches and sites. Improvement of the Global Organizational Structure Reinforcement of Global Cost Management Hyundai E&C operates 25 overseas branches, including the South Africa and Venezuela branches established in 2012. Each of the overseas branches provides Hyundai E&C’s management infrastructure to overseas site(s) and act as an E-Procurement & E-Subcontract System By improving the operation of overseas procurement and logistics, we are seeing a more effective global cost for Overseas Projects important bridge between the head office and overseas sites. Our overseas branches are responsible for making on-site management, enhancing the overall work efficiency, and strengthening the management structure of any relevant risks. requests for subcontractor selection, bridging the head office and sites during the business partner selection process, and To Build Social Value Procurement | In 2012, we have assigned procurement personnel to overseas branches in Singapore, Dubai, Tripoli, carrying out some of the procurement and subcontracting work. The branches play a key role when it comes to finding and Doha, and 4 sites in 4 countries to purchase office supplies required for operating overseas business and branches, local business partners, managing the list of local partner companies, and supervising sites. construction materials and equipment, wood materials, and safety features directly from local suppliers. Procurement At Hyundai E&C, we will continue to enhance the global organizational structure and the systematic infrastructure for of locally sourced materials has allowed us to reduce procurement expenses and in the future, we plan to expand the overseas projects in order to apply the world’s most unified, strict standards of project management and enable a more number of overseas branches with procurement personnel to include Kuwait, Al Khobar, and Caracas for a total of seven effective operation of the business. Appendix procurement branches. To support local procurement, we have established the overseas project procurement and subcontracting system, known Advancement of the Overseas Project Performance Management System as ‘e-Procurement & e-Subcontract.’ In 2013, we will further advance the system to stabilize the existing bidding, We are advancing the partner company selection and performance management system, which is a key to successfully transport, and procurement management systems and establish new processes for appraisal of partner companies, winning contracts for and carrying out overseas projects. contract management, and payment management. Establishment of the Overseas Partner Company Performance Management System | It is imperative to Logistics | We have developed a customs clearance manual for each country and are currently developing a module for work with excellent local partners to ensure that overseas projects are carried out effectively. At Hyundai E&C, we have analyzing transport data in order to improve the efficiency of logistics work and thus prevent any loss (cost) that may occur compiled a detailed list of business partners and suppliers in each country (in which our current and potential projects due to a delay in project period. Particularly, the customs clearance manual allows for elimination of any unnecessary are located) and a guideline of local laws and regulations, so as to find and sign subcontracting agreements with the right delays at customs by laying out each country’s potential, customs-related risks beforehand. Furthermore, we expect that partner(s). having the new guidelines on customs clearance work for each region will help all customs-related personnel work in a consistent and efficient manner, leading to effective customs clearance. We manage and operate overseas partner companies with the same standard and system as those of domestic partner companies and have also computerized overseas subcontracting works. Operational Plan of Procurement Branches Reinforcement of Domestic Partner Companies’ Global Capacity | In order to improve our domestic partner companies’ capability to participate in overseas projects, we provide a number of training opportunities for key issues such as tax laws of different countries. Furthermore, we provide support for partner companies to employee talented workers at overseas sites. Tripoli (Libya) Kuwait (Kuwait) Improvement of Overseas Partner Company Management Dubai (UAE) Improved management of the list of Established standards for evaluation, registration, Caracas (Venezuela) partner companies and management of overseas subcontractors Doha (Qatar) Developed a computerized system for Prepared a list of overseas project subcontractors Al Khobar (Saudi Arabia) overseas subcontracting works by country and type of work Found additional overseas subcontractors Singapore Visited major sites and key regions for due diligence and conducted a “fact-finding” research Middle East & Africa Southeast Asia Latin America In operation as of 2012 Planned for 2013 36 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 37 To Build ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE Direction To achieve its environmental management vision, ‘2020 Global Green One Pioneer,’ Hyundai E&C has improved environmental friendliness over the entire process of a project, including research and development, design, transport, construction, operation, and decommissioning, enhancing our green management capabilities and spreading environmental management to partner companies as well. In 2012 In order to preemptively respond to environmental management issues, we have restructured the environmental management framework by establishing the Integrated HSE System, goals, and action plans, and became the world’s first construction company to receive the ISO 50001 certification (energy management system). In addition, we established the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System in connection with the GHG & Energy System and the Waste Management System to strengthen the cohesion between project management and environmental management in order to maximize performance of environmental management and mitigate environmental risks. Furthermore, we made investments in renewable energy technologies (e.g. photovoltaics, wind, tidal, etc.) and core technologies for low carbon, green buildings to reinforce new growth drivers for the future. Some of our environmentally friendly technologies have been deployed in green building construction at Expo 2012 Yeosu Korea and the H-MEG technologies. Qatar Gas to Liquid – Liquid Processing | AUG 2006 SEP 2010 To Build Sustainable Value Foundation for Environmentally Friendly Management To Build Economic Value By reflecting the environmental management strategy in our core management strategy, Performance Evaluation of Environmentally Friendly Management | Following the ‘Safety, Health, and Hyundai E&C is building a platform to become a global environmental leader in both corporate Environmental Management Goals and Program Operation Policy,’ in 2012, we have established 26 environmental performance indicators for the head office and 22 for sites to better manage performance. Each year, our social responsibility and new environmental businesses. accomplishments and results are reported to top-level executives, and the information is also used to plan, set goals, and determine ways to make improvements for the following years to come. To Build Environmental Value Environmentally Friendly Management System To efficiently manage performance of environmental management, we have integrated the GHG & Energy Management System and the Waste Management System with Hyundai Project Management System (H-PMS) to collect and track Establishment of an Integrated Management System for Safety, Health, and Environment | In order to data on a real-time basis. Following the integration of environmental management system and H-PMS, we have been proactively respond to domestic and international issues related to environmental management, we have established an able to combine general operations with environmental management, strengthen environmental risk mitigation measures integrated management system for safety, health, and environmental management by combining ISO 14001 (environmental during construction, and increase work efficiency. management system), KS I 7001 & 7002 (green management system), and ISO 50001 (energy management system) in 2012. In 2013, we plan to gradually complete the Integrated Environmental Performance Management System by sequentially combining e-HRD, environmentally friendly procurement, social contribution, and Hyundai Research Project Management To Build Social Value In the same year, we changed 16 pertinent policies and manuals following the management systems’ integration, and System (HRPMS) with H-PMS. Furthermore, we plan to reinforce our management infrastructure by expanding site established targets and implementation plans for each field in accordance to our company-wide policies and goals. These inspections, evaluating the propriety of goals for environmental management KPIs, and monitoring the current state of steps have ensured that the environmental management infrastructure is gaining foothold. affairs. Through company-wide, systematic management of environmental performance, Hyundai E&C is making strides for improvements in environmental management. Appendix Environmentally Friendly Management Roadmap Integrated Environmental Performance Management System H-P ry MS vento (wa y In ste erg , re Establish a Foundation for Engrain Global Environmental Company En sou rce and ,w Environmental Management Environmental Management GHG ate r) · Establish GHG inventory and set reduction targets · Align and expand the Environmental Management and · Become a global corporate leader in environment · Strengthen R&D capabilities for green new growth Technology Collaboration Committees Environmentally friendly · Improve profitability based on the company’s core technologies drivers · Manage each division’s quantitative and qualitative goals and global Environmental business Integrated Environmental HRPMS* and performance Procurement System · Operate the Environmental Management Committee Performance · Provide Environmental training for employees and · Reinforce operation and management of GHG emissions Management System (procurement) develop talent · Expand renewable energy and environmental market entries (H-PMS) Soc ial 2010 2011 2013 2020 C (so ontrib n) cial u atio con tion S (e duc trib utio ystem e-HRD n) * HRPMS: Hyundai Research Project  Environmental Management Policies & Goals Management System Inspection of Environmental Management Activities | In order to enhance internal capabilities for environmental Environmental Management Lead Low Carbon, Green Growth Realize Low Carbon, Green Growth management and encourage employees’ participation, we have inspected all sites for their level of environmental management in 2012 and are providing evaluations and guidance twice a year for domestic sites and once a year -Establish an autonomous green management system Establish a global green management system for overseas sites. As a result of the inspecting, we awarded 5 million KRW and overseas training opportunity to the 2012 Expand communication with stakeholders Establish green management performance employees of the top 5% sites. For the employees of the bottom 10% sites, we performed additional examinations, 2013 Policies management processes Enhance transparency of green management established countermeasures, and carried out a number of activities to improve performance. In 2013, we are determined Expand communication with stakeholders Comply with relevant laws and regulations to increase the accountability of project directors and HSE personnel by reflecting the examination results on their KPIs. Environmental Management Education | In order to increase employees’ understanding of environmental management and expand environmental management activities, we are executing a holistic and comprehensive training. Environmental Management In 2012, we focused our efforts on providing a tailored training for each site rather than developing one type of site Raise employees’ awareness on green management Expand the company-wide green management system training manual. As a result, 4,326 employees completed a total of 11,999 hours of training. In particular, we started an Introduce a company-wide green management system Systematically manage energy use and GHG emissions in-house training program for the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED), a green building certification in Achieve 100% of the green management goals Goals Ensure information transparency the US, certification to support accreditation, and organized a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) specialist seminar Improve the GHG management system available within the organization to provide our employees with an opportunity to strengthen environmentally friendly project management capabilities. In 2013, we will continue to expand our training efforts to employees of partner companies as well. 40 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 41 To Build Sustainable Value Foundation for Environmentally Friendly Management To Build Economic Value Carbon Management System Financial Impact Analysis of GHG Emissions | In order to comply with the government policies and strategies on Award Ceremony for the Carbon Trust Standard Aware of risks that climate change presents on the construction industry, Hyundai E&C is striving to proactively respond green buildings, we are analyzing the environmental cost of GHG emissions by utilizing the Ministry of Environment (ME)’s to climate change and rather turn these risks into opportunities. In this regard, we have established carbon management TOTAL program as well as the ME and the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy’s (formerly the Ministry of Knowledge goals that are in line with the nation’s GHG reduction goals, conducted GHG reduction activities, and preemptively Economy) LCI (Life Cycle Inventory) data system. As evaluation of energy use and GHG emissions has enabled quantitative To Build Environmental Value participated in the national GHG policies such as the Energy Target Management System, further enhancing our leadership environmental impact assessment, we can now conduct analysis of buildings’ and construction materials’ environmental in global carbon management. friendliness. Carbon Management Strategy | To achieve its vision, ‘2020 Global Green One Pioneer,’ Hyundai E&C has set goals Greater Leadership in Carbon Management | In 2012, Hyundai E&C participated in the Climate Disclosure Standard to reduce GHG emissions 30% below Business As Usual (BAU) by 2018 and to obtain the Zero-House technologies by Board (CDSB) Working Group and is currently taking part in the establishment of measures to implement the Climate 2020, and is carrying out the carbon management strategy in this regard. Through successful execution of the strategy, Change Reporting Framework (CCRF). In addition, we are working as an adviser to the council of domestic construction we will greatly reduce GHG emissions, develop new markets, and diversify our business portfolio to maximize corporate companies for establishing GHG and energy management standards in response to the government’s GHG & Energy To Build Social Value value and truly become a global environmental construction leader. Target Management System. In 2013, we plan to participate in the pilot project for applying the GHG & Energy Target Management System on the construction industry. Introduction of the Energy Management System | Since establishing a GHG inventory in 2010, we have thoroughly reviewed energy use of all construction stages (from planning to completion), set reduction targets, and are currently Eco-Campaign | As an effort to reduce GHG emissions through company-wide energy saving and to establish monitoring the state of affairs on a monthly basis. Particularly, in 2012, we became the world’s first construction company environmentally friendly sites, we are organizing a number of eco-campaigns. For instance, we are encouraging to acquire and apply the ISO 50001 (energy management system) certification to all domestic sites and ensured each site employees at the head office to either shut down computers or set them in sleep mode during lunch hour. At sites, we are Appendix to be capable of examining energy use, selecting key sources of energy, and systematically managing energy use. promoting the development of energy-saving items at the construction stage. Furthermore, we are promoting a campaign Following introduction and establishment of a site energy management system, we achieved a 41,930 tCO2-e reduction to use public transportation or commuter buses operated by Hyundai E&C, and managing the campaign performance on a of GHG emissions in 2012 compared to the previous year. As a result of adopting the energy management system, we groupware system. saw a financial benefit of 6.7 billion KRW in 2012 alone with annual energy saving. In 2013, we plan to develop a method to forecast and reduce each site’s energy use and develop a guideline on GHG reduction, to outperform the nation’s GHG Eco-Campaign Activities reduction target. The following are some of the many eco-campaign activities that take place at our project sites. ● Use steam from the existing factory when curing concrete GHG emissions in 2012 ● Switch to mobile tower cranes to substitute the use of diesel 396,720 with electricity ● Install a remote mobile control device for tower cranes tCO₂-e ● Encourage car-sharing ● Check vehicles regularly ISO 50001 Energy Management Certificate Awarding Ceremony ● Prohibit sudden acceleration, sudden braking, and idling within sites Carbon Management Strategy Site ● Adjust the tire pressure of construction equipment for improved fuel efficiency VISION 2020 Global Green One Pioneer ● Encourage the use of bicycles within sites 22.8 (Unit: billion KRW) Develop ‘Zero-House’ (zero energy consumption) Reduce GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions ● Maintain optimal indoor temperature Cost saving as a result of technologies by 2020 GOAL 30% below the BAU by 2018 (Develop ‘Zero-House’ (zero LCCO2* emissions) ● Turn off lights and cooling/heating equipment carrying out company-wide eco-campaigns in 2012 technologies by 2025) ● Shut down computers or set them to sleep mode ● Use personal mugs instead of paper cups and encourage Green System Green Project Management Green R&D the use of scrap paper Establish Foundation for Create Environmentally Friendly Expand ● Use stairs and reduce the number of elevator use Environmental Management Project Sites Green Technologies Head office 1 Build the foundation for environmental 4 Systematically reduce GHG emissions 7 Secure environmental core management 5 Expand environmentally friendly technologies 2 Improve environmentally friendly outsourcing 8 Be the first to acquire environmental corporate image 6 Operate sites in an environmentally original technologies 3 Operate the Environmental friendly manner ● Use hybrid cars for the corporate fleet Management Committee ● Use public transportation or commuter buses for commuting to/from work *LCCO2 (Life Cycle CO2) Vehicle 42 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 43 To Build Sustainable Value Environmentally Friendly Site Operation To Build Economic Value In order to minimize impact on the environment of our sites’ surrounding areas, we have Measures to Manage Environmental Factors at Sites established a environmental management system across the entire chain of procurement, · Establish the air pollutant emissions and abatement facility installation standards transport, construction, and deconstruction and are carrying out various green site operation Air quality · Install dust barriers and automatic sprinklers · Make the current status of air quality publicly available via the Tele-Monitoring System and electronic displays at sites activities. · Operate sewage treatment facilities such as retaining walls, tunnels, and batch plants To Build Environmental Value · Carry out a daily inspection of power supply to sewage treatment facilities and their operating status, and examine water Environmentally Friendly Construction Water quality quality at least once every six months · Manage the marine environment In order to minimize environmental impact at the construction stage, we are making various efforts such as managing · Install diversion channels and grit chambers; strictly manage oil facilities · Manage performance within the energy use report, utilizing the monthly monitoring result of water use at each site sites’ energy and resource consumption and periodically checking the impact of our business activities on the environment and the surrounding ecosystem. · Install sound-proof and vibration-proof facilities; use low-noise equipment Noise & vibration · Operate vehicles at low speed within sites; install sound-proof walls around sites Environmental Impact Management | In 2012, we achieved zero environmental accidents as a result of systematic · Exhibit any equipment repair & maintenance work and oil change work within sites Soil contamination · Developed a contaminated soil washing technology (the Environmental Technology Verification No. 92); 6 patents and 2 To Build Social Value environmental impact management, such as voluntarily carrying out an environmental impact assessment on construction utility models related to restoration of contaminated soil sites and determining measures to control various environmental factors such as air quality, water quality, soil, noise, and vibration. As the government’s environmental management policies and citizens’ environmental awareness have led to a ▶ Ecosystem Protection: Hyundai E&C complies with the Nagoya Protocol (an international protocol on access to genetic resources and more stringent environmental assessment from external parties, we are ensuring that all our sites strictly comply with laws the fair and equitable sharing of benefits) and carries out a number of biodiversity protection activities at sites. In order to prevent the and manage environmental factors. ecosystem (of sites’ surrounding areas) from being destroyed, we thoroughly examine and evaluate our impact on the ecosystem and make every effort to design and use construction methods that can preserve as much of the ecosystem as possible and minimize any Appendix ▶ Environmental Impact Assessment: Hyundai E&C carries out a compulsory environmental impact assessment before starting a construction or development project, in compliance with the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Through the assessment, we topographic changes and damages to natural vegetation. In case any damage to the ecosystem is expected, we take impact minimization determine measures to minimize impact on the natural, living, social, and economic environments, evaluate and select any alternatives (if measures such as transplanting, replacement of habitat, and construction design changes. Even after groundbreaking, we continue available), and establish plans for post-project environmental impact assessment, ultimately coming up with the optimum solution for a regular monitoring of the ecosystem and work with the stakeholders for consultation and inspection works. given project. Ecosystem Protection Activities ▶ E nvironmental Inspection & Management: Every year, all domestic and overseas sites are subject to an independent (external) inspection as well as an internal evaluation (performed by in-house environmental professionals). In 2012, we selected 11 sites – Transplant trees and plants; create ecological wetlands at settling basins; install an island of “artificial” plants; Replace habitat newly established, large-scale, and/or with a record of multiple civil complaints – to be subject to special environmental inspection and develop natural streams and green areas management. Install protection devices and Build escape paths and escape-leading fences for small animals; install pathways that utilize silt protectors, On-site Energy & Resource Consumption Management | In order to effectively manage energy and resources pathways blocking paths, roadside trees, and other on-site structures consumed at the construction stage, we are fully utilizing our IT systems – such as H-PMS, BIM, and the Integrated Consider alternative designs Change the construction location; apply low-vibration construction methods; downscale bridge foundations Environmental Performance Management System – to collect and manage data on energy and resource consumption by type of work and source, on a monthly basis. Protected Species Inhabiting in the Sites’ Surrounding Areas Measures to Manage Major Resources Incheon New Port Container Oystercatcher, Saunders’ gull, Materials Water Energy Far Eastern Curlew, kestrel, and spoonbill Wastewater Treatment Facility Operate the BIM (Building Information Modeling) system: Operate the H-PMS Acquired the ISO 50001 certification Han River Restoration Project, Section 6 All construction-related information put into databases within the Polygonatum stenophyllum max, aster altaicus Willd. Install facilities for rainwater harvesting, Organize energy saving plans BIM system. This system calculates the exact amount and cost var. uchiyamai (Nakai) Kitamura, mongolian racerunner of the materials required for a given construction work, which de-watering, and sprinkling Review and approve the Energy allows us to save materials that would have otherwise been used Performance Index Haman Jinju Section of Gyeongjeon Line unnecessarily Install high energy-efficient facilities and Environmental Protection Expenditures and Kestrel Check the inventory situation and the price of infrastructures materials on a real-time basis Investment in 2012 (Unit: %) Changwon Busan Highway Other Wildcat, kite, buzzard, hen harrier, terrapin Noise & Site Environmental Impact Management | By reducing wastes, preventing water pollution, and managing water vibration 9.4 Water Quality Examination of Discharged Water consumption and wastewater management, we are trying to minimize the environmental impact of sites. Water 17.4 (pH, SS, COD, N-h, TN, TP) Environmental Investment | With greater environmental awareness, we saw a significant increase in our investment quality ▶W  ater Consumption and Wastewater Treatment: A majority of water consumed at sites is used within sprinkler systems for in the site environmental management and protection activities. In 2012, the cost of environmental protection and the purpose of dust control. We ensure that water does not leak at water-intense facilities such as sprinkler systems, lavatories, 18.3 57.3 investment was 57.3 billion KRW, up by 87% from the previous year. and washrooms through regular repair and maintenance works. In 2012, our water consumption decreased by 30% compared to billion KRW the previous year. Wastewater from sites is disposed in compliance with the relevant regional government’s wastewater treatment Waste Environmental Clean-up Activities | By establishing performance indicators related to sites’ environmental cleanAir quality 33.3 up activities and making continuous efforts in this regard, we are strengthening ties with the local communities and regulation. Furthermore, we have installed treatment facilities such as dust barriers, tunnels, and batch plants at sites that incur a 21.6 significant amount of wastewater, and are minimizing water pollution through continuous monitoring. As of 2012, we are operating 13 reinforcing external credibility. In 2012, 57,390 (accumulated) employees participated in 773 sessions of environmental wastewater treatment facilities at 11 domestic and overseas sites. clean-up and/or community volunteering. 44 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 45 To Build Sustainable Value Environmentally Friendly Site Operation To Build Economic Value Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain Environmentally Friendly Deconstruction We have strengthened environmentally friendly procurement processes to promote the development of eco-friendly At Hyundai E&C, we have developed guidelines on waste management and deconstruction to ensure that all sites operate construction materials, manage procurement records, and support partner companies’ environmental management. standardized processes for environmentally friendly deconstruction, waste disposal, and recycling management. Environmentally Friendly Procurement Process Improvement | We have signed the ‘Voluntary Agreement on Environmentally Friendly Deconstruction Guideline | All sites undertaking deconstruction and demolition works To Build Environmental Value Environmentally Friendly Procurement’ with the Ministry of Environment and are continuously improving our procurement must comply with the ‘Guideline on Occupational Safety Standards for Deconstruction Work’ which has been developed processes to encourage production and consumption of environmentally friendly goods. in accordance with the government’s Occupational Safety Standards. By doing so, we are minimizing effects on the environment and occupational accidents that may occur during deconstruction and demolition of buildings. Furthermore, Enhancing Partner Companies’ Environmental Management | In order to make the supply chain more we have developed a guideline on handling harmful substances, which our workers can refer to before carrying out a environmentally friendly, we are carrying out a number of environmental management activities throughout selection, preliminary assessment of harmful substances (i.e. asbestos) that may be present at sites, so as to prevent their direct management, and assistance for our partner companies. At the selection stage, we give priority to companies with expose to asbestos. We take a sample of rubble from a given deconstruction site for examination by an independent excellent environmental management capabilities, supported by the ISO 14001 certification, the Ministry of Environment’s To Build Social Value laboratory, and if the asbestos content exceeds 1%, we make a request for asbestos removal and disposal to hazardous ‘Environmentally Friendly Company’ designation, etc. Before signing a contract, we request for a written pledge to comply waste management specialists. with the HSE standard and carry out an audit via independent management consulting firms. Furthermore, we seek to promote environmental technology development and find promising companies with environmental technologies by Waste Disposal and Recycled Waste Waste Disposal | For sites that either discharge large amounts of waste or need special attention for waste organizing an exhibition for newly developed items and providing incentives when such new technologies are applied management, we have established waste disposal and recycling targets and taken measures to achieve these targets to our sites. In 2012, we held the ‘Convention for Partner Companies’ Energy Saving’ and provided environmental 600,000 580,077 such as installing an on-site waste depository and managing waste disposal data by site, partner company, and type of Appendix management training sessions to encourage partner companies to be more environmentally friendly. 460,022 waste. In addition, we are minimizing the environmental impact from our disposal activities by establishing guidelines for 400,000 each type of waste. During procurement, we put priority on recycled materials (as long as quality is not compromised). 254,875 Environmentally Friendly Transport 200,000 We ensure that asbestos and waste oil accrued from the disposal stage are treated by hazardous waste management specialists, and sell any recyclable materials and wastes to recycling plants to increase resource efficiency. To reduce GHG emissions from the transportation of goods, Hyundai E&C has established a guideline on operation of work vehicles in an effort to spread the environmentally friendly transport culture. We will continue to minimize energy (Unit: Tons) 2010 2011 2012 Such efforts led us to reduce the amount of waste by half in 2012 compared to the previous year. In 2013, we will consumed at the transport stage by enforcing the head office’s environmental management regulation. evaluate the performance of waste transport and treatment companies for cost saving and appropriate handling, so as to establish a higher-quality waste management mechanism. Eco-driving | Hyundai E&C is promoting the environmentally friendly transport culture by periodically checking vehicles, prohibiting sudden acceleration, sudden braking, and idling within sites, encouraging the use of bicycles within sites, and Integrated Environmental Waste Management System | For integrated management of waste, we have established minimizing the use of work vehicles with car-sharing. We will continue to expand these eco-campaigns for each and every the Integrated Environmental Waste Management System by connecting our H-PMS to the Ministry of Environment’s employee to participate in the GHG reduction through ‘Eco-driving.’ waste management system, “Allbaro.” Starting from July 2012, the new Integrated Environmental Waste Management System has been applied at all domestic and overseas sites. Purchasing Environmentally Friendly Vehicles | As an effort to reduce GHG emissions from work vehicles, we purchased three hybrid cars in 2012, which resulted in saving 3,300 liters of gasoline and reducing 7.27 tCO2-e of GHG Designed to prevent non-compliance with environmental laws and manage company-wide waste discharge data and emissions in one year. disposal cost by work process, type of work, division, and company, the Integrated Environmental Waste Management System provides important data for contracting, bidding, and budgeting and is increasing our environmental Environmentally Friendly Procurement Process management’s efficiency and effectiveness. As this System has allowed us to gain greater transparency and credibility of our environmental waste management data, we expect to see an annual cost saving of 600 million KRW. 1. Evaluate materials’ 2. Request and order 3. Monitor the record of 4. Promote minimization environmental friendliness materials environmentally friendly of environmental impact procurement from material use Evaluate materials’ environmental Input the HEGS* code of a given material Monitor each site Encourage the use of environmentally Publication of the ‘Environmental Standard’ for Overseas Environmental Management friendliness based on three criteria: degree through the Environmental Procurement friendly products of harm, non-compliance with laws, and System level of consumption ●  aterials applicable to environmental procurement M ● Performance for each code is monitored for each ● E fforts to expand environmentally friendly procurement: Expand the proportion of Since 2012, Hyundai E&C has published the ‘Environmental Standard’ in major countries of operation, including ● D  egree of harm: Toxicity, non-biodegradability, are managed in eight different codes site and project director destruction of ecosystem *HEGS: Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard ● Sites and project directors with poor performance environmentally friendly procurement, improve Singapore, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, and Kuwait. By utilizing this Standard, which is published in 6 languages, we aim the unit consumption of raw materials, increase ● N  on-compliance with laws: Any conflict with the are proveded with continuous guiance the proportion of concrete recycling to respond to each country’s environmental regulations and apply our environmental standards to overseas sites to Toxic Chemicals Control Act, the Wastes Control ● Support for environmental material development: ultimately improve and systematically manage overseas sites’ level of environmental management. In the future, we plan Act, and the Fire Services Act Target companies that supply environmentally to also publish the ‘Environmental Standard’ in new markets such as Latin America and Central Asia. ● L evel of consumption: An average material harmful materials, conduct education on consumption of all sites minimizing damage to the environment, and encourage development of alternative materials 46 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 47 To Build Sustainable Value Material Flow Analysis Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally Environmentally To Build Economic Value Environmentally Friendly Friendly Friendly Friendly Friendly Friendly Friendly Friendly Design Technology Development Procurement Transport Construction O&M Deconstruction Supply Chain To Build Environmental Value Strategies Strategies Restructure the technology R&D Strengthen environmentally Expand environmentally friendly Enhance environmentally friendly organization Apply environmentally friendly friendly procurement processes -Minimize waste discharge technology exchange with partner transport Build system for site-driven Operate ‘zero-energy’ buildings Employee more R&D professionals designs Increase the proportion of T reat and remove hazardous companies Switch to eco-friendly cars environment and energy -Realize the ‘Green Home,’ a concept and expand budget allocations Develop environmental restoration eco-friendly materials chemicals in accordance with laws Improve environmental Improve the company vehicle consumption management of environmentally friendly housing Expand R&D partnership with technologies Develop and apply eco-friendly and regulations management education for partner operation standards companies the Group materials To Build Social Value Major Activities and Achievements in 2012 Major Activities and Achievements in 2012 Increased the number of the Established and operated an integrated environmental friendliness evaluation health, safety and environment -Complied with waste Carried out joint R&D projects with the Group Tightened the eco-vehicle system management guidelines and Provided greater educational criteria and made changes operation standards Expanded the application of Continued the development of major environmental technologies such as operated the waste management and financial support for partner to the existing areas of improvement -Monitored and reduced energy environmentally friendly items on Appendix H-MEG and ‘Green Smart’ demonstration Raised employee awareness system companies’ environmental Evaluate sites by the HEGS Grade through environmentally friendly consumption throughout all stages buildings Increased R&D investment Complied with the asbestos management Expanded the application of groundtransport campaigns P ublished “Environmental Standard” removal guideline granulated blast-furnace slag at sites for overseas sites INPUT OUTPUT Direct, Indirect Other Indirect Reinforced Steel Water Fuels Gas Electricity Waste Discharged Recycled Waste Wastewater Treated GHG Emissions GHG Emissions 248,627 893,000 136.57 178.86 771.20 254,875 2,655 1,289,531 55,877 340,843 ton ton TJ TJ TJ ton ton ton tCO₂-e tCO₂-e Environmental Investment (Unit: 100 million KRW) Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2-e ) Green Building Certifications Type Building Level 800 2,000 500,000 573 1,473.59 Khoo Tech Puat Hospital Platinum 600 1,500 1,296.91 470,000 One Shenton way Gold 1,095.39 Overseas Union House Gold 439,751 438,650 400 330 306 1,000 440,000 Green Mark Pasir Ris Condominium Gold Plus Asia Square Tower 1 Platinum 200 500 410,000 396,720 Pasir Ris Condominium Parcel 2 Gold Plus Botannia Condominium Gold 0 0 380,000 LEED Asia Square Tower 1 Platinum 2010* 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * The 2010 data includes expenses on environmental campaigns among others ※ Scope: Domestic sites 48 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 49 To Build Sustainable Value Advancing Environmentally Friendly Technology To Build Economic Value At Hyundai E&C, we are developing and applying environmental technologies as our new growth Environmental Products and Services drivers for the future. We have established a technology development roadmap, which includes Aware of the importance of environmental products and services’ impact on energy saving and GHG reduction, we are renewable energy technologies (e.g. solar, wind, tidal, etc.) and core technologies for low carrying out a number of activities to achieve this. carbon, environmentally friendly buildings, and are making step-by-step efforts to develop and H-MEG Technology Development | We are developing Hyundai Micro Energy Grid (H-MEG), which is intended for To Build Environmental Value commercialize these technologies. integrated operation of the convergent and divergent ‘Smart Green City’ technologies and the energy saving technologies that are optimized to make each of the building energy generation, distribution, and consumption stages more efficient. Environmentally Friendly Technology Development With the vision of developing capabilities to build a ‘Zero-energy House’ by 2020, we will continue to develop the H-MEG R&D Investment | We are allocating more financial and human resources in research and development, to gain greater technologies for greater energy saving and GHG reduction and expand the application of environmental items in projects. technological capabilities for construction technology. In 2012, we allocated 12 billion KRW to the environmental R&D Application of Environmental Items | In order to respond to the government’s environmental policies and effectively budget for the development and site support works being carried out by over 100 researchers. achieve our goals, we at Hyundai E&C are expanding the application of environmental items in a broad range. We plan To Build Social Value Environmental Design | We make every effort to apply “environmental-friendliness” right from the design stage. to complete the environmental item application roadmap by 2020, selectively applying (i.e. considering profitability) Depending on a given technology’s strategic direction, our environmental design factors are categorized into four areas: environmental items that are relevant to each project. energy saving, water conservation, consideration for the ecosystem, and comfortable living condition. Green Building Certification | As of 2012, 46 domestic buildings constructed by Hyundai E&C have received the Design Factors under Consideration and Major Technologies by Area Green Building Certification (either preliminary or completed) and 22 have been certified by the Building Energy Efficiency Appendix Rating System. As for the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building rating system, which is Design Factors under Consideration Major Technologies an international benchmark on green buildings’ materials, resources, design, and structures, one of our overseas projects Building integrated photovoltaic is LEED-certified while seven other overseas projects have been certified by the BCA Green Mark. Efficiency: Thermal insulation methods, thermal-insulating materials, energy-efficient windows and system (BIPV) that ensures visibility Energy saving doors, waste heat recovery ventilation system, integrated energy management system, etc. Energy management system Renewable energy generation: Photovoltaic solar, tidal, wind, geothermal, biogas, hydrogen, etc. (HEMS) Expected Achievements of the H-MEG Technologies Conservation: Water-efficient toilets, water meters, greywater recycling systems, rainwater harvesting Water systems, decompression valves, etc. ▶M  aximize energy saving by making each of the building energy generation, distribution, and consumption stages Rainwater harvesting system conservation Reuse: High-pressure filters, ammonia stripping, collection of high-concentration liquid compound more efficienty fertilizers, etc. A chieve a 30% reduction in building energy consumption and develop competitiveness in the field of environmental construction by 2014 Consideration Indoor air quality: Environmental materials, composite sensors, ventilation control programs, etc. Verification of finishing materials’ Ventilation: Nature-friendly arrangements, topographic consideration, wind-resistant structure evaluation environmental friendliness ▶ Establish a technology base for integrated operation of buildings with future-oriented technologies for the Thermal insulation: Thermal-insulating compound materials, external heat insulation systems, tunnel Floor impact noise reduction ecosystem lining thermal insulation, etc. technology Response to Green building Green home Environmental Overseas sector Green city Topography: Fertile soil yard, contaminated soil washing technology, prevention of land subsidence climate change remodeling Make proposal(s) for Build the low-energy Utilize the information Apply the MEG Comfortable Water quality: Installation of water shield, treatment of water contaminated from washing processes, Environmentally friendly dredging Draw measures to low-energy technology Hillstate complex Utilize core technologies for winning new (micro energy grid) treatment of organic wastewater, etc. and dredged soil treatment living condition connect the CDM and development for improving energy overseas contracts technologies in the Natural habitat: Recycling of damaged plants and trees, creation of escape paths, ecological wetlands, technologies the domestic GHG efficiency → turn into a and consider a new green city and village and an island of “artificial” plants reduction results new business model business model development Realizing ‘Zero-energy, Zero CO 2’ Greater Application of Water Conservation and Water Efficiency Technologies Hyundai E&C applied environmentally friendly, “futuristic” technologies and design factors on the main facilities of Expo 2012 Yeosu Korea, such as Big-O Fuel cell 216.0 In order to contribute to the global water conservation movement, we Greywater Recycling Systems | In order to promote residential wastewater and the Korean Pavilion. have been applying a number of water conservation and water efficiency recycling, Hyundai E&C is applying greywater recycling systems, which treats Particularly at the Korean Pavilion, we applied renewable energy facilities such Photovoltaics 268.5 technologies to sites since 2009 wastewater from buildings for reuse at sanitary fixtures of public facilities. In 2012, as photovoltaic, wind, and solar power as well as the world’s first fuel cell Wind power 11.0 Water-saving Equipment | All sites that began operation in or after 2012 we newly applied a water supply conservation technology that utilizes rainwater system for vehicles, achieving ‘Zero-energy, Zero CO2’ and realizing Hyundai harvesting and landscape plants. In 2013, we plan to test the performance of are applied with water-saving equipment (in accordance with the specification Motor Group’s eco-cycle. Solar power 6.0 “extremely water-efficient” toilets and do a trial run on selected sites. described in the Implementing Regulations of the Waterworks Law). Particularly in Energy Consumption Energy Generation Total 501.5 apartment buildings (except for studio apartments), where the majority of water is Water Meters | Hyundai E&C has developed and applied Hillstate Energy 485.1 501.5 consumed for residential purposes, we plan to install water-saving foot pedals on kitchen sinks. Management System (HEMS), which is dedicated to the residents of Hillstate for real-time monitoring of water, gas, and electricity use with smart devices. The Korean Pavilion MWh MWh The Korean Pavilion, Expo 2012, Yeosu, Korea 50 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 51 To Build Sustainable Value Major Environmentally Friendly R&D Achievements Method of Area Technology Summary Green Aspects Economic Feasibility Type Current Status Case Development To Build Economic Value •A technology that applies hydrogenor methane-derived PEM fuel cells on buildings; an •Improved construction capability and minimized system Fuel cells for commercial application Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization efficient renewable energy system that can respond to building heat and electric power •Reduces buildings' GHG emissions and achieves 'zero emissions' installation area Design optimization Sole development in buildings around the clock (realizes an integrated load system) •Repair & maintenance cost saving and improved efficiency •Adsorbs and decomposes formaldehyde, known as carcinogen, for improvement of •Adsorption rate of formaldehyde: 77.1% Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Pollutant-adsorbing wallpaper •Saves site operations cost by improving the indoor air quality Product innovation Joint development indoor air quality •Cumulative quantity of formaldehyde adsorption: 7,337㎍/㎡ To Build Environmental Value •Deodorizes odorous substances caused by occupants’ activities for enhanced indoor •Deodorization rate of hydrogen sulfide: over 71% •Increases sales as a special item that can be applied as Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Deodorization system Product innovation Joint development environment •Deodorization rate of ammonia: 100% an ‘option’ •A simulation tool that can be utilized by even non-professionals for automatic control of •Able to select the optimal solution after reviewing a number Optimal design system for green the building energy performance evaluation tool Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization •Low-energy construction design of design scenarios Design optimization Sole development buildings •Able to reach the most competitive and rational conclusion through scientific •Energy performance improves by at least 10% Green comparison of design proposals Building •On-demand energy saving and control technologies that work hand in hand, which Control technologies for building energy •Reduces buildings' GHG emissions and provides a comfortable living •Repair & maintenance cost saving and improved system Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Green Smart Building Pilot Project particularly saves energy for cooling and heating (accountable for approximately 50% of Control algorithm Sole development To Build Social Value saving building energy consumption) while maintaining a comfortable living environment environment efficiency •A tool developed to enable the ‘Green Home’ design team to carry out energy perforPerformance evaluation tool for 'Green •Able to compare and contrast various construction expense Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization mance evaluation, which was once only able to be run by energy professionals. One can •Optimized energy efficiency design that is also cost-effective Design optimization Sole development Home' check the expected score and grade of a given ‘Green Home’ design with a single click options when given equal energy performance •An integrated energy generation system based on tidal current and wave Multi-level tidal power generator and •Saves construction expenses by developing a high-effi•A complex marine energy generation system that utilizes wave absorbing pile power, both of which are completely pollution-free sources; therefore, zero Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Appendix wave-dissipating structures for ciency tidal power generator and tidal current-wave power Product innovation Joint development breakwater carbon emissions can be achieved and the amount of fossil fuel use can be generating waves and currents integrated system dramatically reduced •A technology for evaluating the weight of superstructure and substructure of off-shore Integrated design for off-shore wind wind farms as well as for structural design •Greater utilization of wind energy •Improved economic feasibility under the same conditions of Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Suction Bucket Foundation for a Marine Product innovation Joint development farms and the latest support structure •The latest support structure and suction bucket foundation technology for better •Minimizes generation of contaminants during construction large-scale turbines and deep water Meteorological Tower economic feasibility •Reduces organic sludge and generates fuel Integrated treatment technology for •An economical and innovative sludge treatment technology that liquidifies, separates, •Reduces O&M expenses by saving over 50% of energy (biogas and solid fuel) Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization thermohydrolysis and anaerobic and reduces organic sludge with over 80% water content using thermohydrolysis and compared to the existing sludge treatment technology New technology development Joint development Green digestion of organic sludge produces biogas from the remaining liquid through high-efficiency anaerobic digestion •Saves over 50% of energy compared to the existing sludge treatment (drying) technology (drying) Energy Refining technology for using biogas •A refining technology that removes impurities and improves methane purity as an effort •Waste to energy •Structure-related cost stands at 70% compared to foreign Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Wonju Wastewater Treatment Plant Biogas Process development Joint development as fuel to convert biogas from organic waste treatment process into fuel for vehicles or city gas •Generates energy that can replace fossil fuel technologies Refinement Demonstration Plant •A technology used during construction of a new transportation infrastructure that passes •Steel pipe usage decreases by 60% Pressurizing Support Tunneling Method under an existing structure; uses a slim, pressurizing support system instead of the usual •Carbon emissions decrease by 40% •Construction cost saving by 3.2% Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization New technology development Sole development (PSTM) large steel pipes (Φ800-2,000mm), thereby minimizing impact on the upper ground •Saves social cost by increasing stability of the upper ground level and thus •Construction period reduced by 35% level while ensuring security, speed, and economic feasibility minimizing civil complaints and added repair UAE Nuclear Power Plant •A technology that replaces a certain amount of cement (one of the ingredients for •Saves materials procurement cost Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Low-carbon, low-heat concrete •Reduces carbon emissions from cement production Design optimization Sole development Yulchon II Combined Cycle Power Plant concrete making) with blast-furnace slag, reducing carbon emissions and hydration heat •Decreases construction period (by reducing hydration heat) Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Near Suwon Interchange on Gyeongbu Zero-carbon, cold mix asphalt pavement •An asphalt pavement technology that utilizes electric furnace slag aggregate and •Zero carbon emission and fossil fuel-based energy generation during •Results in over 10% of cost saving compared to the existing Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Product innovation Joint development Expressway technology polymer emulsified asphalt. This technology produce and work at room temperature asphalt production and zero waste materials during repair & maintenance pavement process that includes cutting and overlay Near Suwon on Route 42 Green •Reduces carbon emissions compared to the regular asphalt and concrete Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Near Yeoju Interchange on Central Region Polymer concrete pavement method •A bridge-decks surfacing technology that utilizes polymer concrete •Reduced dead-weight of bridge-decks to a thickness of 1cm Product innovation Joint development Infrastructure pavement Expressway Application of high-strength steel on •Applies high-strength steel on high-rise, atypical building, securing safety while reducing •Saves the amount of steel required •Cost reduction Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Design improvement Joint development buildings the amount of steel required for construction → Reduces cabon emissions •Construction period reduction Washing & purifying technology for •A zero-discharge washing & purifying technology that adopts selective separation of •Environmentally friendly soil remediation system that fully reuses industrial •Minimizes the amount of contaminated soil subject to purifiPlanning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Jang Hang Steel Public Area Soil RestoProcess optimization Site demonstration contaminated soil high-density contaminated soil and closed-circuit acid elution water (used for washing) cation by using precise, grain-size separation technology ration, Section 2 Han River Section 6 Ecological river bed restoration •A technology that prevents sanding that occurs at flood sites in order to restore ecosys•Creates an environmentally friendly, ecologically Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization •Construction cost reduction New technology development Joint development Palmicheon Test Section technology tem of river bed and secure linkage diverse river bed Tancheon Test Section •A technology that reuses steelworks wastewater, which is from various sources of Reverse osmosis system for reusing •Minimizes contamination of the nearby marine environment by reusing Joint development amongst Planning Development Test & evaluation Commercialization Hyundai Steel, Dangjin Factory 100 tons/ Environmental pollution and exist in high degree of contamination, as steelworks process water by •Water saving New technology development steelworks wastewater steelworks wastewater that would otherwise be discharged the Group Day Demonstration Facility Restoration integrating membrane separation and preprocessing with reverse osmosis 52 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 53 To Build SOClAL VALUE Direction We at Hyundai E&C prioritize customers, build a corporate culture of mutual trust between labor and management based on unwavering support for employees, establish a solid partnership with partner companies, and strengthen win-win cooperation with local communities through social contribution activities, all of which are our efforts to create a better future with stakeholders. In 2012 By operating a systematic talent development program, expanding communication, and providing various welfare and benefits, Hyundai E&C is cultivating global talent and increasing employee satisfaction to create a warmhearted corporate culture. Particularly, we have introduced the New HR Program to establish grounds for fair appraisal and unbiased compensation. Furthermore, we are operating a Promotion Point Program to motivate employees. As an effort towards win-win growth with partner companies, we have expanded support for excellent partner companies and enhanced communication by operating the Council of Partner Companies. We have also expanded social contribution activities in the local communities surrounding our overseas sites, fulfilling our corporate social responsibility as a global enterprise. Ras Laffan C Combined Cycle Power Plant | MAY 2008 APR 2011 To Build Sustainable Value Employee Value Creation To Build Economic Value Hyundai E&C strives to cultivate global professionals who lead change and contribute to In order to protect employees’ human rights, we abide by domestic and international human rights standards and also greater value creation. As part of our talent management, we are providing systematic training have our own strict standards relevant to this matter. In particular, Hyundai E&C has developed standards to protect and support diversity on site so that discrimination based on religion or ethnicity does not occur. Backed by such efforts, we opportunities and increasing employee satisfaction at the same time. incurred no restrictions or accusations with regard to human rights in 2012. To Build Environmental Value Equal opportunities Fair Appraisal and Compensation in employment Make recruiting decisions In order to thoroughly grasp each employee’s abilities and job performance and encourage better performance, we are fairly and transparently Respect diversity operating a performance appraisal program and provide compensation in line with appraisal results. and human rights Appraisal | In 2012, Hyundai E&C introduced the New HR Program based on Management by Objective (MBO) and implemented fair performance reviews accordingly. With the MBO-based appraisal program, we have advanced To Build Social Value Various employee Global talent the performance management system including ‘goal-setting’ and ‘mid-term examination’ and ensured accurate and benefits development Provide various employee benefits Provide various supports professional appraisal, fair compensation, and promotion to take place. To ensure a smooth appraisal process, we to offer convenience and boost motivation EMPLOYEE to cultivate global leaders developed a performance appraisal IT system and carried out the training of HR personnel responsible for appraisal. Value Creation In 2013, we plan to further strengthen the performance appraisal program by holding a public hearing of responsible Appendix parties, conducting an employee satisfaction survey on the performance appraisal result, and continuing the training of HR personnel responsible for appraisal. Compensation | We provide compensation for employees based on the annual salary system, which is determined Fair performance Corporate culture appraisal upon the performance appraisal result. By doing so, we are securing grounds for performance-based compensation and Create a trusted corporate culture Fairly assess employees’ based on communication performance and transparently better reward programs. Seeking to minimize the effect of individual employee’s years of service on promotion decisions and harmony apply performance appraisals and rather enhance promotion opportunities depending on individual employee’s job performance and capabilities, we have introduced a Promotion Point Program so as to enable employees to better predict the possibility of promotion and to raise their motivation. The Ideal Employee In the future, Hyundai E&C will continue to establish the organizational, HR management, and talent development plans We at Hyundai E&C believe that the greatest task of an organization is to cultivate talent who can create new value by in order to strengthen the company’s global competitiveness. Furthermore, we will continuously monitor the performance overcoming challenges, challenging the impossible and striving to be the best. As such, we are pursuing a number of appraisal program to make the program more secure and improve the appraisal, compensation, and promotion processes talent development strategies such as suggesting a vision for growth for individuals and supporting global professional for foreign workers, eventually setting up an HR system that can maximize employee value. The wages of new employees development. By discovering and recruiting the best talent, Hyundai E&C aspires to become a leader of the construction are 409% higher than the legal minimum wage; an individual’s wage may differ from another depending on his/her industry. position and working conditions and never due to gender discrimination. The Ideal Hyundai E&C Employee Value CREATOR Global DEVELOPER Synergy BUILDER HDEC Job Rotation Program Individuals who, with creativity and Individuals who are prepared to Individuals who can create synergy a pioneering spirit, continuously work globally with an open mind and within a group by communicating and strive to challenge the status quo and respect for diversity cooperating with diverse stakeholders create new value HDEC operates the Job Rotation Program in order to cultivate talent with expertise and global capacity while also Current Status of the Job Rotation Program increasing employee job satisfaction. Based on HDEC’s strategic direction, the Job Rotation Program is operated based on the principles of equality and efficiency. For employees at the Associate and Assistant Manager level, the Civil & Environment Division 39 principle of equality is applied in order to provide equal opportunity to gain experience and expertise in different Building Works Division 26 Diversity in Hiring Equal Opportunities in Employment parts of the business. The principle of efficiency is applied to Managers and Senior Managers to maximize Employees with disability 57 Talent Recruitment | In 2012, Hyundai E&C expanded recruitment of global talents and graduates of universities performance and contribute to stable project execution. In particular, HDEC is increasing rotations between Headquarters and project sites in order to enhance project Plant Division Power & Energy Division 34 11 outside of Seoul, and recruited a total of 487 employees, including 242 new university graduates, 212 with previous work 17 understanding for employees in the technical business units. Furthermore, to enhance global capacity, employees Foreign employees experience, and 33 interns. We will continue to secure excellent talents with great potential to manage global projects and Support Divisions 11 are to spend at least two years at overseas sites before they reach the Senior Manager position. The Job Rotation eventually strengthen the organizational competitiveness. Program is implemented in tandem with the Promotion Point Program and those who have met the job rotation Total 121 Men of national merit 65 Human Rights & Diversity | Hyundai E&C offers females, foreign workers, men of national merit, and the individuals requirements receive points towards promotion. (JANJUL 2013 / Unit: Persons) (Unit: persons) with disabilities equal opportunities, protects their diversity, and provides various means of support. 56 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 57 To Build Sustainable Value Employee Value Creation To Build Economic Value Global Talent Development Welfare & Benefits e-HRD System Website We strengthened our foundation for global talent development by operating the e-Human Resource Development (e-HRD) Hyundai E&C is increasing employee satisfaction by offering welfare & benefits that respect employees’ personal lifestyle System and improving the organizational and HR structures. and enhance their quality of life. We operate various welfare & benefit programs for supporting employees’ leisure activities, childbirth and motherhood, residential and economic security, and healthcare. Integrated Training with Hyundai Motor Group | Hyundai E&C holds integrated staff training sessions in all To Build Environmental Value educational sectors to create greater synergy with Hyundai Motor Group. In 2012, 5,027 employees received training. Childbirth & Parental Leave | At Hyundai E&C, we support employee’s childbirth and parental leave. The rate of Hyundai E&C understands that training and education is central to gaining market competitiveness and ensuring employees who return to work after taking parental leave is considered fairly high at 82%; we retain 100% of these employee satisfaction. Thus, in 2012, we provided an average of 123 hours of education per person, for which we employees at work for over 12 months. By continuously supporting our employees’ childbirth and motherhood, we strive invested 926,994 KRW for each employee. to contribute to solving low birthrate, which is one of the greatest social problems today. Global Training Opportunity | Hyundai E&C is expanding educational programs on language, different cultures, and Healthcare & Medical Support Programs in 2012 Healthcare Support | We have expanded the work scope of the in-house medical room to include medical check-up negotiation as well as overseas working and training opportunities. Furthermore, we provide leadership training to support and health training, to act as a healthcare companion of employees. By doing so, we expect our employees to be able to To Build Social Value On-line self diagnosis of mental health in partnership our employees to be global leaders. with Jongno Community Mental Health Center periodically check their health and regularly obtain medical information, leading to enhanced health welfare and greater ability to respond to emergency situations particularly at sites. Knowledge & Education Network | We support our employees to share their areas of interest and to network with Metabolic syndrome test for individuals with obesity and smokers each other by operating 10 study groups on a wide range of topics including education, research, and foreign language. Apart from the in-house medical room, Hyundai E&C provides financial support for medical check-ups of employees and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) training for each their spouses. In 2012, we invested 1.7 billion KRW on healthcare support and, as a result, a total of 5,082 individuals business division Intranet-based Knowledge Sharing | Through the Closed User Group (CUG) section on the groupware system, we Appendix (employees and their family members combined) enjoyed this benefit. are operating a platform for sharing knowledge and information (for each business division) regarding regulations and Drug drop box for prevention of drug abuse guidelines, organizational structure and human resources, public notices, and others. Employees are able to conveniently Welfare & Benefits Programs check information related to their job through this knowledge sharing platform. Description Program details Bonus for summer vacation, discount at sports centers, access to designated recreational lodges that are Global Professional Development Roadmap Support for leisure activities available across Korea PM Support for childbirth and motherhood Childbirth incentive program, support for childcare expenses, paternity leave for male employees (3 days) General Support for residential & economic security Welfare Fund (3% annual interest rate), corporate residences for single households Organizational Project Negotiation & Construction Performance Managerial Risk Leadership Manager management management coaching productivity management accounting management Regular medical check-up; special test for metabolic syndrome, mental health check-up, Medical support & healthcare smoking cessation program PMC Q&M MBPM R&D Birth through middle school: 100,000 KRW per child Support for employees’ High school: 450,000 KRW per child (for public schools) Senior Project educational expenses for children University: 4 million KRW per academic semester PreOperation & development & Financing Business professional R&D planning Manager commissioning maintenance Educational expenditure support for children with special needs evaluation Gift for employees’ parents, gift on the national holiday (e.g. New Year’s Day and Chuseok), Gifts EP CM Financing G-Mgt. Gift for employees’ children upon new enrollment at school Contract orders Procurement Selective benefits package Benefits “credit card” (amount varies by each employee’s position) & subcontracting Civil EP Electrical EP & sales management Accounting HR & administration Project cost Contract Support for moving expenses for families of employees working overseas management management Legal & insurance Other Manager/ Special reward for employees with long-term service to the company Construction EP Instrumentation EP Construction cost Tax Risk management PR & advertisement calculation Assistant Engineering works Claim handling Construction IT Mechanical EP Facilities EP & construction Operations Manager & audit Civil Building Plant Spanish Language Education Design management Quality control works R&D R&D Procurement / R&D Piping EP Work process Contracts HSE management “Muchas gracias (Thank you very much).” CM Basic Biz Basic In April 2012, Hyundai E&C began offering Spanish language classes, following French and Chinese. The classes last for Project Contract ProcureConstrucPrePrinciples of Principles of HR & PR & Principles of one hour per session and are offered four times a week, over Associate Financing Design commisO&M accounting tax administration advertisement management planning order ment tion sioning the course of two months. By doing so, we are enhancing the employees’ linguistic skills to further expand the company’s PM : Project Management EP : Engineering & Procurement foothold in Latin America, one of our strategic overseas markets, PMC : Project Management Consultancy CM : Construction Management and providing them with professional development opportunities. O&M : Operation & Management G-Mgt. : General Management Spanish Language Course for Employees MBPM : Master of Business & Project Management 58 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 59 To Build Sustainable Value Corporate Culture To Build Economic Value Hyundai E&C values a well-communicated and trusted corporate culture. We are striving to Greeting Day | At the start of every week, we use the internal messaging system to notes of greeting and create a family-oriented corporate culture for our employees and their families, to ultimately encouragement amongst employees and management. This program helps Hyundai E&C’s employees start off the week on a positive note and helps us build a friendly working environment with open communication. The employee that sends become a company as warmhearted as a family. out the most greetings is chosen as the “Communication King/Queen” and the employee who receives the most greetings gains the title “Most Popular Employee.” To Build Environmental Value Corporate Culture of Open Communication Internal Facebook for Employees | To ensure that employees can casually communicate with each other no matter We at Hyundai E&C guarantee freedom of the Labor Union’s activities as an effort to create a corporate culture that values where they are located, Hyundai E&C has a private Facebook Page and runs a number of fun events. In the future, we will communication with employees. Improvement of systems, productivity enhancement, and improvement in employee expand communication via Facebook by expanding the privacy setting to include friends and families of the employees so welfare and benefits and working conditions are openly discussed and opinions are reflected in corporate policies to as to run family-oriented events on the Facebook Page as well. increase employee satisfaction. Labor Union | A Hyundai E&C employee can freely join or withdraw from the Labor Union. The company regulates Domestic Business Division Team-building Event Family-oriented Corporate Culture To Build Social Value (JUN 9, 2012) itself to neither hinder an individual’s registration to nor force withdrawal from the Union. In accordance with Article 10 – Harmonizing Activities | As an effort to promote the spirit of ‘one family’ and enhance employee morale and a duty to notify – of the Collective Agreement, we make it a principle to immediately give notice to all employees regarding sense of belonging, we are holding a number of harmonizing activities at each business division such as a sports day, significant changes in the business such as organizational restructuring. environmental protection activities, volunteer activities, tracking, and cultural events. As of December 2012, 526 employees – 18.13% of the 2,902 employees who are qualified to join the Union – are Children’s Camp and Field Trips | In August 2012, we organized a field trip to Byuljubu Village in Taean and Hyundai Appendix members of the Labor Union, subject to protection by collective agreement. The Labor Union discusses matters related Motor’s Asan Plant for a total of 70 children of employees. In addition, we held other programs for the children of Hyundai to the improvement of systems, productivity enhancement, and improvement in employee welfare & benefits and E&C employees such as farm experience, field trip to a TV station, ski camp, English camp, and field trip to the Aerospace working conditions through the Labor-Management Committee. In 2012, the Committee had eight negotiations with the Employee Children's Ski Camp (JAN 16 18, 2013) Museum. management and reached conclusions regarding matters such as wage increase, educational expenditure support for children with special needs, and special rewards for employees with long-term service to the company. Employee Satisfaction Junior Board | The Junior Board, comprised of assistant managers, managers, and senior managers, can be described Employee Engagement | We are trying to improve our working environment by creating global standard of advanced st as Hyundai E&C’s “new idea bank.” Since the 1 Junior Board commenced in 1990, the Board has been very active workplace. Since, the integration into Hyundai Motor Group in 2011, we have surveyed EEI(Employee Engagement Index) Knowledge Registration Process nd in various corporate affairs. In 2012, the 22 Junior Board composed of 36 young, active members who will lead that targets HMG(Hyundai Motor Group) employee. The purpose of this survey is to examine the degree of employee STEP 4 management innovation for the next two years kicked off. During its term, the Board will analyze key management issues, satisfaction. The result of EEI was 84%. propose the countermeasures, expand two-way communication, and provide opinions on global research. Along with the management of employee engagement, we have assessed the degree of internalization of Hyundai E&C’s 3 Employee Engagement Survey Results Final STEP Registration five core values Customers First; Aggressive Execution; Communication and Cooperation; Respect for Talent; Globally A level is assigned Knowledge Management System (KMS) | We now live in the era where knowledge and information become sources 2010** 2011 2012 to knowledge Oriented – and established and performed action plans based on the assessment results. STEP 2 Knowledge Evaluation content and registered in the of value creation. At Hyundai E&C, we have been operating the Knowledge Management System (KMS) to increase our EEI* 78% 87% 84% system Turnover | A turnover rate is a good indication of employees’ perception on the quality of welfare and employment Content is brand value and improve competitiveness. In 2012, around 60,000 cases of knowledge database were registered on the evaluated by insecurity. In 2012, 275 employees (or 6.36% of employees in total) left the company. Recognizing collective resignation STEP 1 Register ‘knowledge Knowledge specialist’ System, with over 130,000 hits annually. * EEI (Employee Engagement Index): A management tool that comprehensively indicates employees’ rational, and strikes as major risks, we are making every effort to decrease the turnover rate by enhancing employee satisfaction, Content is (within 10 days) registered by emotional, and practical engagement degrees. Upload relevant department KMS enables a user to easily search the exact information he/she requires, by managing the database into five categories The index is calculated from the ratio of employees’ conducting scenario analysis, and planning other countermeasures. Knowledge (within 10 days) positive responses. User upload and assigned of work-related knowledge, business proposals, general information, best and worst practices, and prevention of site to a ‘knowledge ** The result of Hyundai E&C’s GWP Satisfaction Survey knowledge according to specialist’ issues. To vitalize this System at the management level, the Business Planning Group provides mileage for entries, hits, designated categories and comments made by employees. Meet the Communication King Meet the 22nd Junior Board Communication King, JAN and MAR 2013 Communication King, JUL 2012 Nam Jung-Hoon / Chair Kim Yu-Mi / Vice Chair Park Kyung-Ho Choi Byung-Heon The Junior Board was initially designed from the perspectives of The Junior Board reviews all areas of improvement across the Executive Vice President / Civil & Environment Division Puerto La Cruz Refinery Site, Venezuela ‘cultivation’ and ‘utilization.’ In essence, the Junior Board promotes a business, undertake internal discussions, and come up with “Many of the workers on site go through a sense of alienation and lack “I regularly send messages to all past and present coworkers with sense of leadership among employees and, at the same time, acts as a proposal. The proposal then gets reviewed by the Business of social existence due to the physical distance from the headquarter. whom I’ve worked since entering the company. I usually write about the a brain for the management and helps to smooth their brainstorming Planning Group and finally presented at the management meeting. This is why I often send messages of encouragement to the site books I read and the documentaries I watched, basically about things process. Working as a member of the Junior Board gives me a terrific If approved, contents of the proposal are put into practice. It is workers, about how we should continue to look further and overcome that I learned and felt. Sending messages such as these keeps me learning opportunity and I feel empowered to have a positive impact truly rewarding to see our opinions being reflected in the actual current challenges. Albeit short, these messages are helpful for studying, as these are shared with even those whom I haven’t worked on the organization that I belong to. management practices. promoting a sense of unity between the sites and the headquarter as with.” well as for maintain close communication.” 60 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 61 To Build Sustainable Value Safety Management To Build Economic Value By raising all employees’ awareness on health, safety, and the environment (HSE), Hyundai E&C Safety Inspection Day Safety Inspection Day | Every month, Hyundai E&C holds a ‘Safety Inspection Day’ at all 260 domestic sites and is diligently working to achieve its detailed, strategic goals of safety management as follows: organizes a number of activities and events such as a safety exercise (physical), awards for exemplary workers, and the reading of a safety oath, all of which are overseen by the management. Furthermore, the current status of compliance establishing the ‘total safety’ concept, reinforcing each business divisions’ accident prevention with the HSE procedures and site safety inspections get directly reported to the management, taking further steps to activities, achieving zero serious accidents and environmental accidents, and implementing the achieve ‘zero accident’ in all construction projects. To Build Environmental Value Permit to Work (PTW) system for all types of work. HSE Training | In accordance with its HSE training procedures, Hyundai E&C carries out HSE training sessions at all sites; we also provide training to site workers of partner companies based on the Project HSE Plan. Safety Management System In 2012, a total of 4,305 site workers participated in the HSE training, up by 34% from the previous year, and 80.67% of the participants reported that they were satisfied with the training. In the future, we plan to invite outside experts, improve Integrated HSE Management System | Since July 2012, Hyundai E&C has been operating the Integrated HSE training materials, and enhance the training environment to increase their satisfaction. Management System to simplify relevant tasks and systematically manage HSE matters. In 2013, we plan to establish a Global HSE Standard, which includes workplace safety guidelines by country and standardized HSE information, based on Current Status of the HSE Training To Build Social Value our domestic safety management system. Hyundai E&C employees 2011 2012 Partner companies 2012 New HSE Organization within Business Divisions | In order to enhance our level of safety management at a HSE training participants Number of HSE training participants 3,208 4,305 874 company-wide level, we newly established the HSE Team in January 2013 under each business division. If a serious (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) workplace accident occurs, the Division Head makes a direct report on the matter. We have taken further steps to Level of satisfaction Level of satisfaction (Unit: %) 85.8 80.7 (Unit: %) 95.7 emphasize the importance of safety management by increasing the weight of the HSE factor in each business division’s KPIs and making it compulsory to include the HSE factor in the executives’ KPIs as well. Appendix HSE Standard Manual (6 Languages) Distribution of the HSE Standards | As an effort to revitalize our HSE training at a global level, we are running case Safety Management Activities study-based training sessions on basic overseas safety guidelines (on-site accidents, traffic accidents, and fire) and common requests from project owners and distributing the HSE Standards in six different languages. Furthermore, we Supportive inspections 836 times Permit to Work (PTW) | In 2011, we have introduced the Permit to Work (PTW), which is a an advanced accident prevention system that approves an operation to take place only after safety measures on hazardous factors are fully Korean English Chinese are planning to hold a ‘HSE One-point Training’ session where we visit, educate, audit, and evaluate the sites that have requested for support. established, especially if the operation is considered to have high accident risks by nature. If a given operation did not Evaluative inspections 221 times receive the PTW or omitted safety measures as written in the PTW document, the operation is subject to an immediate Accident Rate | In 2012, Hyundai E&C’s accident rate was 0.14%, a lower figure compared to the average accident rate of the domestic construction industry. We achieved this by carrying out inspections and conducting training through halt. In 2012, we have expanded the PTW system to all types of work to preemptively prevent workplace safety accidents. Vietnamese Japanese Thai each business division’s HSE Team. In addition, HSE tasks were implemented according to the characteristics of project Special inspections 115 times Reinforced Site Inspection | In 2012, we carried out a total of 1,172 inspections on domestic and overseas sites’ sites, we thoroughly investigated the cause of accidents, and carried out quarterly examinations of the sites at which accidents occurredHyundai E&C has set the accident rate target for 2013 as 0.13% and is making every effort to achieve safety management affairs (e.g. with regard to falls, equipments, collapse, etc.) and measures being taken to prevent this target. workplace accidents, and categorized the sites that have gone through the safety inspection into A to D grades to promote further improvement. Record of Accident Rate Hyundai E&C Average of the top 1,000 Domestic construction (Unit: %) construction companies industry average Out System | In order to promote safety consciousness among all employees and site workers, Hyundai E&C has 0.8 0.69 0.65 implemented the Out System which outlines restrictive measures for varying degrees of safety violations and has prepared 0.6 0.59 in-house training at headquarters to prevent accidents from recurring. In 2012, the Out System was executed a total of 0.41 0.41 0.43 0.4 5,026 times or an average 37 times per site, a 42% decline from the previous year. We plan to continue and expand the 0.2 0.17 0.14 0.14 operation of the Out System. 2010 2011 2012 Out System Overview Achieving a Record 10 Million Accident-free Hours at the Vietnam Site Type Penalties Infringements Hyundai E&C’s safety management gained greater recognition overseas. At the Hanoi City Ha Dong District Immediately “out” upon Not wearing a safety harness when working in high places; not wearing a safety helmet (hard hat) 1 OUT within site; operating machinery without a license Residential and Business Complex site in Vietnam, we have achieved the staggering record of 10 million violation hours without a single accident since breaking ground in May 2010. 1st time: Warning Not wearing protective equipments (other than a safety helmet and a seatbelt); disassembling safety This record possesses much meaning to us, especially considering the difficult situations present at 2 OUT facilities without an approval and not restoring to the original state 2nd time: Out of site the site, and has been made possible through the commitment of all employees, local workers, and Commemorative photograph, the People’s the partner companies to ensuring everyone’s safety and prevention of any delays that may occur from 1st time: Warning Violating basic workplace safety & environmental procedures (that are regulated company-wide and/or Committee Chair Award for being the site 3 OUT 2nd time: Special training of excellent safety management workplace accidents, which led to greater client satisfaction. Particularly, Hyundai E&C was recognized at each site) 3rd time: Out of site Certificate of Recognition for achieving an accumulated by the local government as the site of excellent safety management and received an award from the Ha 10,000,000 accident-free hours. Dong People’s Committee Chair. 62 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 63 To Build Sustainable Value Win-win Cooperation To Build Economic Value Our business partners are one of the most valued companions for Hyundai E&C’s sustainable Sustainability Management Support System for Partner Companies growth. Our win-win cooperation strategy is continuous, methodical, and truly practical, as it involves awareness-raising throughout the organization and various support programs for our As a global integrated engineering company, we lead convergence and divergence of cutting-edge technologies and relevant industries, thereby creating a better foundation of life partner companies. To Build Environmental Value Growing Together with Partner Companies VISION STATEMENT Based on a solid partnership with partner companies, we have found the ones with outstanding performance, improved their competitiveness, and established a system for transparent and fair transactions. Our Policy | Hyundai E&C’s win-win cooperation principle lies in transparent and fair selection of partner companies and stringent management of project quality. We select and register partner companies based upon a strict partner company To Build Social Value management policy, providing equal opportunities to every partner company. Strategic Goals The Best The Best The Best Selection of Excellent Partner Companies Value Chain Eco-friendship Partnership Our effort to grow together with our partner companies starts early on, right from the selection process. In order to Appendix Strategic Directions continuously cultivate excellent partner companies, we not only carry out evaluation of existing core business partners but To Build Economic Value To Build Environmental Value To Build Social Value also conduct evaluations to identify new partner companies. Improve competitiveness Realize environmentally friendly Enhance mutual trust At Hyundai E&C, we put compliance with environment, safety, and health related policies as the top priority of signing a 'life quality' contract during the partner company selection process and, in order to prevent excessively low bidding, we operate a “Low Bid Deliberation System.” By doing so, we are able to ensure that a reasonable amount of profit and thus management stability are secured for our partner companies. Management of Overseas Partner Companies | Hyundai E&C, which is growing to become a global integrated engineering company, is reinforcing the overseas partner company management system as a foundation to efficiently run Establish Foundation overseas projects. Support for Management Cooperation for Create Environmentally Joint Execution of Increase Business for Environmental Infrastructure Development Globalization Friendly Project Sites Corporate Responsibility Partners’ Trust management Goal Details •Improve technological/ •Strengthen the mutual •Build the foundation for •Systematically reduce GHG •Support participation in •Expand communication training support assistance system for environmental management emissions social contribution channels Set standards and policies at par with Details overseas projects Set evaluation, registration, and management standards of overseas companies •Expand financial support •Improve environmentally •Expand environmentally •Embed transparent ethical •Increase business partner the domestic level •Support hiring of local staff friendly corporate image friendly outsourcing management satisfaction •Advance cooperative data Continuously look for excellent overseas partner Prepare a list of companies suited to carrying out overseas projects; automatically select pre-qualified processing system •Operate sites in an •Support cooperation for companies candidates and list up bidders; monitor trends and general status of foreign companies environmentally friendly HSE management manner Systematize works related to managing overseas Manage a ‘front log’ of overseas companies located in the regions with high development potential; subcontracts make visits to major regions for due diligence Support for Partner Companies Educational Support Technological Support Enhancing our partner companies’ competitiveness and management stability is imperative to successful performance of Hyundai E&C’s projects. We provide support to our business partners for education and technology development. In · Operated three main curricula · Hosted the Technology Competition for Win-win to increase dedication to quality, Cooperation and presented awards addition, we operate the Win-win Growth Fund to provide additional financial support, so as to ensure their management enhance quality control capability, (13 partner companies were given prize money) stability. and improve job performance · Jointly applied for patents, in case of new competency technologies that have been co-developed with In 2012, we lent 40.4 billion KRW to support our partner companies’ stable management and technology development · 21 courses were in operation in partner companies (7 cases) 2012, completed by 4,703 people · Supported partner companies’ patent application and further 11.1 billion KRW to 14 partner companies via the Win-win Growth Fund. As a result of our efforts to expand 2012 Supply Business Partners CHAIN 2012 Win-win Growth Technology (2 cases) Training Day Competition cash payment (which would increase their liquidity), the proportion of cash payment recorded 51% while 100% was · Technological documents of partner companies achieved when taking into account other means of cashable payment. All payments were closed within 14 days of the have been safely held in escrow (2 cases) invoice date. 64 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 65 To Build Sustainable Value Win-win Cooperation Social Contribution To Build Economic Value Communication with Partner Companies Based on our slogan, “We Build Tomorrow,” we are providing support for the underprivileged At Hyundai E&C, we are strengthening joint cooperation with partner companies through open communication. We and vulnerable members of society and contributing to local community revitalization as part of regularly arrange dialogues through the Council of Partner Companies and operate the Win-win Growth Support our social contribution strategy. Since 2011, we have expanded the scope of our philanthropic Center within the ‘Hi-Partner’ system as a means to enable a constant communication channel. The Council of Partner activities from domestic to overseas areas, establishing social infrastructures that are in line To Build Environmental Value Companies is operated in eight subcommittees, which pursue various activities such as collecting and reviewing partner with our business activities. companies’ grievances and suggestions. Social Contribution Strategy Hi-Partner Win-win Growth Support Center Communication Method Purpose and Main Contents Hyundai E&C’s Strategy for Social Contribution | Hyundai E&C’s social contribution activities are led by the Community Service Corps established in 2009, in three major areas of ‘Sharing Love,’ ‘Sharing Hope,’ and ‘Sharing Held on a monthly basis to secure fairness and transparency in managing partner companies Joint Cooperation Register and/or cancel registration of a partner company; reward and/or impose a sanction; Culture.’ We are running a mileage program to encourage and manage the employees’ volunteer activities and expanding Committee select excellent partner companies; evaluate bidders and deliberate extremely low bidding price local philanthropic activities in countries in which our overseas projects are being held. In 2012, Hyundai E&C’s activities To Build Social Value and support were only subject to the underprivileged class of society, such as the elderly, youth, and multicultural families. Win-win Growth Seminar Held four Win-win Growth Seminars by type of construction work, targeted at all partner companies in 2012 We did not provide support to any political activity. Satisfaction Survey of Ascertain business partners’ requests in a timely manner Hyundai E&C’s Social Contribution Strategy Partner Companies Develop plans to respond to business partners’ requests in a timely manner Appendix Win-win Growth Support Organization │ Hyundai E&C Community Service Corps Collect enquiries and suggestions; request for response to quarterly satisfaction surveys Center Sharing Love Sharing Hope Sharing Culture Three major areas │ of activity Support for social welfare Support for education & scholarship Support for culture & arts Partner Company Satisfaction Improve residential environment of Provide scholarships and Help to protect and Key activities │ the underprivileged and educational support for Through satisfaction surveys of partner companies, Hyundai E&C actively responds to their needs and requests and seeks maintain cultural assets vulnerable members of society children and youth for win-win management. Hyundai Motor Group’s Strategy for Social Contribution | As a part of the Hyundai Motor Group, Hyundai E&C Survey target Partner companies with which at least one transaction is held during the survey period share’s in the Group’s strategy for social contribution and is actively participating in the Group’s social contribution activities. Survey period Every quarter Hyundai Motor Group’s Social Contribution Strategy Survey method Satisfaction Survey’ page within the Win-win Growth Center Improving mobility and Encouraging volunteerism Spreading a safe traffic Environmental social The 4 Moves │ ease of transportation for and charity across the culture contribution Level of satisfaction regarding Hyundai E&C’s management and operation of partner companies, any reason behind dissatisfaction, the disabled Group Survey contents questions and concerns, suggestions for improvement, etc. Selection stage → Selection of partner companies and contracting Construction stage → Construction, change of design, settlement of transactions, and payment Survey items General management → Hyundai E&C’s employees, communication, and follow-up Business ethics Cultural Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility Key Activities │ Social Enterprises Global Social Contribution Responsibility Campaigns NOV 2012 JUN 2012 JAN 2012 JUN 2013 SEP 2012 Excellent Partner Companies’ Visit to the Overseas Sites Hyundai E&C’s Delivered holiday-season Delivered donations for Dispatched 8th-11th Class Delivered disaster relief Participation charitable donations for Gift Car Season 4 of Happy Move Global funds for typhoon victims the needy (Children’s Foundation) Youth Volunteer Group Representatives from excellent partner companies selected in 2011 visited the overseas sites in three Middle East countries in April 2012 Record of Hyundai E&C’s Social Contribution Activities and sought measures for win-win cooperation together. During a visit to our overseas sites in UAE (UNPP, IGD5, KAPO2), Kuwait (KOC1), Established the Improved the employees’ Commenced the social contribution Expand social contribution activities to and Qatar (QONE, HART), the representatives freely discussed with Community Service Corps volunteer mileage program activities that are in connection with overseas areas our overseas project directors about the experience and know-how Hyundai Motor Group of entering overseas markets. Site Visit to the UAE Nuclear Plant Site Visit to the UAE Habshan Gas Plant 2009 2011 2012 2013 66 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 67 To Build Sustainable Value 4  Educational Support for Foreign Children and Talented Young Individuals 2012 In 2011, we commenced the establishment of an educational welfare center for children and youth in impoverished areas of Kazakhstan, in partnership with Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and Korea Food for the Hungry International. Furthermore, we dispatched a team of employee volunteers and the To Build Economic Value ‘Hillstate University Student Volunteer Corps’ who carried out various activities such as helping with the center Hyundai E&C’s Social Contribution Activities SNAPSHOT construction, training and education, and medical aid. In 2012, we provided an opportunity to gain on-site work experience to five civil engineering students of Amada Science and Technology University, Ethiopia, who received on-the-job training at the construction site of Lusail Expressway in Qatar. On-site Vocational Training for Ethiopian University Students To Build Environmental Value To Build Social Value Lunchboxes for Underprivileged Children Appendix 1 Collecting Coins of Love Hyundai E&C Global Volunteers in Kazakhstan Hyundai E&C’s 2,300 employees had voluntarily collected coins (the ending digits from their salaries, whichever value is lower than one thousand KRW) in the last nine months to gather a 206 million KRW. All proceeds went to help water-scarce communities in Kenya, Africa, as well as multicultural families in Korea (to assist their financial independence). Collecting Coins of Love Changdeokgung Preservation Volunteer Work 2 Cultural Property Keeper We strive to improve quality of life by preserving the world’s key cultural and natural treasures for a long time. Our efforts to do so include supporting the restoration of Geumcheongyo of Changdeokgung, the construction of a volunteer center for conservation of national parks and mountain ranges of the Korean Hyundai E&C Global Volunteers in Kazakhstan Peninsula, and the establishment of a multicultural center, in all of which Hyundai E&C’s civil engineering and construction capabilities have been utilized to its maximum. Local Community Development at Overseas Sites 5 3 Natural Treasure Keeper As an effort to protect our invaluable natural treasures, Hyundai E&C has signed a ‘MOU Restoring the Geumcheon Bridge of Changdeokgung As Korea’s leading global engineering and construction company, Hyundai E&C’s social contribution activities extend around the world. From building a middle school for the community in Muong Duong, Vietnam, building a vocational training center Supporting Development of the Local Communities Near Overseas Sites for conservation of national parks and mountain ranges of the Korean Peninsula’ with for day-workers in San Isidro, the Philippines with voluntary contributions from our employees and building an education the Ministry of Environment and the Korea National Park Service. We donated a total of center for the youths in two areas of Vietnam are just a few of the activities we have undertaken. Hyundai E&C also works to enhance health and sanitation and has provided health training through a public service campaign in Columbia. We 600 million KRW to support the construction of a volunteer center, which is a base for all work with various NGOs to implement joint projects to benefit community welfare and education in poverty-stricken areas volunteers of Mt. Jiri and Mr. Bukhan. We plan to expand efforts to preserve our beautiful of countries such as Vietnam, Kenya, Bangladesh, Mozambique, and Indonesia and will continue to work to lead social land and further support the training to enhance these volunteers’ professional capabilities. contribution efforts around the world. Supporting the Construction of the Mt. Jiri Volunteer Center 68 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 69 To Build Sustainable Value Social Contribution Customer Satisfaction To Build Economic Value Our Achievements At Hyundai E&C, we strive to maximize customer satisfaction, which forms the very basis of our business activities. No. of sessions 2,563 times Volunteer Mileage | At Hyundai E&C, we are running a volunteer mileage program to raise awareness on social contribution. For social welfare activities jointly held with local communities, one mileage is provided per hour; for environmental clean-up activities taken place around the construction sites, one mileage is provided per session. Quality Innovation No. of participating 14,060 To Build Environmental Value employees persons Sharing Love | Our ‘Sharing Love’ activities are mainly focused on improving residential environment, in line with the Customer satisfaction starts with quality. In order to provide the world’s highest quality goods and services, Hyundai E&C construction industry. For Korean Thanksgiving (known as Chuseok) in 2012, we provided repair and maintenance to three has adopted a methodical quality control (QC) system and is making continuous improvement in quality innovation and QC No. of volunteer hours 39,135 hours low-income households in Jongno-gu and Sungmo Day Care Center in Ansung. We also improved residential environment training. of senior single-person households in Eunpyeong-gu and Samsung-dong and supported construction of the Foreign QC Organization and Activities | In order to ensure the highest possible quality, Hyundai E&C operates the Quality Social contribution mileage accrued 42,059 points Worker Community Center. Planning Team and Quality Innovation team to strengthen quality capacity and pursue continued improvement. In 2013, to Outside of Korea, we started with construction of a community center in San Isidro, Philippines, in September 2011, and better understand and proactively respond to the needs of clients and customers, we are conducting quality evaluation of further carried out 23 overseas social welfare activities. At the San Isidro Community Center, we expect that the new To Build Social Value 68 sites and quality audits of 12 sites. To ensure our quality standards are shared throughout our supply chain, we have facilities such as a job training center for day laborers, a medical center, and a day care for children’s education will established the Quality Chain Program which allows us to strengthen communication with business partners. Through this greatly contribute to improving the local residents’ standard of living. program, we provide materials and equipment partner companies and construction partner companies with specialized Sharing Hope | From 2009, we have been visiting the households of underfed children during every summer/winter quality training and conduct Quality Workshops to create a standing channel for communication. We also support online Breakdown of Donations (Unit: %) vacation to deliver ‘Lunchboxes of Hope’ to them. Our ‘Sharing Hope’ activity does not simply stop at handing over quality training for all technical staff in order to strengthen our company-wide dedication to quality. food; we are also trying to support these children’s education and emotional security. In addition, we are operating a special program known as ‘Green Trees, Wings of Hope,’ aimed at supporting children who have been left orphans from Expanding Customer Communication Appendix construction disasters. Through this program, we provide scholarships to those in need and our employees directly Social Welfare At Hyundai E&C, we value open communication with our customers. By running a variety of communication channels, we Education/ 35.80 participate as mentors and tutors. Academic and are striving to align our value with that of customers. Research 42.27 In August 2012, we commenced an overseas volunteer corps for the first time in Korea’s construction industry, building an education and welfare center in Karaganda, Kazakhstan, and dispatched a cultural volunteer team to the region. Operational Status of Customer Communication Channels Disaster Relief Culture, Additionally, in Columbia, we are carrying out sports and scholarship activities, which are a part of our unique educational and Environment Arts and 13.97 Sports support program for creating a better future for local communities. 7.96 Sharing Culture | Our ‘Sharing Culture’ activities are mainly focused on supporting repair and maintenance of cultural assets. Since we signed the agreement for ‘One Keeper for Every Cultural Asset’ with the Culture Heritage Administrations ON-LINE OFF-LINE in 2005, we supported the restoration of Geumcheongyo (a bridge within Changdeokgung, a UNESCO World Heritage Site) ▶ Customer center on ▶ Phone & mail in 2011, which was completed in April 2012. Recently, we have expanded the scope of such support to Gyeongbokgung. the corporate website ▶ Seoul office(1), regional office(6) (1:1 on-line support) ▶ Move-in support center ▶ Hillstate website ▶ Hillstate Styler ▶ Customer center Raising Brand Competitiveness with Quality Volunteer Group for Fixing Homes Selection of Hillstate Volunteer Corps Hyundai E&C introduced the framework quality evaluation system to its apartment buildings. As a result, we were able to improve the overall quality of Hillstate (Hyundai E&C’s apartment building brand) and see cost reduction from incurring fewer defects. Essentially, the framework quality evaluation system involves checking the status of formwork and reinforcing bar arrangement before depositing concrete as well as ensuring a sufficient thickness of concrete cover (the distance between reinforcing bars and concrete) through non-destructive inspection upon depositing concrete. By doing so, we were able to score and standardize the quality of framework that used to be difficult to quantify using the existing construction inspection method, thereby enabling an effective control of on-site framework quality for apartment buildings. In 2012, we held a framework quality inspection workshop for Hyundai E&C’s suppliers and subcontractors whose works were related to framework construction of apartment buildings. During the workshop, we shared information regarding the inspection of framework quality and evaluation results and exchanged ideas on key areas of improvement and problem solving. Visit to Home for Disabled Sharing Lunchboxes of Hope 70 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 71 To Build Sustainable Value Customer Satisfaction To Build Economic Value On-line Communication Channels | We are running a customer center on Hyundai E&C’s corporate website (www. Customer Satisfaction Activities hdec.co.kr) to provide key information and, at the same time, operating an one-to-one online support for fast and Activities of the 5th Hillstate Styler in 2012 At Hyundai E&C, we strive to improve customer satisfaction through various activities carried out by our Construction convenient handling of grievances. On top of the corporate website, we are also operating a website dedicated to our Brand Strategy Team and the Customer Service (CS) Center. main housing brand, Hillstate (www.hillstate.co.kr), and its residential customers. Both existing and potential customers of Hillstate can obtain information on reconstruction plans, sale, after service (A/S) and also receive professional consulting Consultative sessions 17 times Hillstate Styler | Established in 2008, ‘Hillstate Styler’ is an evaluation group mainly composed of housewives, whose To Build Environmental Value on the website or the helpline. In 2012, we received 2,369 customer opinions via the website and 86,129 customer opinions via the customer center. Proposals made 258 cases job is to provide comments and opinions on the features and services of Hillstate from customers’ perspective. Now in the 5th season (as of 2012), ‘Hillstate Styler’ made In order to increase the website utilization and user satisfaction, Hyundai E&C’s website are provided in three languages – Korean, English, and Arabic – and is also available for access on mobile phones; both PC and mobile websites undergo Proposals accepted 40 cases 258 proposals of various nature over the course of 17 sessions, 40 of which were actually accepted to improve regular updates. In 2013, we plan to upgrade our website to enable easier access to information for users with disability. the overall quality of Hillstate apartment buildings. Such To Build Social Value Off-line Communication Channels | We have off-line communication channels – the helpline, mail, and a direct visit active participation from our customers is being directly to our office – open for customers with difficulty accessing our on-line communication channels. Particularly, we operate led to greater customer satisfaction and loyalty. one office in Seoul and six regional offices as well as a move-in support center at each Hillstate complex for residential Kick-off Ceremony of the 5th Hillstate Styler customers to conveniently reach out to us. Official Announcement of the Building Works Improving CS | In order to further enhance our customer-centered service focus, the Construction Business Division Division’s Commitment to CS Appendix has shared Hyundai Group’s core value – ‘Customers as Priority’ – and, as an effort to truly integrate this value throughout Customer Privacy the organization, the Division organized a CS resolution rally and a CS workshop. At Hyundai E&C, we have established a Privacy Protection Committee and appointed a CPO (Chief Privacy Officer) for improved protection of customers’ personal information. Centered on the Privacy Protection Committee, we will continue Compliance with Marketing & Communication Regulations | Hyundai E&C complies with regulations on marketing to improve our customer privacy protection system and strengthen a credible relationship with our customers. and communication to gain customers’ trust by delivering accurate, right information to them. We are strictly against any means of inappropriate marketing so as to prevent from losing their trust. In 2012, we have not had a single case of Customer Privacy violation of marketing-related regulations. Key Activities Contents Customer Satisfaction Survey | At Hyundai E&C, we have our very own customer satisfaction survey method Customer Satisfaction Survey Result specifically tailored to finding out our customers’ needs and collecting their opinions. Hyundai E&C’s customer satisfaction The CPO and administrators are responsible for integrated management of customer privacy, Operation of the Privacy Protection employee information, and support areas survey is composed of 10 areas, including the company’s level of commitment to accommodate customers’ demand, a Committee 97.5 95.3 94.3 Manage and appoint key personnel for each area 100 93.2 degree of satisfaction with quality, and continuous efforts for improvement. 80 Greater Disclosure of Information on Inspect how customer privacy is being handled by agencies; tighten the management of social 60 During the site quality evaluation in 2012, we changed the method of customer survey to better reflect the needs of the the Corporate Website security numbers; establish a response manual in case of any personal information leak 40 client by adding direct surveys by the Site Assessment Team during Site Quality Assessment in addition to distributing Reinforcement of the Privacy 20 questionnaires to customers on site. Based on the results, we plan to continue periodic evaluation of the survey result Reinforce the articles related to privacy protection on apartment sales contracts handled by agencies; Protection System for the Apartment and monitor any changes customer satisfaction at each division and throughout domestic and overseas sites, striving to establish a guideline on how to properly handle apartment sales contracts (Unit: Score) 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sales & Marketing improve the overall quality of our products and services. Smartphone Application: Greater Convenience for Customer Communication Hillstate residents can use the Hillstate Smartphone Application to check real-time energy consumption (including usage data of electricity, gas, and water within apartment buildings) and remotely control lighting, gas, and heating. Furthermore, one can browse the level of electricity consumption in a given period and compare the figure with an average energy consumption of neighbors (of similarly sized apartment buildings). Overall, Hillstate Smartphone Application works as a great application that encourages the residents to save energy and supports their eco-lifestyle. Hyundai E&C will continue to improve not only its construction capabilities but also the state-of-the-art system that accommodates every need of the residential customers. Hillstate Smartphone Application won the Communication Award in Germany’s iF Awards, one of the top 3 global design awards, Mobile Hillstate in December 2012. 72 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 73 To Build Sustainable Value To Build Economic Value To Build Economic Value Financial Performance At Hyundai E&C, we are building a solid business foundation through diversified portfolio and improved financial structure, which have been made possible by expanding internationally and entering new markets. In 2012, we saw sales of 10.4 trillion KRW, operating income To Build Environmental Value of 415.6 billion KRW, and net income of 347 billion KRW. Our current ratio, debt ratio, and net worth ratio – all of which indicate an organization’s financial stability – all improved over the last three years. (Condensed) Separate Statements of Income (Unit: million KRW) Description 2010 2011 2012 Sales 10,044,756 10,104,552 10,433,442 To Build Social Value Cost of sales 8,994,302 9,242,199 9,604,835 Gross profit 1,050,454 862,353 828,607 Operating income 582,482 496,979 415,634 Income before income tax expense 589,648 611,573 450,604 Appendix Net income 434,186 503,313 347,019 APPENDIX (Condensed) Separate Statements of Financial Position (Unit: million KRW) Description 2010 2011 2012 Current assets 6,614,101 6,952,511 7,404,995 Non-current assets 3,667,342 3,731,156 3,650,190 Total assets 10,281,443 10,683,667 11,055,185 Current liabilities 4,919,173 4,697,796 4,786,586 Non-current liabilities 1,288,580 1,668,114 1,752,414 Total liabilities 6,207,754 6,365,910 6,539,000 Capital stock 557,273 557,273 557,273 Other contributed capital 828,181 828,181 828,181 Components of other capital 310,220 149,114 96,528 Retained earnings 2,378,016 2,783,189 3,034,203 Total equity 4,073,690 4,317,757 4,516,185 Financial Stability (Based on Separate Data) (Unit: %) Description 2010 2011 2012 Current ratio 134.4 147.9 154.7 Debt ratio 152.4 147.4 144.8 Net worth ratio 39.6 40.4 40.8 Credit Rating Having the ability to quickly respond to changes in the housing market with its enhanced business portfolio and a stable profit model due to diversified work types, Hyundai E&C has maintained the AAcredit rating in 2012. Based on such excellent credit rating, we can issue bonds and commercial papers at reduced interest rate, which allows us to reduce financial expenses and establish stable grounds for financial activities. As a result, we are enhancing the domestic and overseas financial conditions, improving our competitiveness for winning more contracts, and strengthening external credibility, ultimately increasing the company value. 74 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 75 To Build Sustainable Value R&D Investment Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) Hyundai E&C is actively structuring the R&D organization and investing in the R&D area. Equipped with cutting-edge facilities, we are carrying Description 2010 2011 2012 out various researches and experiments in the structural testing laboratory, wind tunnel testing laboratory, acoustical laboratory, artificial To Build Economic Value Diesel 449.15 270.92 88.08 climate chamber, and underground test tunnel. These are Hyundai E&C’s very foundation for obtaining the world’s best technologies throughout Gasoline 26.27 25.65 24.56 all business divisions, improving new growth drivers, and securing competitiveness for the future. Kerosene 39.87 41.12 23.93 LNG 64.01 36.39 173.30 LPG 11.35 5.25 5.56 District heating 0.24 0.21 0.87 To Build Environmental Value Electric power 851.78 903.43 771.20 To Build Environmental Value Lump coal (brown coal) 30.92 13.95 7.19 Ignition coal (wood coal) 0.70 Total energy consumption 1,473.59 1,296.91 1,095.39 GHG Emissions (Unit: t-CO2e) Reinforcement of Guidelines on Environmentally Friendly Vehicle Operation To Build Social Value Scope 2010 2011 2012 2018 Target In order to reduce GHG emissions from the transport stage, we developed a ‘guideline on operation of work vehicles’ in 2010. The guideline Scope 1 35,719 27,973 17,053 is about driving work vehicles in an environmentally friendly manner and includes the ‘eco-drive guideline’. Scope 2 45,328 46,979 38,824 351,087 Guidelines on Vehicle Operation (reduce 30% below the BAU) Scope 3 358,704 363,698 340,843 Type Action point Driving guideline Appendix Total 439,751 438,650 396,720 Familiarize oneself with traffic Traffic information Determine the optimal route before driving information ※ Greenhouse gas emission amount: Greenhouse gas emission amount changed due to the change in energy usage amount. Estimating the amount through the unit of Won and sales amount of each industrial headquarter and scope based on certified data Minimize engine pre-heating 10 seconds is enough for engine pre-heating; do not exceed 30 seconds Start the vehicle smoothly Start the vehicle at a speed of 20km (1500rpm) per hour after 5 seconds from starting the engine Apply the principle of inertia to Use engine brake on a downhill; accelerate right before an uphill to apply the principle of inertia; driving predict the streetlight and stop with inertia Water Consumption and Wastewater Discharge Driving habits (Unit: ton) Drive at a constant speed Do not accelerate nor stop suddenly and drive at a constant speed; assure a safe distance Description 2010 2011 2012 Observe the optimal fuel economy Observe a speed of 60-80km within city and 90-100km on highways Water consumption 1,528,000 1,294,000 893,000 Minimize idling Stop the engine if parking for more than 5 seconds; switch to neutral when waiting for the streetlight Wastewater discharge 1,236,606 2,556,654 1,289,531 Reduce loads Empty the trunk and reduce unnecessary loads; fill only half of the fuel tank Check the tire pressure Periodically check the tire pressure on a monthly basis Vehicle maintenance Refrain from use of air conditioner Refrain from use of air conditioner as much as possible; operate at low level Material Usage Periodically check auto Keep to the exchange period of consumables; check and maintain the vehicle at least once a month consumables Description Unit 2010 2011 2012 Reinforcing bar ton 398,853 299,726 248,627 Categorization of Materials Subject to Environmentally Friendly Procurement Steel ton 4,831 45,000 Type Description Type Description Ready-mixed concrete m³ 3,918,068 3,529,397 2,293,475 Products with an environmental mark issued HEGS-1 Products with the Eco-Label HEGS-5 Cement ton 47,368 120,679 134,137 by a foreign organization HEGS-2 Products with the GR (Good Recycled) Mark HEGS-6 Products from eco-friendly production processes Sand m³ 1,168,223 750,056 1,082,373 Products that have been rated as 1st grade Asphalt concrete ton 612,364 757,131 532,161 HEGS-3 HEGS-7 GMS certified products by the Energy Efficiency Standards & Labeling Program LO2 L 506,146 1,842,634 1,690,936 HEGS-4 Products with the Energy Saving Label HEGS-8 Carbon Footprint Label certified products Coal in medium-size lumps Kg 1,521,167 5,619,606 1,397,647 ※ HEGS: Hyundai Environmental Goods Standard Corrective Orders and Fines Imposed with Regard to Environmental Laws and Regulations GHG Emissions As reinforced environmental laws and regulations and an increase in civil complaints are leading to a higher number of administrative Hyundai E&C listed the emission sources and measured GHG emissions in accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change dispositions, we are establishing an environmental management system at sites through preliminary environmental support and education, (IPCC), the WRI·WBSCD Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (the world’s most widely used accounting tool for GHG emissions), the EU-ETS developing preventive and early response strategies, and complying with environmental laws and regulations trough site evaluations. As for M&R Guidelines (which provides the degree of accuracy for each of the uncertainty factors by scale (of the site) and activity), and ISO 14064. the five corrective orders issued in 2012, we immediately took necessary actions. The measurement scope was categorized to Scope 1, 2, 3, and Optional, following the WRI·WBSCD GHG Protocol. In addition, these figures were finalized by making reference to the national GHG & Energy Target Management System. 76 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 77 To Build Sustainable Value To Build Social Value Selecting Priority Safety Management Targets for Certain Periods We at Hyundai E&C select specific types of accidents that are particularly recurrent at certain periods of a year and run a number of To Build Economic Value campaigns and training sessions to prevent any accident. Fire Collapse Falls Extreme weather Equipment malfunction & falls The Ideal Employee Current Status of Employees December January February March April June July August September November (Unit: no. of employees) Hyundai E&C believes that talented individuals are an organization’s greatest asset. The concept of Hyundai E&C’s ideal employee, Permanent employees 4,431 To Build Environmental Value ‘Innovative Challenger,’ describes an individual who creates new Male employees 4,174 values by overcoming a challenge to the new, a challenge to the Female employees 257 Compliance with Laws impossible, and a challenge to becoming the best. Our employees are Contracted employees 860 Hyundai E&C strictly abides by domestic and overseas laws throughout the project management. If any legal violation occurs, we thoroughly growing to become individuals who create greater synergy and new Total employees 5,291 examine the background of such violation, share the examination result, and make every effort to prevent the same violation from recurring values with a challenging spirit, creativity, and an open mind. in the future. ※ As of MAY 31, 2013 In 2012, we were imposed a penalty of 22,012 million KRW in relation to allegations regarding collusion amongst the companies to win bids To Build Social Value Compliance with the Global Human Rights and Diversity Standards for the 1st Phase Turn-key Construction of the Korean Four Major Rivers Restoration Project. We at Hyundai E&C plan to take measures to prevent recurrence of a similar situation and comply with principles of free market, transparently communicating with stakeholders. As a global construction company, Hyundai E&C publicly endorses global standards on human rights and diversity, such as the United States’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Conventions, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Global Sullivan Principles, and the UN Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and abide by the Labor Standards Act. Hyundai E&C strictly prohibits child labor and forced labor Appendix Gender Equality | At Hyundai E&C, we ensure that male and female employees are treated fairly and provide various supports for a female employee to be assured of a non-discriminative workplace. We have created a corporate culture where female employees who have been on a parental leave can comfortably return to work and stay as “working mothers.” As a result, over 80% of employees return to work after taking parental leave, while 100% of them stay at work for over 12 months. Retaining female employees with excellent capabilities has led us to save expenses that may otherwise be spent on new hires and training as well as to keep their existing experiences and knowledge, which add to greater corporate value. In the future, Hyundai E&C will continue to promote female employment, prohibit gender discrimination during recruitment, and enhance systems to support female employees to have greater opportunities to be at the center of the business operation. Current Status of Parental Leave (Unit: %) * T he return-to-work rate in 2011 is comparably lower Description 2010 2011 2012 because some of the employees whose parental leave started Proportion of employees on in 2011 have not returned to work at the time of compiling 2.63 4.89 9.56 parental leave data for this report. 100% of the employees subject to Return-to-work rate after ‘return-to-work’ at the end of their parental leave returned to 83.33 38.46 82.4 parental leave work in 2011. Professional Development Based on its job training system, Hyundai E&C is running a variety of systematic programs for training employees by their position, group, and duty as well as EP & CM education. In addition, we are utilizing the e-HRD (Human Resource Development) system to establish an advanced talent development program and cultivating professionals. Retirement Savings Plan Hyundai E&C is operating a retirement savings plan for employees who will one day retire. We provide two types of a retirement savings plan: defined benefit retirement plan and defined contribution retirement plan. Employees can choose to receive their retirement savings either at once or as a pension plan. In the future, Hyundai E&C will continue to increase savings deposit and enhance employees’ pensionable right. 78 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 79 To Build Sustainable Value Third Party Assurance Report Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement To the readers of the 2013 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Sustainability Report To Build Economic Value We have performed to provide independent assurance services over selected aspects of Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company’s Introduction DNV Certification, Ltd. (“DNV”) was commissioned by HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (“HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction”) Sustainability Report 2013 (the “Report ). The management of Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company is responsible for preparing the to verify the HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report for the calendar year 2012 (“the report”) based upon Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited level of assurance engagement on the information presented in the Report and to provide a limited level of assurance. HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction is responsible for the preparation of the GHG emissions data on the basis To Build Environmental Value our conclusion. set out within the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol: 2004 and the principles set out in ISO 14064-1:2006. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the management of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with them. DNV We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (“International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance statement. Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Review of Historical Finance Information”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), and AA1000AS (“AA1000 Assurance Standard”). The extent for a ‘limited level’ of assurance is less than that of a Scope of Assurance The emissions data covered by our examination comprise direct emissions (Scope 1 emissions), energy indirect emissions (Scope 2 ‘reasonable’ assurance engagement and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided for the Report. An engagement is limited primarily emissions) and other indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions). to inquiries of company personnel and review procedures applied to the data Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company provided. The scope of our work was restricted to 2012 performance only. Information relating to the earlier periods has not been subject to our assurance. •Reporting period under verification: Calendar Year 2012 To Build Social Value •Organizational boundary for reporting: HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. Our work included the following activities. Organizational Boundaries Address / Remark Verification Activity Interviews with the personnel responsible for aggregation and reporting of the subject data. Buildings Headquarter (Address: Hyundai Bldg. 140-2, Kye-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea) and 1 building Desk review, site visit, data verification Appendix An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the systems and methods used to collect and process the subject data. Domestic construction sites 204 sites in Dept. of Plant, Power Plant, Civil, Building Desk review, site visit, data verification Reviews on the subject data through inquiries and analytical procedures. Verification Approach The verification has been conducted by DNV from 13rd May through 29th May 2013 and performed in accordance with the verification Visit to the head office and one local unit for a limited testing of the subject data aggregation and preparation. principles and tasks outlined in ISO 14064-3. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations deemed necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence to provide a limited verification opinion concerning the completeness of the Verify the subject data that they were correctly reported from appropriate and reasonably balanced sources. emission inventory as well as the reported emission figures in ton CO2 equivalent. As part of the verification process: •We have reviewed and verified the HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s Greenhouse gas Management System In conclusion, nothing has come to our attention that cause us to believe that the subject data referred to above are not fairly •We have reviewed the GHG Inventory Report stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting principles of Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company. •We have reviewed and verified the process to generate, aggregate and report the emissions data Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company applied a reporting practice in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 reporting principles and Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplements to engage stakeholders on material aspects related to Conclusions As a result of the work described above, in our opinion nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the GHG sustainability management performance. emissions data set out in HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction’s report are not fairly stated. The GHG emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction for the year 2012 were confirmed as below: Hyundai Engineering & Construction Company has applied detailed procedures to identify, collect, compile, and validate the data for 2012. Greenhouse Gas Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. from Yr 2012 (Unit: tCO2-e) Data for 2012 is consistent with the data accumulated as a result of these procedures and appropriately reflected the Report. In addition, through the results we have obtained from material review, we concluded that the information presented in the Report appropriately reflects Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions Other Indirect Emissions Organizational Boundaries Total Emissions (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) the performance of the Hyundai Motor Company’s sustainability management and the willingness to further develop. Hyundai Engineering 16,342 36,134 327,639 380,115 & Construction Co., Ltd. ※ In order to report the GHG emissions as an integer, the rounded number on the statement might be different from the number on the system with ± 1 tCO2. ※ Total emissions = Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 JUN 14, 2013 May 29, 2013 Deloitte Anjin LLC Kim Tae-Ho Ahn In-Kyoon Lead Verifier Country Manager DNV Certification, Ltd. This Assurance Statement is valid as of the date of the issuance (May 29, 2013). Please note that this Assurance statement would be revised if any material discrepancy which may impact on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of HYUNDAI Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. is subsequently brought to our attention. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in this Managing Partner Lee Jae-Sool statement between English version and Korean version, Korean shall be given precedent. 80 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 81 To Build Sustainable Value GRI Index ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported To Build Economic Value Level of Level of Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks Strategy and Analysis Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international 4. 13 Cover ◐ advocacy organizations 1. 1 Message from CEO 6.2 3 ● 4. 14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 19 ● 1. 2 Description of opportunities and challenges 6.2 3 ● 4. 15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6.2 19 ● Organizational Profile To Build Environmental Value 4. 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 19 ● 2. 1 Name of the organization 14 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4. 17 26 ● organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 2. 2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 14-15 ● Economic Performance Indexes 2. 3 Operational structure of the organization 6.2 14-15 ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 29-37 2. 4 Location of organization’s headquarters Cover ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 19, 67, 70 ● 2. 5 Names of countries with major operations STORY 1 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to 2. 6 Nature of ownership and legal form 20-21 ● EC2 6.5.5 39, 42-43 ● climate change To Build Social Value 2. 7 Markets served STORY 1, 14-15 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.4.4, 6.8 78 ● 2. 8 Scale of the reporting organization 14-15 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Government ● 2. 9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant EC5 6.4.4, 6.8 57 ● locations of operation 2. 10 Awards received Cover ● Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of EC6 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 STORY 1, 36-37 ● Report Parameters operation Appendix Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 3. 1 Reporting period About This Report ● EC7 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 STORY 1 ● at significant locations of operation 3. 2 Date of most recent previous report About This Report ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, EC8 67-70 ● benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.5, 6.8.6 6.8.7, 6.8.9 3. 3 Reporting cycle About This Report ● Annual 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8, Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 3. 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Cover ● EC9 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 19, 70 ● impacts 6.8.9 3. 5 Process for defining report content 26 ● Environmental Performance Indicators 3. 6 Boundary of the report About This Report ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 27, 39, 40 3. 7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report About This Report ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 44, 48, 77 ● Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 3. 8 About This Report ● between organizations EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 44, 48, 77 ● 3. 9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations About This Report ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 42, 48, 77 ● 3. 10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports ● Not applicable EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 42, 48, 77 ● Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Headquarters -0.023TJ/ 3. 11 About This Report ● CRE1 Building Energy Intensity 83 ● methods applied in the report person 3. 12 GRI Content Index 82-85 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 42, 77 ● 6.5, 6.5.4 3. 13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 7.5.3 About This Report ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and EN6 42, 77 ● reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 43 ● 4. 1 Governance structure of the organization 20-21 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 44, 77 ◐ 4. 2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 20 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● Not applicable 4. 3 Board composition 20 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 44, 77 ◐ Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4. 4 19 ● CRE2 Building water intensity ○ N/A* highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas 4. 5 21 ● EN11 45 ● and executives of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 4. 6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 20 ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12 45 ● areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Process for determining the qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest 6.2 6.5, 6.5.6 4. 7 20 ● EN13 Habitats protected or restored 45 ● governance body in the economic, environmental and social fields 4. 8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 16-18, 22 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 45 ● Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 4. 9 21 ● EN15 45 ● management of economic, environmental, and social performance affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 42,77 ● 4. 10 21 ● respect to economic, environmental, and social performance EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 42,77 ● Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4. 11 23-25 ● 6.5, 6.5.5 organization Headquarters CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings 83 ● Externally developed principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or -0.78tCO2e/person 4. 12 STORY 3, 42 ● endorses CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment ○ 82 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 83 To Build Sustainable Value GRI Index ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported ● Completely Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported To Build Economic Value Level of Level of Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks Index Indicators ISO 26000 Page Reporting Remarks EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 42, 43 ● 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● 6.4.3 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ Not applicable Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5, 6.5.3 ○ Not applicable HR5 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to 60 ● 6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5 support these rights EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 44 ◐ To Build Environmental Value 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, HR6 Abolition of child labor STORY 3, 57 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 47, 49 ● 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended land 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, CRE5 ○ Not applicable HR7 Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor STORY 3, 57 ● use according to applicable legal designations 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● Not applicable HR8 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 22 ○ N/A* 6.5, 6.5.3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, EN24 of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste ● Not applicable HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ● 6.6.7 shipped internationally Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats HR10 ◐ EN25 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 ● Not applicable or impact assessments To Build Social Value significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact HR11 ● EN26 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 50-51 ● grievance mechanisms mitigation Society Performance Indicators EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 ○ Not applicable DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 27, 55-56 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 6.5 77 ◐ noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, SO1 STORY 1, 67 ◐ Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used impacts of operations on communities 6.6.7 Appendix EN29 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 46 ● for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 22 ◐ EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 45 ● SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures 6.6, 6.6.3 22-23 ◐ Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ◐ DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 27, 55-56 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● STORY 1, Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ● SO6 ● 6.4, 6.4.3 14, 56, 78 institutions by country LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 61 ◐ Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and SO7 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 23 ● their outcomes Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 59, 78 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for employees SO8 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 79 ◐ noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 ● 6.3.10 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 67-70 ● LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 60 ● Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by development, CRE7 ○ broken down by project Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6 60 ● Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual committees SO10 67-70 ● negative impacts on local communities Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workLA7 6.4, 6.4.6 63 ● related fatalities Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally recognized CRE6 62-63 ● DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 33-34, 71 health and safety management system. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for LA8 STORY 1, 63, 69 ● PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such 71, 73 ◐ members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases 6.8.4, 6.8.8 procedures 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4, 6.4.6 60, 62-63 ● 6.7.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4, 6.4.7 58 ● health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant LA11 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 59 ● PR3 ◐ employees and assist them in managing career endings products and services subject to such information requirements Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for new construction, 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 6.4, 6.4.7 57 ● CRE8 11, 49 ● management, occupation and redevelopment 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning LA13 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 20, 56, 78 ● PR4 ● Not applicable gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity product and service information and labeling, by result type 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 57 ● PR5 71, 73 ● 6.4.4 satisfaction 6.7.8, 6.7.9 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 59, 78 ● Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 71, 73 ● communications Human Rights Performance Indicators 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 ● Not applicable DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 27, 55-56 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of HR1 6.3, 6.33, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 22, 64-65 ◐ PR8 6.7, 6.7.7 ● Not applicable clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening customer data 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone human rights screening 22, 64-65 ◐ PR9 6.7, 6.7.6 ● Not applicable 6.6.6 provision and use of products and services HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 6.3, 6.3.5 22 ◐ *Not available 84 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION 85 Major Awards and Accolades Membership 2013 Association Memberships Award Description Host/Provider International Tunneling The Korea Railway Association and Underground Space Association 2012 Construction Cooperation Advancement Awards Minister’s Accommodation for Contribution Construction Economy Construction Association of Korea Korea Ports & Harbours Association 2013 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards Minister’s Award, Grand Prize Money Today 2013 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards Minister’s Award, Overall Grand Prize (Private Sector category) Money Today Korea Electric Association International Contractors Association of Korea Sustainability Yearbook Gold Medal (Construction Sector) RobecoSAM, KPMG Building Smart Association Korea Construction IT Association 2011/12 LACP Vision Awards (Annual Report Evaluation) Industry Award (Business Service category) LACP Korea Plant Industries Association Korea BIM Association Construction Excellence Award One Shenton Way Mixed Development Buildings, Grand Prize Singapore Building and Korea Road and Traffic Association The Korean Housing Association Singapore Building and Construction Authority Awards Pasir Ris Condominium Residential Buildings, Grand Prize Construction Authority Awards Asia Square Tower 1 Commercial & Mixed Development Buildings, Award of Excellence Korea Remodeling Association Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction ※ Partial list; 109 business/academic association memberships in total 2012 Award Description Host/Provider Corporate Register Reporting Awards (CRRA, UK) 1st Runner Up (Integrated Report Category) Corporate Register Green Ranking Overall 3rd place, Grand Prize Joongang Daily 2012 Money Today Overseas Construction Awards MLTM Minister's Award, Grand Prize (Civil Engineering category) Money Today 2012 Money Today Korea Residential Service Awards MLTM Minister's Award, Grand Prize (Private Sector category) Money Today 6th Annual Asia Economy Apartment Brand Awards Grand Prize (High-class category) Asia Economy 2012 fn Housing Construction Power Brand Awards Grand Prize, Best Apartment Complex Financial News 2012 HanKyung Business Well-being Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Environmental Friendliness category) HanKyung Business 2012 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Prize of Excellence 16th MaeKyung Good Apartment for Living Awards MaeKyung (General Apartment of Large Contractors category) 2012 Korea Jungang Daily MLTM Minister's Award Joongang Daily, Joins Land JoinsLand Eco-friendly Construction Industry Awards 2012 Money Today Korea Luxury Housing Awards Best of Best Money Today 7th Asia Construction Awards MLTM Minister's Award (Social Contribution category) Asia Economy 4th Aju Economy Construction Awards 2012 Grand Prize (SOC category) Aju Economy Acknowledgements 2012 Asia Today Green Construction Awards Chairman's Award (Plant category) Asia Today Kang Ki-Ho HSE Innovation Group Shim Jae-Sung Plant Planning Group 2012 Green Housing Awards Grand Prize (Green Energy Category) Hankook Daily Kwon Sung-Jun Welfare & General Affairs Group Yea Chang-Hae Power & Energy Planning Group Kwon Young-Pil Business Budget Group Yu Mim-Young HSE Innovation Group 3rd Korea Green Construction Awards Grand Prize (Plant category) Seoul Newspaper Kim Kyong-Uh Strategic Planning Group Yun Seung-Hyeon IR Team 2012 Construction Economy Advertisement Awards Grand Prize (Corporate PR category) Construction Economy Kim Da-Young Building Works Project Support Group Yoon Yil-Sang Strategic Planning Group 8th Korea Civil Engineering & Construction Technology Awards Best of Best (Office Building Construction category) MaeKyung Kim Sung-Lim Human Resources Management Group Yoon Hong-Joon Auditing Group Kim Se-Won Welfare & General Affairs Group Lee Nam-Ju Strategic Planning Group 2012 eDaily Construction Industry Awards Grand Prize eDaily Kim Tae-Hee HSE Innovation Group Lee Dong-Hun Research & Development Planning Team Korea’s Representative Apartment Awards MLTM Minister’s Prize, Grand Prize (Good Design Category) Hankook Economy TV Nam Ki-Cheon Building Works Planning Group Lee Jeong-Hui Subcontract Group 2012 First-half HanKyung Residential Culture Awards Grand Prize (Apartment category) HanKyung Roh Bong-Kyun Quality Management Innovationn Group Lee Hwa-Seop Civil & Environment Planning Group Yoo Young-Hyun Human Resources Management Group Jung Ji-Hun Procurement Group 2012 Herald Economy Green Residence Awards Grand Prize (Construction Category) Herald Economy Park Jung-Soo Business Planning Group Jung Hoe-Kyung Business Planning Group 2012 Corporation with Socially Responsible Management Construction Chosun Weekly Pang Kug-Choung Amsa large Bridge Project Site Hong Seung Myung Human Resources Management Group for Shared Growth 86 HYUNDAI ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION Contact Us The 2013 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Sustainability Report is also available on our website (http://wwww.hdec.kr). Should you want more information or have any enquiries, please do not hesitate to contact us via the contact information below. We appreciate your feedback. Business Planning Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai Bldg., 75 Yulgok-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea, 110-920 Tel/ 82-2-746-2759 Fax/ 82-2-746-4856 Published: AUG 2013 Publisher: Jung Soo-Hyun Publishing Entity: Business Planning Team, Business Planning Group, Planning Division, Hyundai E&C Designed by: Nstein Co., Ltd. 82-2-336-7865 This report is printed on FSC™ certified paper using soy ink.
