Consolidated Annual Report 2012 05 Strategy and resources 88 Table of contents 5.1 5.2 5.3 Current strategy Innovation. R&D&i Human Resources 90 93 102 5.4 Selection, training and intellectual capital 118 5.5 Occupational risk prevention 132 Regarding this report 4 5.6 Quality and the Environment 139 5.7 Role of the shareholder in the strategy 156 Executive summary 6 5.8 Communication with stakeholders 158 06 Business model 164 01 Letter from the Chairman 15 6.1 Key factors and competitive advantages 166 6.2 Value chain 168 02 Organisational structure and operational setting 18 6.3 Description of the various businesses 170 2.1 Vision, mission and values 20 2.2 Business culture and corporate responsibility 24 07 Financial performance 172 2.3 Operational and management structure 28 7.1 Consolidated results 174 2.4 Ownership structure 30 7.2 Commentary on the most significant aspects 176 2.5 Resources 31 7.3 Share performance 186 2.6 Activities and markets 34 7.4 Construction Division 190 2.7 Relevant changes 36 7.5 Concession Division 204 2.8 Economic conditions of the setting 37 7.6 Services and Industrial Division 214 2.9 Positioning 40 7.7 Property Division 228 2.10 Impact of technological changes 42 7.8 Promotion Division 240 2.11 Third countries and social conditions of the setting 46 7.9 Participating interests: Repsol 246 2.12 Environmental challenges 47 7.10 Social behaviour 250 2.13 Regulatory framework 48 7.11 Environmental performance 260 7.12 Sustainable development and biodiversity 280 03 Corporate governance 50 3.1 General Meeting, Board and Committees 52 08 Future perspectives 300 3.2 Chain of command 57 3.3 Good governance practices 60 8.1 Long-term vision and strategy for the future 302 3.4 Remuneration and bonuses 64 8.2 Value rationale 304 3.5 Auditing and internal control 66 3.6 Risk management and anti-corruption policies 67 09 Appendices 310 3.7 Money laundering prevention 72 1 GRI Table of Contents 312 3.8 Code of Conduct 76 2 Audit certificates and reports 334 3 Verification certificates and reports 336 04 Opportunities and risks 80 4 Abbreviations and acronyms 338 4.1 Opportunities 82 5 Your opinion is important 340 4.2 Risks 86 Contact data 342 Sacyr 2012 Regarding this report You are currently reading the first governing body, is responsible for defining, our key stakeholders may have regarding Sacyr Group and on the sectors in which it CONSOLIDATED REPORT published by the guiding and overseeing the Group’s strategy our activities and performance in the operates, as well as the trends in the field of Sacyr Group, corresponding to 2012. concerning all those matters dealt with in the economic, market, environmental, governance corporate responsibility. present report. and structure, strategy, risks and future This document has been prepared in perspective settings. • Study of reports on other companies, accordance with the latest prototype Sacyr is committed to ensuring consistency fundamentally those operating in the same framework, published by the International in relation to the limits and scope of its When interpreting the definition of sectors as the Sacyr Group. Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), www. successive consolidated reports; accordingly, “stakeholder” appearing in the GRI Guide in • Analysis of the comments and contributions theiirc.org, at the time of writing. It has as was the case with previous reports, the the context of our organisation, it becomes received with regard to our responsible also been drafted in accordance with present document aims to cover the full apparent that there are numerous groups management practices or specifically on our the guidelines concerning Corporate range of the Group’s activities, in all those which, in one way or another, may be affected reports. Responsibility from the Global Reporting countries in which it operates, changing by our activities, and similarly numerous Initiative (GRI), www.globalreporting.org, only the time frame, the present document are those which may significantly affect the • In its meetings with the other organisational and with regard to financial information, in referring to 2012. conduct of our business. units that make up the Group and in accordance with the International Financial those held with the CSR Work Group, the Reporting Standards as adopted by the In certain cases, and due generally to the lack Nonetheless, there are certain groups which Corporate Responsibility department gathers European Union. of global data, the information contained clearly stand out owing to their close links information on the different groups with in this report cannot refer to the Group as with our company, which comes to light when which they interact, as well as on their A specific set of GRI indicators of limited a whole, a circumstance which has been considering a combination of the frequency viewpoints and concerns. scope (LA1, LA7, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN16,EN20 expressly reflected in those points in the report and possible impact of this relationship of and EN22) was verified this year by an which are affected. It should be mentioned dependence. These are as follows: • In general, information from the setting independent agency (PwC), in accordance with that, in this regard, the Group’s management received through the different discussion standard ISAE 3000. It has also been verified wishes to establish the mechanisms required • Employees channels established for that purpose by by an independent body (PRYSMA-AENOR) to gradually eliminate these limitations from • Shareholders the Group, (as explained in the “Channels with regard to the A+ application level defined the information at hand. • Clients for discussion with our key stakeholders) by the GRI Standard (v3.1), and finally the • Public entities provides highly useful references which help financial content of the same (consolidated It should also be noted that, to ensure • Suppliers and contractors to focus the content of our reports. annual accounts of the parent company and of consistency with the rest of the information • Analysts and investors the subsidiary companies) has been audited by submitted by the Group (Annual Corporate • The media Ernst & Young. Governance Report, Accounts and R&D+i • Local communities Report), unless explicitly indicated otherwise, • NGOs and other members of civil society With the annual publication of this the data presented herein refer to the Consolidated Report, the Group commits situation of the Group at 31 December 2012. In order to guarantee the validity of this to disclosing a global overview of its Similarly, except where indicated otherwise, relationship with key stakeholders, and to performance in economic, social and for the purpose of comparison, the determine those aspects referring to our environmental terms, and demonstrates its information for 2012 is presented adhering organisation which are of interest to them firm commitment to maintaining a strategy to the same criteria applied in preparing the (and which must thus form part of the present aligned with the principles of sustainable different reports referring to 2011. Report), the Sacyr Group systematically development. analyses the different sources of information: The structure and content of this report As was the case in previous years, this report have been designed to meet, as far as • Daily analysis of the press and specialised has been approved by the Sacyr Board of possible, the information requirements publications with a view to constantly Directors, which, as the company’s highest monitoring the news items published on the 4 5 Sacyr 2012 Executive summary The company With an average workforce of 22,000 countries (24 of them in operation and Environment: municipal services (street Construction 22,000 employees, turnover of 3.6 billion euros, a 12 in construction). Sacyr Concesiones’ clearing, waste collection, gardening, etc.), employees business portfolio in excess of 40.2 billion customers consist mainly of users paying waste management, landscape restoration euros, and an implicit EBITDA of over tolls on toll roads, as well as public and environmental work. 16 billion, the Sacyr Group closed 2012 administrations which assumed the 3,6 consolidating its position as a large business “shadow toll” or the costs derived from the Multi-services: cleaning, maintenance, billion euros, group and as one of the leaders in the concession of hospitals, transport hubs and refurbishments, socio-sanitary services, a business construction sector, in both the Spanish and other assets. hospital services, infrastructure the European markets. conservation and catering services. Concessions portfolio • Property management: Testa is the Group The Group comprises the parent company, company specialised in the acquisition, Within the investment diversification strategy, Sacyr Vallehermoso, S.A., and its subsidiary and sale and leasing of owned real estate. The and in view of the high potential and strategic associated companies, as listed in the Appendix bulk of its activity is focused on housing, important of the energy sector, in 2006 Sacyr business portfolio in to our Consolidated Annual Accounts. offices and shopping centres, although it acquired a significant interest in Repsol. excess of 40.2 maintains a selective position in others, Repsol is an international integrated oil billion euros The public limited company “Sacyr such as hotels, nursing homes, logistics, etc, and gas company with activities in over 20 Property Vallehermoso, S.A.” arose in 2003 as a result of in various locations and in high-demand countries. It is one of the ten largest private the merger by absorption of the Grupo Sacyr, assets. oil companies in the world. S.A. into Vallehermoso, S.A. Its registered offices implicit EBITDA are at Paseo de la Castellana, 83-85, Madrid. Its principal areas of influence are Madrid of over and Barcelona in Spain, Paris in France and 16 billion Sacyr has five complementary areas of business Miami in the USA. areas suitably diversified in terms of sector and geographical distribution: • Services: Valoriza is the leader in this Services/ Industrial business arm, which focuses on four main • Construction: fundamentally through Sacyr areas of activity: Construcción in Spain, Ireland, Panama, Costa Rica and Chile, Somague in Portugal Water: Integrated water cycle management, and SIS in Italy, the Group conducts all purification and distribution, desalination manner of civil work and building for public of sea waters, sanitation and sewage, waste and private customers. water treatment, regeneration of treated water and reuse of R&D+i in advances Property Development • High-quality urban housing: carried out water treatment processes. by Vallehermoso throughout the entire peninsula and the islands. The company Industrial Construction and Energy: operates principally with primary residence engineering and construction in all manner housing in demographically high-density of energy projects. urban centres. To reference the holding made by the corporation “Sacyr Investments • Infrastructure concessions: Sacyr Vallehermoso, SA” and its subsidiaries and affiliates throughout the text of this report is used interchangeably Concesiones is the Group’s infrastructure with the terms “Grupo Sacyr” or simply” Sacyr “. concession subsidiary. At the close of 2012, it had a portfolio of 36 concessions in six 6 7 Scotland France Ireland Spain Italy Portugal Algeria Israel Jordan USA Libia Saudi Arabia India The market Qatar Cape Verde United Sacyr conducts its business in Spain and Arab other countries. In a short period of time Mexico Emirates the Group has gone on from having a scant Togo but significant international presence, to operating abroad with a strong presence. The Costa Rica company’s geographical diversification is Panama Angola reflected in the fact that 55% of its business portfolio now located outside of Spain: Colombia Ireland, Italy, France, and Portugal within the European Union, and Panama, Chile, Brazil, Mozambique Bolivia and Costa Rica in Latin America. Our group also operates in other countries such as Australia, Israel, Cape Verde and Angola. Brasil At year-end, 35% of the Group’s workforPeru Australia ce was located outside Spain. Some of its Bolivia foreign subsidiaries have highly relevant workforces, such as in Portugal, with more than 2,000 employees or in Panama with more than 3,400 employees on the payroll. Chile Construction Infrastructure Real Estate Services concessions 8 9 Sacyr 2012 Construction of the third set of locks Panama Canal. The strategy Throughout 2012, Sacyr has continued to Focus implement a strategy based on strengthening on main those business lines in which we are activities leaders and experts, with high technological capabilities, as well as continuing to encourage the two new motors of growth, namely the management of Construction Proper mix of complementary and consolidated activities Construction, Concessions, Services and Real Estate projects and concessions, and the firm commitment to stimulate the Group’s High technology, added value experience and business: tunnelling, desalination plants, water treatment plants industrial division, Sacyr Industrial, which and advanced engineering forms part of Valoriza. This division has Primary business strengthened by industrial activity been strengthened through the provision of various assets already existing in Valoriza Periodic appraisal of real estate assets and also uses the new alliances established for entering into these sectors for the construction of electrical, chemical, petrol and gas installations. International focus All of this forms part of a policy aimed at obtaining a business mix which combines long-term activities with recurring revenue (Concessions, Services and Property Continual internationalisation Management) with those which are more Prestigious local minority interests partners / investors closely linked to the economic cycles, such as Legal framework and financial security Construction. This means that results can be properly Focus on profitability defended at moments, such as the present, when market difficulties are intensifying. All of the above, along with management Focus on methods based on cost and debt reduction, finances as well a strong commitment to continuity in international expansion, will give rise to a Group that is stronger, more innovative, competitive and committed to the our Corporate structure Care company’s traditional values: prudence, Focus on debt reduction austerity, quality and meeting commitments. Reduction of total corporate debt Asset turnover as a recurring financial resource 10 11 Sacyr 2012 Total Business International Total Ebitda The results turnover Billion Euros business turnover Billion Euros Billion Euros 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 3.6 506 1.5 40.2 14% Billion Euros of Billion Euros of Billion Euros Billion Euros of margin of Business turnover Ebitda International Income portfolio Ebitda/ 3,614 3,820 1,485 1,472 506 524 business turnover business turnover Variación: (5.4%) Variación: 0.9% Variación: (3.4%) December 2012 December 2011 % Var 12/11 Total business turnover 3,614 3,820 (5.4%) Ebitda Billion Euros International business turnover 1,485 1,472 0.9% International business turnover (%) 41% 39% 2 pp Construction Services Equity Concessions 2012 115 179 218 94 Ebitda 506 524 (3.4%) 2011 141 158 200 93 Variation: (18.6%) Variation: 12.9% Variation: 8.8% Variation: 1.3% Ebitda margin 14% 13.7% 0.3 pp Construction (Sacyr Somague) 5.8% 5.8% 0.0 pp Business Portfolio Business turnover Services (Valoriza) 15.9% 15.9% 0.0 pp Assets (Testa) 86.5% 79.7% 6.8 pp Billion Euros Billion Euros Concessions (Sacyr Concesiones) 58.6% 65.9% (7.3) pp Construction Concessions Industrial/Services Equity Portfolio 40,232 39,989 0.6% International portfolio 22,193 20,935 6% National National Business 1,182 7,213 Environment Water Turnover International portfolio (%) 55.2% 52.4% 2.8 pp 20% 34% 27% 32% 252 International International Multiservices Industrial Ebitda 4,816 13,823 24% 17% 218 80% 66% 87% 12 13 01 Letter from Manuel Manrique Cecilia (Navas de San Juan, Jaén, 1954) has been the Chairman the Chairman and CEO of Sacyr since October 2011. Under his guidance, the company has re-launched its strategic business development strategy (infrastructure, service, industrial construction and property projects), it is encouraging international expansion, and is promoting innovation in all areas to enhance competitiveness. In this interview, Manuel Manrique clarifies Sacyr’s strategic lines, and its commitments to its shareholders, employees and all other stakeholders. Manuel Manrique Cecilia Chairman of Sacyr What is your opinion of the current economic structure. Also worthy of mention is the “In other parts of the situation and what is your forecast? board’s unanimous support for this policy of world where Sacyr is prudence and the increase in the percentage present, the situation In terms of public investments, internal of shares floating freely on the stock is more stable demand and access to the financial market, exchange, which is providing the company and offers greater 2012 has been an extremely complicated year with greater visibility in the markets. Little perspectives, in Spain. The Government has implemented by little, investors are showing increasing so international stringent measures to reduce the public interest in Sacyr, as they consider it may be development is still a deficit and stabilise financial institutions, and an opportunity for profitable investment priority.” these will bear fruit in the coming months, as with regard to the future. In my opinion, the soon as economic activity picks up. I believe most relevant aspect is the confidence we that we are very close to reaching the turning are generating around us and which will have point where the perception of the economy positive effects in all settings. The company’s will change, generating increased confidence consolidation stage is coming to a close and to take investment decisions, in both the I believe that we will soon be able to start “I feel that it is vital public and private spheres. I also feel that, speaking it terms of growth again. that the Group’s having reached this point, some type of operating figures continue to show stimulation measures will be adopted that Which economic data from last year do you feel positive results will push us into growth. I’m a realist with are most relevant? inspite of the regard to the present, and an optimist with problems of the regard to the future. In other parts of the I feel that it is vital that the Group’s operating economy.” world where Sacyr is present, the situation is figures continue to show positive results in more stable and offers greater perspectives, spite of the problems of the economy and so international development is still a priority. inevitable drop in turnover. This shows that we are on the right path. The company’s gross What do you feel were Sacyr’s notable profit, what the business lines bring in, has milestones in 2012? risen to 506 million euros, in line with what could be expected in a highly complicated Throughout 2012, Sacyr has consolidated setting, which shows that the strategy is right. a new style of management in which the Cost control has led us to raise the gross most important aspects are the international margin up to 14% and we have controlled development of those businesses in which we debt. In 2012 we have continued to make are positioned and have relevant experience progress in the Group’s international profile, -construction, concessions, services and and 55% of the portfolio is now located propertythe commitment to our new outside Spain. Repsol has also given us good industrial division, the reduction in operating news, as it recuperated the losses from YPF in costs and the improvement of the financial its profit and loss account, which is great news for the coming years, too. 15 01 Letter from Sacyr 2012 the Chairman “I’m convinced that How is Sacyr tackling the management of its What will the strong points of Sacyr’s strategy the Government’s principal risks? be in the future? plans and reforms will have a In the period of financial difficulties that In addition to the prudent, profitable clear effect in the we are currently going through in Spain, the management model of which I have spoken, coming months” greatest risk we find for the development innovation, undoubtedly. Thanks to the of our activities is financial. On one hand, challenges we have had to face throughout access to loans and bank guarantees, since the Group’s growth years, Sacyr has acquired institutions have increased the collateral a way of relating with its stakeholders based they are asking for. On the other hand, the on innovation, and the principal aim of lack of liquidity in Public Entities, which which is to predict and satisfy their needs. have extended their repayment periods. I’m The principal objective in each project we convinced that the Government’s plans and undertake is going to be profitability, and our “The values that reforms will have a clear effect in the coming decisions will be governed by it. Of course, have always months and will help to improve our financial the increasing internationalisation of all our characterised our position. This, along with the constant care principal businesses, cost control, risk analysis professionals and for of our cash and the rotation of our mature and the rotation of mature assets to attain the which we are known assets has enabled us to deal with all of our greatest possible degree of self-financing, too. are commitment, commitments in 2012, and the same will be effort, focused on Which values do you think Sacyr needs to true in 2013. individuals, the cultivate in this stage? client and austerity.” In which countries do you consider the establishment of Sacyr to be priority? The values that have always characterised our professionals and for which we are known are With culture and tradition in mind, we are commitment, effort, focused on individuals, the focusing our efforts in those Latin American client and austerity. To these traditional values, countries which offer the greatest legal we have to add other new ones which have and economic security: Mexico, Panama, become necessary in recent years: innovation, Colombia, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia in the industrial excellence, multi-disciplinary nature, flexibility, setting, and of course Chile, where we are concern for the environment and integrity. All leaders in construction and concessions. In understood from a perspective of opening Europe our main activity is in Portugal, Italy up to the outside world. I believe that Sacyr and Ireland, without ruling out opportunities is blessed with the best human team in the in Eastern Europe in the services setting. sector and we are in a position to deal with And regarding markets which are emerging any challenge in any part of the world. I would or being consolidated, Africa (Angola, like these values to give rise to a new company Mozambique, Algeria, Togo, Libya) and the profile: innovative, global, responsible, close Middle East (Israel, Qatar, UAE, Saudi Arabia), and positive. without forgetting countries further afield, such as India, where we have already started doing business, and Australia, which is a very important country for us. 16 17 02 Organisational structure and 2.1 Vision, mission and values 20 2.2 Business culture and corporate responsibility 24 operational setting 2.3 Operational and management structure 28 2.4 Ownership structure 30 2.5 Resources 31 2.6 Activities and markets 34 2.7 Relevant changes 35 2.8 Economic conditions of the setting 36 2.9 Positioning 40 2.10 Impact of technological changes 42 2.11 Third countries and social conditions of the setting 46 2.12 Environmental challenges 47 2.13 Regulatory framework 48 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.1 Vision, mission and values Current market conditions and the economic Providing optimal working conditions in terms “Thus, the permanent setting in which we operate would seem to of health and safety. We demand high safety incorporation of two make it wise, at this particular moment in levels in processes, installations and services, new principles has time, to permanently incorporate two new paying particular attention to the protection been decided: One of the key points for our Group is the Thus, values are qualities that translate into corporate values, which clearly stress the of employees, suppliers, clients and the Commitment definition of its Mission, Vision and Values, determined behaviours which identify the behaviour of our Group, both externally as local setting, and this principle of action is Austerity”. since these elements of the business culture company, guiding its management, as well as well as internally in our everyday work.. conveyed to the entire organisation. will communicate with and respond to all our the development of policies, strategies and stakeholders, and will be transformed into the processes. Thus, the permanent incorporation of two new Each and every act by the Sacyr and its company’s principal slogan and performance principles has been decided: employees must show total respect for the benchmark, as a framework which will define Mision Human Right and Civil Liberties appearing in “Sacyr greatest asset future actions. • Commitment the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. is the effort and “To focus our activities on society using a dedication of all The Mission, Vision and Values are drafted sustainable, viable corporate management • Austerity Concern for the environment: Each and every those working in the clearly and concisely, and must constitute model that adds value for all stakeholders act by the Group must be conducted with the Group; accordingly, a long-term reference which identifies and by applying innovation, technological Innovation: The pursuit of excellence in each utmost concern and care for the environment. we consider each distinguishes the Sacyr Vallehermoso Group development and excellent execution to all and every one of the company’s operations Sacyr considers itself an integral part of those collaborator to be from its competitors. activities performed by our lines of business”. and actions, meeting the highest standards of communities in which it conducts its business, unique”. quality. and as such, it undertakes to encourage and The company Mission is a declaration of Vision promote the economic, social and cultural intent, insofar as it reflects what it has been All actions conducted by the Sacyr must be development of its setting. created for and what it contributes to society. “To maintain an integrated, diverse, leading an example of professionalism, thanks to the Thus, it defines the Company’s raison d’être, group for society that works towards the experience, knowledge and values assumed Team spirit: Encouraging team work, creating the fundamental aim and the purpose to sustainable, conscious development of the by all employees. multi-disciplinary teams which allow full achieve before the various stakeholders. new needs in society to build a better future professional development. by guaranteeing responsible decision-making Finding solutions which satisfy clients’ A company’s Vision, however, includes its in all our activities and ensuring that our interests and needs, in line with the highest Developing a global vision of all objectives, long-term expectations and future projection, stakeholders are satisfied”. standards of quality, investing in innovation, values and principles, in line with the the position it is aiming for, and how the in an ongoing quest for excellence, aiming guidelines and policies set by the Group, organisation wishes to be perceived by its Values for improvements in processes, products and acting as a benchmark for unity in all the customers and society in general. A suitable services. companies that comprise SyV’s business lines. definition of the organisation’s vision is • Innovation Providing an example of effort and dedication a signal for the stakeholders of its great People orientation: Finding solutions which when carrying out our daily activities, challenge and business strength, as, owing • Excellence satisfy clients’ interests and needs, in overcoming adversity and jointly overcoming to its conceptual clarity regarding what line with the highest standards of quality, great professional challenges. the company aims to build in the future, • People orientation investing in innovation, in a continual it enhances its capacity for management, search for excellence with improvements in Improving the exchange of knowledge handling and execution toward permanent • Concern for the environment processes, products and services in mind. between our employees though continuous attainment thereof. training to promote current and future • Team spirit Sacyr’s greatest asset is the effort and professional success. Both the Mission and the Vision defined by dedication of all those working in the Group; the organisation are based on clear Values, • Integrity accordingly, we consider each collaborator Integrity: The Group’s business and considered as a set of principles, ideals, to be unique, investing to improve their professional activities must be conducted in beliefs and rules which act as a reference potential and their professional expectations, framework for taking organisational decisions. and fostering pride in membership of the organisation. 20 21 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting “Responsibility, strict compliance with legislation currently Undying effort to ensure that our Company control and efficiency in force in each of the places it they are is constantly successful, where every woman applied to the conducted. and every man are essential cornerstones. development of our business plans, will Showing impeccable behaviour, aligned The sum of our efforts focused on a common add points to the necessarily with honesty and integrity, aim. The perpetual desire to create and supply share price of our eschewing all forms of corruption and value for the group. Non-conformity in the face future.” respecting the specific circumstances and of mere compliance. The sense of belonging needs of all those involved in the Group’s and attachment to the values and formulas that business and professional activities. We must have forged the keys to success throughout the encourage rigorous consistency between first quarter century of our history. corporate practices and our values. Austerity: We live in a world of scant Disclosing suitable, accurate information on resources and we are living through times our management. Information that is true of market restrictions. Thus, every element and verifiable. Clear communication, both used must be productive. Each resource must internally and externally, promoting dialogue be invested swiftly but prudently. The true and commitment with stakeholders. creation of value must govern everything: value for the human resources as a whole, Assuming our responsibilities and acting value for our actions and businesses, value for accordingly, committing all our ability the markets, and value for society as a whole. to achieve this objective, developing a sustainable business, based on criteria Responsibility, control and efficiency applied of economic, social and environmental to the development of our business plans, will responsibility. add points to the share price of our future. Commitment: The true reflection and embodiment of the so-called “Sacyr Spirit”. High-Speed Railway station, Logroño (La Rioja). 22 23 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.2 Business culture and corporate responsibility The main impetus The main impetus stems from the Board Guidelines for action Corporate Responsibility Master Plan stems from the Board of Directors, which, as the company’s of Directors, which, highest governing body, has assumed the Sacyr advocates a model of responsible Towards the end of 2009, Sacyr implemented (suppliers/ subcontractors), by approving a The Board of as the company’s responsibility of defining, encouraging and business management, aimed at the longits first Corporate Responsibility Master policy of responsible purchasing which sets Directors approved highest governing overseeing the Group’s strategy in this field. term creation of value for all its stakeholders, Plan, with the approval of an action plans guidelines for contracting, evaluating and the implementation body, has assumed and which helps society and the economy for 2010 and 2011. Once this came to an monitoring suppliers. of a second plan to the responsibility of Sacyr also has a Corporate Responsibility to progress along the path of sustainable end, the Board of Directors approved the guide the responsible defining, encouraging division, which reports directly to the Finance development. implementation of a second plan to guide the • Strengthening Good Governance management of and overseeing the and Corporate Development Department, responsible management of the Group and mechanisms to guarantee stakeholders the Group and all Group’s strategy in and whose main responsibilities include Sacyr views responsible management as all the companies comprising it, in force for transparency and ethics in all our actions, the companies this field. implementing the Corporate Responsibility an unavoidable commitment towards its 2012 and 2013. The Plan specifies the Sacyr ensuring compliance with the current comprising it, in force decisions taken by the Group’s governance stakeholders; hence, the company must be Group’s actions in this setting, and defines the legislation and avoiding involvement is for 2012 and 2013. and management bodies, advising the latter respectful of, and constantly consider the distinguishing corporate elements in its policy: disputes concerning corruption, bribery or in the taking of decisions, and coordinating rights, needs and wishes of the different The principal aspects covered by the Sacyr non-compliance with fundamental human the activities conducted in this field by the groups and settings with which it interacts. business culture can be grouped into 7 points: rights. different organisational units that make up This basic principle of action must guide all the Group. our business decisions, from those deemed • Promoting communication with • Contributing to the development of the to be strategic, to those more characteristic of stakeholders by setting up discussion society in which the Group conducts its There is also a Corporate Responsibility day-to-day, routine management. platforms through which to gauge their activities, through innovative projects and Work Group, comprising a representative expectations and establish suitable action participation in projects of social interest, from each business area, and from each The Group’s corporate mission reflects Sacyr’s plans to respond to their demands. channelled through its Foundation. of the corporate units with the strongest commitment to the principles of Corporate links to the responsible management of the Responsibility, highlighting, among other • Fostering a sense of belonging among • Establishing the mechanisms needed to company (Corporate Governance, Human things, its client-orientated vocation and employees, and making the company reduce the environmental impact of our Resources, Internal Auditing, Environment, its confidence in the value supplied by the a preferred work place, establishing activities and projects, showing due care Risk Prevention and R&D+i). professional integrity of its employees. improvement actions in key aspects, such as and respect for the environment in all our integration and equality, health and safety, actions. The individuals assigned are the CR social benefits, training, conciliation, and Department’s interlocutors in their respective the proper professional development of • Integrating all actions and principles business settings, and they participate, workers. regarding Corporate Responsibility into all with decision-making powers, in the decision-making processes. interdepartmental meetings held to deal with • Extending the Group’s ethical and CR-related matters. corporate principals to the supply chain Other Group employees may be invited to these meetings, in accordance with their competences and the specific needs of each meeting. 24 25 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting Ashdod Desalination Plant, Israel . The definition of this culture is transformed These actions have been defined in the first into specific indicators through the Sacyr place due to objective reasons of profitability Group’s Corporate Responsibility Master Plan, for the company in terms of economics, which establishes the following guidelines as transparency, public image and reputation as priority for 2012 and 2013: well as through explicit evaluation by all of our stakeholders: • Improving dialogue with stakeholders. In parallel, they have been defined by • Helping to improve all aspects related with quantifiable circumstances in terms of our the Company’s Corporate Reputation. relative situation in the market, best practices at the national and international levels as well • Promoting the Group’s values and ethical as internal legal requirements, international principals in the setting of organisation and standards and European Union transitory establishing guidelines for social action recommendations that shall soon comprise policies. part of our regulations. • Strengthening the contribution to the development of those societies in which • DJSI Requirements Sacyr conducts its business, establishing a • FTSE4GOOD Requirements system for measuring and monitoring the • Global Reporting Initiative Requirements same. • United Nations Global Compact Requirements • Continuing to underpin the global action • OCDE Directives Requirements framework for environmental matters, • AA1000 Regulations maximising its contribution to the • Law on Equality sustainability of all Group activities. • LISMI • Law on Public Sector Contracts • Strengthening R&D&i Policies as a basic • Legislative proposal on the transparency components of our capabilities and of social and environmental information technological expertise. by companies • Study on socially responsible investment • Continuity in adopting international policies from the European Commission and standards in the setting of CSR. • Recommendations on Reporting from the European Commission • Adopting a global internal assurance • Environmental Information Reporting system as a guarantee of compliance with Obligations in the Corporations Act the objectives set in the field of CSR. • Sustainable Economy Act • State Board of Corporate Social Responsibility 26 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.3 Operational and management structure In recent years, the development of the The group is structured under the figure of an business lines which make up the Sacyr Group Executive Chairman, to whom report the two has been characterised by strong growth in principal lines of command: on one hand each activity, increasing complexity in the projects of the business areas has a non-executive tackled, diversification in activities and Chairman and a CEO; on the other hand, there significant international expansion. is a line of staff departments which provide support to the entire group in different At Sacyr we are fully aware that, to a large settings, as shown in the diagram below: extent, our future success depends on our capacity to adapt; accordingly, we have been adapting our structure to these changes, to ensure that the different organisational units which comprise the Group are in a position to provide the most efficient and operative MISCELLANEOUS PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT INFRASTRUCTURE REAL ESTATE response possible to any new challenges CONCESSIONS SERVICES which may arise. Tesfran Cafestore CONSTRUCTION Accesos de Madrid Valoriza Facilities Aunor Valoriza Servicios Cavosa Autopista del Guadalmedina a la Dependencia Febide S.C. Autopista del Sol Valoriza Conservación Ideyco Autopista Madrid Levante de Infraestructuras Prinur Autopista Madrid Sur Sacyr Chile Autopistas Vallenar Caldera WATER Scrinser Autovía del Arlanzón SIS Autovía del Barbanza Chairman and Managing Director AGS Autovía del Eresma Aguas de Alcalá Autovía del Turia Emalsa Hospital de Braga Emmasa Hospital Puerta de Hierro Sadyt Hospital Infanta Cristina Santa Crucera de Aguas Hospital del Henares Intercambiador de Moncloa SACYR INDUSTRIAL Intercambiador de Plaza Elíptica M50 Concession Bipuge Metro de Sevilla Cepalo Sacyr Construcción General Finances and Corporate Development Manager N6 Concession Extragol Neopistas Iberese Pamasa La Roda Viastur Olextra Testa Inmuebles en Renta General Administration and Operations Manager Sedebisa ENVIRONMENT Vallehermoso División Promoción General Resources Manager Valoriza Servicios Medioambientales Hidurbe General Manager of Legal Advise/ Viveros de Falcao Sacyr Concesiones Secretary of the Board of Directors Valoriza 28 29 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.4 2.5 Ownership structure Resources At 31 December 2012, the share capital of €1, fully subscribed. All shares have the same Sacyr Vallehermoso, S.A. was represented by voting and profit-sharing rights. 443.7 million shares each with a par value of Human EVOLUTION OF CAPITAL In the current socio-economic setting, The proper management of information, Euros Share Capital No. of shares human capital is the principal competitive communication, of both individual duties and 2012 443,728,374 443,728,374 advantage that organisations have in order responsibilities, as well as the objectives to 2011 422,598.452 422,598,452 to be able to generate added value within a be obtained, concern for the development global market. This notion, a historical point of our professionals, as well as for their of reference in the policies implemented by welfare and the extent to which they can 443.7 Furthermore, the distribution of the capital at the same date was established in accordance the Group, is the one which has enabled us to become one of the companies with the balance their personal and professional lives, all provide us with individuals who million shares each with a par with the following percentages: greatest development and growth within the are not only highly qualified, but also highly Value of €1. European Union, consolidating us today as motivated by and committed to the culture a benchmark in the sector, on both national and development of the organisation. All the SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE and international levels. above enables us to guarantee a suitable work environment resulting in the levels of Disa Corporación Petrolifera. S.A. 13.012% Taking this international situation into efficacy and efficiency. account, we must stress the diversity in labour relation models with which the Group Austral B.V. 9.623% interacts, a fundamental premise being the strict compliance with the legislation and internal regulations of each country, as well as Prilou. S.L. 7.120% respect for the customs and cultural realities of our teams. Prilomi. S.L. 5.268% Grupo Empresarial Fuertes. S.L. 6.239% Cymofag. S.L. 6.039% Beta Asociados. S.L. 5.328% NCG Banco. S.A. 5.198% Grupo Satocan. S.A. 2.883% Free-float 39.290% 30 31 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting GEOGRAPHIC PERSONNEL DISTRIBUTION OF SACYR, 2011 GEOGRAPHIC PERSONNEL DISTRIBUTION OF SACYR, 2012 COUNTRIES mens womens Number % COUNTRIES mens womens Number % Var.% Spain 7,809 5,780 13,589 66.5 Spain 7,439 6,904 14,343 65.0 5.55 Technical and material resources Portugal 2,245 365 2,610 12.8 Portugal 1,884 314 2,198 10 -15.79 Panama 1,737 127 1,864 9.1 Panama 3,268 152 3,420 15 83.48 Although essential for any type of activity, In-house designed corporate applications: human resources are insufficient if they are 10, among which worthy of note are the Italy 635 26 661 3.2 Italy 341 14 355 2 -46.29 not provided with suitable technical and applications supporting the Prevention, Chile 612 45 657 3.2 Chile 772 98 870 4 32.42 material resources. Given the extensive range Quality and Environmental processes, as Angola 548 98 646 3.2 Angola 480 90 570 3 -11.76 of activities that the Group undertakes in well as those for Contracting. Cape Verde 98 19 117 0.6 Cape Verde 81 18 99 0.4 -15.38 its daily work, the volume of technical and Australia 57 34 91 0.4 Australia 31 32 63 0.3 0.00 material resources made available to them are In-house designed departmental also diverse and quantitatively relevant. applications: 30, including SIA which Libya 50 7 57 0.3 Libya 12 2 14 0.1 -75.44 provides support for Sacyr Construcción’s Brazil 33 14 47 0.2 Brazil 33 13 46 0.2 -2.13 To give an idea of the dimensions and size of purchasing function. Costa Rica 23 11 34 0.2 Costa Rica 31 10 41 0.2 20.59 the resources employed, these include but Ireland 31 15 46 0.2 Ireland 25 19 44 0.2 -4.35 are not limited to the following: Web applications and sites: 18 Websites, Algeria 0 0 0 0.0 Algeria 0 0 0 0.0 -the most relevant being the Group’s • Buildings and installations corporate website, the Employee’s portal Israel 2 0 2 0.0 Israel 11 4 15 0.1 -and the Vallehermoso website. Peru 1 0 1 0.0 Peru 0 1 1 0.0 -The Group’s central services offices occupy India 0 0 0 0.0 India 1 1 2 0.0 -approximately 11,000 square metres, User Care Centre Qatar 0 0 0 0.0 Qatar 0 0 0 0.0 -principally in Madrid, on top of which are Mexico 0 0 0 0.0 -the different regional offices and head The UCC deals with close to 5,000 incidents Mexico 0 0 0 0.0 Colombia 0 0 0 0.0 -offices in other countries. (support, evolutionary, errors) reported by users. TOTAL 13,881 6,541 20,422 100 TOTAL 14,409 7,672 22,081 100 8.12 • Design and development The staff information refers to the Mean Consolidated Staff, which is nill in countries where the company has been established recently with a small number of Applications • Hardware workers, such as Colombia. GPD comprised of 140 centralised systems 3200 job positions connected to the network supporting all corporate and business with more than 600 peripherals Geographic Personnel Distribution 2012 applications Externally-developed corporate applications: 8, worthy of special note being SAP R/3 (Finances/Controlling processes, and Vallehermoso & Testa’s Portugal 2,198 10 % commercial processes), LOGA (Human Resources Processes) and PLIDO (Sacyr Spain 14,343 65 % Construcción’s Planning and Work Management processes). Italy 355 2% Panama 3,420 15% Angola 570 3% Chile 870 4% 32 33 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting Málaga-Las 2.6 Pedrizas AP-46 Toll Motorway. Activities and markets Sacyr groups its activity around five large Nonetheless, it has many more areas business lines: of activity, as it conducts work and provides services with their own specific • Construction characteristics, within each of the principal • Concessions lines of activity. As there are a large number • Property management of these areas, a summary thereof is shown • Services and Industrial in the following diagram, along with their • Property development presence in the different markets: PORTUGAL IRELAND COLOMBIA COSTA RICA MOZAMBIQUE CAPE VERDE AUSTRALIA SPAIN ITALY FRANCE CHILE PANAMA USA BOLIVIA BRAZIL ISRAEL ANGOLA ALGERIA TOGO CONSTRUCTION Motorways/Highways Railways Hydraulic Airports Non-residential building Residential building Hospitals CONCESSIONS Motorways Hospitals Hubs Metro lines Airports Service areas REAL ESTATE Offices Hotels Commercial Housing Industrial Residences Car parks VALORIZA Energy and Industry Water Environment Multi-services 34 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.7 2.8 Relevant changes Economic conditions of the setting The different In recent years, Sacyr has successfully dealt • Following the close of the business year, International economic context companies that with the different challenges posed by the the Sacyr Group has opted to create a comprise the Group economic situation. The different companies new line of activity (Sacyr Industrial) Once again, 2012 has been characterised by fuel prices throughout the year and the still have gradually that comprise the Group have gradually focused on projects related with the design an international economic crisis, although quite subdued level of consumer spending. adapted to the new adapted to the new situation, focusing on and construction of energy generation little by little, some countries, such as the Finally, the Fed once again kept interest rates situation, focusing activity in the core industries, and on opening (conventional and renewable), industrial United States or Japan, are starting to see below 0.25% during the year, to stimulate the on activity in the up opportunities in new markets, for which and waste treatment plants, infrastructures improvements in some of their parameters. economic recovery. core industries, the organisational structure of the different for the transport and distribution of energy In Europe, the situation is characterised by a and on opening up businesses in Sacyr has had to be adapted: and installations in the upstream and lack of liquidity, a downturn in consumption The economic performance of the euro zone opportunities in new downstream areas. and high unemployment. countries has continued to be uneven in 2012. markets. • Owing to the high degree of geographical diversification involved in the business lines, Countries such as Spain or Italy, have Although Eurostat has not published its an International Expansion and Institutional avoided compromising situations, distancing definitive GDP figures, and in many cases Relations Department has been established, themselves from those that have affected the data we have are provisional, we can reporting directly to the Chairman. other states such as Greece and Portugal. say that the euro zone overall showed even Measures such as the implementation of performance in terms of growth, with a slight • Testa and Vallehermoso: With the aim of the European Stability Mechanism, or the fall of 0.6%. taking full advantage of the synergies agreement for the creation for the Single existing between the real estate and equity Banking Supervisor, have improved the Tension regarding risk premiums has businesses and optimising the structures, perception of the European project. continued to characterise peripheral the executive posts in both companies have countries. The ECB has intervened by been amalgamated. The behaviour of the Chinese economy merits purchasing government bonds in these special mention. With an increase in GDP countries, as well as by holding various of 7.8%, although with a slowdown, it still liquidity swaps, in order to normalise shows sustained growth, although with an countries’ credit situations. With this in impact on the Asian giant’s exports to the old mind, in February it adjudicated 529.531 continent. billion euros, at 1% interest, to 800 financial institutions in different countries, at the With regard to the principal economies, same time as it increased the range of assets in 2012 the United States experienced accepted as guarantees, and undertook to 2.2% GDP growth, compared with 1.8% offer unlimited liquidity until at least 2014. the previous year, thanks to strong private consumption, exports, and non-residential Year-on-year inflation in the euro zone was fixed investment, as well as maintenance of 2.2% in 2012, compared with 2.7% for the public assistance and expansionary fiscal and previous year, while in the EU as a whole it monetary policies. reached 2.3%, compared with 3% for the previous year. Core inflation, excluding the In the American labour market unemployment price of energy and fresh food from the was 7.8%, an improvement on the 8.5% for equation, was 1.6% in the euro zone. The 2011, and a four-year minimum. Inflation in ECB lowered its interest rates to a historic 2012 ended with a rise of 1.7% compared low of 0.75%, to give a boost to Community with 3% the previous year, thanks to stable economies. 36 37 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting National economic context Measured in terms of GDP, the Spanish Strategic Plan for Infrastructures (PEI), and economy showed a decrease of -1.4% in which will remain in force until 2024. 2012. The Sovereign debt and the financial Depending on the macroeconomic evolution system crisis in general continued to take a scenarios in Spain, up until that year, the sum toll on the Spanish economy, its financing total of investments contemplated in the PITVI conditions and the confidence of the principal in relation to the GDP, supposes a variable economic agents. This has resulted in percentage between 0.89% and 0 .94%. consumption remaining nearly flate, and in the poor situation of the employment market. Of the total sum envisaged, approximately 90% of resources will be devoted to transport On the positive side is the strong boost policies, and 10% to those for housing. experienced by exports of goods and services, Within the former, 52.403 billion euros will with year-on-year growth of 3.1%. Whereas, be earmarked for highways, including 18.668 external demand triggered a rise of 2.5% in billion euros for the construction of 3,500 tourism GDP in Spain in 2012. The record for km of new high-capacity roadways, while revenue was broken, totalling 55.7 billion another 1.265 billion will be earmarked for euros. In 2012, a total of 58 million tourists expanding existing roadways. The high-speed visited Spain, up 2.9% on 2011 and returning railway, AVE, will receive an investment of 25 to pre-crisis levels. billion euros. The bulk of this investment will be used for the connection to Galicia (8.517 Regarding prices, inflation in 2012 stood billion euros) and for the Basque “Y” (4.323 at 2.9%, as a result of price hikes in the billion euros). The other flagship projects principal groups. The only group to suffer a will be the AVE to Badajoz, with 2.651 fall in prices was Communications (-3.4%), billion euros, and the connection to Asturias, At the end of 2011, the European Transport owing to the fall in telephone tariffs and with another 1.719 billion euros. Other Commission approved the new routes of the services. While the core inflation, which does noteworthy interventions include national European rail transport plan. Spain, with five not include fresh fruit or energy products in ports, with 2 billion euros, and modernisation corridors crossing the entire country, will be the calculation thereof, stood at 1.6%, in the of conventional railway transport, with 1.31 one of the main beneficiaries. The network, DG 48 Salernosame line as 2011. billion euros. which will criss-cross the country’s territory, Reggio Calabria toll should be completed before 2030, and it is motorway. Italy The principal Spanish stock index, the IBEXAdditionally, and with the aim of kickexpected to receive a total investment of 49.8 35 closed at 8,168 points, down 4.65% for starting public investment in Spain during billion euros, of which at least 10% will be the year, significantly lower than the13.1% 2013, the Ministry of Promotion has a further covered with Community funding. decline in 2011. ten roadway projects prepared to go out to public tender with a total investment of 600 Regarding public tenders, In the congress million euros. The most important in terms held on 26 September 2012, the Ministry of budget, are the Coastal Belt (130 million of Promotion presented the new Land of euros) and a section the National II highway, Infrastructures, Transports and Housing Plan between Gerona and the French border (110 (PITVI), which replaced the Strategic Plan for million euros). Infrastructures and Transport (PEIT) and the 38 39 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.9 PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION VS. MONTHS OF ACTIVITY Positioning (Millions of Euros) 5,998 36.4 Sacyr 19.9 49,264 ACS 8,595 FCC 16.8 8,699 Over its 26-year history, the Sacyr Group 24.1 has become one of the leading construction, Ferrovial infrastructures and services operators in the 8,107 market. On the domestic level, it is one of OHL 35.5 the six main operators, with acknowledged 6,766 capabilities in the execution of works with Acciona 25.3 a high technical component. The group positions itself as a company with high levels of execution in terms of quality. Months of activity PORTFOLIO TOTAL PORTFOLIO BY BUSINESS AREAS ASSETS REVENUE PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES MILES IN CONCESSION (Millions of Euros) (Millions of Euros) (Millions of Euros) 20,388 2,267 5,998 11,558 20,6 252 11,558 1,800 Sacyr 40,232 Testa Sacyr Sacyr Concesiones 7,161 49,264 9,201 173 9,201 848 ACS 65,626 Realia ACS OHL 8,595 24,981 225 24,981 7,000 FCC 33,576 Colonial FCC Abertis 8,699 12,784 170 12,784 2,100 Ferrovial 21,483 Metrovacesa Ferrovial Ferrovial 44,933 8,107 373 11,326 OHL 53,413 Acciona 6,766 11,326 Acciona 18,092 Others Concessions Real Estate Industrial Construction Services Promotion Energy 40 41 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.10 Impact of technological changes TECHNOLOGICAL CHALLENGES BY AREA OF ACTIVITY AREA CHALLENGES: AREA CHALLENGES Construction Research, Given those sectors in which Sacyr conducts This explains why research, development and New materials and industrial technologies for the manufacture thereof development and its business, in the main dominated by technological innovation are already one of Development, innovation in Civil Engineering processes technological technology at the service of society, the mainstays upon which the Sacyr strategy Innovations in safety, detection and accident prevention innovation are the Group’s management believes the is based, and must be so in the future, as an already one of the proper management of our R&D+i to be additional pathway towards ensuring the Design of new robotics mainstays upon a key priority in satisfying the new social success of our companies. Development of new planning and control methods for the production and optimisation of excavation and support which the Sacyr demands, and consequently, in boosting cycle times. strategy is based. our business competitiveness, ensuring We now go on to deal with some of the Active environment with the aim of reducing emissions, use of recycled materials, reduction in consumption of proper preparation faced with technological principal technological challenges which may natural resources, reduction in visual impact. changes in the setting. affect each of our business areas. Design and development of new Information and telecommunications technologies New uses of fibres to reinforce sprayed concrete in underground works Development of improvements in the behaviour of lining concrete Automation of support laying processes in underground works Redesigning for the optimisation of resources and machinery Real Estate New uses of sustainable energies and their effect on environmental certification Design of systems complying with the new Technical Construction Regulations Development of systems for improving energy efficiency New low-consumption equipment Architectural design and innovation in the new technical construction code Research into new sustainable energies and compliance with the new technical construction code Property Development Research into new sustainable energies and compliance with the new technical construction code Redesign of and investigation into soundproofing systems for the application thereof R&D&i of new domotics in promotions New exterior finishes and facades using cutting-edge materials Innovations in traditional construction systems Concessions Development of improvements in the safety of concessions Innovation in the customer care service Deployment of new control systems and optimisation of the service life of concessions Design of environmental improvements in the design and construction of concessions Advances in the design, construction and conservation of road surfaces (new methods, materials, construction processes, etc) 42 43 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting Services Technological advances in geothermal drilling techniques New waste treatment technologies Development of new materials for geothermal heat exchangers and connection technics Research into energy recovery from waste Development of new more efficient geothermal heat pumps Redesign of systems for reducing the quantity hazardousness of material rejected from waste treatment and management. Development of new techniques for laying thermo-active foundations Development of software and programming related with activities in the services sector Development of calculation tools for the design of geothermal installations New systems and equipment related with mobility and urban services for gardening, cleaning, regulated parking New desalination systems for agriculture services Research into odour measurement technologies and the applications thereof Innovations aimed at minimising environmental impact Redesign of odour treatment technologies Energy optimisation in water treatment plants Porto Carvoeiro de Use of renewable energies in water treatment plants, minimisation of the carbon footprint Sines, Portugal. Development of advanced waste water treatment technologies (biofiltration) Elimination of emerging compounds and pathogens in waste water Development of new membranes and their processes Recycling and new uses of waste material in desalination plants Research into the reduction of odour, sludge and brine emissions Research into zero discharge In brackish water desalination plants New energy recovery in the treatment of sludge from sewage treatment plants Pre-treatment of sludges to reduce dry material and maximise biogas thermo-hydrolysis production New technologies in sludge drying Investigation into the processes of bio-fouling and contamination in membrane plants Development of wastewater reuse systems New post treatment and re-mineralisation process Research into the treatment of water from mining Research into the effects of red tides on the environment and desalination Redesign of direct osmosis New microbial fuel cell processes for water purification and bio-indication Research into new uses for biofilms in wastewater treatment. Granular sludge over fixed base Application of ICTs to manage maintenance and improve the operation in WWTPs Redesign of the life-cycle of membranes, treatment and reuse of discarded membranes Research into the elimination of autotrophic nutrients in wastewater New systems for providing services and conserving road infrastructures Research into melting ice on roadways through the use of renewable energies Development of energy efficiency improvements in roadway and tunnel lighting New safety systems for tunnels and road infrastructures IT developments for improving infrastructure conservation management Research into systems and the monitoring thereof in dams New virtual winter driving training systems 44 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting 2.11 2.12 Third countries and social Environmental challenges conditions of the setting In its commitment with the environment and proper management of any construction Environmental society in general, the Sacyr Group helps and demolition waste generated. management plans The group currently operates in around a to promote environmental sustainability, take the form of a score of countries, with a presence on 5 principally through: use of wood from sustainable forestry series of sustainable continents. These include countries in highly exploitation, wherever possible with FSC, practices. developed zones, but it is also present in • The implementation of its projects in PEFC (Pan European Forest Certification) emerging areas and in developing countries: environmental management plans. certificates, or similar. • The conduct of R&D+i projects of a marked purchasing products bearing the European sustainable nature. eco-label (EEL). This label is a system for COUNTRIES POPULATION NOMINAL GDP (BN $) INCOME PER CAPITA ($) CURRENCY identifying products which are respectful Spain 47,265,321 1,575,113 33,325 Euro • The promotion of environmental with the environment. The EEL is issued Italy 60,813,326 2,066,934 33,988 Euro dissemination, training and awarenessto those products (except for foodstuffs, raising initiatives. drinks and medicinal products, which Portugal 10,561,614 223,700 21,180 Euro are not covered by the System), which Ireland 4,581,269 258,574 56,442 Euro Environmental management plans take the have a reduced environmental impact France 66,007,374 2,582,527 39,125 Euro form of a series of sustainable practices, based on the establishment of ecological Panama 3,405,813 34,517 10,135 Us Dollar aimed at minimising effects on the natural criteria, which make it possible to evaluate Chile 16,572,475 268,413 16,196 Chilean peso setting, efficiency in resource use, the the environmental impact of products application of the waste management throughout their life cycle, extraction of Colombia 47,121,089 378,713 8,037 Colomb. peso hierarchy, the fostering of energy saving, etc., raw materials, manufacturing process, Costa Rica 4,667,096 45,107 9,665 Colon such as: distribution, even with regard to containers, Bolivia 10,389,913 27,012 2,600 Boliviano consumption and final elimination. Brazil 193,946,886 2,421,637 12,486 Real use of natural easily recyclable products. Cape Verde 499,796 1,367 2,735 Cape V. Escudo From an environmental perspective, the use of materials with a low environmental challenges and objectives with the greatest Togo 6,791,000 5,901 869 CFA Franc impact throughout their life-cycle. impact on our structure are the following: Angola 17,747,679 82,471 4,647 Kwanza Mozambique 21,284,701 19,600 921 Metical elimination of materials which are • Informing Society about our carbon Algeria 34,800,000 157,759 4,533 Algerian dinar hazardous for the environment and for footprint. Libya 5,670,688 36,874 6,503 Libyan Dinar health, such as asbestos, lead and PVC. • Extending environmental certification to the Israel 7,588,400 243,654 32,109 New Shekel purchasing of local materials to reduce company’s new business activities. Australia 22,951,906 1,487,000 64,788 Aus. Dollar emissions from the transport of these USA 308,745,538 14,204,322 46,007 Us Dollar materials. • Implementing our software applications in the international setting. protection of natural habitats. promotion of energy saving and adoption of energy efficiency measures associated to lighting, air conditioning, equipment, refrigeration, transport, etc. installation of accumulators and solar panels in buildings. 46 47 02 Organisational Sacyr 2012 structure and operational setting Interior Braga Hospital in Portugal 2.13 Regulatory framework Sacyr is subject to compliance with the In 2013, the new arrears Directive 2011/7/EU, general Spanish legal system, as the which shall be incorporated into the domestic headquarters of its central structure are in legal systems, should provide an alternative Spain. It is additionally subject to compliance to the legal uncertainty that arises from the with the laws of other countries where aforementioned multiple and contradictory various business activities also take place interpretations of Act 15/2010. (see page 34 of this report). • Public Administrations’ arrears. At the present time, our activities are not included in the “regulated sectors”. Legal certainty is a determining factor when considering options for financing a In a supplementary manner, it is interesting to concession business. highlight two aspects : The current lack of proper regulation on • Public Administrations’ arrears. important aspects of the financing of public works concessions is hindering access to Act 15/2010, amendment to Act 3/2004, of financial resources necessary for concessions’ December 29, which establishes measures success. to combat late payment of commercial transactions, obliges Public Administrations to pay their bills within 40 days in 2012 (30 days in 2013). Public Administrations have made their payment terms worse, creating an anomalous situation for an economy such as the Spanish one, which can only be solved (i) by modifying the rules that govern the funding of Autonomous Communities, and municipalities, (ii) by ensuring strict compliance to budgetary rules and (iii) by requiring, where appropriate, penalties for those who fail to comply with these rules. 48 03 Corporate Governance 3.1. General Meeting, Board and Committees 52 3.2 Chain of command 57 3.3 Good governance practices 60 3.4 Remuneration and bonuses 64 3.5 Auditing and internal control 66 3.6 Risk management and anti-corruption policies 67 3.7 Money laundering prevention 72 3.8 Code of Conduct 76 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance DIRECT INDIRECT 3.1 VOTING VOTING NAME POST REPRESENTATIVE CHARACTER ON BEHALF OF RIGHTS RIGHTS TOTAL % Manuel Manrique Chairman and CEO Executive 245 26,796,775 26,797,020 6.039 General Meeting, Board and Cecilia (1) Demetrio Carceller First ViceProprietary Disa 5,134 193,670 198,804 0.045 Committees Arce (2) Chairman Corporación Petrolífera, S.A. Nueva Compañía de Second ViceJuan Abelló Gallo Proprietary 5 42,697,938 42,697,943 9.623 Inversiones, S.A. (3) President Diogo Alves Diniz Vaz Independent 0 1,600,871 1,600,871 0.361 Guedes Governance bodies Austral, B.V (3) Director Pedro del Corro Proprietary 42,697,938 0 42,697,938 9.623 García Lomas The General Shareholders meeting is the Except for matters which are the competence Grupo Satocan, S.A. (4) Director Juan Miguel Proprietary 11,493,739 1,298,333 12,792,072 2.883 Sanjuan Jover company’s maximum decision-making body. of the General Meeting, the Board of Represented therein are all the shareholders Directors is the company’s maximum Matias Cortés Director External 100 0 100 0.000 Domínguez of the Group and thus, all its share capital. decision-making body. The General Meeting is responsible for Beta Asociados, S.L (5) Director Proprietary 23,293,360 346,500 23,639,860 5.328 deciding on all matters which may have been Its principal responsibilities include Prilomi, S.L. (6) Director José Manuel Proprietary 23,378,134 23,378,134 5.269 legally or statutorily attributed to it, and in approving the company’s general strategies, Loureda López particular, its competences include, but are or overseeing the monitoring of management Prilou, S.L. (6) Director José Manuel Proprietary 31,593,385 23,378,134 54,971,519 12.389 not limited to, appointing and dismissing activity and the assessment of executives. Loureda Mantiñán directors, approving the management report Cymofag, S.L. (1) Director Gonzalo Manrique Proprietary 26,796,775 0 26,796,775 6.039 and annual accounts, modifying company At 31 December 2012, the Sacyr Board Sabatel bylaws, as well as deciding upon the of Directors comprised 15 members: 1 NCG Banco, S.A. (7) Director Fernando Vázquez Proprietary 0 23,066,841 23,066,841 5.198 transformation, merger or break-up of the executive, 12 proprietary, one independent de Lapuerta company. and one external. Its composition ensures NCG Corporación Director Luis Caramés Proprietary 23,066,841 0 23,066,841 5.198 the constant monitoring of profitability for Industrial, S.L. (7) Viéitez all shareholders and the tracking of strict Grupo Corporativo Director Tomás Fuertes Proprietary 27,683,467 0 27,683,467 6.239 compliance with the company’s strategy. Fuertes, S.L. Fernández Javier Adroher Biosca Director Proprietary 150,000 0 150,000 0.034 There are two different types of director: Elena María OteroNon-Board internal (also called executive), who Novas Miranda Member Secretary are those who perform executive or Gerardo Manso Non-Board management duties within the company; and Martínez de Bedoya Member Deputy external, which in turn may be proprietary or Secretary independent: proprietary directors represent shareholders with a significant holding in the company’s share capital, while independent directors, with no link to the shareholders, are appointed for their acknowledged professional prestige and knowledge of (1) The indirect participation of Mr. Manuel Manrique Cecilia (5) The indirect holding of Beta Asociados is through Cantevel corporate governance. is through Telbasa Construcciones e Inversiones, S.L. which in 1, S.L. Mr. José del Pilar Moreno Carretero possesses a turn controls 100% of the share capital of Cymofag, S.L.U. holding of 62.888 % in the developer company Majariega de Inmuebles, S.L., which has a holding of 63.234 % in the (2) The indirect participation of Mr. Demetrio Carceller is trading company Beta Asociados, S.L. through the Corporación Económica Damm, S.A. (0.038%) and related individuals (0.006%). (6) Prilou, S.L. owns a total holding of 12.389% (7.120% Direct and 5.269% indirect through Prilomi, S.L. Mr. José (3) Nueva Compañía de Inversiones, S.A., is the indirect owner Manuel Loureda Mantiñán owns 49% of the share capital of of 100% of Austral, B.V. the company Prilou, S.L. and Prilou, S.L. owns 85.45% of the share capital of Prilomi, S.L. (4) The indirect holding of Grupo Satocán, S.A. is through (7) NCG Banco, S.A. owns 100% of the share capital of NCG Grupo Satocán Desarrollos, S.L. (0.252%) and Grupo Satocán Corporación Industrial, S.L. (formerly, CXG Corporación Invest Sicav, S.A. (0.041%). Novacaixagalicia, S.A). 52 53 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance Pursuant to the Regulations governing its In any event, the Audit Committee must organisation and operation, the Board is receive annual written confirmation from supported by three committees, which assist the auditor of their independence from it in the performance of its duties: the Company and any companies linked directly or indirectly to the Company, • The Executive Committee, which is and of the information provided by these delegated all the powers of the Board, to such bodies concerning any other except for those which are legally or services provided to these firms by the statutorily non-delegable and those aforementioned auditor, or by persons or which the Board retains for itself, with no entities linked to the auditor, pursuant to possibility of delegation, in accordance with prevailing regulations on audit reporting. its Regulations. In any event, this report must express an opinion on the provision of additional • The Audit Committee, whose key duties services referred to in the point above; include reporting to the General Meeting and that of informing with regard to the on matters raised by shareholders in transactions with Directors of the Company issues within the remit of the committee; which imply or may imply conflicts of proposing the appointment of the statutory interest or transactions with related parties auditor, in keeping with applicable law, to of which the Regulations of the Board state the Board of Directors, for submission to the the Executive Committee or the Board of General Meeting; overseeing the drafting Directors must be notified. process and the integrity of the financial information pertaining to the Company • The Appointments and Remuneration and, where applicable, to the group, Committee, which analyses the professional reviewing compliance with the regulatory backgrounds and evaluates the profiles of requirements, the proper delimitation of those individuals most suited to form part the scope of consolidation and the proper of the Board and the different Committees, application of accounting criteria; tracking ensuring that the candidates proposed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal to the Board of Directors are always control, internal audit and risk management individuals of recognised solvency, ability systems, and discussing with the auditor and experience. Sacyr, Board of Directors, 2013 may. any significant weaknesses which may have From left to right (in sitting position): been discovered in the internal control Mr. Tomás Fuertes Fernández, system during the audit; monitoring the Mr. Demetrio Carceller Arce, Mr. Manuel Manrique Cecilia, preparation and presentation of regulated Mr. José Manuel Loureda Mantiñán, financial information; Liaising with the Mr. José Moreno Carretero. statutory auditor to receive information From left to right (stand): on any issues which could jeopardize Mrs. Elena Otero – Novas Miranda, its independence and any other issues Mr. Juan Miguel Sanjuán Jover, relating to the performance of the audit, Mr. Matías Cortés Domínguez, Mr. José Manuel Loureda López, and generally receiving information Mr. Luis Caramés Viéitez, and complying with the guidelines on Mr. Javier Adroher Biosca, information and communication flows Mr. Diogo Alves Diniz Vaz Guedes, provided for in prevailing auditing Mr. Gonzalo Manrique Sabatel, legislation and accounting standards. Mr. Fernando Vázquez de Lapuerta. 54 55 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance 3.2 Chain of command APPOINTMENTS EXECUTIVE AUDIT AND RETRIBUTION NAME COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Manuel Manrique Cecilia CHAIRMAN Demetrio Carceller Arce MEMBER MEMBER In accordance with the Regulations of the The body responsible for the ordinary Nueva Compañía de Inversiones, S.A. Board, it is a policy of this governing body management of the organisation is the Cymofag, S.L. to delegate the ordinary management of Management Committee composed of the Diogo Alves Diniz Vaz Guedes MEMBER the company to the executive bodies and to following: the management team, and to focus on its Austral, B.V. MEMBER MEMBER general supervisory duties. Matias Cortés Domínguez CHAIRMAN NCG Banco , S.A. MEMBER NCG Corporación Industrial, S.L. MEMBER MANAGEMENT Prilou, S.L. MEMBER MEMBER NAME POST COMMITTEE Prilomi, S.L. Manuel Manrique Cecilia Chairman and CEO of Sacyr Vallehermoso, S.A. X Grupo Satocan, S.A. CHAIRMAN Miguel Heras Dolader CEO of Sacyr Construcción, S.A. X Beta Asociados, S.L. Fernando Lozano Sainz CEO of Valoriza Gestión S.A. X Grupo Corporativo Fuertes, S.L. MEMBER Jose María Orihuela Uzal CEO of Sacyr Concesiones S.L. X Francisco Javier Adroher Biosca CEO of Testa Inmuebles en Renta S.A. and Vallehermoso División Daniel Loureda López X Promoción S.A. José Manuel Naharro Castrillo General Manager, Recources X Fernando Lacadena Azpeitia General Manager of Finance and Corporate Development X The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the remuneration schemes, General Manager of International Expansion and Institutional submitting to the Board of Directors assessing their suitability and performance; José Manuel Loureda López Relations. X proposals for appointment of independent informing the Board of Directors of those Javier López-Ulloa Morais Deputy General Manager to the CEO of SyV X directors (for the appointment thereof cases in which it is concluded that the through co-optation or to be submitted continuance of one of more of the directors José Carlos Otero Fernández General Manager of Administration and Operations. X for the decision of the General Meeting); as members of said body may place the Elena OteroNovas Miranda Secreatary of the Board of Sacyr Vallehermoso and General Manager X informing on the proposals for the interests of the Company at risk or adversely of the Legal Department. appointment of the remaining directors (for affect the credit or reputation thereof, the appointment thereof through co-optation and that of ensuring the transparency of or to be submitted for the decision of the remuneration. General Meeting); proposing to the Board those members who should form part of each of the Committees and the system and quantity of the annual remuneration of the directors ad members of the Company’s Management Committee, as well as of those directors with executive duties; periodically 56 57 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance The Management Committee is the body This description, given solely for informative responsible for implementing the decisions purposes, is not an interpretation of the taken by the company’s Board of Directors classification for the purposes of regulations and Executive Committee. Present therein that apply to the Company (such as the are the chairpersons and/or CEOs of each regulation contained in Royal Decree branch of activity and the general managers 1382/1985), nor does it have the effect of of the Holding company’s central services. creating, recognising, modifying or cancelling legal or contractual rights or obligations. The Company’s senior management Specifically, as long as the members of the comprises the heads of each business line Management Committee have not expressly and Corporate Services who report directly entered into a written contact for the to the Chairman and CEO, but who do not purposes of Royal Decree 1382/1985, they take part in collective decisions on the will be considered to be fully subject, for Group’s management. all purposes, to a standard labour contract. At 31 December 2012, two members of For information purposes, in this section, the senior management team have entered Sacyr Vallehermoso, S.A. considers its Senior into a senior management contract, which Management to be those members of staff includes an indemnity payment of two who report directly to the Chairman and years’ salary in the event of dismissal. The CEO; i.e., those individuals entrusted with remaining members are subject to ordinary executing and implementing the business labour law. decisions taken by the Group’s relevant management body in this case, the Board of Directors and the Board Committees, which are exclusively responsible for management functions at the Group and which set its Sacyr Management Committee, commercial and investment strategy. May 2013. From left to right: Mr. Daniel Loureda, Mrs. Elena Otero – Novas, Mr. José Manuel Naharro, Mr. Manuel Manrique, Mr. Fernando Lacadena, Mr. Miguel Heras, Mr. José Carlos Otero, Mr. Fernando Lozano, Mr. José Maria Orihuela. 58 59 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance 3.3 Good governance practices • The company’s governance structure Committee, which is made up exclusively of is not merely formal; throughout 2012 external directors, following approval by the the governing bodies were involved Board of Directors. in real, intense activity requiring 10 “Sacyr´s Our corporate governance practices are • The Sacyr by-laws contain no “poison pills” Board meetings, 9 Executive Committee • The Audit Committee, also comprising administration designed to guarantee efficient governance limiting the maximum number of voting meetings, 7 Audit Committee meetings exclusively of external directors, performs structure ensures of the Company, safeguard the rights of rights that can be exercised by any given and 5 Appointments and Remuneration a wide range of tasks designed to reinforce that powers and all shareholders and ensure maximum shareholder or any other type of restriction Committee meetings. the transparency of company management. duties are properly transparency in reporting the Company’s designed to block a potential takeover bid distributed among operations and financial position. through market share acquisitions. • The members of the Board of Directors may • Interim financial information is drawn the variousgoverning consult any member of the company, as up using the same accounting principles bodies” Sacyr complies with all legally imposed • External directors easily outnumber well as request external guidance. and professional practices as the annual corporate governance requirements and executive directors, thereby ensuring the financial statements, in order to maximise uses, as its principal source of reference for Sacyr Board of Directors’ general oversight • Membership of executive directors reaching the comparability of data at all times. ensuring best practices in its management, function. the age of 65 comes under review by the that set out through the recommendations of Board. In addition, the membership of • Measures are taken to ensure that the Unified Good Governance Code issued • The distribution of different types of directors also comes under review of the all shareholders have access to the by the Spanish Stock Exchange Commission Sacyr directors is a fair reflection of the Board in other cases, thereby ensuring that information they require in accordance (CNMV). company’s capital structure; directors directors who are no longer suitable for the with recommendations on good corporate represent shareholders from different position do not remain in the governing body. governance. As explained in the section Sacyr´s administration structure ensures that origins, which do not form a monolithic entitled “Channels of stakeholder powers and duties are properly distributed group with each other. This diversity among • The total remuneration of the directors, engagement”, Sacyr has established various among the various governing bodies: The proprietary external directors encourages a both the part attributed to them as directors different channels,: the corporate Website, General Shareholders Meeting, the Board culture of mutual oversight that benefits all and the quantities received by executive periodic public information, personalised of Directors and the three committees that shareholders. directors in the performance of their duties, attention through the Investor Relations assist the Board in the performance of its can be considered reasonable in line with Department, etc. duties: the Executive Committee, the Audit • There are also two other Vice-Chairmen, market standards. Committee and the Appointments and both of whom are external proprietary • The procedures for proxy voting at General Remuneration Committee. directors. • As an additional transparency measure Meetings have been broadened and in the company management, the Group improved, while participation therein This structure is governed by internal Lastly, the Executive Committee, comprising publishes an individual breakdown of this has increased with the introduction of regulations consisting of the Bylaws, the 4 directors, completes the overview of the remuneration, In addition, pursuant to article remote appointment of proxies and remote Board of Directors’ Regulations, the General separation of powers. 43.2 of the Company Bylaws, each year the voting through electronic and postal Meeting Regulations, and the Internal Code shareholders remuneration paid to executive communications, and the implementation of of Conduct, all of which can be consulted on directors is ratified by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ e-Forum. the Group’s website. the Annual General Meeting. • To help shareholders exercise their vote to Sacyr complies with the best corporate • All changes to the membership of the Board the best effect, separate votes are taken in government practices, notably the following: of Directors and Board committees, or to General Meetings on materially separate the remuneration of their members, as well items, so shareholders can express their as in the remuneration of the members of preferences in each case, notably on the the Management Committee, are reported appointment or ratification of directors. by the Appointments and Remuneration. 60 61 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance • The SyV Board of Directors takes steps • The regulations of the Board specifically to periodically control and evaluate the govern the procedures established for quality and efficiency of its own operation avoiding conflicts of interests within the and that of its committees, based on reports highest governing body. In this regard, prepared by the latter. The Appointments directors are required to notify the Board and Retribution Committee also evaluates of any potential direct or indirect conflict the work of the Chairman. The evaluation between their own interests and those process takes account of the level of of the company. In the event of a conflict fulfilment of responsibilities, ease of access of interests, the director in question shall to company information, and whether refrain from participating and voting in the directors and external advisors can be deliberation over the transaction to which consulted and the advice sought obtained. the conflict relates. • The risk management and control policy The Sacyr by-laws also state that, whenever is formally presented to and approved the Executive Committee deems it annually by the Board of Directors. necessary, the Audit Committee must report any transactions with Sacyr directors • A new Code of Conduct has been approved, that give or could give rise to conflicts of regulating those actions that are forbidden interest. In case, all conflicts of interest or undesirable for the Group more involving directors of the company must explicitly; the regulations expressly include be disclosed in the Annual Corporate the criminal risk for legal entities, set out in Governance Report. Law 5/2010 of 22 June on the reform of the Penal Code. The Internal Code of Conduct regulates management of insider information and Board shall distribute to shareholders • In addition to this new Code of Conduct, a confidential operations, operations carried all information that might possibly be of body has been established for overseeing out on their own account by individuals • The Board of Directors encourages informed interest and reasonably distributed, as well the Code and ensuring it is applied subject to this code, treasury stock participation by shareholders at the annual as all legally required information. throughout the Group, and which is assisted transactions or conflicts of interest and general meetings and is committed to Repsol Head Office, Madrid, built by by the Compliance Department. related party operations. taking all appropriate measures to ensure The Board shall respond, to the best of its Sacyr Construcción. that shareholders participating in these ability, to requests for information made by • As part of this new Code of Conduct, the meetings can carry out their work efficiently shareholders prior to the General Meeting. Ethics hotline has also been modified, and in compliance with the law and and now has two new functions: one for company by-laws. It shall likewise deal with questions consultation, and the other for reporting posed by shareholders during the General breaches of that set out in the Code of In particular, the Board of Directors shall Meeting. Conduct. The latter function ensures the adopt the following measures: confidentiality of the individual reporting the breach, and respect for the accused Prior to the annual general meeting, the party’s rights. 62 63 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance 3.4 Remuneration and bonuses The detail of remuneration received by the Company’s Directors and senior management in 2012 is as follows: Remuneration of directors Pursuant to the Company Bylaws, members A detailed breakdown of the amounts ACCRUED REMUNERATION of the Sacyr Board of Directors are entitled received by directors in 2012 for the Euros to receive remuneration from the Company performance of their duties on the Board is FIXED VARIABLE comprising a fixed annual sum and provided below: NAME INCOME INCOME LIFE.INS TOTAL R allowances for the attendance of meetings. Manuel Manrique Cecilia 1,400,000.00 974,400.00 521.03 2,374,921.03 Management Team 2,729,589.57 1,069,680.64 3,181.47 3,802,451.67 TOTAL 4,129,589.57 2,044,080.64 3,702.50 6,177,372.70 AUDIT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD COMMISSION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE TOTAL Manuel Manrique Cecilia 44,550.00 29,700.00 74,250.00 At year-end the Group had no commitments The detail of loans and advances outstanding to members of the Board of Directors and amounts repaid by Company’s directors Demetrio Carceller Arce 44,550.00 14,850.00 26,400.00 85,800.00 in respect of pensions or life insurance and senior management in 2012 is as Matías Cortés Domínguez 44,550.00 14,850.00 59,400.00 premiums nor any share-based payments. Nor follows: Francisco Javier Adroher Biosca 44,550.00 44,550.00 were there any arrangements entitling the Diogo Alves Diniz Vaz Guedes 44,550.00 6,364.29 50,914.29 Company’s directors to receive compensation Austral, B.V. (Pedro del Corro García-Lomas) 44,550.00 14,850.00 29,700.00 89,100.00 upon their removal from the Board. AMOUNT AMOUNT Participaciones Agrupadas, S.R.L. PENDING REPAYMENT RETURNED AT 31,185.00 23,100.00 54,285.00 LOANS 31/12/2012 31/12/2012 (Manuel Azuaga Moreno) (baja 18/12/2012) During 2012, one member of the senior Management Nueva Compañía de Inversiones, S.A. (J. Abelló Gallo) 44,550.00 44,550.00 289,074.47 160,925.53 management was given an advance of Team Prilou, S.L. (J.M .Loureda Mantiñán) 44,550.00 14,850.00 29,700.00 89,100.00 274,266 euros. Prilomi, S.L.(J.M. Loureda López) 44,550.00 44,550.00 Actividades Inmobiliarias y Agrícolas, S.A. (AIYASA) (Ángel Furthermore, one member of the senior 13,365.00 13,365.00 López Coróna Dávila)(baja 23/04/2012) management has a loan of 450,000 euros, Grupo Satocán, S.A. (Juan Miguel Sanjuán Jover) 44,550.00 14,850.00 59,400.00 at an interest rate equivalent to the threeRimefor Nuevo Milenio, S.L. month Euribor rate plus a spread of one 13,365.00 13,365.00 (Luis F. del Rivero Asensio)(baja 23/04/2012) hundred basic points (1,00%). Interest Beta Asociados, S.L. (José del Pilar Moreno Carretero) 44,550.00 44,550.00 accrues daily on a base of 360 days. Grupo Corporativo Fuertes, S.L. 44,550.00 14,850.00 59,400.00 (Tomás Fuertes Fernández) NCG Banco, S.A. (Fernando Vázquez de la Puerta) 44,550.00 14,850.00 59,400.00 NCG Corporación Industrial, S.L. 44,550.00 8,910.00 53,460.00 (Luis Camarés Viéitez) Cymofag, S.L. (Gonzalo Manrique Sabatel) 44,550.00 44,550.00 TOTAL 726,165.00 50,914.29 68,310.00 138,600.00 983,989.29 64 65 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance 3.5 3.6 Auditing and internal control Risk management and anti-corruption policies The principal aim of the Sacyr Group’s • To review and update the risk map and With an important presence in the This initial stage results in risk maps and Internal Audit Department is to provide participate actively in the Group’s Control international setting, the Sacyr Group profiles identifying and grouping the senior management and the Audit and risk management policy. conducts its business in a number of main strategic and operating risks into Committee with reasonable guarantees different sectors, socio-economic settings different categories (business, environment, that the control setting and the internal • To provide an independent, corroborated and regulatory frameworks. In this context, regulation, image and reputation, human control systems within the group have been opinion on the interpretation and there are risks of different types that are resources, operations, financial, information designed correctly and are suitably managed. application of the current legal regulations specific to the businesses and sectors in for decision making, technology and IT Achieving this goal has entailed conducting concerning matters related with the risks which the company operates. systems, and good governance), and an the following functions: to which the Sacyr Group is exposed. evaluation of the possible impact and Sacyr has established a sound policy for probability that each risk could materialise. • Monitoring the existence and suitability • To ensure suitable physical and legal effectively identifying, evaluating and of the internal control and the quality and protection for assets and the proper managing risks, in order to reasonably Having identified the risks, the reliability of the financial and management recording thereof in the accounts. guarantee the efficiency and effectiveness of management’s knowledge of them is information (review audits of the financial its operations, reliability of information and analysed, along with the suitability and and management information, review and • To cooperate in improving good corporate compliance with legislation. effectiveness of the decisions taken to analysis of compliance with the policies, governance. mitigate them. Based on this information, plans and procedures and analysis of the As established in Sacyr’s risk control and the Management of Each business unit, effectiveness, efficiency and economy of management policy, the process begins with under the oversight of the Internal Audit operations) collaborating in the continual In order to achieve its goals, the Internal the identification and preliminary evaluation Department, establishes its risk priorities improvement thereof, ensuring that Audit Department has a team in Spain of risks, which, given the changing nature and determines the measures to be operations and procedures are being comprising the manager, two administrators of the settings in which the organisation implemented, taking into account the implemented and carried out exactly as and three supervisors. It also has a threeoperates, needs to be updated periodically. operating viability, possible effects, and the they were planned and, consequently, person team in Portugal, including a Deputy cost effectiveness of implementation. verifying that the results obtained are in Manager, entrusted to deal with the needs of line with the objectives established. the Somague Group its foreign subsidiaries. 66 67 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance Process for identifying risks and establishing control measures. Risk control and risk management accountability structure The Board of Directors formally approves Reinforcing this structure, the Group’s PRELIMINARY Group’s risk management and control policy, different business divisions have their own IDENTIFICATION and regularly monitors the information and management and control personnel to control systems. This guarantees the Board monitor the achievement of the specified PROBABILITY OF of Directors’ involvement in overseeing objectives identified by business division or OCCURRENCE the risk identification process and the company as part of the strategic planning in implementation and monitoring of adequate force at all times. ESTIMATION GRAVITY OF control and information systems. OF EACH RISK IMPACT Risk management and control activities in 2012 GRAVITY OF RISK PROFILE IMPACT UPDATED In 2012 the Internal Audit Department renewed its “Quality Certificate” issued by Institute of One of the principal aims of the 2012 Internal PRIORITISATION Internal Auditors. The majority of its auditors Audit Plan was to continue moving forward OF RISKS have obtained the “Certified Internal Auditor” in the development and updating of detailed (IMPROBABLE / MONITORING OF (CIA) certificate, by passing the access exam, as PROBABLE) risk maps for each business line, and in the INFORMATION RISK MAP AND CONTROL well as the “Certification in Risk Management framing and implementation of improvements SYSTEMS Assurance” (CRMA) Certificate. in the Sacyr’s risk management and control policy. Our Group has gone from one single REVISE INDICATORS With the Quality Certificate and CIA and global risk map to a more complex structure, MANAGEMENT (AND ALARMS) CRMA qualifications, the Institute commends CRITERIA MONITORING in which each business line has its own risk OF CONTINGENCIES the quality of the work of internal auditors, map. When these individual risk maps are COST / BENEFIT RATIO certifying their commitment to the highest combined, the new overall Group risk map professional standards. will be much more complete, detailed and up ACTION to date. PRIORITIES (IMPROVEMENTS) The Internal Audit Department, which reports Owing to the international crisis, in the last OPERATIONAL directly to the Sacyr Group Chairman and three years the importance and probability FEASIBILITY is supervised by the Audit Committee, is of occurrence for the different risks have responsible for systematically evaluating undergone highly significant changes; PROBABILITY OF the efficiency of the risk identification, accordingly, in 2012 we focused on updating OCCURRENCE management and control procedures. To the existing maps for Vallehermoso, Testa, do so, it draws up a annual Internal Audit Valoriza, Concessions and Somague, paying Plan, which subject to approval by the Audit special attention to those geographic Committee, and which establishes the yearly areas abroad where these sub-groups are priorities and the work plan required to particularly active (Portugal, Angola, Cape attain them. Verde, Madeira, Chile, Panama, France, Ireland, United States and Brazil). 69 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance Regulatory compliance risks Corruption and bribery Other risks The Sacyr Group’s Also during 2012, we completed the According to the Sacyr Code of Conduct, The Group’s Code of Conduct expressly In addition to the compliance risks Board of Directors Construction risk map and updated highcompliance with legislation is one of the prohibits any behaviour by its employees described above, within the Group’s Risk formally approved level risk maps, independently of the risk basic principles underlying the conduct which could be considered indicative of and Control Management Policy control the Risk Management maps for the different business lines. These of the Group and its employees. The Sacyr corruption or bribery. and communication mechanisms are also and Control Policy can be used as tools for managing the Group is committed to reliable and respectful established for many more, noteworthy monitors its risks associated with new regulations, the compliance with all legal obligations to which In 2011, Sacyr set up the “Code of Conduct amongst which of the following: information and supervision of internal control over financial it is subject in any country in which it carries Control Unit” (OCCC), comprising members of control systems. reporting by the Audit Committee, and the out activities”. its Senior Management. This unit processes • Risk of poor adaptation to the setting or impact on our organisation of Spain’s new all reports filed within the Group, and is also market in which the Group operates. Penal Code, under which legal entities are Compliance with the different legal responsible for assuring strict compliance with held liable for offences committed. provisions is monitored primarily by the the Code of Conduct. • Risk of inadequate management of the Legal Department and the Internal Audit aspects relating to social responsibility The Sacyr Group’s Board of Directors formally Department, which, as of 2008, has a Among other provisions, the Code expressly and sustainability, as well as the corporate approved the Risk Management and Control dedicated Regulatory Compliance Unit.. prohibits Group employees from offering any image. Policy monitors its information and control Other organisational areas, including the type of payment to illicitly obtain benefits, systems. As a result, subsequent to the Audit Quality and Environmental Department and and from accepting gifts or any considerations • Risks related with human capital: Committee’s analysis and supervision of risk the Occupational Health and Safety Service, that could compromise employees’ objectivity positioning, training, flexibility, dependence management and control in the year, the also help guarantee respect for prevailing or influence in a commercial, professional or on key personnel, working environment, etc. Board of Directors approved the Risk Control legislation in the corresponding activity areas. administrative relationship. and Management Policy for 2012. • Financial risks: credit, interest rate, In view of the high volume of the Group’s The Group’s Internal Audit Department is exchange rate liquidity. The 2012 Internal Audit Plan schedules activities and its diverse and complex nature, responsible for establishing the necessary its work in line with COSO risk control and claims occasionally arise in respect of the mechanisms to prevent and detect corruption. • Risk of inadequate information for taking management methodology (Internal control). supply and use of products and services The department has specific fraud-detection decisions. As a result of this work, which covers all the or other causes derived from the different software and employs specialist personnel to Group’s divisions and business lines, no regulatory and sector regulation environments carry out both the preventive and detective • Risks related with the area of technology incidents having a significant impact were applicable to Sacyr subsidiaries. These claims elements of this work. and information systems: network detected in 2012. are promptly processed and either accepted or management, physical and logical security, contested by the Group. The number of claims Any signs of corruption are analysed in detail integrity of information. The following sections provide an overview is not significant in respect of the Group’s and, in each case, depending on whether of the Sacyr Group’s management of the overall activity. there are signs evidence, the proper action is regulatory compliance risks that require taken. In all cases, possible solutions for the a more detailed explanation due to their specific business procedure which failed to relevance or specific characteristics. preclude corruption practices are reviewed and improvements are sought. 70 71 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance 3.7 Money laundering prevention control bodies Chairman Money laundering prevention The Group is its The Sacyr Group is committed to and This protocol shows, in a structured form, Internal Money vigorously cooperates with the various the functional dependence of the principal Laundering And international programmes and initiatives to control bodies with a view to increasing Terrorism Financing prevent money laundering and the financing their autonomy and guaranteeing cover of General Manager of General Manager of Prevention Protocol, of terrorism. all Group companies and lines of business Administration The Legal Department and Operations a document that that could be implicated in illegal money establishes both To comply with prevailing legislation in this laundering activity. The structure is as the structure of area, the Group has established the internal follows: responsibilities control procedures and bodies necessary to Contracting Legal Department in the different prevent and impede transactions associated • The Internal Control Body (OCI), forming areas involved and with money laundering in all areas under its part of the Legal Department. This body the mechanisms control. aims to analyse, control and report to for controlling the Bank of Spain’s Executive Service all Internal Control Body and investigating The principal management tool adopted by information on operations or events that Money Laundering transactions that the Group is its Internal Money Laundering could be related to money laundering. Prevention Department could generate risk. And Terrorism Financing Prevention Protocol, a document that establishes both the • The Group’s Money Laundering Prevention structure of responsibilities in the different Department which reports to the General areas involved and the mechanisms for Administration and Operations Department controlling and investigating transactions and is overseen by the Internal Control unit, that could generate risk. has as its exclusive remit the management To further strengthen the Group’s control • Internal compliance audits and yearly of anti-money laundering activities. activities, the Internal Audit Department external expert review of money laundering It has been modified on several occasions supervises all the Group’s money laundering and financing of terrorism prevention to adapt to applicable laws, the last such prevention activities on an ongoing basis. procedures and control bodies. modification took place in November 2012. The main mechanisms for the prevention • Implementation of strict preventative of money laundering established in the control and review measures for operations, protocol are the following: through the Money Laundering Prevention Department and the Internal Control Body. • Training plans and specialised courses for • Strict compliance with the measures aimed Group personnel and personnel belonging at identifying new clients and safeguarding to the externalised sales network. confidentiality. 72 73 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance • Incorporation within the IT system of a In addition to its annual report, the Money complex system of automatic alerts that Laundering Prevention Department also limits the possibility of human error in the draws up an annual plan at the beginning detection of risk situations. of each year. The plan assesses the Group’s exposure to risk, provisions made for the • Inclusion in contracts concluded with addition or exit of subsidiaries from the businesses belonging to the sales network OCI’s scope of operation, provisions for of clauses requiring them to ensure strict making changes to the Group’s anti-money compliance with anti-money laundering laundering bodies, and the status of IT alerts. legislation. With regard to the training policy, the Every quarter, the Department drafts a main goal was to train all staff whose newsletter which is sent to a list of recipients jobs directly or indirectly involve money selected according to their relationship laundering prevention functions under the with the prevention of money laundering new requirements of the Money Laundering (Board members and Group directors, Prevention Act (Ley 10/2010) and in its VDP personnel and trained staff in each practical applications to Group procedures. business area). This allows the Group to In 2012, the training plan consisted of report on new developments in this field completing the aforementioned training plan and raise awareness within the Group of (including the legal developments that have the importance and need to comply with appeared), training all staff who had not yet established procedures. been trained and new recruits. In 2011, an online course was designed on the group’s At the end of each year the Money Laundering platform, and worker has continued this year Prevention Department draws up an annual in this vein, at the same time as a personalised report setting out the issues addressed training plan has been designed to facilitate at meetings of the OCI, statistics on antithe application thereof under specific money laundering activities, the degree circumstances. In 2012, 46 individuals were Subsidiaries have to file, two biannual reports Moreover, the Money Laundering Prevention of compliance with the annual plan, an called to attend, and 25 were trained. The rest (in July and December). At the time of drafting Department conducted monthly reviews assessment of the adequacy of the human will be called for training in 2013. this report, all information had been received of the status of documentation in the files and technical resources assigned to the area, correctly and without incident. generated with management sales in 2012, any new legislative developments in the year, In Portugal, Sacyr has a number of property of both physical and digital files. The results Encarnación Square, the results of the internal auditors’ report development subsidiaries and must In 2012, the amount for IT alerts was were satisfactory since the standard of Seville and of the external expert, and the extent to accordingly comply with money laundering modified, owing to the needs of the market documentation, fundamentally regarding which the auditors’ recommendations, if any, prevention regulations. The Prevention of and to the current VDP situation. On the the identification of and knowledge on the have been adopted. Money Laundering Department receives a other hand, taking into account Law 7/2012, client, is very high. This will again be on of our monthly report on new operations showing of 29 October, which limits cash payments objectives in 2013. the amount of each transaction, the name to €2,499, the cash alerts have been duly of the client, the company making the sale, modified and set at this quantity. the contract type, and whether or not the transaction is high-risk. The information is analysed monthly at Internal Control Body meetings. 74 75 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance 3.8 Code of Conduct The ethical values reflected in this Code are The helpline establishes mechanisms Following the introduction of the Penal Code Underlying Principles of the Code of the foundation of the Group’s commitment to protect the parties involved in the Reform Act (Ley Orgánica 5/2010) on 22 Conduct to its different stakeholders. Sacyr promotes matters reported. The confidentiality June 2010, the Sacyr Group drew up a new compliance with this Code by distributing it of the employee reporting the case is Code of Conduct governing the conduct Based on a series of ethical values and basic widely, offering specific employee training maintained at all times and efforts are of the Group and its employees both in principles, the Code sets out the conduct courses, and monitoring compliance made to ensure that no retaliation is taken the fulfilment of their duties and in their that should be observed by all employees therewith. against employees who report an alleged relations with third parties and with the in matters such as equal opportunities and breach in good faith. In addition, the system market. non-discrimination, occupational health and Internal Rules of Conduct safeguards the rights of persons allegedly safety, fair competition, and environmental implicated in a possible breach. protection, to name but a few. This new code In addition to its Code of Conduct, the Sacyr came into force on 1 December 2010. Group has in place a set of internal rules and The Conduct Helpline is managed by the regulations for conduct which implement Sacyr Code of Conduct Compliance Unit. specific principles of action that apply to all This unit is made up of senior executives our employees. and technicians. It has far-ranging powers to implement rules and internal procedures to Breaches of the Code assure detection of possible breaches of the Code of Conduct. Sacyr Group employees can report divergence they observe with regard to the conduct Complaints made through the Helpline appearing in the Code of Conduct, either by are initially received and considered by Fundamental reporting any such incidents to the Head of the Internal Audit Department and the Ethical Principles their Area, or through the Conduct Helpline. Compliance Department. These are then studied exhaustively by the Code of Conduct Helpline Conduct Compliance Unit, which determines United Nations the relevance thereof, the impact of the Global A confidential service which all employees matters reported, and where applicable, Compact can access through the Group Intranet, any actions to be carried out, which must e-mail and post. always be well-founded and duly justified. At that point, if the complaint does not The helpline was launched in 2006 in appear to disclose any punishable offence, Professional Values response to Sacyr’s desire to improve it is shelved; otherwise, it is referred to the its corporate governance mechanisms in Board of Directors or to a board committee line with the guidelines appearing in the which empowered to impose penalties. National Securities Market Commission’s Unified Code. In addition to reporting possible infractions of the Code of Conduct, this service can be used to make inquiries Innovation Universal Declaration of and to receive advice on economic and Excellence Human Rights financial policies applicable in case of People orientation ILO Declaration on Fundamental Compliance with legislation possible fraud. Concern for the environment Principles and Rights at Work Integrity Team spirit The Rio Declaration on Transparency Integrity Environment and Development Responsibility Commitment UN Convention against Safety Austerity Corruption Respect for Human Rights 76 77 03 Corporate Sacyr 2012 Governance THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT UN Global Compact Human Rights The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Throughout this year various complaints and In 2007, the Sacyr Group signed up to the UN received which have followed the course Global Compact, an ethical initiative designed Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights set out in the procedure established for this to create a corporate citizenry that balances purpose. The Guidance and Complaint Line corporate interests and processes with the Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. is one of the tools Available to the Code of values and demands of civil society. Conduct Compliance body for the detection of possible breaches thereof. In becoming a signatory of the Global Compact, Sacyr undertook to support Labour Standards Specifically, throughout 2012 4 complaints and implement the ten ethical principles The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work were received, all admitted for processing, underpinning the initiative, which are based and which at the time of writing this report on universal declarations and conventions Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to are being processed. and encompass four areas: human rights, collective bargaining labour regulations, the environment and anticorruption. Principle 4 Businesses should the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour In 2011, the Group renewed its commitment Principle 5 Businesses should the effective abolition of child labour through its Chairman and released its second progress report for the purposes of the Principle 6 Businesses should the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation United Nations Global Compact, which is now available at: www.sacyr.com Environment The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 78 04 Opportunities and risks 4.1 4.2 Opportunities Risks 82 86 04 Opportunities Sacyr 2012 and risks 4.1 Opportunities Construction-Civil Work-infrastructures In a difficult setting, different sectors in which From a domestic perspective, there are our Group acts decisively, present clear opportunities in the medium-term from development opportunities for the immediate public-private collaboration projects, in future on the basis of different Scheduled sectors such as the integrated water cycle, Spain’s uniqueness in terms of area and investment plans: freight transport by rail, local rail transport population requires a higher investment/GDP or the ports network. Also, a possible change ratio than the EU average. An annual ratio of • Emerging markets doubling their in the model of useful infrastructures, which 1,500 euros investment per km2 per million construction volume up until 2020. would involve an increase in the tariffs for inhabitants implies that Spain’s investment use and a lower free network weight. effort over GDP would have to be 1.6 points • US transport infrastructure renovation plan higher than Germany’s; 1.5 points higher than (476Bn$ Investment 2013 2019). In the foreign sector, in 2012 contracting Italy’s, and 1.1 and 0.3 points higher than those and Turnover in the foreign sector was 1.6% of the UK and France, respectively. • Industrial construction investment over the GDP, respectively. The weight of programmes, especially in Latin America, contracting in North, Central and South e.g., Brazil and Mexico. America, with close to 50% over the total, constituted the top market for new business • EU restrictions on landfill (-65% landfill for generation, followed by Europe. AREA 2016 vs 1995 EU Landfill Directive) (thousands km2) Industrial construction energy 633 506 357 301 243 • Need for infrastructure is in the waste treatment sector. All the processes linked to the integrated water cycle, as well as construction linked • Increasing demand for the integrated water to industrial processes, represent clear France Spain Germany Italy United Kingdom cycle in areas with Water stress, especially growth opportunities for the sector. In the in Latin America, Middle East and North former case, the scarcity of water and the Africa. low quality thereof, traditionally linked with underdeveloped or developing countries, • Urban growth in emerging countries provide opportunities for those companies implying the need for higher investment in endowed with sufficient technical capacity hydraulic infrastructures. to tackle the processes of improvement, distribution, desalination, cleaning or purification. In the latter case, the energy world will POPULATION undergo interesting changes in the near (Millions of inhabitants) future. 82 63 63 61 46 Germany France United Kingdom Italy Spain (Source: Seopan) 82 83 04 Opportunities Sacyr 2012 and risks Infrastructure management Sustained demand The world energy map is being redrawn as a Spain occupies a prominent place at world for fuels and the consequence of the resurgence of oil and gas level in infrastructure management. If objective of universal production in some countries, reduced use we classify concessionaries in terms of access to energy, of nuclear energy and the more rapid growth capital invested, five of the 10 foremost along with the need of wind and solar energy. The sustainability concessionaries in the world are Spanish. for water resources of energy systems and their efficiency, the Sacyr is seventh this ranking. The demand associated to energy interactions between the different fuels, for infrastructures through greenfield generation, point safety and the cost thereof, transport and projects in emerging and developing towards a scenario marketing all represent opportunities for countries has been a constant up until of high demand companies in the sector. 2012, and the forecast for the coming years for industrial suggests this demand shows no sign of infrastructures in the Sustained demand for fuels and the objective tailing off. coming years. of universal access to energy, along with the need for water resources associated to energy generation, point towards a scenario of high demand for industrial infrastructures in the coming years. TOTAL INVESTMENT POSITION COMPANY COUNTRY *(MILLIONS $) 1 Ferrovial-Cintra Spain 72,000 Rental property 2 ACS (Hochtief + Iridium) Spain 70,200 3 Vinci Cofiroute France 66,400 For those companies which are affected by In the industrial and logistics area, Spain 4 Macquarie Australia 45,970 high vacancy rates and who have succeeded will offer a significant opportunity as a 5 EGIS Projects France 25,800 in maintaining a portfolio of loyal clients platform for international markets and with contracts adapted in terms of price and for all manner of distributors orientated Ática Offices, 6 Bouygues France 37,230 Pozuelo de Alarcón quality the future of this business throws towards e-commerce needing strong (Madrid). 7 Sacyr Spain 21,500 up some interesting vectors as potential distribution centres. 8 Global Vía FCC Bankia Spain 19,400 opportunities. 9 OHL Spain 17,870 Finally and from the perspective of hotels, 10 John Laing United Kingdom 14,200 In the office market, it is predicted there is increasing interest from national that there will be movements of large and international operators in locating * Aggregate value of all a company’s PPP transport projects since 1985. corporations who are still to regroup their in large cities, provided prime locations different departments, searching at the are on offer. Also, the different public same time for readjustments to their rents entities freeing up real estate may allow in the region of 8% for the markets of reconversion processes towards these Madrid and Barcelona. types of assets, accompanied by greater profitability and maximisation of the value of the asset itself. 84 85 04 Opportunities Sacyr 2012 and risks 4.2 Risks • Market Risk: The principal risks of this type December 2012, our Group’s Promotion face by the Group are as follows: division recorded 20.64 million euros in pre-sales. Sacyr Group is exposed to a number of risks and the cash flow themselves. In the case of • Interest rate risks: This is the principal • Risk of business expansion to other uncertainties. construction activity, the Group guarantees risk the Group is exposed to as a countries: This is due to our Group’s its liquidity levels through contracting lines consequence of the debt it maintains continuous expansion into other markets. A Financial risks include the following: of credit. With regard to the Rental property with the financial institutions detailed, exhaustive analysis of the countries sector, liquidity is provided by the nature of specified in the report. A large part in which new investments are to be • Credit risk: This type of risk is practically the investments made and the high level of of this debt is at a fixed interest rate, undertaken is always made, and on occasion non-existent in our group’s Construction, occupation to date. In relation to Promotion as a consequence using hedging may last a number of years on the ground. Infrastructure Concessions and Services division, the financing structure for promoting instruments, such as swaps, thus divisions, since a large part of the income activity mitigates any liquidity risk, since reducing the exposure of the business • Regulatory risks: The Group’s companies thereof originates directly from the State, land purchases are financed through the lines to rising interest rates. are subject to compliance with the different Autonomic and Local Bodies in Spain, as contracting of long-term bilateral loans. Prior regulations in existence, both general well as from the other markets in which the to the actual construction of the housing, and specific, which affect them (legal, Group operates. These bodies pay punctually, these bilateral loans are transformed into • Exchange rate risks: The Group’s policy accounting, environmental, labour, fiscal, in line with the conditions stipulated in mortgages which finance reconstruction is to contract debt in the same currency data protection, etc), which may affect, the respective contracts entered into with thereof. Finally, these loans are transferred, in which the flows in each business either positively or negatively, the different them, and all have excellent credit ratings. through subrogation, to the end client. line are produced. Consequently, there regulatory changes which may be made in In the other divisions, including Rental is currently no relevant risk relating the future. Property And Housing Promotion, the credit In all the Group’s divisions, short-term to these types of change. Notable risks are also minimal, as, in the case of the cash surpluses are occasionally invested in within this type of risk is exchange Other risks to which the Group is exposed former, additional financial guarantees are highly liquid short-term risk-free deposits, rate fluctuation when converting include: required of lessees prior to the formalisation provided this is in line with the best financial the financial statements of foreign of contracts, and in the latter, invoicing is management practice. companies whose operational currency • Environmental risks conducted through advance payment from is other than the Euro. The Group’s rapid clients during the construction of housing, geographic expansion in recent years • Risks of damage caused during work. 30%, with the remaining 70% being means that in the future it may encounter demanded on signing the deeds. In the event situations that give rise to exchange • Risks associated with workplace health and of any non-payment, the contract would rate risk. Under such circumstances, it safety; be cancelled and the handing over of the will consider how this risk can best be property halted. Owing to all the above, the minimised through the use of hedging • Risks of loss of assets. Group has no credit risk owing to the high instruments under the umbrella of solvency of its clients and the short payment conservative corporate policy. Sacyr has implemented control systems to period negotiated with them. adequately identify, quantify, evaluate and remedy all of these risks, with a view to • Liquidity risk: Liquidity risk in the Group’s Other market risks to which the Group is minimising or eliminating the consequences. different divisions is virtually non-existent also exposed are: owing to the nature and characteristics of the collections and payment structure. In the case of infrastructure concessions, and energy • Slowdown in the real estate sector: The real projects, the projects themselves guarantee estate sector continues to slow down as a and self finance their investments, generating consequence of the downturn in demand, and the conditions for taking up mortgage loans becoming stricter. Nonetheless, at 31 86 87 05 Strategy 5.1. Current strategy 90 5.2 Innovation. R&D+i 93 and resources 5.3 Human Resources 102 5.4 Selection, training and intellectual capita 116 5.5 Occupational risk prevention 130 5.6 Quality and the Environment 135 5.7 Role of the shareholder in the strategy 152 5.8 Communication with stakeholders 154 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.1 Construction Strategy Current strategy • To strengthen profitability and consolidate our extensive experience in high-technology projects: tunnels, desalination and water treatment plants, advanced engineering and ample international presence. • To continue our sustainable growth and In strategic terms, Sacyr has a clear, Naturally, the strategic framework increase our quota in international markets, transparent and predictable strategy, which incorporates the strengths of each of our collaborating with high-profile local takes our group back to its traditional values business divisions. To mention but a few, associated companies to obtain a strong local and to the fields of activity which have worthy of note is the solidity and potential presence from the start. Concessions Strategy yielded more success: of Testa; the expertise and international portfolio in the construction division, already • To study possible expansion into new • To optimise our current management • The “construction + concessions” mix, aimed up to 80%; the expansion capacity and markets. capacity in concessions, expand as at greenfield projects, with the clear intention growth potential of Sacyr Concesiones, and a business platform for other areas of accepting more institutional investors as finally the added value of Industrial division • To maintain stable margins and prioritise (construction and services). To concentrate partners. within Valoriza. profitability over volume. on margins. • International civil engineering with a • Selective inclusion of investors and prominent technological component, prestigious associates in mature assets and providing us with margins, prestige and financial associates in projects requiring recognition. high financial commitment, from the beginning of the award procedure. • Business lines with high added value, in Services Strategy which we also have specialised subsidiary • To continue expanding in markets and companies and considerable, relevant • To strengthen profitability and consolidate geographical areas that are open to expertise, such as water, waste treatment, this our extensive experience in high-technology opportunities, with appropriate local relation, tunnelling or high velocity. projects: tunnels, desalination and water associates. Reasonable and continued treatment plants, advanced engineering and growth by 2-3 concessions per year. • Other business lines based on the quality ample international presence. of assets and contracts, where Testa is the • Strengthen the implementation of new prime example, with unbeatable stability in its • To continue our sustainable growth and operating systems to obtain greater induced results and an undeniable revitalisation. increase our quota in international markets, traffic and improve customer allegiance collaborating with high-profile local systems (payment strategies, marketing, • To give a further example: our industrial associated companies to obtain a strong local etc.). construction division, which has already presence from the start. been transformed into another clear driver of growth, and whose capacity has been • To study possible expansion into new demonstrated with the recently awarded markets. contract for a gas pipeline and the 250 plants that it has already executed, both within and • To maintain stable margins and prioritise outside Spain. profitability over volume. 90 91 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.2 Innovation. R&D+i Strategy • Maintain our leadership in the Spanish It is well-known that among our assets we Organisational Structure in R&D+i: market. have an important investment in Repsol. Our position within this company as the second Innovation Management, through its R&D+i • Identify and assess the threats and • Maintain our efficiency ratios: level of largest shareholder is relevant and of a Department, coordinates activities related opportunities posed by technological occupation greater than 97& EBITDA of 80% permanent nature. to research, development and innovation progress. and profitability over expenses at 7.60%. carried out at the different Group companies, This stake provides us with prestige abroad and serves as a driving force and point • Ensure that the activities in the various • Continue with “3B strategy”: good Tenants, and potential synergies with the industrial of reference for advances and ongoing departments within the company that may good buildings, good contracts. division. Its remuneration policy easily covers improvements in this field. be capable of generating technologies and the financial costs and the stake has been patents are detected. • Maintain a portfolio of long-term contracts refinanced until 2015. Rounding off this structure, a sizeable with solvent tenants in order to guarantee number of Group companies have their • Select and manage an appropriate portfolio future cashflow. Irrespective of any other type of consideration own R&D+i Department, or at least of strategic projects for different companies regarding this stake, we shall only insist on someone who is responsible for the area in the Group. • Add value by mature, non-strategic asset our firm belief that our investee company is and whose responsibility is focused on the rotation and improvements in the market endowed with enormous value, unrecognised implementation of specific projects, which • Promote R&D+i as a means to gain a (value creation and maximisation of income). until now in stock market terms. We believe always come under the coordination and competitive edge and consider it as such in that, sooner rather than later, its downstream supervision of the R&D+i Department and all corporate reputation schemes. • Take advantage of opportunities: divestments capacity and its new upstream potential will the Group’s Innovation Department. All those in mature assets, joint ventures with generate value in line with its assets. involved feed the relevant information back • Foster collaboration with universities and international financing, etc. to the R&D+i Units Committee. public research organisations, eliminating the traditional separation between the Certification of the R&D+i Management public and private sectors in this field of System: business. Sacyr’s Innovation Management System is • Involve SMEs in R&D+i, thus contributing certified by AENOR according to the UNE to the R&D+i investment targets set by the 166002:2006, which helps to streamline and Government to achieve convergence with systematise all our R&D+i, allowing us to: Europe. • Foster R&D+i activities across all Group companies and define the primary objectives in this field. • Provide common guidelines to organise and effectively manage R&D+i. • Promote technological monitoring analyzing the internal and external situation. 92 93 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources In 2012, following the ENAC guidelines • Design and development of models for • Research and development of energy • Sustainable urban road surfaces: (National Accreditation Body), the following calculating and dimensioning geothermal efficient lighting systems, adapted to Group companies were individually exchange systems and active glazing for advertising and information equipment In recent years, within the current growing certified by AENOR (Spanish Association for buildings. Geoglass Energy located in out-of-town environments. awareness and restrictions in the different Standardization and Certification): environmental regulations, work has been Energy efficiency is one of the main goals in The current solution for the lighting of done to assess and attempt to correct the • Sacyr the construction of new buildings, for which billboards in Cafestore restaurants located impact on the environment caused by the new measures have been incorporated such on roads and motorways is to use metal manufacture and application of bituminous • Sacyr Construcción as solar panels, thermal insulation or HVAC halogen lamps with high energy costs. mixtures. The sustainability concept has systems in walls, ceilings and windows. This is a high cost energy solution, where arrived to the field of bituminous mixtures • Cavosa the flow cannot be regulated, and with a with two main components: preserving The ultimate goal is to achieve a rational useful life limited to 10,000h. The objective resources for the future. The aim of this • Testa use of the energy needed, significantly is to develop an innovative alternative project is to research and develop warm reducing consumption and obtaining part for these systems, making use of more recycled road surface mixes suitable for • Vallehermoso of this consumption from renewable energy advanced high flow LED solutions and a low speed roads, hence contributing to sources. completely innovative scheme and mesh the sustainability of urban road assets • Valoriza Servicios Medioambientales model, with intelligent lighting control to by reusing high quality materials which The project has been awarded a grant allow consumption to be reduced, adapting consume lower energy levels and generate • Sacyr Industrial under the Innpacto programme (Ministry of the light intensity emitted by the LED lower emissions during their manufacture. Economy and Competitiveness, formerly the equipment to the environmental conditions The project has been awarded a grant • Valoriza Agua Ministry of Science and Innovation). in place (day or night, mist, etc), to achieve through the Innpacto 2012 call (Ministry of an apparently even light intensity, while Economy and Competitiveness). • Valoriza Conservación de Infraestructuras • Integration of ICT solutions for the analysis minimising consumption. The project has and implementation of energy measures in been awarded a grant by the Autonomous The sustainability concept has arrived to • Sadyt buildings to improve energy balances and Government of Castilla la Mancha (HITO Call). the field of bituminous mixtures with two reduce the carbon footprint. main components: reduction of emissions • Cafestore • Innovative system for calculating the CO2 and reduction of raw material consumption, The change in the statutory framework footprint of companies: preserving resources for the future. • Sacyr Concesiones applied in the European Union, and its transposition to Spanish law, is causing The aim of this project is to carry out the • Research and development of new R&D+i: activities carried out in 2012 and new requirements to be applied in the development of an innovative software tool treatments to improve the quality of acid targets for the future: building sector and in matters relating to which allows the organisation to effectively mine water. File No. ITC-20111083. The energy consumption. It is of vital strategic develop its corporate carbon footprint, in Odiel river (Huelva) is heavily contaminated Throughout 2012, Sacyr has continued to importance for companies to have the this case CO2. This project has obtained by the mining activity which exploited the enhance its activity in R&D+i, and reached the knowledge and the tools to study them not from ACIE, the content certification and sulphide deposits of the Iberian Pyrite Belt following milestones: only with traditional approaches based on first exaction certificate beforehand in (FPI). In recent years research has been minimising cost and execution times, but accordance with RD 1432/2003. initiated on the passive treatment of acid Regarding the initiatives carried out in 2012 also from the standpoint of reducing energy leaching and the recovery of the polluted to provide renewable energy-based or consumption. It is therefore imperative Initiatives developed in 2012 to mitigate river network, with the TAAM project energy-efficient products, and the reductions to investigate and develop the energy environmental impacts of products and presented as the best option. in energy requirements as a result of these consumption in buildings to be controlled. services, and the extent of this mitigation, initiatives, noteworthy are the following: The project has been awarded a grant include were as follows: by the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Commerce (Plan Avanza). 94 95 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Evolution of Sacyr’s activity in R&D+i: NEW R&D+I PROJECTS The project is led by the company Sacyr For 2013, the following objectives have been Construcción in cooperation with its defined: Sacyr is engaged in an ambitious expansion partners, Sadyt, Agq Mining & Bioenergy of its R&D+i activities. Since 2004, it has 2004 3 and Cabal Geólogos Consultores SL. The 1. Patenting at least 4 products or processes obtained external, official recognition, in the project has been approved by the Centre for between 2012 and 2013. form of loans, grants and certifications, in a Technological and Industrial Development, an total of 132 projects via various public sector 2005 8 agency under the Ministry of Economy and 2 Undertaking an R&D+i project using grants contract tender processes. Competitiveness, within the ERDF Programme available from European funds. INNTERCONECTA. The project has also Despite the tough economic climate, 2006 25 received support from the Innovation and 3. Creating value based on one of the R&D+i investment in R&D+i during 2012 has Development Agency of Andalusia. results. exceeded 11 million of Euros in the group, an excellent result in the light of a governmental 2007 25 Noteworthy Initiatives undertaken in 2012 to 4. Obtaining at least one technology contract change and thus the drastic reduction in mitigate the impacts of products and services award from a public authority contract tender processes and funding. 2008 17 on customers’ health and safety, and the extent of impact mitigation, include: 5. Obtaining R&D+i certification for more Public aid granted also reflects governmental group companies. support for Sacyr’s R&D+i projects. 2009 16 • Design and development of a prototype training system for operating snowploughs. 6. Submitting data to the Marketing Department to draft the 2012 R&D+i Report 2010 12 Snowploughs are crucial for the operational before 30/06/2013. maintenance of the road network during winter. Given the conditions under which 7. Obtaining the Seal of Excellence in 2011 21 snowploughs are often used, there is a high Innovation. Updates of R&D+i information contained risk for both their drivers and public road in the 2011 CR Report. Due to budget user that may be in the vicinity. That is why adjustments, adjustments in awarded 2012 5 it is essential to train drivers under realistic projects and the updating of provisional and appropriate operating conditions to tax relief figures, the figures reflected in minimise this risk. The project has been the accompanying tables differ from those TOTAL 132 awarded a grant by the Centre for Industrial presented the previous year. Technological Development (CDTI) of the Ministry of Science and Innovation. DEDUCTION FOR AX RELIEF (SOCIAL DISPOSAL OF Euros SUBSIDY LOAN INVESTMENT) INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2004 40,000 876,363 2005 394,723 5,670,883 461,151 2006 1,086,610 48,403,814 2,103,994 2007 1,809,289 13,774,962 5,152,471 2008 1,902,971 16,113,577 7,301,972 4,473,634 2009 1,633,782 10,113,929 6,404,093 2,844,187 2010 1,752,117 6,579,113 4,255,099 3,739,753 2011 1,156,280 5,451,327 2,997,624 2,834,233 2012 1,576,897 5,028,478 96 97 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Collaborations with benchmark institutions (R&D+i): Sacyr is a member of various organisations • Advisory Council Breeam Spain: Breeam • Participation in Spanish Road Technology Not only has Sacyr helped in the process of and participates in fora for dialogue (Building Research Establishment Platform: The Spanish Road Technology development and implementation of the dedicated to R&D+i. Participation in these Environmental Assessment Methodology) Platform (PTC) is a meeting place for all R&D+i activities, but it has also established initiatives allows the exchange of experiences is the world’s foremost and most advanced stakeholders in the science-technologycollaboration agreements with various and good practices with other professionals, environmental assessment method and company system with an important role in universities and other research centres and and promotes the joint reflection of a number rating system for buildings, with a history promoting employment, competitiveness organisations. of experts who specialise in the different of over twenty years in the sustainable and growth in the road infrastructure sector R&D+i fields. The following are some of building market. BREEAM corresponds to in Spain. Sacyr is active in the platform • Politécnica University of Madrid these organisations or forums in which Sacyr a set of advanced tools and procedures through its role in the Management Council actively participates: to measure, evaluate and assess the and the working groups. • Alfonso X El Sabio University level of sustainability of a building, both • The Spanish Technology Platform for during design and implementation and • SEOPAN R&D Committee: Sacyr, through its • Politécnica University of Cataluña Construction (PTEC). maintenance phases, considering the Director of Innovation, actively participates peculiarities of each of the main types in on the Committee of the Association of • Antonio de Nebrija University The ultimate aim of the Platform is to steer existing use (housing, offices, industrial Construction Companies (SEOPAN). the Spanish construction industry towards buildings, health centres, schools, etc.). • University of Oviedo a high level of technology, identifying • Technological Corporation of Andalusia: and analyzing the key challenges it faces BREEAM assesses impacts in ten categories Sacyr is a permanent member and trustee • University of Alcalá de Henares in terms of technology and sustainable (Management, Health and Wellbeing, of this corporation, which brings together development, and efficiently dealing with Energy, Transport, Water, Materials, Waste, researchers from universities and research • University of Alicante these challenges in the coming decades. Ecological soil use, Pollution, Innovation) centres, companies with a vocation for Sacyr belongs to the PTEC Foundation, and providing certification according to the innovation, financial institutions and • University of Almería is part of the standing committee and the different levels of sustainability, and serving government, in order to form an alliance for strategy commission. as both a reference and technical guidance innovation, research and development. • University of Seville for more sustainable construction. Within the la PTEC foundation, Sacyr leads • Knowledge and Innovation Executives’ • University of Córdoba the Strategic Line “Transport Networks” Breeam Spain deals with the development Club: Sacyr is part of this private initiative and participates in the “Sustainable and adaptation of Breeam to the nature, dedicated to promote and encourage • Complutense University of Madrid Construction “and “Materials ”. rules and particularities of construction in improved productivity and competitiveness Spain. The Advisory Council, of which Sacyr in organisations by managing intellectual • Politécnica University of Valencia • Spanish Technology Platform for forms a part, is responsible for tracing the capital, knowledge and innovation. Environmental Technologies: Sacyr development strategy of Breeam Spain. It • University of Jaén participates in the Spanish Technology represents building sector stakeholders, • R&D&i Commission of the CEOE: This Platform for Environmental Technologies, including designers, developers, end committee maintains contact with the • Carlos III University in Madrid which is responsible for defining and users, builders, material manufacturers, government and the relevant R&D+i promoting the implementation of the environmental institutions and foundations, ministries and clusters to promote and • University of Burgos Strategic R&D+i agenda in the field of financial institutions and government. activate R&D+i projects. environmental technology, integrating the • University of La Coruña activities of technology platforms from other sectors and supporting government • University of Málaga in their lines of work and future R&D+i programmes related to the environment. • University of León • University of Granada 98 99 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources • University of Huelva • LOEMCO (Official Laboratory for Construction Materials Testing) • University of Las Palmas • AIDICO (Technological Institute of • University of Castilla La Mancha Construction) • University of Cantabria • Tecnalia Foundation • Industrial Engineering School Vigo • National Research Council (CSIC) • LECEM • Institute of Research Chemistry & Environmental Science of Barcelona (IIQAB) • CEDEX (Centre for Public Works Studies and Experimentation) • Foundation for Research and Development in Transport and Energy (CIDAUT) • Intromac (Technological Institute of Ornamental Rocks and Building Materials) • Cartif Foundation • LOM ( Madariaga Official Laboratory) • Aitemin Technology Centre • Gómez Pardo Foundation • ITG (Technical Institute of Galicia) • Eduardo Torroja Institute for Construction Science • IMDEA AGUA (Madrid Institute for Advanced Studies in Water) • CIDEMCO (Technology Centre) Grand Marina Hotel, Barcelona. 100 101 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.3 Human Resources AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE 2012 DISTRIBUTION BY COUNTRY The Sacyr Human Resources Department, Description of the Workforce: Portugal 2,198 10 % through its Personnel Administration, Human Resources Development, Recruitment, and In 2012 Sacyr’s Group workforce figures Spain 14,343 65 % Employee Relations Divisions, makes every reached a total of 22,081 employees (average effort to develop dynamic innovation, training, consolidated workforce). This implies an Italy 355 2% development and communication policies, increase over the previous year of 8.12%. designed not only to promote motivation, but About 65% of the workforce is employed in Panama 3,420 15% also to maximum efficiency of each of the Spain although the Group also has a significant Members of the Group. number of employees in Portugal, Chile, Angola, Italy, Panama and other countries. Angola 570 3% Chile 870 4% GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE WORKFORCE GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF THE WORKFORCE Business units workforce: OF SACYR, 2011 OF SACYR, 2012 COUNTRY NUMBER % By business unit, the construction and service COUNTRY NUMBER % divisions have by far the largest number of Spain 13,589 66.5 Spain 14,343 65.0 employees. Between them accounting for Portugal 2,610 12.8 Portugal 2,198 10 95.80% of the Group’s workforce. Panama 1,864 9.1 Panama 3,420 15 Italy 661 3.2 Italy 355 2 Particularly noteworthy is the increase in Chile 870 4 the number of employees in the Group’s Chile 657 3.2 operating divisions, where -with the Angola 646 3.2 Angola 570 3 exception of Promotion-, the growth capacity Cape Verde 117 0.6 Cape Verde 99 0.4 of our units can be seen. Australia 91 0.4 Australia 63 0.3 Libya 57 0.3 Libya 14 0.1 Brazil 47 0.2 Brazil 46 0.2 AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION BY BUSINESS UNIT Costa Rica 34 0.2 Costa Rica 41 0.2 Ireland 46 0.2 Ireland 44 0.2 Business Units 2010 2011 2012 % Var. Algeria 0 0.0 Algeria 0 0.0 Holding 237 236 227 -3.81 Israel 2 0.0 Israel 15 0.1 Construction 8,509 8,477 8,721 2.88 Peru 1 Peru 1 0.0 Development 189 148 93 -37.16 India 2 0.0 Property 79 79 81 2.53 TOTAL 20,422 100 TOTAL 22,081 100 Concessions 343 442 527 19.23 Services 10,853 11,040 12,432 12.61 TOTAL 20,210 20,422 22,081 8.12 102 103 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources SACYR GROUP. AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION BY BUSINESS UNIT 2011 2012 Property Concessions Property Concessions 79 442 81 527 0.4% 2% 0.4% 2% Holding Construction Development Services Holding Construction Development Services 236 8,477 148 11,040 227 8,721 93 12,432 1% 42% 1% 54% 1% 39% 0,4% 56% CONCESSIONS 2011 % 2012 % VAR.% Holding 236 1 227 1 -3.81 Construction 8,477 42 8,721 39 2.88 Development 148 1 93 0.4 -37.16 Property 79 0.4 81 0.4 2.53 Concessions 442 2 527 2 19.23 Services 11,040 54 12,432 56 12.61 TOTAL 20,422 100 22,081 100 8.12 High-Speed Railway Line, MadridCommunity of Valencia. OrihuelaColada de la Buena Vida Stretch. 104 105 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE 2012 DISTRIBUTION BY CONTRACT TYPE SPAIN ABROAD Based on qualifications: Permanent Permanent 75.9% 52.7% AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE 2012, AS PER QUALIFICATIONS Temporary Temporary 47.3% 2011 2012 24.1% 5-YEAR 3-YEAR SKILLED ADMIN. 5-YEAR 3-YEAR SKILLED ADMIN. By type of contract, a significant increase of temporary contracts which were about 24% GRAD. GRAD. TECH. STAFF REST TOTAL GRAD. GRAD. TECH. STAFF REST TOTAL almost 3 percentage points in permanent in 2012. HOLDING SPAIN 116 29 11 74 6 236 114 26 10 72 5 227 recruitment can be seen, compared to the GENERAL 506 465 442 319 829 2,561 435 371 336 258 564 1,964 CONSTRUCTION GENERAL 2011 50 28 2 50 16 146 35 15 2 25 14 91 DEVELOPMENT CONTRACT TYPE SPAIN ABROAD TOTAL % SPAIN % ABROAD PROPERTY SPAIN 37 8 2 32 0 79 39 8 2 32 0 81 Permanent 9,929 4,510 14,439 73.1 66.0 GENERAL 62 15 18 45 52 192 61 11 19 43 51 185 Temporary 3,660 2,323 5,983 26.9 34.0 CONCESSIONS TOTAL 13,589 6,833 20,422 100 100 GENERAL 401 348 328 1,069 8,229 10,375 395 366 343 1,191 9,500 11,795 SERVICES 2012 TOTAL SACYR 1,172 893 803 1,589 9,132 13,589 1,079 797 712 1,621 10,134 14,343 SPAIN Permanent 10,884 4,081 14,965 75.9 52.7 CONSTRUCTION Temporary 3,459 3,657 7,116 24.1 47.3 402 127 1,201 295 3,891 5,916 404 183 1,056 886 4,228 6,757 ABROAD TOTAL 14,343 7,738 22,081 100 100 DEVELOPMENT 1 1 0 0 0 2 1 1 0 0 0 2 ABROAD CONCESSIONS Based on gender: ABROAD 19 7 74 8 142 250 29 19 20 10 264 342 SERVICES AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE 2012 DISTRIBUTION AS PER GENDER 124 11 111 41 378 665 127 25 100 59 326 637 ABROAD TOTAL SACYR 2010 2011 2012 546 146 1,386 344 4,411 6,833 561 228 1,176 955 4,818 7,738 ABROAD Total Sacyr 1,718 1,039 2,189 1,933 13,543 20,422 1,640 1,025 1,888 2,576 14,952 22,081 Group Women Women Women 6,197 6,541 7,672 AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE 2012, AS PER QUALIFICATIONS Men Men Men 14,013 13,881 14,409 2011 2012 GENDER SPAIN ABROAD TOTAL % GENDER SPAIN ABROAD TOTAL % Men 7,809 6,072 13,881 68.0 Men 7,439 6,970 14,409 65.3 5-Year 3-Year Skilled Admin. Women 5,780 761 6,541 32.0 Women 6,904 768 7,672 34.7 graduates graduates technicians. staﬀ Rest TOTAL 13,589 6,833 20,422 100.0 TOTAL 14,343 7,738 22,081 100.0 1,640 1,025 1,888 2,576 14,952 7% 5% 9% 12% 67% 106 107 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Combining gender and qualifications criteria: CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE WORKFORCE 2012QUALIFICATION BY CATEGORY, MEN CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE WORKFORCE 2012QUALIFICATION BY CATEGORY, WOMEN TOTAL M. BOARD SENIOR SPECIALIST AND MID. ADMIN. STAFF REST TOTAL M. BOARD SENIOR SPECIALIST AND MID. ADMIN. STAFF REST MANAGER MANAGMENT MANAGER MANAGMENT 14,409 26 143 3,399 1,162 9,679 7,672 1 6 978 1,414 5,273 MEN WOMEN 2011 2011 SPECIALIST SPECIALIST SENIOR AND MID. ADMIN. SENIOR AND MID. ADMIN. M. BOARD MANAGER MANAGMENT STAFF REST TOTAL M. BOARD MANAGER MANAGMENT STAFF REST TOTAL Holding Spain 1 21 69 28 6 125 Holding Spain 0 4 61 46 0 111 General Construction 6 40 1,098 144 783 2,071 General Construction 0 0 269 175 46 490 General Development 1 14 37 15 14 81 General Development 0 0 28 35 2 65 Property Spain 1 5 26 7 0 39 Property Spain 0 0 15 25 0 40 General Concessions 2 11 61 23 51 148 General Concessions 1 1 19 22 1 44 General Services 7 27 648 310 4,353 5,345 General Services 0 0 395 759 3,876 5,030 TOTAL SACYR SPAIN 18 118 1,939 527 5,207 7,809 TOTAL SACYR SPAIN 1 5 787 1,062 3,925 5,780 Construction Abroad 10 17 1,525 195 3,643 5,390 Construction Abroad 0 0 178 100 248 526 Development Abroad 0 0 0 0 0 0 Development Abroad 0 1 1 0 0 2 Concessions Abroad 1 1 87 5 96 190 Concessions Abroad 0 0 11 3 46 60 Services Abroad 5 9 149 9 320 492 Services Abroad 1 1 81 32 58 173 TOTAL SACYR ABROAD 16 27 1,761 209 4,059 6,072 TOTAL SACYR ABROAD 1 2 271 135 352 761 TOTAL SACYR GROUP 34 145 3,700 736 9,266 13,881 TOTAL SACYR GROUP 2 7 1,058 1,197 4,277 6,541 2012 2012 Holding Spain 1 22 65 26 5 119 Holding Spain 0 4 58 46 0 108 General Construction 2 41 884 124 516 1,567 General Construction 0 0 215 134 48 397 General Development 0 9 26 9 12 56 General Development 0 0 17 16 2 35 Property Spain 2 4 27 7 0 40 Property Spain 0 0 16 25 0 41 General Concessions 1 11 57 20 51 140 General Concessions 0 0 22 23 0 45 General Services 4 32 657 315 4,509 5,517 General Services 0 0 411 876 4,991 6,278 TOTAL SACYR SPAIN 10 119 1,716 501 5,093 7,439 TOTAL SACYR SPAIN 0 4 739 1,120 5,041 6,904 Construction Abroad 10 15 1,480 638 4,113 6,256 Construction Abroad 0 0 138 248 115 501 Development Abroad 0 0 0 0 0 0 Development Abroad 0 1 1 0 0 2 Concessions Abroad 1 0 53 7 180 241 Concessions Abroad 0 0 14 3 84 101 Services Abroad 5 9 150 16 293 473 Services Abroad 1 1 86 43 33 164 TOTAL SACYR ABROAD 16 24 1,683 661 4,586 6,970 TOTAL SACYR ABROAD 1 2 239 294 232 768 TOTAL SACYR GROUP 26 143 3,399 1,162 9,679 14,409 TOTAL SACYR GROUP 1 6 978 1,414 5,273 7,672 108 109 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources AVERAGE AGE OF THE WORKFORCE AVERAGE AGE AVERAGE AGE AVERAGE AGE BUSINESS UNIT 2010 2011 2012 Holding 40 40 41 Construction 40 40 41 Development 41 42 41 Property 43 43 43 Basque Country Specific information relating to Human Resources Asturias 418 Services 42 43 44 158 Cantabria in Spain: Galicia 57 C. F. Navarre 638 11 Concessions 38 38 39 La Rioja Catalonia Castilla AVERAGE 41 43 44 Regional distribution: León 157 Aragon 1.112 1,021 327 Madrid Region 5,782 DISTRIBUTION OF STAFF ACCORDING TO GENDER AND SPANISH WORK DAY Castilla Valencia Region CONTRACT TYPE MENS WOMENS 2010 % MENS WOMENS 2011 % MENS WOMENS 2012 % La Mancha 472 Balearic Islands Extremadura 787 135 Full time 7,232 3,990 11,222 80.1% 7,095 3,653 10,748 79.1% 6,671 3,908 10,579 73.8% 121 Half time 853 1,938 2,791 19.9% 714 2,127 2,841 20.9% 768 2,996 3,764 26.2% TOTAL 8,085 5,928 14,013 100% 7,809 5,780 13,589 100% 7,439 6,904 14,343 100% Murcia Region Andalusía 473 2,123 STAFF OF SPAIN BY GENDER AND JOURNEY Canary Islands 500 2010 2011 2012 Melilla Autonomous Region 51 7,232 7,095 6,671 853 714 768 2010 2011 2012 AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE IN SPAIN FOR 2011 AND 2012 DISTRIBUTION FOR AUTONOMOUS REGION IN SPAIN 3,990 3,653 3,908 1,938 2,127 2,996 REGION HOLDING CONSTRUCTION REAL ESTATE PROPERTY SERVICES CONCESSIONS 2012 2011 Andalusia 0 238 8 1 1,852 24 2,123 1,671 Full time Half time Aragon 0 72 1 0 254 0 327 376 Madrid Region 227 878 41 80 4,491 65 5,782 5,428 Valencia Region 0 86 0 0 366 20 472 741 AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED WORKFORCE IN SPAIN DISTRIBUTION BY AGE YEAR 2012 C. F. Navarre 0 0 0 0 11 0 11 17 Canary Islands 0 40 1 0 459 0 500 529 34.37 13.00 9.59 8.09 Cantabria 0 10 0 0 47 0 57 77 15.09 34.21 31.05 28.87 Castilla La Mancha 0 64 0 0 723 0 787 922 29.03 30.18 29.13 32.31 Castilla Leon 0 93 19 0 894 15 1,021 701 21.52 22.61 24.98 29.74 Catalonia 0 165 5 0 942 0 1,112 1,083 Melilla Autonomous Region 0 0 0 0 51 0 51 53 Extremadura 0 31 0 0 90 0 121 207 Galicia 0 98 1 0 527 12 638 750 2009 2010 2011 2012 Balearic Islands 0 7 0 0 113 15 135 36 La Rioja 0 23 0 0 134 0 157 164 Asturias 0 22 0 0 122 14 158 162 Basque Country 0 102 10 0 306 0 418 446 Murcia Region 0 35 5 0 413 20 473 226 GENERAL TOTAL 227 1,964 91 81 11,795 185 14,343 13,589 Up to Up to Up to Over 30 40 50 50 110 111 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Employee turnover, sick leave and For the purposes of the turnover rate the absenteeism: following reasons will not be considered, as they are considered absenteeism: The Sacyr Group turnover rate is the • Voluntary resignation by employee proportion of the workforce leaving the • End of contract Company in a given period (month and • Incapacity leave year), expressed by the percentage rate of • Replacement employees circulating within the Group, in • Loss of temporary disability relation to its workforce average. • Transfers between Sacyr Group companies, • Leave consecutive file change Since 2010 we have adapted the reality of the Services Division, including only the concepts • Unpaid leave The information is gathered monthly, in of leave not desirable by the Sacyr Group: accordance with the business units. The • Retirement calculation is performed monthly. The information is then reconstructed by gender, • Death Autonomous Region, reasons and age. Employee turnover is an indicator which forms part of the Group management’s 2011 balanced scorecard. It is measured on a MEAN TOTAL WORK MEAN WORK MONTHLY % monthly basis, taking into consideration the BUSINESS UNIT CONSOLIDATED STAFF LEAVES LEAVES ROTATION redundancies and resignation figures in terms Holding 236 13 1.1 0.46% of the entire workforce. Construction 2,561 61 5.1 0.20% Turnover at Sacyr is determined by the Development 146 1 0.1 0.06% monthly number of voluntary resignations, Property 79 0 0.0 0.00% retirements, full disability or contracts that Services 10,375 768 64.0 0.62% have come to an end and have not been Concessions 192 14 1.2 0.61% renewed. The highest turnover is recorded TOTAL 13,589 857 71 0.53% in the Services and Concessions divisions, due to the special circumstances of these business units, such as, the seasonal nature of their activity, the loss of services put out 2012 to tender, recruitment for a specific project or recruitment on the basis of production needs. MEAN TOTAL WORK MEAN WORK MONTHLY % BUSINESS UNIT CONSOLIDATED STAFF LEAVES LEAVES ROTATION Holding 227 5 0.4 0.18% Construction 1,964 46 3.8 0.20% Development 91 2 0.2 0.18% Property 81 0 0.0 0.00% Services 11,795 662 55.2 0.47% Concessions 185 8 0.7 0.36% TOTAL 14,343 723 60 0.42% 112 113 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources LEAVE PER GENDER 2011 2012 CHILDCARE LEAVE FIGURES MENS WOMENS TOTAL MENS WOMENS TOTAL 2011 CURRENTLY 1 MONTH 2 MONTHS 3 MONTHS 4 MONTHS 5 MONTHS 6 MONTHS 7 MONTHS 8 MONTHS TOTAL Holding 8 5 13 2 3 5 Holding 1 1 2 Construction 51 10 61 39 7 46 Construction 2 1 1 4 Development -1 1 2 0 2 Development 0 Property --0 --0 Property 0 Services 299 469 768 247 415 662 Services 14 7 2 4 3 4 1 2 37 Concessions 10 4 14 6 2 8 Concessions 0 TOTAL 368 489 857 296 427 723 TOTAL 17 7 3 5 3 5 1 0 2 43 LEAVE PER GENDER % 2011 Y 2012 EXTERIOR ROTATION 2012 2012 CURRENTLY 1 MONTH 2 MONTHS 3 MONTHS 4 MONTHS 5 MONTHS 6 MONTHS 7 MONTHS 8 MONTHS TOTAL TOTAL WORK MEAN WORK MONTHLY % 59 % COUNTRY STAFF LEAVES LEAVES ROTATION Holding 0 ANGOLA 570 N/D ----Construction 1 1 2 41 % ARGELIA 0 2 0.2 0.00% Development 0 AUSTRALIA 63 20 1.7 2.65% Property 0 BRASIL 47 N/D ----Services 11 5 3 19 Cape Verde 99 N/D ----Concessions -0 CHILE 870 277 23.1 2.65% TOTAL 12 5 0 3 1 0 0 0 0 21 2012 COLOMBIA 0 0 0.0 0.00% COSTA RICA 41 28 2.3 5.69% INDIA 2 0 0.0 0.00% Ireland 44 21 1.8 3.98% ABSENTEEISM 20112012 (NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED AND LOST) 57 % ISRAEL 15 0 0.0 0.00% Italy 355 N/D ----Lost work days are leaves motivated by non43 % LIBIA 14 0 0.0 0.00% 2,242,376 2,112,528 work related accident or illness. PANAMÁ 3,420 N/D ----PORTUGAL 2,198 N/D ----36,859,309 42,349,701 The percentage of absenteeism in Spain in TOTAL 7,738 348 29 0.37% 2012 was 3.6%. 2011 2011 2012 hours Hours Worked Lost 114 115 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Work under way on the construction of the Madrid Metro’s Line 9. DISABLED AVERAGE 2010-2012 % Holding 1.3 1.3 1.8 Construction 0.9 0.9 1.01 Development 0 0 0 Property 0 0.6 1.2 Services 2 2.1 2.5 Concessions 3.5 3.9 4.1 2010 2011 2012 116 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.4 Selection, training and intellectual capital Having the best Aware of the role that human capital plays in the department in order to ascertain details For the recruitment of final year students Finally, we have participated with the Noteworthy is the people, motivating generating value and, therefore by extension, such as the organisation of the department, and recent graduates, we have signed more Department of Education and Employment of creation of an them and guiding as a source of competitive advantage in number of people, dependency, work than 50 agreements with universities both the Community of Madrid, by incorporating induction protocol them in their today’s global market, The Sacyr Group pays methods etc. nationally and internationally, which have scholarship holders from their pioneering for new employees, professional special attention to the development and been revised and updated to comply with programme Dual Training; an innovative which is a series of development, is the motivation of the people who form part of it, The process continues by interviewing and current legislation in this area, following the educational model aimed at adapting actions to encourage formula for success and makes use of various tools, management assessing candidates, followed by language publication of the three RDs: 1493/2011, Professional Training to the needs of the and promote the that has enabled us programmes and policies aimed at attracting level testing, as only those candidates RD 1707/2011 and RD 1543/2011. Through productive sectors, improving the skills of new employee’s to establish ourselves and managing team talent in order to retain capable of exceeding the minimum required these university-business collaboration those with qualifications and improving their sense of belonging/ as a leading company and enhance it. level can be contracted. The ultimate aim agreements, there will always be trainee qualifications as well as their chances of commitment to able to reconcile is to achieve alignment with the strategy of personnel in any division of the Group. entering the job market. the company from the interests of Having the best people, motivating them internationalization that is taking place in the first day they their employees and guiding them in their professional the Group. This year 2012 we once again attended We have also incorporated scholarships form part of the with business development, is the formula for success University Employment Forums, but only holders through the “Green Jobs Programme” company, as well as performance. that has enabled us to establish ourselves Finally the assessment process concludes those involving students in fields related to set up by the Department of Employment being motivated and as a leading company able to reconcile the with a comprehensive report on those our business. Likewise for the first time, we and Social Affairs of the Basque Government, productive from the interests of their employees with business deemed most appropriate for the post. The have participated in the Disability Forum held with the aim of providing businesses the first steps of their performance. reports are sent to the person requesting in Madrid, hiring a stand during the two days possibility of integrating unemployed young career within the the process, who, after conducting a second of the fair, in order to recruit people with people trained in eco-innovation, with Group. Recruitment interview, will make the final decision on the disabilities and incorporate them into the grants from the programme, to develop ecochoice of candidate to incorporate. various businesses. innovative Plans matched to the needs of The Sacyr Group recruits using transparent, each organisation. confidential and rigorous processes, which Noteworthy is the creation of an induction In addition and in line with our international ensure respect for the principles of equality protocol for new employees, which is a series expansion, we also attended Forums at and non-discrimination. These processes of actions to encourage and promote the new highly regarded Business Schools. On this include objective tests designed to evaluate employee’s sense of belonging/ commitment occasion our aim was to make ourselves only the merits, qualifications and skill profile to the company from the first day they known to MBA students with strong track of each candidate, in order to optimise the form part of the company, as well as being records and languages skills from a range job-person match. motivated and productive from the first steps of countries (Panama, India, Israel, Libya, of their career within the Group. Algeria etc.) where the Group is already The selection process is based on the working on several projects involved in the job manuals, documents which include a This process is digitised through an online construction, concessions, water utilities description of each position, including the management tool, which provides and areas etc. These actions allows us to establish mission, functions to be performed, required collects data such as interview appointments, links to enable us to hire the best candidates skills profile, training, experience, languages candidates’ CVs and assessment reports, as (recent graduates), in addition to experienced or other knowledge or aptitudes needed to well as allowing us to meet the requirements professionals with post-graduate training. adequately perform the job in question. of The Data Protection Act, in relation to information and treatment regarding access to Based on the job description and after an this tool (both candidates and managers). interview with the person requesting the selection to match the profile requested to 118 119 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Training Key Indicators (Spain) Key Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Total training hours 89,741 111,180 133,869 Training Investment (euros) 843,670.45 €962,489 €865,672 At Sacyr training At Sacyr training is seen as a strategic talent This takes the form of technical training Number of employees trained 3,650 3,563 3,834 is based on a management tool, to support change and initiatives supplied externally, with leading Average hours of training per year per employee 5.8 7.6 8.8 standardised model reinforce the corporate mission, it is therefore bodies, and internally, by recognised and is centrally “a value-generation driver.” professionals and experts in the company. managed throughout Throughout 2012 we continued to arrange Furthermore, intensive and one-to-one the entire Group, Therefore, the Sacyr Group is firmly • Expert training: Aimed at upgrading the grants and bonuses as well as free training language training has increased significantly, in with the aim of committed to increasing its investment professional qualifications of those already offered by industry associations to which the accordance with Group internationalization. In adding value to the in training, and is implementing various established in their positions. This is usually Group various companies are affiliated. practise this training model has brought about company through measures to enhance the skills and abilities of carried out through advanced specialised an increase in the cost per hour training ratio. the professional its employees, optimizing their performance courses, Master’s programmes, etc. development of and boosting its competitiveness. employees. Both on-the-job and expert training are Hours of training per year per employee by employee category (Spain 2012) At Sacyr training is based on a standardised designed to provide functional mobility and model and is centrally managed throughout further the career progression of employees. Employee Category * Number of training hours % the entire Group, with the aim of adding value These training programmes focus on team Category 1 8,908 9.93% to the company through the professional management, negotiation skills and the Category 2 12,606 14.05% development of employees. development of language skills to help Category 3 33,323 37.13% meet the challenges posed by the Group’s Category 4 34,904 38.89% The Group produces an annual Training international expansion. Plan based, mainly, on three key sources of TOTAL 89,741 100% information: The Group’s key training-related indicators and trends over the past three years are set (*) Note: Category 1 Executives; Category 2 Middle Managers; Category 3 Specialist Personnel; Category 4 Other personnel • Training required for employees out in the table below, which attests to the considerable commitment to employee training • Training needs survey. conducted by Grupo Sacyr in recent years. Four types of training are offered: classroomNoteworthy is the development and based, distance learning, online and mixed implementation of Training Programmes on • Results of performance assessment (Annual (mixture of the other three types). In 2011, our training platform specifically aimed at key Development Programme-Interview EAD). most training actions were in the form of groups in the company (Training Programme distance-learning and online courses. for Heads of Services); including training The training plan provides different types related to technical, skills and IT. of training initiatives tailored to the specific Importantly, online training is provided needs of employees and the organisation: through the Group’s platform, allowing all our On the other hand, noteworthy was the heavy collaborators to be trained, thus obtaining use of online training in 2012, with 90.7% • Induction training: Induction courses complete and tailor-made training. The (528) of the employees enrolled in training on designed to make the integration process in permanent availability and assessment by the platform finishing it. the Company easier for new employees. course tutors. The online platform catalogue is regularly updated and the courses offered • On-the-job training: The aim is to develop are modified in accordance with the group’s Group employees’ skills and enable them needs and circumstances. 67 courses are to acquire the knowledge to ease their currently available. adaptation to new demands in their jobs. 120 121 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Training by type (Spain) Professional development Training Mode 2012 2011 2010 % OF THE TOTAL % OF THE TOTAL % OF THE TOTAL Technical training still accounted for the bulk Committed to each and every one of the TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER OF of training given in 2012, since employee people who make up the organisation, Grupo HOURS TRAINING HOURS HOURS TRAINING HOURS HOURS RAINING HOURS specialisation and retraining remains one of Sacyr has clear convictions with regards Classroom-based 39,609 44% 42,489 38.21 29,640 22.14 our principal objectives. their development potential within the Distance learning 21,270 24% 37,540 33.79 63,974 47.78 Company, providing them job opportunities Noteworthy are the investment ratios for improvement, and implementing active Online 28,861 32% 31,133 28 40,255 30.07 and number of training hours in language management policies to guide them in their TOTAL 89,741 100% 111,180 100% 133,869 100% activities using a range of methods (one-toprofessional growth within one of today’s one classes, group classes, online courses, leading companies. telephone classes, intensive programmes, Use of the Online Training Room Statistics (2012) immersion programmes, etc.) to fit employees’ Added to this, we try to improve needs and so fulfil the requirements communication and understanding about Number of users 3,181 arising from the Group’s increasing the roles of each of the Group’s jobs, Number of students enrolled in 2012 582 internationalisation. identifying and analyzing current and future Training hours provided by the online Classroom 25,843 responsibilities and detecting employment Investment in training via the online Classroom * (euros) €212,432.74 Lastly, we highlight skills training, designed to opportunities that promote the personal Courses available 68 courses equip employees with attitudes and qualitative and professional growth of our teams. In this abilities, aimed at providing participants way we can ensure the motivation, value, with the tools they need to strengthen their recognition and development of the talent of management skills (team management our principal asset: our employees. In terms of the training mode carried out • Technical training (65%). communication, negotiating, etc.). in terms of internal or external, noteworthy is that external training is more extensive • Languages and development of language In order to ensure that the objectives (89%) than in-house training, which skills (25%). established by the training department are accounts for 11% of the training given. Inmet, The Training Division has developed an house training is given by our collaborators • Skillsqualitative abilities (3%). assessment and quality control procedures who have the necessary training, using different quality controls along two experience and abilities to carry it out, thus • Information technology, development of main lines: guaranteeing that the knowledge acquired in new technological and communication their jobs will be applied. tools (5%). • Impact of the training process, which is measured in terms of participation and the Training conducted in 2012 was mainly TRAINING 2012 BY AREA achievement of the objectives. centred on the following content areas: • Transfer of the course content to job. Technical 65% Languages 25% I.T. 5% Skills 3% 122 123 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Employee Portal As in previous years, in 2012 and solidarity programmes In addition to existing functions the Human Resources Division (Food, Toys, Clothing, Collection there are also: continued to strive towards Programmes, Charity Races, etc...) providing a faster, more direct and or action and awareness against Requesting leave and training effective service by working on the gender violence. actions. consolidation of the Employee Portal as a corporate window of direct Therefore, the Employee Portal, our Obtaining payslips and Within this context, we regularly update both successes and areas for possible communication with our employees. main corporate PA system, has made withholding-tax certificates. our job descriptions, identifying functions, improvements. For that purpose, communication remarkable progress this year in synergies, required competence profiles, has been reinforced through the new disseminating and communicating Viewing the Workers’ Agreement and performance indicators, and continue to The API programme is designed to be channel, centralising all statements to all employees. (Estatuto de los Trabajadores), the promote performance appraisal, essential in beneficial for all the members of the or news issued by the HR department business calendar and individual any professional development programme Company, both employees and those in and incorporating all those from Moreover, as a means of promoting training records. as it provides an in-depth knowledge charge. other departments of potential internal mobility to fill vacancies of the human resources available to the interest to employees. within the organisation, during Accessing the online platform and organisation. For the Person in Charge: 2012 the Company’s Job Exchange various knowledge management For example this year, as well as has continued to function through applications, such as the Performance is measured through two • It strengthens communication using a more the statements made in previous which employees can find out “language corner”. established programmes within the collaborative management style. years, it has been used as a personnel requirements for the culture of the organisation: Objective communication and management different international projects of Enabling managers with teams Based Management (OBM programme) and • Maximise planning and organisation of the programme for one of the most any of the Group companies and under their charge to obtain useful the Annual performance Interview (API team. important corporate programmes apply to them if interested. data (assessment reports, leave programme). carried out in our Company, the and holidays, etc.). • Facilitate decision making Annual Development Interview or Similarly publications such as the The GPO is a tool made available to Group EAD Programme. Welcome Protocol or the Job Offers Updating your personal details managers to help oversee and organise their For the employee: for Employees section are still and CV. team. The aim of this programme is help Likewise, given the Organisation’s available, which not only help new obtain the following objectives: • Favour the professional recognition of the commitment be socially engaged employees joining the Group to Accessing news and work carried out. with its policies and projects, we adapt, but also provide the business announcements in real time . are using all our resources and agreements signed by the Company • Establish, communicate, monitor, evaluate • Provide them with feedback from their channels to inform and thereby with different clients and service Viewing assessment reports and recognise individual and group targets, superiors. raise awareness about campaigns suppliers. carried out by superiors within the helping to ensure that these are in line with framework of corporate evaluation the Sacyr Group’s strategy. • Offer self-evaluation and self-criticism to programmes. help them ascertain their Strengths and • Facilitate the achievement of the company’s Areas of Improvement. All of this keeps our commitment objectives and those of the different to continuously improving our business units. • Attribute an active role to the employee in efficacy and efficiency in PEOPLE their professional development Management alive. • Motivate and retain employees by setting performance-related remuneration, • Based on the aforementioned, favour their ensuring that the best-performing professional motivation. employees are remunerated and valued accordingly. • Finally, facilitate the identification of the company’s objectives and maximise the The API programme measures and analyses feeling of adding value. both performance over the course of the year and the professional and skills profile of employees participating in the programme. During a year-end interview, both interviewer and employee have the opportunity to analyse and comment on the latter’s performance over the year, highlighting 124 125 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources To sum up, this tool allows us to obtain very On the other hand, this commitment • Regular monitoring of trainees via Similarly, we have continued to work on the valuable and useful information to manage to identifying and then managing our assessment processes that evaluate professional relocation of internal personnel Human Capital. It provides us information employee’s talent, has led us to develop performance and skill levels, review who are pending project finalisation within on the potential of the workforce, on the additional tools which are more specific and goals and objectives, and identify areas the different Business Lines. For this reason, motivations of employees, it helps us to suitable for particular groups. Using these, for improvement, while detecting each this year Human Resource Management have ascertain the areas of improvement, facilitates not only can we accurately and objectively trainee’s potential. worked on the development of Professional decision-making by those responsible and identify the potential of each employee, but Reorientation Training Programmes enabling helps them organise their teams, as well also the most suitable plan of action for their • Specific individual training programmes this group to adapt quicker to businesses and as providing a greater awareness to the subsequent development. shaped by need and by each trainee’s stage responsibilities within areas different to those employee of their own abilities. of development, using all methodologies previously they had been involved in. With the information gathered, 547 potential and resources. For this reason, this year we wanted to go a collaborators have been identified this year, Other projects: Additionally, the Organization step further by incorporating the group under enabling us to consolidate a sound bank of • Recognition of effort and target has another series of Programmes and assessment into the group of Technicians from highly qualified professional experts. achievement via a system of pay rises. Initiatives that are allowing us precise Talent the different Business Units, professionals Management adapted to the demands of both who are earmarked to be the future leaders Development Roadmaps: Development The target group benefiting from the our Company and our professionals: of the Company and who are a cornerstone Roadmaps are tools used by the Development Development Roadmap comprises more than within the organisational structure of the Department. Their main purpose is to manage 150 employees, who took part in over 247 • 360º appraisals which, in tandem various divisions. key employee groups within the company training actions involving 10,639 teaching with coaching programmes (personal across the Department’s three areas of hours. development process with a trainer); enable This action has allowed us to significantly concern – training, development and pay. us to develop our managers as a reference increase the final group of persons subject to Internal Mobility Programme: Following in the management of the different assessment, however, the Sacyr group aims to Talentya Programme: A comprehensive on from the talent management of our businesses. continue to consolidate and strengthen it over career development programme that runs employees, the Human Resources Department the next few years. for about 36 months, Talentya is aimed at further developed the Internal Job Mobility • Monitoring of Expatriate Personnel: The graduate entrants to Grupo Sacyr. Mentoring Programme. It is clearly focused not only Human Resources Department are analyzing and specific training activities help lock in on continuing to offer career/personal the level of adaptation to the country and trainees’ technical expertise and enhance development opportunities to our employees the job of all our expatriate employees, their management skills, while honing their but also guaranteeing the job stability of which allows us to support them and their BUSINESS UNITS GROUP 2012 DIF.% GROUP 2011 executive and language competencies, with all our professionals, thus fostering stable families at such a crucial moment both Holding 254 14 103 a view to their taking up key positions in the employment. personally and professionally. Construction 494 15 430 organisation in the future. Development 44 -19 54 Based on these principles, through the The HR Development department, with the Corporate Job Exchange, the number of Property 40 67 24 support of tutors and mentors in the various selection processes covered by internal Services 474 15 413 business areas – Construction, Property personnel has increased notably. Concessions 78 50 52 Development, Services, Concessions and TOTALS 1,384 29 1,076 Rental Property – runs the programme from a threefold perspective, based on: 126 127 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Sacyr offers its Similarly, prior to their return, we assess Encouraging work-life balance • Accumulation of breast feeding hours: The Labour Relations Department has employees a range of their performance, strengths and potential Employees may accumulate full working appointed an Equality Officer in charge of social benefits that areas for improvement which, together A good balance between the professional days, even when the hours of paid supporting equality plans and putting in place help enhance the with the knowledge of their personal and and personal responsibilities of personnel permission are not stipulated under the specific systems for regular monitoring and quality of their lives professional interests, is of great interest improves employee satisfaction and benefits collective labour agreement control. and value to us when relocating them once the company as a whole. Therefore, as set they have returned to Spain. out in the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the • Leave of absence: those employees In addition, Sacyr conducts active Sacyr Group is committed to implementing who need to do so may request that employment policies with a particular focus • Development of Country Guides: As a measures aimed at balancing the two areas. the company temporarily suspend their on disadvantaged groups such as immigrants complementary tool to support employees employment contracts. and disabled individuals. Some of the main in their international transfer, we have To this end, Sacyr strives to go beyond mere initiatives implemented in 2012 included: produced Guides describing the various compliance with legislation in the area of • Internal mobility: employees can request a countries where we operate, where all the the work-life balance by providing a high change in geographical location or position necessary local and general information level of employment flexibility enabling in order to satisfy needs such as being closer • Immigrants: Within the framework of has been compiled, thereby making it its employees to amply fulfil their family to home, the best person-job match, etc. an agreement concluded between the easier for them to adapt to both their home responsibilities. Senegalese authorities and the Spanish environment and to the new environment. Equal opportunities and non-discrimination Ministry of Employment in 2007, the Initiatives started by the Group in this area appraisals and monitoring of the group Social Benefits include: The Sacyr Group is committed to managing of Senegalese employees contracted, its human resources strictly on the basis of continued in 2012. These appraisals Salaries are not the only means by which • Flexible working hours: Employees enjoy professional criteria, avoiding all types of included analysis of both their performance Sacyr employees are rewarded for their a degree of flexibility in their arrival, discrimination, whether due to race, religion at work and the degree to which they had professional activity. Sacyr offers its departure and lunch times. or beliefs, political or trade union views, adjusted to Spanish culture and customs. employees a range of social benefits that nationality, language, gender, marital status, help enhance the quality of their lives. These • Shorter working day without breaks: age or disability. Throughout 2012, after substantiating the include: Employees work through from 8.00 to correct adaptation to the country, culture 15.00 every Friday of the year and over the Sacyr strenuously endeavours to ensure that and job using the appraisals received, this • Life and accident insurance summer months. all employees receive equal treatment at all monitoring process has now been finalised, Group companies, and undertakes, as part of however direct communication channels • Medical insurance • Target-based work: in order to achieve more its Equal Opportunities Plan, to safeguard the have been offered in which any incident or flexible working hours, in many positions following basic principles: query they might have can be solved. • Discounts at certain establishments the attainment of annual targets takes precedence over physical presence at the • Men and women must enjoy equal • Victims of gender-based violence: Within • Discounts at corporate travel agencies workplace. opportunities in terms of employment, training, the framework of an agreement with the promotion and carrying out their work. Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, • Company vehicles for executives • Reduction of working hours: Requesting a in 2013 Sacyr plans to continue its work to reduction in working hours is looked upon • Men and women must receive equal pay for facilitate the work-force integration of this favourably for employees who are legal performing the same tasks under the same marginalised group. guardians and look after family members conditions. unable to look after themselves due to age, accident or illness. • The company must ensure the welfare and non-discriminatory treatment of women working for any of the Group companies. 128 129 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources • Persons with disabilities: In 2012, the Elimination of child and forced or Freedom of association and labour/ number of employees included in this compulsory labour management relations group has increased to 21.36%. At 31 December 2012 they represented 2.36% of The Sacyr Group does not tolerate child The Sacyr Group safeguards the rights In Group companies where employees the Group’s workforce in Spain. Sacyr aims labour or any other form of forced or of association, union representation and have legal representatives, the opinion of to continue increasing this percentage in compulsory labour and is committed to the collective bargaining of all its employees, representatives is taken into account in any the years ahead. rigorous enforcement of the International in line with legislation prevailing in each decisions affecting the workforce as a whole, Labour Organisation’s standards (ILO) in country. In 2012, over 500 employees acted in line with the provisions of the Workers’ A specific unit has been set up within the relation to these issues. as legal representatives on committees and Statute. In companies where no such legal Human Resources Department to implement representatives from various trade unions in representation exists, the Human Resources and manage integration projects for Consequently, Sacyr will not use child labour the different Group companies. Department takes into consideration the disadvantaged groups. This unit assists and in any shape or form and will not incorporate contributions and suggestions of the advises these groups on their incorporation into its business activity any product or No company activity jeopardises the employees affected. process. service resulting from such labour, and will fundamental right to freedom of association. require all its employees, suppliers and Moreover, the company offers employees the In the event of corporate restructuring, the In 2012 there were no cases of discrimination contractors to strictly observe this principle. possibility – at all Group companies, regardless minimum periods of redundancy notice and reported at any Sacyr Group company. The of location – of directly paying union dues consultation and negotiation with employees company has worked with businesses and In 2012 no incidents related to child or forced from their salaries, with the company itself and/or their representatives depends on the contracted services from foundations and labour were reported in the scope of the transferring payment to the union. specific circumstances of each case. Where special employment centres mainly staffed by Group’s activities, nor were any operations possible, these issues will be mutually agreed people with disabilities. detected that were likely to generate this type In Spain, 100% of the Group’s workforce between the company and employees; of risk. is covered by sector collective labour otherwise, the organisation will proceed in Sacyr Vallehermoso against gender violence agreements, according to the job performed, accordance with prevailing legislation and and in the rest of the world the relevant collective labour agreements. Under the gender Violence Eradication local laws and regulations apply. In addition, Agreement entered into in 2007 with the employees in Group companies with union A highlight of employer-union relations were Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Sacyr representation regularly meet with union the agreements on working conditions and Group continued to take steps in 2012 along representatives to ensure that their concerns occupational risk, which merited special both our lines of action: raising awareness of are addressed. attention. gender violence and promoting employment for the victims of gender violence As established in the prevailing legislation, employees may discuss any concerns they In an ever-changing and challenging have with their representatives. Subsequently, environment, the Group provides the skills the works councils make these issues known and knowledge needed showing its social to company management through their commitment to the diversity of nationalities, regular meetings. thus reflecting us as an open, agile organisation with the support capacity in which diversity is recognised and valued. We should point out that within the Grupo Sacyr workforce in Spain there are employees from over 60 different nationalities, with Ecuadorian, Rumanian and Moroccan citizens making up the largest nationality groups. 130 131 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.5 Occupational risk prevention Within the scope of this Management System, and as required by OHSAS standard, Sacyr As an example we can name some of the courses taught in the group: sets annual targets, aimed at constantly improving its occupational risk management. • OHSAS “Health and Safety in the Workplace Guaranteeing maximum safety for employees • External Prevention Service: The prevention Proposals for 2013 include: Management System”. in the performance of their business activities areas not managed by the Joint Prevention is a priority for Sacyr. To this end, the Group Service, such as workplace medical • Objective 1. Progressively decreasing • Company Management Course is committed to providing a safe and stable attention (health monitoring), are currently accident rates in the company, to reach a environment for its employees and constantly arranged with an external prevention figure of 12% within a defined time frame. Furthermore, both the Occupational Health updates its occupational health and safety service. Coordination between the (3 years). and Safety Manual and General Procedures measures. In addition, it fully complies with company’s in-house prevention service and are available to all employees through Sacyr prevailing legislation in all the countries in the external service is the responsibility of • Objective 2. Progressively reducing site and the PRESYV application. Through which it operates. a senior prevention technician employed by accidents caused by physical overexertion, the Sacyr sitechannel, Group employees can the Sacyr Group. to reach a figure of 9% within a defined access technical guides, prevention registers Sacyr has adopted the concept of integrated period. (3 years). and technical notes focused on occupational safety and has established an occupational In 2012 the companies of Sacyr submitted risk prevention. health and safety policy aimed at improving its OHS management to OHSAS legal and • Objective 3. Increase, by 10% of its value, working conditions and raising the level of compliance audits, which they successfully the safety visit average to Work Centres Employee representation in OHS matters protection, health and safety of its employees. passed. within a defined period. (1 year). 38% of Sacyr Group employees are In line with prevailing occupational health Certified health and safety system • Objective 4. Increase, by one tenth of its represented on health and safety committees. and safety regulations, preventative initiatives value, the documentation visit average to at the Sacyr Group are carried out using both In addition to fully complying with all legal work centres within a defined period. (1 year). In addition, 7% of the total Group workforce its own resources and others arranged with an requirements in the area, Sacyr Group has union representation through Prevention external risk prevention service: companies are implementing occupational Dissemination of the prevention policy Officers. Although these officers do not health and safety management systems form part of a Health and Safety Committee certified under OHSAS 18001, the principal The Group management understands that because is not constituted, they actively • Joint Prevention Service: This prevention international benchmark for occupational in order to improve occupational safety, participate in health and safety-related issues service covers three of the legallyhealth and safety. employees themselves must be aware of the by periodically attending meetings with required prevention areas: workplace risks they are exposed to in their job, and company representatives. safety, industrial hygiene and ergonomics The system was implemented in 30 Group the importance of taking the appropriate and psychosociology. These matters are subsidiaries, eleven of which have obtained preventive measures. The main issues associated with Occupational overseen by qualified specialists performing OHSAS 18001 certification. Health and Safety discussed at meetings senior and intermediate level functions For this reason, the Sacyr Group encourages between the company and unions, and which on a full-time basis. The Joint Prevention In 2012, one new certification was obtained, all employees to be familiar with the have resulted in formal agreements, are as Service is overseen by the Group’s Head of bringing the total to over 78% of the Group guidelines on which its Occupational Risk follows: Innovation. based on its revenue figures. Prevention Policy is based and to incorporate them into their work style, to this end, it is Setting up Health and Safety Committees • Support Structure: Formed by basic level This OHS management system helps to committed to informing employees of the technicians, working on a part-time basis at correctly identify, review, manage and policy and distributes related documentation Delivery and clarification of documentation the different work centres. These personnel improve monitoring of occupational risks to through training programmes tailored to each to Prevention Officers. are integrated into the production line and which Group employees are exposed and to functional area and hierarchical level within directly oversee the production process. comply with prevailing legislation. the company. 132 133 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources All statistical data below refers exclusively to Spain. INCIDENCE INDEX FREQUENCY INDEX GRAVITY INDEX EMPLOYMENT INDEX Joint review of: Risk assessments, health Results of the occupational health and safety GROUP TOTAL 2011* 7,926.72 30.49 0.78 0.0008 and safety planning and work procedures. management GROUP TOTAL 2012 6,120.53 23.45 0.54 0.0007 Drafting and implementing Emergency and The Sacyr Group’s endeavours in the field of DATA TOTAL MINISTRY OF EMPLOYMENT 2011 3,515.2 21.9 0.61 Evacuation Plans. occupational health and safety have enabled significant advances in workplace quality, as * 2011 indices have been recalculated following the methodology applied in 2012, consisting of calculating each of the indices in terms of Overseeing employees’ health and medical measured by an internal scoring system that days lost, hours worked and total accidents of the Sacyr Group throughout the year. Note: As of today’s date the official indices corresponding to 2012 have not been published. conditions with restrictions. assesses each work centre in relation to the fulfilment of preventive duties. Scheduling and teaching of OHS Training courses. The occupational accident rate has decreased in terms of last year’s figure, remaining at Throughout 2012, the SyV Group reported no In terms of the breakdown of accidents by Review and disclosure of accidents. levels still well below the figures released by fatalities in the workforce however there were gender, the last two years have resulted as the Ministry of Labour for the two sectors in 22 cases of work-related illnesses. follows: Defining risk in the use of auxiliary means. which the Group employs the most people. Although the calculation system recommended In terms of accidents involving 2011* 2012 Condition of health and hygiene facilities. by the NIOHS is used (Frequency, seriousness subcontractors, during 2012 there was 1 and incidence rates) as it is standard procedure fatal and 2 serious accidents registered. Signposting of localised risks. in Spain, the criteria included in the LA7 of the The Joint Prevention Service carried out 517 379 Global Reporting Initiative are still met. the appropriate investigations for each of Installation and revision of collective the three cases, assessing the causes and protection systems. In 2012, the Sacyr Group reported no fatalities adopting suitable measures to prevent the 370 368 in the workforce in Spain however there were recurrence thereof. Adaptation of personal protection 22 cases of work-related illnesses. equipment. 887 747 Maintenance condition of work equipment. * Accidents during 2011 have been recalculated excluding adopted as accidents In terms of the most significant accident For the system of notification and registration types, the last two years have resulted as of accidents, this is carried out through follows: the standardised part published in Order TAS/2926/2002 published of 19 November of the Electronic Work Accident Declaration TYPOLOGY 2011 2012 System (Delt@), accessible from the link: http://www.delta.mtas.es/. Physical exertion on the 42% 40% musculoskeletal system Crushing on or against 17% 23% the result of a fall. Crushing on or against, result of 9% 8% a trip or crash into a stationary object. 134 135 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Cooperation with leading OHS agencies Sacyr works with a range of organisations • Spanish Association of Park and Garden specialising in promoting occupational Maintenance Companies (ASEJA): health and safety. This allows the Group to Sacyr participates in this association pool information and experiences with other through its subsidiary Valoriza Servicios agents, strengthening its management in this Medioambientales. ASEJA is currently field. These organisations include: preparing a training manual for gardening works which includes OHS • National Occupational Health and Safety recommendations. Commission. The Sacyr Group’s Joint Prevention Unit Head is the member • Spanish Association of Cleaning Companies representing the CEOE, the Spanish (ASELIP): Through its Valoriza Facilities business federation, in the Construction subsidiary, the Group takes part in this Working Group of the National Occupational association by producing risk prevention Health and Safety y Commission. handbooks. • The Madrid Association of Architects • ACEX (the Spanish association of and Master Builders: Sacyr forms part of infrastructure maintenance and operation the Health and Safety Committee of this companies), comprising the leading association, which promotes occupational infrastructure maintenance firms, is health and safety initiatives and activities in currently designing an array of statistics for the construction industry. occupational accidents in the industry. • SEOPAN Health and Safety Committee: • Construction Industry Labour Foundation: The Sacyr Group plays an active role in Comprised of the major players in the this committee within the Association of construction sector, this foundation Spanish Construction Companies (SEOPAN), provides training and promotes the use of whose mission includes the promotion appropriate preventative practices. Amorebieta-Muxika of compliance with occupational health Radial Road. and safety legislation and the provision of Autzagane Relief training within this area. Road (Vizcaya). • The Madrid Region Association of Construction Companies (AECOM): Sacyr is a member of this Association, whose objectives include the promotion of occupational health and safety in sector companies and presides over the Health and Safety Committee. 136 137 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.6 Quality and the Environment Contractor and occupational risks TARGETS MET IN 2012 CHALLENGES FOR 2013 In addition to ensuring the health and safety Noteworthy is that during 2012, Sacyr of its own employees, the Group also takes complied with construction industry the appropriate measures to guarantee the subcontracting regulations by limiting the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certificated, Increase certifications in ISO 9001 and safety of subcontracted employees. number of levels in the subcontracting chain Cafestore, Itepesa and Itemosa ISO 14001 in other activities of the by using subcontracting records and requiring Group, (Industrial Division and motorway To this end, Sacyr has specific Sub-contractor subcontractors to produce evidence of concession). Information, Control and Monitoring compliance. Maximum score for the Green Certification procedures in place, the main objectives of (5 leaves) awarded to the project carried out which are: by Sacyr Construcción, Millennium Report to the Community on our carbon Square (Valladolid). footprint. • To ensure that sub-contracted workers are Putting in place of an electronic Supplier Roll out our computer applications in fully informed about the risks to which Assessment system in Somague. the international area. they are exposed in their respective jobs and about the applicable protective and Increase in the number of users of the preventative measures. Define a customer satisfaction system in the environmental information applications industrial division. • To ensure that sub-contractors effectively fulfil their responsibilities, taking all 81.87 % of the earth excavated in the Make available to the company a summary construction area is Spain in reused and of the most significant environmental actions necessary measures and providing their 78 % in Portugal. carried out by the Group. employees with the appropriate means to ensure their safety. The environmental performance of Cafestore Extend LEED certification in the Real Estate (multi-services), Itepesa, Itemosa (concessions division. area) and Valoriza Water Australia PTY LTD has been reported for the first time. Inform the company on the achievement rate of the environmental targets by For the first time the amount of waste business division. managed, based on the treatment received has been reported. Report on the Scope 3 emissions for construction activities in Spain. The Analytical Control Plan for water has been rolled out in AGS which has meant more than 215,000 analyses being conducted throughout the year. Reduction of emissions associated with earth moving transport during the Olost by-pass Joint Venture, thus avoiding some 20.2 tons of CO2. emissions. 138 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Grupo Sacyr’s respect for the environment is a The Sacyr Group currently holds 32 In 2012 the Sacyr Group passed the external GBC CERTIFICATE SPAIN – GREEN. The fundamental factor in the way it conducts its certificates in accordance with the ISO 9001 audits in accordance with the UNE-EN Millennium Square in Valladolid. business and is essential to achieve customer Standard, 28 certificates in accordance with ISO standard 14001:2004; UNE-EN ISO satisfaction, meet users’ requirements and the ISO 14001 certifications, and three 9001:2008 and the EMAS regulation. The Millennium Square project, constructed satisfy their needs. All of this based on the certifications under the EMAS Regulation. The by Sacyr, has obtained “green” certification fundamental premise of making its activities percentage of activity certified under these The Environmental Statements are available from the Green Building Council Spain, compatible with the environment. voluntary requirements at the close of 2012, for consultation at the following address which means that the environmental is as follows. www.sacyr.com. and sustainability values have been Sacyr boasts an Integrated Quality and acknowledged by independent bodies Environmental system in accordance with the Furthermore, since 2003 Sacyr Vallehermoso external to the project. ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and EMAS standards, has been a licensee of Madrid Excelente, the main benchmarks in their respective areas a seal of quality which recognises Sacyr The Millennium Square is the first project in on a national and European level. All the as a company committed to excellence, Spain to obtain such a high score the area of activities carried out by the Sacyr Group are and reflects the Group’s commitment to sustainable building and the environment, no included in a single comprehensive system, innovation and continuous improvement, other GREEN certified building or public space which is unique but also requires a great deal satisfied people and as making an active in Europe has obtained such a high score. of effort. contribution to economic, social and environmental development. Given the importance of company classification systems in the construction certified activities Sacyr Group sector in Italy, the Italian authorities recognise % the importance and value of organisations on achieving ISO 9001 certification and AREA OF ACTIVITY ISO 9001 ISO 14001 also add requirements and additional A GBC Spain Green Certificate is recognition SPAIN CHILE PORTUGAL SPAIN CHILE PORTUGAL demands defined in the Technical Regulation by an organisation, independent from both Construction 87.06% 100% 100% 87.06% 100% 75% TR 05, which established the provisions the developer and the project design firm, of Property 68.28% n/a n/a 68.28% n/a n/a for the assessment and certification of the environmental value of a building in the Development 10.00% n/a n/a 0% n/a n/a quality management systems in these light of a range of internationally accepted companies. Sacyr Construcción and Valoriza assessment criteria. Concessions 11.18% n/a n/a 11.18% n/a n/a Servicios Medioambientales, have held this Services requirement since 2008 and are recognised -Energy n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a in Italy by Accredia for certification of -Water 86.67% n/a 86.67% n/a compliance with the ISO 9001 standard, in 66.70% 66.70% accordance with the Technical Regulation TR -Environmental 84.13% n/a 84.13% n/a 05. This is renewed annually. -Multi-services 34.01% n/a n/a 33.31% n/a n/a In 2012, various actions undertaken by the Sacyr Group, have been recognised by independent organisations, of which are noteworthy: 140 141 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources LEED Certification. Own office building in The three companies who generate electricity The aim of the Sacyr Group is to conduct its • To encourage employees to adopt quality Madrid (Spain) and Miami (USA) from Biomass which Valoriza Operación y business in a manner that enables us: procedures and use the most environmentally Mantenimiento use in Andalusia (Biomasas appropriate techniques and products, without For office buildings in Miami and Madrid, during de Puente Genil (Córdoba), Bioeléctrica de • To comply with all legal and regulatory undermining creativity or innovations that 2012, the work required to obtain the silver Linares (Jaén) and Extragol (Málaga) have requirements, and all customer and user could arise as part of the ongoing system certification has been carried out (LEED Silver). received the PEFC accreditation, which prerequisites that the Sacyr Group is required improvement process. In the case of the office building in Madrid, means the wood from the mountains used for to satisfy. This is borne out by the 1,774 after the work was executed and the 90 E.Star their activity has been audited and certified statutory provisions of environmental law • To reduce natural resource consumption by was obtained the performance period began in accordance with the standards of the and 1,732 statutory provisions on quality using recycled and/or recyclable materials. which ended in November 2012, finally all the “Responsible Forest Management” from the that apply to the Sacyr Group’s various information was sent to the USGBC (certifying FSC, or “Sustainable Forest Management” activities. • To promote energy saving. body) on December 13, 2012. from the PEFC. In addition to the wood from “controlled” or “non controversial origins”: • To plan and execute activities in an orderly, • To improve atmospheric emissions control The office building in Miami is currently wood not FSC or PEFC certified, but complies rational and defect-free manner, reducing the (dust, gases and noise). within the performance period. Both with the minimum requirements of social impact on the environment. certificates are expected to be obtained responsibility, environmental responsibility • To build a team of chosen partners whose within the first months of 2013. and traceability, defined by these Bodies, with • To improve waste management, applying quality and environmental criteria are which the certified wood can be mixed. the proper methods for reducing, recovering aligned with those of the Sacyr Group. Valoriza Energía Operación y Mantenimiento and recycling waste and ensuring that nonhas renewed their PEFC and FSC certificates The Sacyr Group and environmental recoverable waste is properly disposed of. • To ensure ongoing improvements. for Forestry Biomass Stewardship. responsibility • To prevent pollution throughout the Sacyr Industrial’s subsidiary, Valoriza Energía In terms of the environment, the management environment (subterranean and surface Operación y Mantenimiento has renewed its system helps the organisation identify waters, soils, atmosphere). PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of the major environmental challenges Forest Certification Council) and FSC (Forest associated with its activities, as well as the • To maintain fluid communications with Stewardship Council) certificates for the applicable legal requirements, and arrange customers to meet their needs, requirements stewardship of the forestry biomass which is the appropriate targets to guarantee the and expectations, maximising their used in the company power plants. continuous improvement of its environmental satisfaction and building loyalty. To performance. enhance communication with the public Valoriza Operación y Mantenimiento is the administrations, neighbourhood associations first company in the sector in Europe to Senior Management of the Sacyr Group and non-governmental organisations on obtain the PEFC chain of custody certificate understands that respect for the environment environmental issues of common interests. for forestry products, i.e. the purchase of PEFC in which it operates, cannot be imposed from certified forest biomass deriving from nonoutside, but must be born from within the controversial sources, for burning and energy Company’s team and encourages everyone to production. work in an environmentally friendly way. 142 143 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources The Sacyr Group’s objective is to develop proper management of building and All of whom are professionals with very With respect to Sacyr’s groups documentation activities in such a way that allows us to: demolition waste generated; different profiles, making up multi-disciplinary from the Environmental Quality and teams. Management System, in 2012, 25 documents Implement environmental management in use of wood from sustainable forest were created, 75 updated, implying a total its projects. sources, if possible certified with the The Application of the Environmental Quality of 100 documents, which has enabled us FSC, PEFC stamp (Pan European Forest and Management Systems used in the Sacyr to get a deeper insight into continuous conduct actions of a marked sustainable Certification) or similar, Group is customised to the needs of each improvement and the processes and tools nature. work centre, depending on the activity on which form part of it. purchase of products with European the basis of an Environmental Quality and foster environmental outreach, training and Ecological Label (EEE); Management Plan covering the following: The System’s documentation is available to awareness initiatives the entire organisation through Sacyr Group’s etc. intranet and on the computer application. • Identification and appraisal of the This commitment is embodied in a series of The Environmental Division reports directly environmental aspects. What has been previously mentioned is sustainable practices, aimed at managing to Innovation Management and operates as currently 60% computerised thanks to the to minimise the impact on the natural a company division at the highest level of • Resources and controls necessary for internal development of a software tool that environment, the efficient use of resources, the Organisation. Its responsibility focuses comprehensive supervision of operations. allows: the application of the hierarchy in waste mainly on contributing to the effort of management, the promotion of energy saving, improving the quality of the services offered • Setting goals for self improvement. • The personnel responsible for Quality etc., such as: by the Sacyr Group and in the development and the Environment as well as the of the actions leading to the reduction of • Identification and evaluation of the personnel concerned to be able to instantly the use of natural easy to recycle products; negative effects, which the group activity legal requirements and other necessary communicate, at all levels, and obtain the could cause to the environment. environmental requirements. different data needed for monitoring and the use of material with a low environmental controlling the systems. impact throughout their life cycle; In this regard, it is noteworthy that the activity In order to evaluate how the Management of the Quality and Environment Department, System has been applied and is operating, • Support in the system implementation and elimination of materials which are a danger affects all the group’s business areas, which audits and regular visits are conducted to supervision systems in the different work to the environment; in turn has direct consequences in its each of the Group’s workplaces. These are centres. organisational structure. A direct reflection on intended to determine whether the System the purchase of local materials to reduce the plurality of tasks carried out is the number is meeting the targets established, operating • Possibility of greater monitoring and control the emissions derived from the transport of of highly diverse and versatile people in the efficiently, reliable, satisfies the Group’s of the different work centres by people these materials; Department, which in 2012, consisted of: stated Quality and Environmental Policy, etc. responsible for each area and the quality and environment departments. protection of natural habitats; Construction and Services (Spain): 59 • Production of statistics and lists to analyse, encourage energy saving and adopting people. at global and individual level, the extent of efficient energy measures associated with ENVIRONMENTAL SUPERVISION VISITS BY PERSONNEL OF system implementation and identify areas THE WORK CENTRE lighting, heating, equipment, refrigeration, Construction (Chile): 7 people. for improvement. transport, etc; SPAIN CHILE PORTUGAL Construction (Portugal): 9 people. installation of accumulators and solar panel 938 N/D 38 on buildings; Services (Portugal): 3 people. 144 145 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Gas collection system from the Campo de Margarita gas well, Bolivia. ACCESSES 2012 13,063 2011 13,006 2010 14,531 The Sacyr Group feels part of the community • awareness campaigns to promote energy in which it operates and as such encourages saving and promotes environmental development in its surroundings, respecting and promoting • efficient energy consumption, etc., reduced the protection of the natural environment waste generation and the proper use of through its participation in various office supplies. environmental volunteer programmes both in Spain, as well as the other countries where it • workshops related to reducing waste operates. generation In recent years we have participated in The ultimate goal is to achieve sustainable many projects aimed at the conservation of environmental behaviour with the different biodiversity, protection of water, protection of resources used every day. natural areas and wildlife. These projects and initiatives include: All these programmes have been developed with different collaborations, e.g.: Ministries of • breeding programmes of endangered the Environment, Councils, Schools and nonspecies profit organisations. • planting various indigenous species and reforestation • awareness campaigns for the general population on water saving and responsible consumption 146 147 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Awareness and training The summary of the data is as follows: Human capital is one of the driving factors of • the protection and improvement of the Sacyr. So, one of the group’s goals is to have a environment; select team of chosen partners whose quality Environmental Training 2011/2012 and environmental criteria are aligned with • inform and the raise the awareness of SPAIN PORTUGAL those of the Group. our employees and collaborators hence 2011 2012 2011 2012 successfully reducing environmental impact NO. TRAINING NO. TRAINING NO. TRAINING NO. TRAINING The search for sustainable development through more environmentally friendly HOURS ATTENDEES HOURS ATTENDEES HOURS ATTENDEES HOURS ATTENDEES and the fight against climate change, inter actions and processes; Construction 2,839 759 2,105 733 2,140 325 2,294 278 alia, means that in the design, contracting, Services construction, upkeep of roads, rendering • improve public perception about our of services, rental of properties, etc., all activities; Multi-services 1,470 111 376 372 ----activities carried out by the SyV Group, Water 1,423 22 28 2 244 113 144,5 72 it is not enough simply to comply with • provide information on good environmental Energy 31 2 ------the requirements demanded by the practices; Environment 1,400 186 1,042 160 43 40 192 39 environmental laws applicable, but it is Concessions --42 34 ----essential to take a step further, towards • continuously improve our performance by promoting and fostering the application of decreasing the environmental impact of our Property --76 5 ----good practices in order to minimise impacts activity. Holding / Sacyr 900 37 25 24 ----on the natural environment, efficiency in the use of resources and the application of the hierarchy in waste management. In 2012, 3,694 hours of environmental training For this reason, environmental training were taught in Spain to 1,117 employees and awareness-raising are one of the through courses and informal discussions cornerstones of the Group’s strategy, and in various forms (external, internal, on-site, it uses a combination of didactic methods on-line, etc.). Compared with 2011, training to raise awareness among employees and contact hours have increased and training partners of the potential environmental attendees have decreased. In Somague implications of their activities, with Construcción, 2,294 hours of environmental the primary goal of enhancing their training were given to 278 collaborators, environmental awareness and encouraging while in Somague Ambiente 278 hours of environmentally friendly conduct. environmental training were given to 111 collaborators. This process, developed through different instruments, one of which is the development and dissemination of the Environmental Good Practices Manuals. Currently there are 16 Environmental Good Practice Manuals available, with which we contribute to: 148 149 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Environmental training The Group considers it essential to have fluid It also participates in ASEFMA, forming part communication channels, both within the of different work groups (e.g. environment), organisation and externally, that enable us whose objectives include the identification to release information on our environmental of sustainable systems and methodologies. performance and gather information on our stakeholders’ main concerns about Spanish Technological Roads Platform environmental matters. The Sacyr Group has (PTC). We participate in the environment established various internal and external and energy working groups. communication channels to this end. Sacyr is a member of the Advisory Board The main channels for the dissemination for the certification of construction of environment-related information are the companies (made up of the Ministries of Group’s intranet (Portal Sacyr), the green Justice, Environment and Development and mailbox, the Dimensión in-house magazine, representatives of construction companies). the environmental improvement, consultation and suggestion section, the Group’s Member of the AEN/CTN 198 Sustainability website (see section entitled “Channels for in Construction Committee. stakeholder engagement”), the environment newsletter, and “Press Statements”. BREEAM Certification Advisory Board, responsible for defining the development In relation to external communications, strategy of BREEAM Spain and representing Sacyr has a variety of channels available to all parties in the building sector including Expenditure and environmental investments the public, the most important of which are planners, developers, builders, foundations its Annual Corporate Responsibility Report, and environmental institutions, financial The Sacyr Group’s commitment to the we defined and established an internal Somague’s Annual Sustainability Report, entities and public administrations. environment is the source of a wide range system based on the work carried out in the Group’s website, or the environmental of initiatives to prevent, mitigate and, previous years, broadening the categories for statement associated with the EMAS The company is active in the PLANETA wherever possible, eliminate or minimise the environmental expenses and incorporating certifications. platform, one of the objectives of which environmental impact of its businesses. information from a greater number of centres. Madrid Rio is to foster the exchange of knowledge, Project. The Sacyr Group’s Quality and Environmental information and experiences relating to Putting these initiatives into practice carries Management is involved with various task environmental technologies, propose lines a number of environmental costs, which have forces working at various associations, of cooperation and promote initiatives to be identified and assessed from a wide including: to improve the qualification of Spanish variety of perspectives. Sometimes, the costs professionals in the field of Environmental arise from discretionary activities, while in Technologies. other cases they are required by contract SEOPAN Quality Committee and or environmental law; but they are always Environmental Committee: Sacyr plays an The active participation of Sacyr in earmarked to prevent, decrease or redress any active role in these committees belonging these working groups contributes to the damage done to the environment. to the Association of Spanish Construction development of documents, standards, etc, Companies (SEOPAN), whose mission which will subsequently be shared with In 2010, we made the initial effort to identify includes, inter alia, promoting compliance society. possible environmental costs and broke these with environmental legislation. down into groups to glean a rough idea of environmental expenses and investments, given the difficulty of obtaining information from the different work centres. In 2012, 150 151 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources The results obtained were as follows: In 2012, the Sacyr Group, with regards Spain, AGS, which provides water services • Evidence of compliance with legislation was the target for 12 environmental penalty in Portugal, has a certificate issued by related to the activities to which the claims and has had proceedings closed on the insurance company ACE Europe for contract relates. ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS 24, 11 of which correspond to proceedings environmental risk policy on the premises opened in 2011 and 7 in 2012. 16.67 % of and/or environmental services to third • The achievement of objectives to improve ORDINARY the total proceedings closed correspond to parties, with No. ESENV006213 for the period environmental impacts and prevent Waste Disposal 1,510,198.29 proceedings closed due to lack of liability 24.07.2012 to 23.07.2014. pollution. Atmosphere Protection 345,357.95 and 4.17 % had expired and were hence Noise Protection 136,226.31 closed. The remaining proceeding entailed • To make partners more aware and Fire Protection 88,950.22 a cost for the group of €70,151.02, all of Relations with collaborators committed to environmental protection which are being processed by the Group’s through training initiatives. Flora and Fauna Protection 177,054.14 legal department in accordance with current Sacyr is aware of the impact its goods and Landscape Protection 435,019.50 legislation. services suppliers have on its environmental Suppliers are evaluated at regular intervals Land Protection 69,325.81 efforts and therefore encourages these and their environmental performance Water Protection 207,285.85 No environment-related penalty was levied companies to adhere to the Group’s assessed on the basis of both environmental Archealogical Protection 235,973.76 in 2012 against Somague – in either its environmental regulations and values. practices adopted and compliance with the construction or environment area (water and required environmental documentation Socio-Economic Protection 241,117.54 waste activity) – or against Sacyr Chile. As established in its Quality and (authorisations, waste management, etc.). Permits, Licenses, Taxes and Environmental Policy, the Group’s aim is to Candidates area also assessed on the basis Authorisations 345,854.79 On the other hand, due to greater awareness have a select team of collaborators in place of quality criteria such as meeting deadlines, Sgma Audit and Certification (Iso 211,718.35 with regards the Group’s environmental risks, who share its environmental values. To this service quality, contractual performance, etc, 14001-Emas) Sacyr has contracted a Corporate Civil Liability end, when contracting services, besides Others (Specify) 701,812.97 Insurance Policy with an international scope assessing their resources and experience, SUBTOTAL 4,705,895.48 that covers all the Sacyr Group’s subsidiaries. it also assesses the supplier’s degree of This environmental liability insurance policy compliance with certain other prerequisites, EXTRAORDINARY sufficiently complies with the qualitative and including: External Environmental Consulting 216,909.54 quantitative demands set out in the laws Disciplinary Proceedings, Multas 70,151.02 applicable in each country (e.g.: Act 26/2007 • The existence of environmental in Spain and Decree – Law 147/2008, in management systems certified in SUBTOTAL 287,060.56 Portugal). The Insurance Programme covers accordance with ISO 9001 or EMAS and of up to €40 million per claim and €65 million quality management systems certified in ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT a year at the Group level. In the specific case accordance with ISO 9001. Environmental and Outreach 7,336.18 of compliance with Portuguese law, a local Energy Efficiency Improvement 1,750,063.23 policy has been arranged with an annual • Their degree of compliance with Resource Consumption Reduction 1,819,799.31 indemnity limit of €5 million per loss. The environmental and quality standards set SUBTOTAL 3,577,198.72 Group insurance programme takes effect to out in documents relating to the activity cover any mismatch in indemnity limits and performed i.e.: tender specifications, ENVIRONMENTAL INCOME insurance conditions. construction procedures, inspection programmes, etc. Grants, Awards 11,839.99 SUBTOTAL 11,839.99 • The adoption of environmental initiatives including the use of advanced, TOTAL 8,581,994.74 environmentally friendly technologies, minimisation of waste, restoration of land occupied by installations, etc. 152 153 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Suppliers assessed throughout 2012, by business area are as follows: rating CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 2011 Suppliers evaluated AREA OF ACTIVITY SPAIN CHILE PORTUGAL CONSTRUCTION SERVICE CONCESSIONS AREA AREA AREA Construction 4.2 N/D 4.3 ENVIRONMENT WATER Property 3.5 N/A N/A SPAIN CHILE PORTUGAL MULTI-SERVICES SPAIN AND SPAIN AND SPAIN PORTUGAL PORTUGAL Development 3.4 N/A N/A 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 Concessions N/A N/A N/A Suppliers Services Evaluated 1,102 764 23 137 1,690 N/D 291 405 265 293 232 153 52 -Energy N/A N/A N/A Favourable -Water 4.1 N/A 4.5 Evaluation 962 700 22 118 739 N/D 284 395 259 282 230 147 52 -Environmental 4.0 N/A 4.4 Unfavourable -Multi-services 3.9 N/A N/A Evaluation 82 35 1 19 88 N/D 5 9 4 6 0 0 0 AVERAGE 3.9 N/a 4.4 Conditional Evaluation 58 29 0 0 863 N/D 2 1 2 5 2 6 0 * Assessment score is between 1-5 (with the latter being the most favourable) Customer satisfaction: Customer satisfaction is a key indicator to From the results of these assessments The information provided in the table above For the Group, customer complaints are a evaluate the overall performance of the (continuous format, i.e. the respondent is for the 2011 period. The findings for the valuable source of information to detect organisation and analysing it helps create chooses a series of numbers, from 1 to 5, period 2012 will be available throughout the dissatisfaction and align services with their a culture of continuous management which defines the extremes, very good and first half of this year. expectations, considering it an opportunity to improvement. very bad), we analyze and implement those meet the customers’ needs. actions necessary to improve customer In addition, the Sacyr Group has a complaints What we seek by measuring our customers’ satisfaction. handling procedure for customers, the From each complaint received an satisfaction is to objectively assess their purpose of which it to regulate any claims investigation is conducted and the perception of all the activities we conduct, The frequency of customer satisfaction that eventually might arise in connection with appropriate action taken to solve it. The and then use this information to improve assessments is established for each business the activities carried out by the group and resolution rate for these complaints was performance in areas that contribute to area, depending on the activity and how long companies that form part of it. 100% in 2012. increasing their satisfaction. it lasts. Currently we are using a system based on Customer Satisfaction Surveys, a system which consists of carrying out surveys on all our customers through questionnaires designed according to the activity conducted and the customers’ characteristics. 154 155 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.7 Role of the shareholder in the strategy The communication channels used by shareholders to contact Sacyr are: SHAREHOLDER SERVICES 2012 January • Telephone shareholder helpline: At year-end 2012, 60.19% of the share 902196360 capital was represented on the Board of • Website: www.sacyr.com February Directors of the company, grouped in 9 • E-mail: significant shareholdings: IR@sacyr.com accionistas@sacyr.com March SHAREHOLDER % Mr. Manuel Manrique Cecilia 6.04 One of the guiding principles underlying April Cymofag, S.L. 6.04 Sacyr Group policy is transparency of information. In particular, the Group ensures Disa Corporación Petrolífera, S.A. 13.01 that information reported to shareholders, May Mr. Juan Abelló Gallo 9.62 to the markets where its shares are listed Nueva Compañía de Inversiones, S.A. and to the bodies regulating these markets Austral B.V. 9.62 is true and complete, that it accurately June Mr. José Manuel Loureda Mantiñán 12.39 reflects its financial position and the result Prilou, S.L. 7.12 of its operations, and that it is submit ted July in compliance with the deadlines and other Prilomi, S.L. 5.27 requirements established in applicable Grupo Corporativo Fuertes, S.L 6.24 regulations, with general market principles August Beta Asociados, S.L. 5.33 and with the good governance principles the NCG Banco S. A. 5.20 company has assumed. Grupo Satocán, S.A. 2.88 September Lastly, highlights of the company’s Mr. Diogo Alvez Diniz Vaz Guedes 0.38 performance, its financial and economic TOTAL SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS 61.09 results, developments in its business October divisions, and stock market performance, among other issues, are published in the quarterly Shareholder’s Bulletin, “En November The Sacyr Group continually strives to ensure Through the Internet channel, the Contacto”. The bulletin is freely available to ongoing and constructive contact with “Shareholders and Investors” section of our the public on the company’s website, and can December shareholders and investors in general, as well website (www.sacyr.com) provides updated also be delivered through a regular e-mail as transparency as regards the Company’s information on all key corporate and financial subscription service. performance and future plans. developments and on the company’s performance. All information is updated as E-mail tel. com Meetings Through the Investor Relations Department, soon as it becomes public, in both Spanish which forms part of the General Management and English. of Finance and Corporate Development, the Group maintains ongoing dialogue with analysts and investors and fluid communication with its minority shareholder. 156 157 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources 5.8 Communication with stakeholders Interim consolidated financial statements: Personal Assistance: The Investor Relations www.cnmv.es, the Spanish stock exchange Department provides shareholders, analysts regulator’s website, and the company´s and investors with a number of direct and The Sacyr Group is aware of the imperative A specific tool designed to facilitate, website www.sacyr.com provide detailed sixpersonalised contact channels: need to establish dialogue channels to streamline and personalise communication monthly information on the Group’s financial guarantee fluid two-way communication with between all employees and the Group’s position. • Telephone (shareholder helpline its stakeholders. It is therefore committed Human Resources Department by giving them 902196360). to full transparency in its communications new functions and greater information and Quarterly Reports: The Sacyr Group and its and to establishing mechanisms allowing providing better service overall. listed subsidiaries prepare quarterly reports • E-mail all stakeholders to express their views and setting out the most significant operating IR@sacyr.com and accionistas@sacyr.com). opinions, in order to properly attend their “Dimensión” in-house magazine: Through this and financial information for the period, needs and expectations. quarterly publication, the Sacyr Group informs including an interim income statement and a • Meeting: Investor Relations Department employees of the work carried out by the consolidated balance sheet at the quarterly personnel meet with stakeholders upon Some of the Sacyr Group’s main channels of different business units, the main corporate close, a description and analysis of each their request. dialogue and engagement with stakeholders responsibility initiatives, the most salient business area, any resolutions issued by the are as follows: corporate news, etc. Boards of Directors, stock market performance Customers and the current shareholding structure. Employees Conduct Helpline: This is a mechanism • Satisfaction surveys: Sacyr carries out whereby staff can confidentially report Annual Corporate Governance Report: In surveys among its customers to ascertain Portal Sacyr the Group’s intranet provides any irregularities they detect regarding accordance with prevailing legislation, the their satisfaction with the products and employees with access to a wide variety of the behaviour of the organisation or its Sacyr Group and its listed subsidiary prepare services acquired, as well as their needs and content and applications, including: employees. Available through the intranet, this annual report providing information expectations. Information obtained through e-mail and surface mail. on the following: ownership structure, these surveys is used as a reference point in Information on the organisation (internal administrative structure, operations with ongoing improvement processes. regulations, directory, organisational charts, Shareholders, analysts and investors related parties, risk control systems, the informative notes, Corporate Responsibility annual general meeting, and the degree • Direct dialogue: The Group maintains a close Reports, etc.). General shareholders meeting: This is an of compliance with good governance and long-standing relationship with many excellent forum for interchanging information recommendations. of its customers, based on ongoing dialogue A communication section containing, among between company directors and shareholders. and close ties. For example, relationships other items, a daily press summary, press At these meetings, directors report on the Quarterly Results Published quarterly forged with many public entities that require releases issued by the company. progress of the company, its profits, and the highlights the most important information the services of Group companies a number main milestones reached and planned, while on company’s performance, its financial of times and with which Sacyr has a long “Contactar”, an intranet space through which shareholders can request information and and economic results, developments in history. Group employees can submit comments, clarification and make any comments they its business divisions, and stock market questions, suggestions or requests to deem appropriate and are able to get their performance, among other issues. • After-Sales Service: Through this channel, different mailboxes within the organisation message across to the company directors. the Group deals with any customer (suggestions, training, R&D+i, green mail box). Websites of the Group and listed subsidiaries: complaints that may arise and takes the Annual Report: The Sacyr Group and its listed These websites contain all relevant corporate steps necessary to resolve the situations at A series of themed sites containing subsidiaries (Testa) prepare an annual report and financial information regarding the the root of such complaints. information on specific issues (quality and presenting their financial results and the most performance of the companies, as well environment, supplies, planning, prevention, important milestones for the development of as all information made public through R&D+i, technology, etc.). its businesses achieved in the period. different financial and economic reports and communications (annual report, quarterly results, etc.). 158 159 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources Public entities In addition to regulating the framework in • Press releases issued by the Group. which the Group carries out its activities, public entities are also one of its main • Press dossier containing the most important customer groups. Consequently, throughout news stories on the Company published in the years a number of channels have been newspapers and magazines. established to guarantee fluid and ongoing dialogue with this stakeholder group. For • Details of press conferences on the Group’s instance, meetings are held regularly between results, corporate operations, etc. members of Group management and public representatives, Sacyr also participates in • Subscription-based e-mail newsletter forums and work groups organised by the containing important news on Sacyr. public sector and co-hosts special events, among other initiatives. • Photographs of assets and projects in all the Company’s areas of activity. Suppliers and contractors • Graphs and charts showing the Group’s key The Sacyr Group establishes cooperative financial indicators. relationships with suppliers and contractors that are based on confidence, transparency Personal Assistance: Sacyr makes the of information and shared knowledge, following channels available for the media experience and capacities. These to directly contact the Group Communication relationships aim to achieve common goals Department: Local communities, NGOs and other and guarantee mutual benefit. Telephone: 91 545 52 94. members of the civil society E-mail: comunicacion@sacyr.com Media • Group website: The website contains a • E-mail boxes: Sacyr makes two e-mail wealth of up-to-date information on many addresses available to the public, a general Valles del Bio Bio, Press Releases Information is released to the aspects of the organisation and is the email (info@sacyr.com) and an e-mail Queule Quarry, media on new developments in the Group’s Group’s main external communication address for corporate social responsibility Chile. activity. channel. issues (rcorporativa@sacyr.com). Any interested party can submit inquiries, Group website: The Sacyr Group’s corporate • Annual Corporate Responsibility Report: opinions, comments, or suggestions through website includes a section for the press Through the publication of this yearly these channels. and the general public, where the following report, Sacyr meets its commitment to information is available: report on its performance from a threefold economic, social and environmental perspective. The report contains a section in which readers are invited to submit any queries, comments or suggestions they may have. 160 161 05 Strategy and Sacyr 2012 resources SUMMARY OF SACYR GROUP COMMUNICATION CHANNELS SACYR AS SACYR AS GROUPS OF INTEREST CHANNELS OF COMMUNICATION RECEIVER ISSUER Employees Group intranet (Sacyr Site) X X Employee mail boxes (suggestions, training, R&D+I, green mail box, etc.) “Dimensión” in-house magazine X Conduct Helpline X Employee portal X X Shareholders, analysts and investors Shareholders’ Meeting X X Annual and six-monthly financial statements X Quarterly reports X Annual Corporate Governance Report X Shareholders’ Newsletter X Websites of the Group and listed subsidiaries X Personal assistance X X Customers Satisfaction surveys X Direct dialogue X X After-sales service X Public entities Meetings between members of the Group’s senior management and public X X representatives Sacyr’s participation in forums and work groups organised by the public X X sector Co-hosting of special events X X Suppliers and contractors Direct dialogue X X Media Press releases X Group website X Personal assistance X X Local communities, NGOs and other members of civil society Sacyr 3rd Edition innovation awards. Group website X Annual Corporate Responsibility Report X X E-mail boxes X 162 163 06 Business 6.1 Key factors and competitive advantage 166 6.2 Value chain 168 model 6.3 Description of the various businesses 170 06 Business Sacyr 2012 model 6.1 Key factors and competitive advantages Technological capacity Sacyr has achieved throughout its history In this environment, the Group has been unanimous recognition in the sector and the able to carry out an ambitious financial Business and quality asset mix Internationalisation markets, for its high technological capacity consolidation process which has led to and implementation in different business a drastic reduction in debt levels by reThe combination of businesses with long-term In late 2008 the Group’s business portfolio areas. From the Property Development adapting them and their maturities, a profitability and which are not significantly had a 27% international presence. At the Division, where Vallehermoso ranks as the substantial strengthening of capital through exposed to economic cycles (Real Estate, end of 2012, this had increased to 55%. In oldest and best quality developer in the two expansions and a bond issue, along with Concessions and Services), with short-term specific areas, internationalization has come market, with over 60 years of experience two very important refinancing operations businesses more linked to the economic even further still: the construction area holds and continuous activity, to the construction for approximately 3.8 billion euros. These environment (Construction and Development), 80% of its portfolio beyond our borders, division, where some of the largest civil works are particularly valuable if we consider how forms the proper distribution of activities, Concessions has 66% of its business outside in the world are being executed (including closed markets are at present. thus enabling us to tackle economic Spain and the Services and Industrial Division the largest of them all, the execution of the downturns with greater guarantees. The has 33% of its portfolio in foreign markets. third set of locks of the Panama Canal), not This has been done without affecting the Group’s historical ability to form a portfolio forgetting the Industrial Services area which smooth running of the core business and with top quality assets, gives great flexibility In terms of turnover, Construction is 51% has executed the world’s largest reverse while implementing a new corporate strategy in the standard asset turnover policy. As their in foreign markets, Concessions 64% and osmosis desalination in Perth (Australia) at the same time. activities are also complementary, there is a Industrial Services 27%. or other specific high-tech areas such as higher capacity for synergies. tunnelling (through our subsidiary Cavosa), or Cost structure-profitability high-speed railway construction. The efforts made in this area have made On the other hand, both the Concessions and possible to create a cost structure considered the Real Estate division boast a well-earned among the lightest in the industry. After reputation in their management capacity, an initial adjustment in 2010, mainly to INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITY with ratios above the average in the first the workforce, reducing other overheads PORTFOLIO TURNOVER case, or outstanding returns with virtually full has made it possible not only to improve CONSTRUCTION 80% 51% occupancy in the case of Testa. profitability significantly in terms of EBITDA CONCESSIONS 66% 64% margin (which rose from 11% to 14% in Adaptability the last three years), but has also allowed SERVICES INDUSTRIAL 33% 27% significant job creation in the last two Sacyr has been characterised in recent years, without hindering improvements in years for it high capacity to adapt to the profitability at the same time. environment and especially the new This process has become the main driver characteristics of a complex global economy, for future growth and will ensure turnover where important frameworks such as finance, stability, in the event of potential fluctuations consumption and public investment have in the domestic market or other markets. been seriously affected. 166 167 06 Business Sacyr 2012 model Vitoria-Bilbao-San 6.2 Sebastián HighSpeed Railway Line. Stretch: AramaioValue chain Mondragón. The pursuit of creating value for the Sacyr, one of the world leaders in community that should guide the operation of infrastructure investment. any business, takes on particular importance in the case of the Sacyr Group, which by According to a study published in the journal the very nature of its activities, represents Public Works Financing, Sacyr Vallehermoso an important driver of social and economic Group, through its subsidiary Sacyr development. Concessions, was ranked in 2012 in one of the leading positions worldwide for the number of Many activities are carried out by the Group’s concessions in which it participates, and the companies, and often in partnership with volume of investment therein. public entities, and as a result generate direct and indirect positive impacts on society. Drinking water obtained through desalination This applies to the construction and Sadyt, a Sacyr Group subsidiary, is a company maintenance of infrastructure for public dedicated to the design, construction, use (roadways, health centres, airports, maintenance and operation of water treatment etc.), private housing construction, power systems. generation from renewable sources or water supply and sanitation activities, to name a few. Currently it is the leader in reverse osmosis desalination, with major projects underway or Sacyr contributes in this way through the under development in Spain, Algeria, Australia development of its own activity, to the and Israel. With this activity, Sadyt contributes to supplying water to areas where this resource structuring of the territory, the strengthening is scarce and improving the quality of water of society and the economy, and ultimately available. improving the individual’s quality of life. 168 169 06 Business Sacyr 2012 model 6.3 Description of the various businesses Construction: Sacyr Construcción Locally-implemented structures and Despite being the newest section in Sacyr, the generating recurrent revenues, due to the equipment. services section is experiencing the fastest extended lifetime of its managed assets and Since the founding of the Group, its policy growth, thanks to intense contract activity in its customer portfolio. This means that it is an of diversifying into various activities which Collaboration with Sacyr Concesiones, Testa, its four areas: excellent consistent creator of value. Moreover, complement each other has given rise not Valoriza and Vallehermoso. the potential for appreciation of its real estate only to a constant increase in activity levels Miscellaneous services (integral building assets means that capital gains may be added and business parameters, but also to the Cutting-edge technology, quality, meeting maintenance, motorway and dual carriageway to the income generated from rent. possibility of taking advantage of synergies deadlines and risk prevention. maintenance, service areas on motorways between the various businesses. Thus, in and dual carriageways, healthcare services, The Testa group has a portfolio of first-class construction, civil engineering and building Concessions: Sacyr Concesiones integral hospital management). assets, located in the best locations and projects are complemented by property rented to large companies and with medium promotion, equity business and concessions, The concessions business started up in Water (management of the entire cycle, and long-term leases. along with business activities involved 1996 when the Group was awarded its first treatment, desalination, purification y recycling). in the entire water lifecycle, renewable concession in Chile. Turnover of mature assets is also considered, energies and, finally, environmental Industry (energy plants, waste treatment, oil provided that this generates funds for new, activities, and other services. This also During 2009 the sale of certain shares and gas, electrical installations). more profitable investments, and the value allows for any downturns in economic cycles in the company Itínere were concluded. of the asset is not expected to increase to be compensated for. This, along with Sacyr Concesiones retained corporate Environment (municipal services, waste significantly in the future. the necessary efficiency and autonomy of shareholdings in 25 concessions that were management, landscape restoration, management and application of advanced in the construction or ramp-up phases and environmental projects). Property development: Vallehermoso technology, leads naturally to maximum the rest of the non-motorway assets (service Property Development Division viability and risk prevention. areas, intermodal transfer facilities, airports, Without a doubt, the four areas of and hospitals). All of these were grouped environmental activities, water, miscellaneous Vallehermoso’s business activity is centred It is important to highlight Sacyr’s technical into a new company, Sacyr Concesiones, services and alternative energies are very on the primary home market, mainly in and technological capacity, and that of the which is the vehicle through which Sacyr strong and dynamic at present, and have cities, mainly for the middle and mid-to-high other construction companies in the Group. Group continues to develop its activities in an even more promising future. They also socioeconomic segments. This capacity allows the Group to tackle the infrastructure concession sector, with its supplement other activities relating to highly complex projects requiring first-class sights firmly fixed on greenfield projects. construction, rental property, property Vallehermoso’s reputation is backed by a personnel and technology. This is amply promotion or concessions very well, both due solid 60 years of experience. The real-estate demonstrated by contracts such as Murcia Services and Industrial: Valoriza Gestión to their clear synergies and because they developer in the Group has established itself Airport, works in progress such as the Panama provide stability against cyclical downturns. not only as the most experienced company Canal and the Sants-La Sagrera tunnel, and Valoriza Gestión heads the services section in the sector in Spain, but also as a market completed works such as the Plaza Elíptica of the Group, and brings together general Rental Property Testa leader due to its business model. Intermodal Transfer Facility and the Sacyr management and administration services for Tower in Madrid or the interconnection this area. The Sacyr Group operates in this activity between lines 1 and 4 of the Madrid Metro, through its subsidiary Testa Inmuebles en are a good example of this. In recent years, the Valoriza group has Renta, a publicly-listed company in which the grown substantially, and has become more Group holds a 99.33% stake. The Sacyr Construction strategy has three dynamic via company reorganisation and the Testa has an outstanding capacity for basic pillars: acquisition of companies in the service sector. 170 171 07 Financial performance 7.1 Consolidated results 174 7.2 Commentary on the most significant aspects 176 7.3 Share performance 186 7.4 Construction Division 190 7.5 Concessions Division 204 7.6 Services and Industrial Division 214 7.7 Property Division 228 7.8 Promotion Division 240 7.9 Participating interests. Repsol 246 7.10 Social behaviour 250 7.11 Environmental performance 260 7.12 Sustainable development and biodiversity 280 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.1 Consolidated results We would highlight the following summarised • Net profit contains a number of impacts general results for year-end 2012: on the income statement with no effect on cash flow (being changes in accounting • Positive performance of the activities. The policies or valuation of assets), and affect Income statement variation in turnover compared to 2011 was the comparison of operating results -5.4% and EBITDA performance has been between the years. positive due to tight control of operating CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT costs, with a lower decline of 3.3%. The The most important of these impacts has (Thousands of Euros) positive trend in the second half of the year been the impairment of the value of the DECEMBER moderated the decline in revenue, which stake in Repsol to adjust the carrying value % Var 12/11 2012 2011 reached -20% at the close of 2011 and to the fair value which Sacyr held at the -17% in the first half of 2012, to close the end of first half of 2012, with an impact on Net Revenue 3,613,733 3,820,246 -5.4% year at -5%, with EBITDA improving from -7 the income statement of -973 million euros Other Income 213,417 298,448 -28.5% % to -3%. (-780 million euros net of tax). Additionally, Total Operating Income 3,827,150 4,118,694 -7.1% Sacyr has made valuation adjustments this External and Operating Expenses -3,321,065 -3,595,132 -7.6% • Core business and the consolidated year to the fair value of some of its assets GROSS OPERATING RESULT 506,085 523,562 -3.3% operating margins consolidated: The mostly real estate and concessions and Depreciation -187,442 -203,690 -8.0% consolidated EBITDA margin reached has posted provisions to cover the impact 14.0% in 2012, up from 13.7% in 2011, that a further deterioration of the economic Working Capital Provisions -364,331 -105,018 n.s. consolidating the business margins. situation might have on any of its activities. NET OPERATING INCOME -45,688 214,854 n.s. Recurring profit, net of these extraordinary Net Finance Gain/Loss -404,565 -539,228 -25.0% • The intense activity in the international impacts, would have amounted to 90 Gain/Loss on Exchange Rate Differences 479 508 -5.6% arena continues to pay off. In 2012 we were million euros after tax. Gain/loss on Companies accounted for using equity method -869,356 -671,931 -29.4% awarded major contracts in Chile, Panama and Angola and added new markets, such Provisions for Financial Investments -36,676 -25,962 -41.3% as Togo, Colombia and Bolivia, adding new Change in value of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss -9,661 232 n.s. markets to those in which it Sacyr operates. Gain/Losses on disposal of non-current assets -120 -1,124,955 n.s. Pre-tax profit -1,365,588 -2,146,483 36.4% Corporate Taxes 385,767 539,591 -28.5% PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS -979,821 -1,606,892 39.0% PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 3,069 4,766 -35.6% CONSOLIDATED PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR -976,752 -1,602,127 39.0% Attributable to Minority Interests -784 -2,004 60.9% ATTRIBUTABLE NET PROFIT -977,536 -1,604,131 39.1% Gross income 14% 13.7% 0.3 pp 174 175 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.2 Ebitda (Thousands of Euros) Commentary on the most 2012 DECEMBER 2011 % Var 12/11 significant aspects Construction (Sacyr Construcción-Somague) 114,780 141,026 -18.6% Services (Valoriza) 178,624 158,227 12.9% Concessions (Sacyr Concesiones) 94,123 92,941 1.3% Property management (Testa) 217,776 200,206 8.8% Real estate development (Vallehermoso) -83,119 -53,081 -56.6% Revenue and EBITDA Holdings & Adjustments -16,098 -15,757 GROSS OPERATING INCOME 506,085 523,562 -3.3% Total revenue at 31 December 2012 reached EBITDA performance has also been positive, EBITDA Margin (%) 14.0% 13.7% 3.614 billion euros, expanding in all business amounting at 31 December 2012 to 506 areas except construction activity, which has million euros with an EBITDA margin of 14%, been affected by the slowdown in domestic higher than the margin of 13.7% obtained GROSS OPERATING INCOME EBITDA MARGIN activity. at 31 December 2011, highlighting the (Thousands of Euros) (%) profitability of the core activities of the group. Total sales in the fourth quarter reached 2012 506.085 2012 14,0% 964 million euros, up 21% from the last As has been the case in previous quarters, quarter of 2011 and also higher than the the contraction in revenue has had no direct previous quarters of the year, consolidating impact on EBITDA due to the close monitoring the turnaround started in the second half of of procurement margin and the strict the year. monitoring and cost control plan implemented 2011 13,7% by Sacyr. 2011 523.562 The performance of the various business areas is as follows: • Revenue in the Construction division (Australia) and in Multi-services (+13% ) for amounted to 1.976 billion euros, of the organic growth in this activity. which international activity now accounts for 52%. The decline in sales over the • Revenue in the Concessions activity REVENUE previous year in Spain and Portugal was increased by 14% mainly due to the (Thousands of Euros) partially offset by the growth in the other commissioning of new concessions DECEMBER countries in which Sacyr operates. Backlog (Vallenar Caldera motorway (Chile) in % Var 12/11 2012 2011 amounted to 5.998 billion euros, with 80% the last months of 2011 and, in 2012, of Construction (Sacyr Construcción-Somague) 1,975,525 2,438,782 -19.0% corresponding to work abroad. In 2012 the Terceira Island Hospital (Azores) and a Services (Valoriza) 1,123,016 991,901 13.2% major contracts were awarded in Chile, stretch of the Arlanzón motorway). Panama, Angola, Togo and Colombia. This Concessions (Sacyr Concesiones) 267,212 444,042 13.8%* high level of backlog ensures the evolution • Rental Property maintained stable revenue Property management (Testa) 251,627 250,902 0.3% of this activity in the future. thanks to the stability and recurrence of Real estate development (Vallehermoso) 189,885 179,606 5.7% income, despite having a smaller leasable Holdings & Adjustments -193,533 -484,987 • The Service activity maintains a high growth area in 2012 after having sold an office REVENUE 3,613,733 3,820,246 -5.4% rate, with revenue increasing about 13% building in Barcelona. Based on an equal over 2011. Growth has been particularly surface area, revenue growth was 1.3%. (*) Revenue growth ex construction revenues prominent in the Water activities (+41%) due to the start of construction of the desalination plant in Ashdod (Israel) and the expansion of the desalination plant in Perth 176 177 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance • Lastly, in the Residential Property December 2011. The weight of international Geographically, 21% of international Results of companies accounted for using the Development activity, 509 homes were sales is maintaining an upward trend and will revenue was generated in Panama, for the equity method delivered for a total of 132 million euros. continue to do so in the future thanks to the redevelopment of the Canal, another 21% Land sales brought in 53 million euros and high international component of backlog. in Angola from the construction activity of This item on the income statement reflects revenues received for services rendered Somague and the services of Valoriza, 17% a loss of -859 million euros on our stake in totalled 5 million euros. The second half of The deterioration of the economic situation derives from Portugal, 11% from Chile for the Repsol, of which 207 million euros related the year was very positive for this activity in Spain and Portugal caused a contraction construction of newly awarded concessions, to our share in the net profit of 2.06 billion and 40% of the housing stock was sold at in sales in the Iberian Peninsula of -23% 10% from Italy for construction activity euros reported by Repsol at 31 December the beginning of the year. compared to 2011 (-9% in Spain, -47% in conducted by SIS, 6% in Australia from the 2012 and -1066 million euros to impairment Portugal), while revenues in the rest countries contribution of Valoriza Water, 5% from resulting from the adjustment to fair value Year-on-year performance of EBITDA was in which Sacyr operates expanded by 24%. Israel, also for the water activity, and the rest that emerges from the impairment test. impacted primarily by promotional activity This growth came especially from Panama, is primarily derived from the activities in and the slow-down in domestic construction. Angola, Israel, Australia, Algeria, Brazil and Ireland, Costa Rica, Cape Verde, Brazil, Bolivia Backlog Bolivia. and Algeria and Testa’s vacation properties in Margins in the rest of the activities remained Miami and Paris. The future income from backlog amounted to at similar levels to the previous year, despite 40.232 billion euros and is basically based on the deterioration of the macroeconomic and Financial results recurring activities: concessions and services, financial environment. The EBITDA margin in representing 51% and 28% respectively of Construction reached 5.8%, 16% in Services The net financial loss amounted to -405 the total backlog, also highlighting the high and 59% in Concessions. Regarding the Rental million euros compared with -539 million volume of backlog on contracts primarily Property activity, the EBITDA margin excluding euros in 2011, a 25% improvement due awarded abroad. Operating income implied asset turnover remained stable at 79%. to the reduction of Group debt and lower in this level of backlog amounts to 15.596 commissions and other financing costs. The billion euros. International activity average interest rate on debt dropped from 4.36% at 31 December 2011 to 4.00% at the Sacyr’s international activity now accounts close of 2012. for 41% of sales compared to 39% at the 31 BACKLOG INTERNATIONAL REVENUE (Thousands of Euros) REVENUE (Thousands of Euros) % DECEMBER 2012 DECEMBER % Var 12/11 Income % Ebitda(1) Ebitda 2012 2011 Sacyr Construcción Somague (Construction backlog) 5,998,006 5.8% 348,489 Spain 2,128,315 2,348,125 -9% Vallehermoso (Presales backlog) 20,640 Portugal 255,986 482,866 -47% Sacyr Concesiones (Income backlog) 20,387,883 58.6% 11,948,166 Other countries 1,229,432 989,255 24% Testa (Rentals to maturity) 2,267,394 79.8% 1,809,258 REVENUE 3,613,733 3,820,246 -5% Valoriza (Services backlog) 11,558,272 15.9% 1,838,429 2012 INTERNATIONAL 41% 39% BACKLOG 40,232,195 38.8% 15,595,853 41% 2011 (1) EBITDA Margin at 31 December 2012. 39% 178 179 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance The award of the hospital in Antofagasta, La INTERNATIONAL BACKLOG Serena Highway Ovalle of Route 43, and % the modernisation of the Northern Coastal Highway, all in Chile, are behind the increase in backlog in the last quarter of 2012. Backlog maintained similar levels to the previous year given the appropriate level of replacements. International backlog 55% of backlog comes from international activity. 2012 55% 2011 52% BACKLOG (Thousands of Euros) DECEMBER Var 12/ 11 2012 2011* Abroad 22,193,056 20,934,825 6.0% Spain 18,039,139 19,054,303 -5.3% CARTERA DE NEGOCIOS 40,232,195 39,989,128 0.6% % International 55% 52% 2.8 pp * Restated for changes in scope of consolidation • The construction business accounts for • As for Valoriza, international backlog 80% of international backlog due to the accounts for 33% of the total of this intense tendering taking place outside of division, with a presence in Israel, Algeria, Spain, which has led to contracts in Chile, Australia, Brazil, Portugal, Bolivia and other Italy, Panama, Israel, Angola, Cape Verde, countries, primarily for projects related to Interior of Moncloa Colombia, Togo, Bolivia and other countries. water and industrial activities. transport hub. Madrid • In the concession business, international backlog represents 65% of the total and stems from our concessions in Chile, Italy, Costa Rica, Portugal and Ireland. 180 181 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Consolidated Balance Sheet CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET The main change that has taken place during corresponding to the investment in Repsol (Thousands of Euros) the period in the balance sheet has been the (2.468 billion euros) and to the concession DECEMBER adjustment of the value of the stake in Repsol companies of Sacyr Concesiones. This item % Var 12/11 in the first half of the year, which is behind also reflects as mentioned above long2012 2011 the decrease in non-current financial assets. term accounts receivable for concession Non-current assets 9,787,237 10,795,321 -1,008,085 assets arising from the application of IFRIC Intangible assets 11,614 14,982 -3,368 Non-current assets 12 in the amount of 950 million euros. In Real estate investments 2,494,075 2,623,606 -129,531 addition, this item includes 1.325 billion Concession projects 1,384,558 1,594,395 -209,837 • At December 31, the group had invested euros for deferred taxes. Fixed Assets 552,712 604,369 -51,657 in concession projects in operation (mostly highways) 1.082 billion euros Current assets Financial assets 5,199,104 5,800,562 -601,458 net of accumulated depreciation, and Other Assets, Non-Current. 2,045 13,217 -11,172 302 million euros in developing projects. Overall, working capital totals 5.174 Goodwill 143,128 144,190 -1,062 Additionally, non-current financial assets billion euros, of which 200 million euros Current assets 5,174,014 5,915,024 -741,010 include 950 million euros invested in riskcorresponds to non-current assets classified Non-current assets held for sale 199,668 319,793 -120,125 free concessions and 121 million euros is as held for sale (this includes the 15.5% stake included as current financial assets. the Sacyr holds in Itínere). Inventories 1,996,548 2,322,000 -325,452 Debtors 2,124,694 2,423,711 -299,017 • Real estate assets include properties in The most significant portion corresponds to Financial assets 227,767 265,100 -37,333 operation with a net value of 2.494 billion inventory, amounting to 1.996 billion euros, Cash 625,337 584,420 40,917 euros, mainly assigned to the business which mostly relates to Vallehermoso’s TOTAL ASSETS / LIABILITIES 14,961,251 16,710,345 -1,749,094 assets. The annual variation is due to the property development activity, and to sale of an office building in Barcelona, accounts receivable, amounting to 2.125 Net equity 1,476,156 2,548,286 -1,072,130 which resulted in a capital gain of 12 billion euros. The reduction in inventory is Shareholders Equity 1,427,762 2,500,934 -1,073,172 million euros for Sacyr. due to sales in the year. Minority Interests 48,394 47,352 1,042 Non-current liabilities 7,723,907 8,295,615 -571,708 • Fixed Assets, for a net amount of 553 million Financial debt 6,634,815 7,265,169 -630,354 euros, includes investments in cogeneration and power generation plants, water and Financial instruments at fair value 216,756 241,295 -24,539 sanitation networks and other projects in Provisions 198,429 156,791 41,637 the services business as well as machinery, Other Liabilities, Non-Current. 673,908 632,359 41,548 technical equipment and other fixed Current liabilities 5,761,187 5,866,445 -105,258 assets, with the balance sheet reflecting Liabilities associated with assets held for sale 0 0 0 accumulated depreciation of 535 million euros. Financial debt 2,738,783 2,314,971 423,812 Financial instruments at fair value 23,077 17,086 5,991 • Financial assets include holdings Trade creditors 2,350,925 2,810,867 -459,942 consolidated under the equity method Trade provisions 301,047 203,007 98,040 amounting to 2.606 billion euros, Other current liabilities 347,355 520,514 -173,159 among which we would highlight that 182 183 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Net equity Net equity at December 31, 2012 amounted The new shares were admitted to trading on to 1.476 billion euros. 97% of the total 23 July 2012. Accordingly at 31 December (1.428 billion euros) corresponds to the net 2012 share capital was represented by 443.7 worth of Sacyr and 48 million euros to the million shares with a par value of 1 euro each. minority shareholders of the Group. Financial debt In the General Meeting held on 21 June 2012 the shareholders agreed to a capital increase The Group’s total net debt at 31 December against reserves amounting to 21.1 million 2012 amounts to 8.643 billion euros. The euros through the issue of 21 million shares breakdown is as follows: with a par value of 1 euro for free allocation to shareholders in the proportion of one new share for every twenty old. • The Group’s net corporate debt amounts to • Bank lending to finance the investment 360 million euros. of 9.7% in Repsol at 31 December had a balance of 2.367 billion euros. The • The debt arising from the financing of conditions of this financing provide for infrastructure concessions stands at 1.379 an interest rate of Euribor +350 bp and it NET FINANCIAL DEBT (Millions of euros) billion euros. This debt is associated with matures in 2015. The debt is serviced by the long-term financing of projects secured Repsol dividends. Construction of the Type of Debt by the cash flows of the concessions. third set of locks for the Panama Canal. December Structured Linked to Corporate • The structure of Valoriza’s debt, with a Atlantic Zone 2012 Financing* contracts Debt • In the Rental Property Division, the debt balance of 403 million euros, corresponds Testa 2,279 2,279 consists of mortgage loans and lease largely to the financing of water, renewable contracts for an amount of 2.279 billion energy and environmental services Sacyr Concesiones 1,379 1,379 euros, including finance assets in operation concession projects and is serviced with Vallehermoso 1,235 1,235 and under development, which have cash flows. Sacyr Construcción + Somague 180 52 128 been valued at 31 December 2012 by an Valoriza 403 258 145 independent expert at 3.878 billion euros. • The debt associated with the Construction Repsol 2,367 2,367 The debt of the property management activity has a balance of 180 million business is serviced with the cash flows euros, including working capital financing, Participación Itínere 253 253 generated from rentals thanks to the structured financing of works with deferred Corporate 360 360 buildings’ high occupancy rates. payment. SUBTOTAL 8,455 3,967 4,127 360 Convertible bonds 189 • Regarding the Property Development • Lastly, the debt associated with our stake in TOTAL NET FINANCIAL DEBT 8,643 3,967 4,127 360 activity, with net debt of 1.235 billion Itínere amounts to 253 million euros and euros, financed through the assets listed in will be cancelled with the sale of the stake. * Project Finance, Mortgages and Leasing Vallehermoso balance sheet with a carrying value of 1.442 billion euros and a value to at 31 December 2012 of 1.848 billion euros according to the independent expert appraisal. This debt was refinanced in 2010 with a structure that does not divert resources from the rest of the group. 184 185 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.3 Share performance The financial problems of Greece, the sovereign debt crisis and other multiple factors tested the euro and negatively affected economies such as Spain’s, which suffered severely from the consequences of these and other internal factors. At 31 December 2012 the share capital of At 31 December 2012, Sacyr market Sacyr Vallehermoso, S.A. was comprised of capitalisation stood at 733.04 million euros. PRICING EVOLUTION 2012 443,728,374 shares of the same class and Sacyr Group’s share price was logically (Euros) series and with equal rights and par value of affected by the environment in which the 1 euro each, all fully subscribed and paid in. national and international economies are 5 immersed and the share performance on The Board of Directors of the Company, in its the Continuous Market is summarised in the 4 meeting held on 21 June, passed a resolution following table: to begin the process of implementing the shareholder resolution to increase share 3 capital against reserves, approved in the Annual General Meeting of the Company SHARE EVOLUTION DURING 2012 2 held the 21 June 2012. The aforementioned capital increase was executed for a nominal 1 Number of quoting shares 443,728,374 amount of 21,129,922 euros by issuance and Volume negotiated (Thousands of Euros) 1,489,547 placement of 21,129,922 shares of the same 0 class and series and with the same rights, with Days of negotiation 256 J F M A M J J A S O N D a par value of one euro (€1) each. The new Closure price 2011 (Euros) 3.97 shares began trading on 23 July 2012. Closure price 2012 (Euros) 1.65 The Group’s trading volume totalled 1.489,6 billion euros, with an average daily volume of Maximum (03/01/12) (Euros) 4.04 The following table shows the share capital of 3,277,892 shares compared to 1,879,973 shares in 2011. Minimum (23/07/12) (Euros) 1.01 the company at the close of the last two years: Mean weighted price (Euros) 1.77 Mean daily volume (no, of shares) 3,277,892 VOLUMES 2012 Liquidity (shares negotiated/capital) 1.89 (Nº Titles) EVOLUTION OF CAPITAL (Euros) January 27,021,613 Capital Stock No. of shares February 49,332,164 2012 443,728,374 443,728,374 2012, like the previous year, was marked by March 64,903,145 2011 422,598,452 422,598,452 a widespread and global economic crisis, April 70,977,388 whose magnitude was echoed by the stock May 129,876,923 markets. The main Spanish index, the Ibex 35, registered a decline of 4.66%. This left June 64,796,765 the index below 9,000 points, closing at July 71,980,046 8,167.5. August 61,670,981 September 89,976,188 October 77,284,374 November 65,979,170 December 65,341,735 186 187 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Sacyr Head Office. Madrid STOCK INFORMATION (Share Prices in Euros) 2012 2011 %12/11 Maximum 4.04 9.59 -57.87% Minimum 1.01 3.75 -73.07% Average 1.77 6.15 -71.22% Year-end 1.65 3.97 -58.39% Average daily volume (No. of Shares) 3,277,892 1,879,973 74.36% Annual Volume (Thousands of Euros) 1,489,547 2,970,128 -49.85% Nº. of Shares at year-end (admitted to trading) 443,728,374 422,598,452 5.00% Market Capitalization (Thousands of Euros) 733,039 1,677,716 -56.31% Price/Carrying amount (No. of times) 0.49 0.66 -25.21% At the closure of the 2012 financial year, It must be highlighted than none of the 20 analysis companies performed active companies recommended “selling”. Therefore, monitoring of Sacyr shares, and 2 of these shares had a maximum revaluation potential were reviewing their valuation. In all, 89% according to analysts, with 80% bull trend recommended “buying”, “overweighting” or among comparable shares in the Ibex 35. “maintaining”, while 11% recommended “underweighting”. 188 189 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 KEY FIGURES SACYR CONSTRUCCIÓN-SOMAGUE (Millions of Euros) performance 7.4 Construction Division 6,680.68 In 2012, the Sacyr Group’s construction In 2012, both public administrations 5,998.01 companies, primarily Sacyr and Somague, and agencies (Ministries of Public Works have once again demonstrated their topand of the Environment, Adif, Aena and level technical, operating and commercial organisations belonging to the various capabilities. These aptitudes have enabled regional governments and city councils) us to build up a construction backlog and a large number of private clients worth 5,998.1 billion euros and achieve have entrusted their projects to Sacyr success in leading international projects. construction companies, locking in a high The satisfactory progress of these projects, level of activity over the coming years. particularly the Panama Canal, bear witness to the technological strength of the Group’s In terms of the type of work undertaken, construction division. the Group operates in all areas of 141.03 infrastructure projects (highspeed railway 114.78 Ebitda The internationalisation of the construction lines, underground train lines, airports, 2,438.78 business has become a driver that assures motorways, toll roads, etc.) and is very 105.37 Construction Backlog future volume even in the face of the tough active in both public and private building 1,975.52 120.21 conditions now prevailing in the Spanish construction. Cash ﬂow and global economies. At year-end 2012, 62.98 80% of the construction business portfolio 53.50 Net Proﬁt was located outside of Spain. Revenue The Group, which has been active in the Spanish construction industry through Sacyr since 1986, had the longest order book in the sector at more than 36 months of 2011 2012 guaranteed work. KEY FIGURES SACYR CONSTRUCCIÓN-SOMAGUE Backlog (Millions of Euros) 2011 2012 At the close of 2012 backlog stood at Revenue 2,438.78 1,975.52 5,998.1 billion euros. Apart from Spain, Net Profit 62.98 53.50 accounting for 20% of the backlog, international markets, namely Portugal, Cash flow 105.37 120.21 Ireland, Panama Costa Rica, Chile and Construction Backlog 6,680.68 5,998.01 other countries, now comprise 80% of the Ebitda 141.03 114.78 backlog. 190 191 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION BACKLOG / BACKLOG ABROAD (Millions of Euros) 2011 2012 Spain 1,582.30 1,181.66 Abroad 5,098.38 4,816.35 TOTAL 6,680.68 5,998.01 NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION BACKLOG / BACKLOG ABROAD (%) 2011 2012 Spain 23.68% 19.70% Abroad 76.32% 80.30% TOTAL 100.00% 100.00% This construction backlog is roughly equivalent to 350 million euros in terms of future Ebitda. BACKLOG (Millions of Euros) 2011 2012 Civil Works 5,878.20 5,363.30 Building 802.48 634.71 TOTAL 6,680.68 5,998.01 BACKLOG (Millions of Euros) BUILDING 2011 2012 Residential 213.85 145.34 Non-residential 588.63 489.37 TOTAL 802.48 634.71 Almeria-Murcia High-Speed Railway Line. Stretch: Los Gallardos-Sorbas 192 193 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Revenue GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF BACKLOG The Group performs a wide variety of civil Construction revenue in 2012 was in (Millions of Euros) works, with a breakdown that is perfectly excess of 1,975.52 billion euros. The 2011 2012 aligned with the present distribution of Spanish market accounted for 47% of Spain 1,582.30 1,181.66 public investment and the requirements of revenue, while the remaining 53% came Portugal 308.97 318.01 private clients. Construction activity in civil from international works. Civil engineering Ireland 2.52 0.04 works accounted for 87% of the backlog was predominant, accounting for 65% of at year end. Activity levels were high and revenue. Chile 548.56 997.21 spanned all types of projects. Italy 2,346.39 1,748.29 Costa Rica 56.65 60.69 Libya 662.15 693.70 Panama 823.04 602.11 REVENUE Angola 291.42 198.81 (Millions of Euros) Brazil 21.73 40.73 2011 2012 Cape Verde 36.97 29.18 Civil Works 1,818.72 1,297.14 Togo 0 53.95 Building 608.37 666.52 Colombia 0 70.96 Services 9.37 9.43 Mozambique 0 2.67 Concessions 2.32 2.43 TOTAL 6,680.68 5,998.01 TOTAL 2,438.78 1,975.52 NATIONAL REVENUE / REVENUE ABROAD (Millions of Euros) 2011 2012 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF BACKLOG Millions of Euros Spain 1,258.25 942.08 Abroad 1,180.53 1,033.44 TOTAL 2,438.78 1,975.52 Costa Rica 60.69 Ireland 0.04 NATIONAL REVENUE / REVENUE ABROAD (%) Panama 602.11 Portugal 318.01 2011 2012 Spain 51.59% 47.69% Cape Verde 29.18 Spain 1,181.66 Abroad 48.41% 52.31% TOTAL 100.00% 100.00% Colombia 70.96 Italy 1,748.29 Brazil 40.73 Libya 693.70 REVENUE BY TYPE (Millions of Euros) Chile 997.21 Togo 53.95 BUILDING 2011 2012 Residential 82.77 102.38 Mozambique 2.67 Angola 198.81 Non-residential 525.60 564.14 TOTAL 608.37 666.52 194 195 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance REVENUE BY TYPE REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Millions of Euros) (Millions of Euros) CIVIL WORKS 2011 2012 2011 2012 Roads 614.64 395.6 Spain 1,258.25 942,083 Railway 450.94 352.33 Portugal 417.17 152,805 Hydraulic 281.32 390.69 Ireland -3.25 4,438 Airport 125.04 37.42 Chile 100.37 78,566 Urbanisation 60.51 12.7 Italy 242.27 147,884 Other 286.27 108.26 Costa Rica 5.03 0.632 TOTAL 1,818.72 1,297.00 Libya 2.78 2.763 Panama 176.46 311,124 Angola 199.79 310,171 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA Brazil 0 2,693 (Millions of Euros) Cape Verde 39.9 21.97 BUILDING 2011 2012 Togo 0 0 Spain 296.44 284.71 Colombia 0 0.395 Portugal 104.08 75.79 Other countries 0 0 Angola 199.79 299.66 TOTAL 2,438.78 1,975.52 Chile 0 0 Brazil 0 2.95 Cape Verde 8.06 3,37 Other countries 0 0.04 TOTAL 608.37 666.52 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2012 Millons of Euros REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA (Millions of Euros) CIVIL WORKS 2011 2012 Spain 950.08 654.92 Costa Rica 0.632 Ireland 4,438 Portugal 313.09 -229.85 Ireland -3.25 4.21 Panama 311,124 Portugal 152,805 Chile 100.37 78.57 Italy 242.27 147.88 Cape Verde 21.97 Spain 942,083 Costa Rica 5.03 0.452 Libya 2.78 2.76 Colombia 0.395 Italy 147,884 Panama 176.46 303.23 Angola 0 310.17 Brazil 2,693 Libya 2,763 Brazil 0 2.69 Cape Verde 31.84 21.94 Chile 78,566 Togo 0 Togo 0 0 Other countries 0 Angola 310,171 Colombia 0 0 Other countries 0 0.51 TOTAL 1,818.68 1,297.00 196 197 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Madrid-BarcelonaFrench Border HighSpeed Railway line: Tunnel connecting Sants-La Sagrera (Barcelona). Civil Works Among others, the Group was awarded the Among others, we delivered the following following contracts in 2012: works in 2012: • Route 43 motorway concession in the • LOC-West Coast (Portugal), with a budget Region of Coquimbo in Chile, with a of 364 million euros, which involved the total construction investment of 144 construction and rehabilitation of several million euros, which will link the greater sections of state highways of distinct metropolitan area of La Serena-Coquimbo types (national highways, motorways and with the city of Ovalle, expanding the main routes) between the Portuguese current dual carriageway along its full towns of NazaréLeiria and Ourém. length, including Cuesta de Las Cardas and a 17 kilometers bypass and totalling 86 kms • Section of the Madrid-Barcelona-French of paved roads. border high speed line in the city of Barcelona between Sants and La Sagrera, • New access to Confluencia-Maitenes to which consisted of the construction of 5.6 exploit the new level of the El Teniente Mine kms of tunnel under the Eixample district in Chile, with a budget of 116 million euros, of Barcelona, next to the Sagrada which includes engineering and construction Familia cathedral. The budget was of 16.22 kms of road to access to the mine, 238.61 million euros. seven bridges with lengths varying from 40 to 225 mts, a link to the current Cobre • Construction of breakwaters in the highway in the Maitenes sector and three Extension of the Port of Valencia. The tunnels measuring 370, 918 and 3090 m. project, with a budget of 234 million euros, included the construction of two • Container Terminal in the Port of Lomé in breakwaters (one measuring 3 Kms and Togo, with a budget of 108 million euros another 1 Km) forming the new dock for the construction of an inner basin north west of the Port of Valencia and an measuring 1,250 mts long by 250 mts independent channel in order to improve wide and a platform with modern container maritime access. transshipment areas. • Adaptation, renovation and conservation • Construction of the Playa Larga Cisneros of the North motorway (A-1), Santo Tomé section of the motorway from Cali to del Puerto Burgos of the A-1 motorway, Buenaventura in Colombia, with a budget of with an investment of 161 million euros. 103 million euros, including the adaptation The works consisted of a series of actions and straightening of 20 kilometers of existing on a stretch of 150 km of the A-1 within roadway, the construction of 3.3 kilometers as part of the First Generation Motorway of second roadways and five viaducts with Improvement Plan (strengthening of the lengths between 320 and 580 meters. pavement, remodelling links, changes in layout and elevation, rectification of curves, etc.). 198 199 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Building In 2012 we have been advanced in the • Hydroelectricity dam at Foz Tua, Portugal, • Extension of the Line 9 of the Madrid Among others, the Group was awarded the construction of the following works: with a budget of 162.7 million of euros, Metro, with a budget of 121.3 million following contracts in 2012: involving the construction of a concrete euros, including the construction of a • Project and construction of the Third Set double-curved arch dam with a height of 1200 mts tunnel by EPD TBM and 600 mts • Antofagasta Hospital in Chile, with a of Locks in the Panama Canal Expansion, 108 mts and a crest length of 275 mts and of excavated tunnel using the traditional construction investment of 171 million with a budget of 3.129 billion dollars. This a 700 m underground hydraulic circuit Madrid method. In addition we built euros and involving the construction of involves the construction of two new sets comprised of two independent lined tunnels two stations and the connection with a surface area of 114,000 m2 distributed of locks on the Atlantic and Pacific, which with internal diameters of 7.5 mts and 5.5 mts. the current line and the corresponding among nine interconnected buildings, will enable increased commercial traffic ventilation shafts, pumping stations and which will house 45 regular treatment through the Canal. • Venda Nova III Hydroelectric Plant emergency exits. rooms, 24 emergency treatment room, 16 (Portugal), with a budget of 143.6 million dental offices, 18 surgical rooms, 30 dialysis • Salerno-Reggio Calabria Motorway (Italy). euros, entirely underground, consisting • Extension of the Ronda Norte motorway stations, 671 beds, auditorium and even a Stretch of 31 kms of motorway between of several tunnels, shafts, galleries of Zaragoza, with a budget of 109.1 helipad. The design and construction will Padula and Lauria, located 150 kms and a central cavern located 400 mts million euros, involving the expansion be performed following strict earthquake south of Naples, part of the route from underground and equipped with two of a third lane, improvement of 9 protection standards. Rome to southern Italy (Calabria). Due reversible generators with a total output connections and construction of collector to the complicated terrain of the area, capacity of 736 MVs. roads along the 18 kms of the existing • Catumbela Airport in Angola, with a the project includes the construction of Ronda Norte of Zaragoza. budget of 63.8 million euros, involving the 37 viaducts and 20 tunnels. The budget • Madrid-Castilla La Mancha-Valenciaconstruction of the interior work and finishes amounts to 745 million euros. Murcia High Speed Line. Section: for the International Terminal, electrical Orihuela-Colada de la Buena Vida, with a systems, navigation systems and equipment • Widening and modernisation of the budget of 121.9 million euros, consisting for passenger boarding areas. railway line connecting the centre of the of the execution of a high-speed railway city of Palermo to Punta Raisi airport on platform measuring 6.7 mts, of which, 1.5 • 1st Phase of the Portugal Telecom’s Data the island of Sicily. It has a total of 28 kms runs underground through the city of Center in Covilha, Portugal, with a budget kms of which 7 are through a doubleOrihuela. The main feature is the need to of 54.8 million euros, and encompassing track tunnel. The budget amounts to 730 maintain the existing line in operation and four identical technical buildings for data million euros. one notable structure is the Viaduct over storage and high-tech facilities. the Tajo-Segura Canal (1000 mts). • Motorway concession between • Campus Infrastructure DAR, in Angola, with Concepción and Cabrero, Chile, with a budget of 32.75 million euros, electricity an investment in construction of 168.8 grids, water supply, wastewater network and million euros, connecting the cities treatment plant, irrigation network and other of Concepcion and Cabrero with a 60 general systems for a total campus are of 4.24 kms dual carriageway, and the cities of million m2. Cabrero with Cholguán with a 30 kms single carriageway and 40 kms of service lanes along the entire corridor. 200 201 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Dr Agostinho Neto Library. Angola The major projects under development in Among the works delivered in 2012 in the 2012 in the building division include: building division, we would highlight: • Levante II prison in Siete Aguas, Valencia, • The Hospital Universitario Central Asturias, with a budget of 102.37 million of with a budget of 286 million of euros, a euros. The prison is to have 1,008 cells total floor area of 300,000 m2, 570 rooms, distributed across 10 residential modules, 1,039 beds, 38 operating theatres and 350 and 20 other buildings for various treatment rooms. purposes, making for a combined total floor area of 130,000 m² and 60,000 m² • Repsol Campus at Méndez Álvaro street of urban infrastructure work. (Madrid). This 127 million euro project to create our client’s new head office covers a • Valladolid hospital, with an investment of build area of 134,000 m2, of which 56,700 90.13 million euros. The project involves m2 are used for an underground car park designing and executing the renovation with 1,600 spaces. The campus comprises and enlargement of the Hospital Clínico four interconnected buildings laid out in Universitario de Valladolid. 79,000 square surrounding a central courtyard. The m² of new floor area will be added, four above-ground floors are used as office along with an underground car park, an space and for a roof-top technical facility industrial building, a new surgery ward, centralising most of the installation systems an outpatient building and an access serving the Campus. building. The existing 55,000 m² building will be comprehensively renovated and • Santo Espiritu Hospital on Terceira Island in refurbished. Portugal with a budget of 61.7 million euros and a surface area of 50,000 m2 housing 236 • Construction of the shell of the Kinaxixi beds, 45 treatment rooms and outpatient urban complex in Luanda (Angola), with a clinic. budget of 85 million of euros, which will have a floor area of 250,000 m2 in two • Campus Building D at the European 25 floor towers for different uses (one for University of Madrid in Villaviciosa de offices and the other for residential use) Odon, with a budget of 23.45 million euros and five underground levels for parking with a floor area of 22,000 m2, with an and technical facilities. architecturally unique auditorium for 500 people. • Vila Franca de Xira hospital, Portugal, with a budget of 76.06 million of euros and floor 2 area of 69,293.24 m . The new hospital will be equipped with 280 beds, 844 parking spaces, nine operating theatres and 33 surgery and consultation rooms. • Building Construction for administrative purposes for the Regional Government of Andalusia at calle Pablo Picasso 1 in Seville, with a surface area of 41,000 m2 and a budget of 53.1 million euros. 202 203 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance TOLL % METHOD TOTAL CONCESSION ROAD SECTION PARTICIP. CONS. KM Madrid-Levante Motorway AP-36 Ocaña-La Roda 40,00% Equity 177.0 7.5 Madrid Access (R-3 and R-5) R-3 M-40-Arganda del Rey y Navalcarnero. 25,16% Equity 60.7 A-6 M-409 Concessions Division R-5 M-40 Navalcarnero 25,16% Equity M 50 A-6-M-409 25,16% Equity Aunor C-415 Alcantarilla-Caravaca de la Cruz 51,00% Proportional 62.2 (RM15) Madrid South Motorway (R-4) R-4, M-50 R-4 (M-50-Ocaña); M-50 (A-2 A-4) 35,00% Equity 53.0 Pamasa MA-15 Palma Mallorca-Manacor 40,00% Proportional 43.7 Viastur AS-18, AS-18 (Oviedo-Porceyo), 70,00% Full 24.3 AS-17 AS-17 (Lugones-Bobes) The Sacyr Group’s infrastructure At 31 December 2012, Sacyr Concesiones Neopistas EE:SS Alberique-Valdáliga-Guitriz-Calzadilla 100,00% Full NA de los Barros concessions business started up in 1996 had a portfolio of 36 concessions in six when the Group was awarded its first countries, of which 23 are toll motorway Plaza Elíptica transport hub Plaza Elíptica (Madrid) 51,00% Proportional NA concession in Chile: Los Vilos-La Serena concessions: 16 in the EU (11 in Spain, 2 Parla Hospital Parla (Madrid) 100,00% Full NA section of Route 5. Since then, its portfolio in Portugal, 2 in Ireland and 1 in Italy) and Noreste Hospital Coslada (Madrid) 100,00% Full NA has grown thanks to continuing success in seven in Latin America (5 in Chile and 2 in Eresma Motorway CL-601 Cuellar-Segovia 80,00% Full 51.9 both new contract awards and in acquisition Costa Rica). Sacyr Concesiones also holds Moncloa Interchange Moncloa (Madrid) 51,00% Proportional NA and privatisation processes in Spain 13 concessions for other assets, namely: 3 and abroad. Today, Sacyr operates in the hospitals in Madrid, 3 hospitals in Portugal, Turia Motorway CV-35 Valencia-Losa del Obispo 45,39% Proportional 52.9 infrastructure concessions sector via its 1 hospital in Chile, 2 transport hubs in Barbanza Motorway AG-11 Padrón-Ribeira 80,00% Full 40.1 subsidiary Sacyr Concesiones. Madrid, 2 underground lines (one in Seville Majadahonda Hospital Majadahonda (Madrid) 20,00% Equity NA and one in Tenerife), 1 airport in Murcia and Sol Motorway San José-Caldera (Costa Rica) 35,00% Proportional 76.8 1 motorway service area company. Sevilla underground Line 1 Dos Hermanas-Aljarafe (Sevilla) 32,77% Equity 19.0 Of the 36 concessions, 10 are under development and 26 are in operation Galway-Ballinasloe N-6 Doughiska-Tulrush (Irlanda) 45,00% Proportional 53.0 (including 16 motorways totalling 1,849 Tenerife underground Spain Tenerife Light Rail 4,20% Equity 15.1 km, reaching 1,883 km including the M50-Dublin M-50 Dublin Beltway (Ireland) 45,00% Proportional 24.0 two underground lines, as set out in the Brisal Autoestrada litoral centro (Portugal) 25,00% Equity 93.0 following list: Guadalmedina Motorway Ap-46 Málaga-Alto Las Pedrizas 40,00% Equity 24.5 Hospital de Braga Braga (Portugal) 51,00% Full NA Vallenar-Caldera Motorway North of Route 5 Vallenar-Caldera (Chile) 60,00% Proportional 221.0 Arlanzón Motorway Santo Tomé del Puerto-Burgos 55,00% Proportional 146.0 Braga Hospital Azores (Portugal) 40,00% Proportional NA TOTAL OPERATING SACYR CONCESIONES 1,238.2 Valle Motorway San José/Airport-San Ramón (Costa Rica) 35,00% Proportional 66.0 Murcia airport Corvera (Murcia) 67,33% Full NA Concepcion-Cabrero Motorway Concepción-Cabrero (Chile) 51,00% Proportional 103.4 Alternative Access to Iquique Iquique (Chile) 51,00% Proportional 78.4 Pedemontan-Veneta Vicenza-Treviso (Italia) 60,00% Full 95.0 Vila Franca Hospital Xira (Portugal) 51,00% Full NA Autoestrada Do Marão Motorway between the towns of Amarante and Vila Real 53,99% Proportional 29.4 Serena-Vallenar Motorway Serena-Vallenar (Chile) 100,00% Full 187.0 Antofagasta Hospital Antofagasta (Chile) 50,00% Proportional NA Limarí Routes La Serena-Ovalle (Chile) 100,00% Full 86 TOTAL UNDER CONSTRUCTION SACYR 645.2 TOTAL SACYR CONCESSIONS 1,883.4 204 205 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance The assets are in their early years of The average remaining concession term is concession and have the potential to 27 years, and the project breakdown is as create a great deal of value in the future. follows: Madrid Sur motorway (R-4) 52 Madrid Access (R-3 y R-5) 37 Moncloa transporthub 31 Pamasa 30 Eresma 28 Madrid-Levante motorway 27 Turia 29 Plaza Elíptica transport hub 27 Sevilla underground 26 N-6 Galway-Ballinasloe 24 Barbanza motorway 23 Viastur 23 Parla hospital 22 Northwest hospital 23 Majadahonda hospital 22 SMLN-BRISAL 22 Sol motorway 21 Neopistas 14 Aunor 14 Tenemetro 22 Vallenar-Caldera 31 Braga hospital 26 M50-Dublin 30 Guadalmedina hospital 31 Arlanzón motorway 14 Pedemontana Veneta 43 Murcia airport 34 Vila Franca hospital 28 Revenue backlog Operating concessions Azores hospital 27 Valle motorway 20 The Sacyr Concesiones revenue backlog At 31 December 2012, Sacyr Concesiones Neopistas 16 comes to 20,388 billion euros according to had a portfolio of 26 concessions in Concepción-Cabrero motorway 34 forecasted earnings for each concession. operation (16 toll motorways, with a Alternative Access to Iquique 31 combined length of 1,204 kms, and a total Valles del Desierto Serena-Vallenar motorway 34 of 1,238 kms if the two underground train Motorway, SN Limarí Routes 30 lines are included; four hospitals, with a Route, stretch: Antofagasta hospital 19 total of 2,076 beds; two transport hubs, one Vallenar-Caldera service area management company; and (Chile ). two underground train lines). Under Construction In Operation 206 207 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Concessions under development At the close of 2012 the company had 10 concessions under development, of which one is in Spain, two in Portugal, one in Italy, % METHOD TOTAL CONCESSION TOLL ROAD SECTION PARTICIP. CONS. KM one in Costa Rica and five in Chile, which will increase the total under management Madrid-Levante motorway AP-36 Ocaña-La Roda 40.00% Equity 177.0 by 645 km: Madrid Access (R-3 y R-5) R-3 M-40-Arganda del Rey y Navalcarnero. 25.16% Equity 60.7 A-6 M-409 Aunor C-415 Alcantarilla-Caravaca de la Cruz 51.00% Proportional 62.2 (RM15) % METHOD TOTAL Madrid South motorway (R-4) R-4. M-50 R-4 (M-50-Ocaña); M-50 (A-2 A-4) 35.00% Equity 53.0 CONCESSION TOLL ROAD SECTION PARTICIP. CONS. KM Pamasa MA-15 Palma Mallorca-Manacor 40.00% Proportional 43.7 Valle motorway San José/Airport-San Ramón (Costa Rica) 35.00% Proportional 66.0 Viastur AS-18. AS-18 (Oviedo Porceyo). 70.00% Full 24.3 Murcia airport Corvera (Murcia) 67.33% Full NA AS-17 AS-17 (Lugones-Bobes) Concepción-Cabrero motorway Concepción-Cabrero (Chile) 51.00% Proportional 103.4 Neopistas EE:SS Alberique-Valdáliga-Guitriz -Calzadilla 100.00% Full NA de los Barros Alternative Access to Iquique Iquique (Chile) 51.00% Proportional 78.4 Plaza Elíptica transport hub Plaza Elíptica (Madrid) 51.00% Proportional NA Pedemontana-Veneta Vicenza-Treviso (Italia) 60.00% Full 95.0 Parla hospital Parla (Madrid) 100.00% Full NA Villa Franca hospital Xira (Portugal) 51.00% Full NA Northwest hospital Coslada (Madrid) 100.00% Full NA Autoestrada Do Marão Motorway between the towns of 53.99% Proporcional 29.4 Amarante and Vila Real Eresma motorway CL-601 Cuellar-Segovia 80.00% Full 51.9 Serena-Vallenar motorway Serena-Vallenar (Chile) 100.00% Full 187.0 Moncloa transport hub Moncloa (Madrid) 51.00% Proportional NA Antofagasta hospital Antofagasta (Chile) 50.00% Proportional NA Turia motorway CV-35 Valencia-Losa del Obispo 45.39% Proportional 52.9 Limarí Routes La Serena-Ovalle (Chile) 100.00% Full 86 Barbanza motorway AG-11 Padrón-Ribeira 80.00% Full 40.1 TOTAL UNDER CONSTRUCTION SACYR 645.2 Majadahonda hospital Majadahonda (Madrid) 20.00% Equity NA CONCESIONES Sol motorway San José-Caldera (Costa Rica) 35.00% Proportional 76.8 Sevilla underground Line 1 Dos Hermanas-Aljarafe (Sevilla) 32.77% Equity 19.0 Galway-Ballinasloe N-6 Doughiska-Tulrush (Irlanda) 45.00% Proportional 53.0 Business summary Tenerife underground Spain Tenerife Light Rail 4.20% Equity 15.1 In 2012, the major milestones in Sacyr • On 26 October Sacyr Concesiones was M50-Dublin M-50 Doughiska-Tulrush (Ireland) 45.00% Proportional 24.0 Concesiones’ business were as follows: awarded the contract for the construction, Brisal Autoestrada litoral centro (Portugal) 25.00% Equity 93.0 expansion, improvement, maintenance Guadalmedina motorway Ap-46 Málaga-Alto Las Pedrizas 40.00% Equity 24.5 Sacyr Concesiones was awarded the and operation of a new motorway in Braga hospital Braga (Portugal) 51.00% Full NA following contracts: Chile. Specifically, the La Serena-Ovalle Vallenar-Caldera motorway North of Route 5 Vallenar-Caldera (Chile) 60.00% Proportional 221.0 section of Route 43 located in the 4th • On 19 October Sacyr Concesiones was Region of Chile (Coquimbo Region), with Arlanzón motorway Santo Tomé del Puerto-Burgos 55.00% Proportional 146.0 awarded the contract for the construction an investment of 207 million euros. This Azores hospital Azores (Portugal) 40.00% Proportional NA and maintenance of the Antofagasta is an 86 kms motorway with an estimated TOTAL OPERATING SACYR CONCESIONES 1,238.2 Hospital in Chile, with an investment of 285 backlog of 700 million euros. million euros. The new hospital will serve a population of 215,000 people with a total of 671 beds and will have a surface area of 113,000 m2. 208 209 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance The following infrastructure has been put We would highlight the following CONSOLIDATED REVENUE into service: transactions: 2012 2011 Var. (%) • On 25 March the Azores Hospital in Portugal • In July 2012 the company executed the Sacyr Concesiones 1,431 6,990 (79.5%) was inaugurated with a capacity of 241 beds. divestment of 45% of Arlanzón motorway, Northwest motorway 4,250 3,827 11.0% currently holding a total stake of 55%. Eresma motorway 5,609 5,735 (2.2%) • On 15 May 2012 10% of the motorway Guadalmedina motorway came into operation. • In June 2012 Sacyr Concesiones acquired Barbanza motorway 4,368 4,388 (0.5%) 10% of the Barbanza motorway, currently In 2012, the following financing and holding a total 90% stake. Turia motorway 5,900 5,643 4.5% refinancing transactions were concluded: Viastur 6,445 6,578 (2.0%) • In September 2012 Accesos de Madrid filed Arlanzón motorway (*) 6,572 10,125 (35.1%) • In June, the company closed the refinancing for bankruptcy protection; Sacyr holds a Ctra. Palma-Manacor 3,370 3,405 (1.0%) of the Valles del Desierto concession 25% stake in the Company. Neopistas 1,504 1,704 (11.7%) (Vallenar Caldera toll motorway) with Chilean banks CorpBanca and Banco Estado • In September 2012 Autopista Madrid Sur Moncloa transport hub 6,746 6,139 9.9% for 211 million euros. filed for bankruptcy protection; Sacyr holds Plaza Eliptica transport hub 3,263 3,292 (0.9%) a 35% stake in the Company. Parla Hospital 13,471 12,807 5.2% • In August, we closed the financing of the Coslada Hospital 13,913 13,703 1.5% construction of the concession Ruta de • In October 2012 Autopista Madrid Levante Murcia Airport Algarrobo (La Serena-Vallenar motorway) filed for bankruptcy protection; Sacyr holds a 40% stake in the Company. Spain 76,841 84,336 (8.9%) with CorpBanca and Banco Estado for 262 million euros. Group concessions Costa Rica 12,923 14,427 (10.4%) Group concessions Ireland 17,529 16,865 3.9% • We have obtained a series of amendments Group concessions Portugal 26,736 28,069 (4.7%) to contracts whose impact is favourable for Group concessions Chile 26,577 8,389 216.8% Pamasa, Autovía del Turia, Hospital de Parla Total without construction income 160,607 152,086 5.6% and Valles del Desierto. Construction Income 106,605 421,140 (74.7%) TOTAL 267,212 573,226 (53.4%) Revenue (*) Held for sale from 01-01-12 to 30-06-12 KEY FIGURES SACYR CONCESIONES Main indicators Thousands of euros 2012 2011 Var. (%) Revenue 267,212 444,042 -39.82% The main indicators used are Average Daily EBITDA 94,123 92,940 1.27% Traffic (ADT) of vehicles on each road or toll motorway, and thousands of passengers who pass through the transport hubs: 210 211 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 2012 2011 Var. (%) Turia motorway 35,551 36,373 -2.3% Northwest C.A.R.M. hospital 10,292 11,076 -7.1% Viastur 21,536 22,518 -4.4% Palma Manacor 19,952 20,642 -3.3% Barbanza motorway 12,216 12,679 -3.7% Eresma motorway 6,583 6,906 -4.7% Arlanzón motorway 22,399 22,672 -1.2% Neopistas Moncloa transport hub Plaza Elíptica transport hub Gualdamedina Parla hospital Coslada hospital Sacyr Concesiones Murcia airport Spain 128,528 132,866 -3.3% Valle (San José-San Ramón) motorway Sol (San José-Caldera) motorway 32,642 27,273 19.7% SyV Concesiones Costa Rica Costa Rica 32,642 27,273 19.7% N6 Concession Ltd 9,143 9,181 -0.4% M-50 Concession Ltd 110,447 108,146 2.1% Sacyr Concessions Ireland N6 Operations Ireland 119,590 117,327 1.9% Autoestradas Do Marão 13,410 13,718 -2.2% Braga hospital Vila Franca Hospital Azores hospital Tunel Do Marão Somague Concessoes-Portugal Escala Parque Portugal 13,410 13,718 -2.2% Group concessions Chile Sacyr Operación y Servicios Rutas del Desierto-Accesos a Iquiqe Valles del Bio Bio-Concepción Cabrero Valles del Desierto-Vallenar Caldera 4,828 4,599 5.0% Serena Vallenar-Rutas del Algarrobo Chile 4,828 4,599 5.0% TOTAL WITHOUT CONSTRUCTION INCOME 298,998 291,185 2.7% Barbanza Motorway. A Coruña TOTAL CONSTRUCTION INCOME 212 213 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance REVENUE, 2011-2012 EBITDA, 2011-2012 (Thousand of Euros) Water (Thousand of Euros) 7.6 Industrial Environment Services and Industrial Multiservices Central Division Water Industrial Environment The services division of Sacyr and has plants, oil and gas, electrical facilities, Multiservices become the fastest growing business area in construction and management of thermal Central the Group thanks to the intensive award of solar plants, biomass and cogeneration and contracts in its four core business lines: waste treatment). • Environment (municipal services, waste These activities involve synergies and 362,377 management, environmental restoration complement the traditional business of the 257,250 188,492 and landscape work). Group, providing high EBITDA margins and a 173,237 recurring revenue base. The services business 305,973 325,959 • Water (water cycle management, water allows for stronger links with the company’s 266,120 50,570 38,112 treatment, desalination, purification and traditional customers and creates new 235,455 54,674 reuse). business relationships. 54 51,632 51,585 50,405 • Multiservices (integral building 21,442 maintenance, industrial maintenance, 18,078 353 servicing and maintenance of motorways and roads, dams and canals maintenance, 2012 2011 service areas on motorways, health and social services and integral hospital management). REVENUE • Industrial (engineering projects, power (Thousands of Euros) DECEMBER 2011 2012 % Var 12/11 Water 257,250 362,377 40.9% DECEMBER Industrial 173,237 188,492 8.8% (Millions of Euros) 2011 2012 % Var 12/11 Environment 325,959 305,973 -6.1% Revenue 1,123.0 991.9 13.2% Multi-services 235,455 266,120 13.0% Ebitda 178.6 158.2 12.9% Center 54 Net Profit 12.1 35.5 -65.8% TOTAL 991.901 1,123.016 13.2% Cash Flow 112.8 101.8 10.9% Backlog 11.558.0 12,102.0 -4.5% EBDITA (Thousands of Euros) DECEMBER 2011 2012 % Var 12/11 Water 38,112 50,570 32.7% Industrial 51,632 54,674 5.9% Environment 50,405 51,585 2.3% Multi-services 18,078 21,442 18.6% Center 353 TOTAL 158,227 178,624 12.9% 214 215 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Thermosolar Plant, Lebrija. (Seville). Revenue REVENUE PER ACTIVITY (Thousand of Euros) Valoriza closed 2012 with revenue of 1.123 billion euros, 13% more than in 2011, with Multiservices 23.7% net attributable profit standing at 12.1 million euros. As to the relative weight of Water 32.3% each activity in the revenue of Valoriza, environmental services is the leader with 27.2%, followed by water with 32.3%, Multi-services with 23.7% and Industrial with 16.8%. Industrial 16.8% Environment 27.2% Revenue backlog REVENUE BACKLOG PER ACTIVITY (Thousand of Euros) Future income at December 31 shows a balance of 11.558 billion euros. Multiservices 8% Water 54.9% Industrial 14.8% Environment 22.4% 216 217 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance A. Environment The difficult economic situation of local The business areas in which Valoriza Servicios authorities has resulted in a contraction of Medioambientales operates are: activity which has manifested in a reduction of services to the municipalities, and • Municipal Services: handles concessions therefore in sales. Despite this reduction, and street cleaning, refuse collection, the degree of maturity reached in most of gardening and maintenance of green the contracts has led to improved Ebitda areas and trees, urban mobility (parking and net profit ratios in the projects. The metre management, towing service, financing mechanism for payment to priority residential areas, handling of fines, suppliers of local and regional governments etc..) as well as the maintenance urban has been especially beneficial to Valoriza infrastructure (underground containers, Servicios Medioambientales, which has very maintenance of roads, street lighting, significantly lowered its debt ratios. maintenance of fountains and sport facilities). Nonetheless, we continue to follow the same policy of contracting only with municipalities • Waste treatment and management: with a sound financial position and rescinding important concessions and extended any contracts that may have problem of concession periods. Operates Urban default. Also urban mobility contracts have Solid Waste plants and containers, been enhanced, which provide cash flow and transfer plants, used tyre plants and incorporate new complementary features, for construction and demolition waste, such as claims management and road safety organic material composting plant (FORM), items (radar, control of red traffic lights, etc.) degassing and post-closure maintenance of landfills, biomethane plants, incineration, Turnover in 2012 amounted to 306 million cogeneration, CSR (selected fuel waste) and euros, 6% lower than the previous year due energy recovery and treatment facilities, In 2012 the company was awarded, among • Regulation of the hourly parking (SER) to the termination of those contracts with bad composting and thermal drying of sludge others, the following contracts: service, immobilization, withdrawal debt problems and the reduction of fees for from sewage treatment plants. and transfer of vehicles, and handling municipal services. Ebitda ratios remained in • Street cleaning and solid urban waste complaints in Galapagar, for 7.3 million Infrastructure line with those of 2011, rising to 48 million • Environmental works and regeneration: collection in Majadahonda (Madrid), for 62 euros and with a 10 year contract. conservation euros, while net profit stood at 12 million including the inspection of water quality, million euros and with a 10 year concession work (Valoriza euros. The net profit ratio experienced an and silvicultural treatment and forest works, term. • Regulated public parking service (SER), Conservación). improvement compared to 2011 due to the landscape restoration, river restoration and towing and handling of fines in Valdemoro, significant reduction in financial expenses. bioengineering. • Urgent Cleaning Service of Madrid (Selur), for 46.2 million euros and with a 25 year The backlog at year end amounts to 2.587 for 8.5 million euros and with a one year contract. billion euros. contract. • Operation of two biomethanisation plants • Street cleaning and waste collection, as in the Valdemingómez Technology Park, well as the management of the clean for 21.5 million euros and with a 14 year point in Paracuellos del Jarama (Madrid), contract. for 5.3 million euros and with a five-year concession contract. 218 219 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Abrera desalination plant, Barcelona. B. Water This activity comprises two fields: As relates to the execution of works and engineering, development, implementation, project development, Valoriza Aqua acts maintenance and operation of all types through Sadyt, a 100%-held subsidiary that of plants (water treatment plants, water is a leader in the field of desalination and purification plants, desalination plants, water treatment and which during 2012 tertiary treatment and reuse, industrial has continued to expand in and outside our processes, agricultural treatments, etc.) and country, with a presence in Algeria, Tunisia, integral management of the water cycle under Israel, Chile and Australia. public and private concession. Revenue in 2012 reached 362 million euros. Ebitda We would highlight the following awards stood at 48 million euros. during 2012: Valoriza Aqua in Spain and AGS in Portugal • Award of the concession on the integral and Brazil are in charge of the water cycle water cycle for water supply and management activity, serving more than three wastewater treatment in Votorantim (Sao million people in the three countries. In a Paulo, Brazil), for a period of 30 years and recessionary environment, the company in 20% for Valoriza. With this award, the 2012 achieved over 70% of revenue from Group now has 3 concessions in Brazil, all in outside of Spain. the state of Sao Paulo. Among the most significant activities, we • Integral Cycle Concession in Valdáliga would highlight the integral management (Cantabria). of the water cycle in the city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife, through Emmasa, an investee company and the management of Emalsa, the company that manages the full water cycle and distribution in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Valoriza Agua also manages the complete cycle in the city of Alcalá de Henares (Madrid) and the provision of public water supply in Guadalajara. The main desalination plant works completed 1. OI ASHDOD (Israel) Reverse Os384,000 m³ In Portugal, AGS supplies 18 municipalities, and in progress, in which Valoriza Aqua and its mosis among which we would highlight Setubal, specialized subsidiary Sadyt have reached a 2. Construction, O&M, Reverse Osmosis 306,000 m³ Cascais, Gondomar and Barcelos. Also leading global position, are: SSDP Desalination Plant (Perth) in Brazil, the company operates three 3. Aguilas Desalination Plant (Murcia) Reverse Osmosis 212,000 m³ concessions in the State of Sao Paulo. 4.Teclem Hounaine (Algeria) Reverse Osmosis 200,000 m³ 5. La Abrera (Barcelona) Electrodialysis 200,000 m³ reversal (EDR) 6.S kikda (Argelia) Reverse Osmosis 100,000 m³ 7. Comunidad de Regantes Cuevas de Reverse Osmosis 20,000 m³ Almanzora (Almería) 8. Desaladora Mantoverde (Chile) Reverse Osmosis 16,000 m³ 9. Bahía de Alcudia (Mallorca) Reverse Osmosis 14,000 m³ 220 221 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance C. Multi-Services The main water supply concessions are: Valoriza Multiservicios manages the Valoriza In 2012, the company consolidated the new INTEGRAL WATER CYCLE CONCESSIONS Group’s business through 3 companies: Energy Services business line (VESE) that was Hm3 launched last year. The new company has won END OF BACKLOG POPULATION DISTRIBUTED/ • Valoriza Facilities and launched several tenders with various CONCESSION HOLDER % VALORIZA CONTRACT €Mn SERVED CLIENTS TREATED • Cafestore public administrations, which puts us in a very EMALSA Las Palmas, Santa Brigida 33.00% 2,043 985 398,000 162,200 31.0 • Valoriza Conservación de Infraestructuras advantageous competitive position in this EMMASA Santa Cruz de Tenerife 94.60% 2,031 1,347 223,200 70,200 22.0 activity, which will become more important in Valoriza Facilities Spain in the coming years. GUADALAGUA Guadalajara 60.00% 2,033 145 80,000 30,000 10.0 AGUAS DE ALCALÁ Alcalá de Henares 25.00% 2,029 29 201,400 45,500 24.0 The Valoriza Facilities group (VF) consists of Valoriza Servicios a la Dependencia (VSD) has ALMADÉN 100.00% 2,028 29 6,300 3,840 0.4 Valoriza Servicios a la Dependencia (VSD) also registered very positive performance. The SAN VICENTE DE LA BARQUERA 100.00% 2,024 10 4,650 3,934 0.6 and Valoriza Servicios Energéticos (VESE). company provides social services for public CABEZÓN DE LA SAL 80.00% 2,036 30 8,500 4,200 1.6 The main activity of Valoriza Facilities is the clients and is 76%-held by VF. Revenue provision facility management services for in 2012 grew by 25% to 36 million euros. VALDÁLIGA 100.00% 2,037 10 2,400 1,400 0.4 real estate: facilities maintenance, cleaning, VSD manages a total of 22 residential and PIOZ 60.00% 2,033 43 3,600 1,928 0.4 security, landscaping and other ancillary day centres, with a total capacity for 1,315 SPAIN 2,628 928,050 323,202 90.4 services. people, and provides home support services AGUAS DO SADO Setubal 40.00% 2,022 100 117,000 61,300 12.0 to more than 7,479 people in situations of TRATAVE Guimaraes, In 2012, despite the general economic crisis, dependency. 40.00% 2,026 70 360,000 300 16.0 VF increased revenue by over 14%, from Santo Tirso, Vila Nova AGUAS DA FIGUEIRA Figueira Da Foz 40.00% 2,034 137 70,000 38,200 6.0 138 million euros in 2011 to 158 million in VSD has established itself as one of the 2012. It has also registered a very significant leading operators of social services, with a AGUAS DE CASCAIS Cascais 43.00% 2,025 328 188,000 107,000 24.0 increase in earnings and profitability, with presence throughout the country. AGUAS DE CARRAZEDA Carrazeda 75.00% 2,031 36 9,000 5,200 0.5 pre-tax profit of over 11 million euros, 7% AGUAS DE GONDOMAR Gondomar 42.96% 2,026 202 194,000 74,200 12.0 over sales, representing a 34% increase over The main contracts awarded to VF and VSD in AGUAS DE ALENQUER Alenquer 40.00% 2,033 84 40,000 22,200 5.0 the previous year. These data make VF one of 2012 were as follows: AGS PAZOS DA FERREIRA the most profitable companies in its sector. 90.00% 2,034 344 53,000 7,100 1.0 • Home help service for the Provincial Pazos Da Ferreira AGUAS DE BARCELOS Barcelós 75.00% 2,034 686 155,000 40,000 4.0 These good financial figures have been made Government of Jaén. Price: 23.1 million possible, first, by the provision of high quality euros (2 year contract) AGUAS DO MARCO Marco do Canaveses 50.80% 2,039 424 56,000 24,500 0.5 services, which is behind the strong loyalty of TAVIRAVERDE Tavira 31.85% 2,026 76 22,000 27,000 3.4 our customer base, both public and private. • Cleaning for the airports of Palma de AGUAS DA SERRA Covilha 100.00% 2,035 98 21,000 1 2.0 But it was also due to the application of very Mallorca, Malaga and Vigo, and AENA COVILHA Covilha 49.00% 2,033 250 55,000 27,000 4.5 stringent cost control policies which allowed Central Services. Price: 18.1 million euros FAGAR Faro 32.83% 2,040 45 57,000 32,000 1.5 the company to adjust contracts, reducing the (2 year contract) amount, according to customer requirements, PORTUGAL 2,880 1,397,000 466,001 92.4 while maintaining profitability. • Cleaning service for the Hospital AGUAS DE MANDAGUAHY 42.45% 2,021 27 103,000 1 5.4 Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca of Murcia Mandaguahy Sao Paulo It should be noted that this has been for the Murcia Health Service. Price: 17.6 SANEAR Sao Paulo 27.00% 2,015 3 329,000 1 13.4 million euros (2 year contract) achieved without increasing the debt of the VOTARANTIM 20.00% 2,042 72 110,000 1 6.1 company, which has even decreased slightly, BRAZIL 30 432,000 2 18.8 closing at 10.1 million euros, which in relative • Management of a senior residence and day TOTAL 5,538 2,757,050 789,205 202 terms is an even higher real decline in debt if centre in Villa del Prado, Madrid, for the we take into account the growth in business Regional Government of Madrid. Price: 7.2 volume and the payment of 4.725 billion million euros (3 year contract) euros in dividends to the Group. 222 223 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Street cleaning in Coslada (Madrid). • Energy and maintenance services with total Cafestore has also been certified under ISO guarantee of the lighting installations and 9001 and ISO 14001. municipal buildings of the City of Sevilla la Nueva, Madrid. Price: 6.3 million euros (15 Valoriza Conservación de Infraestructuras year contract) Valoriza Conservación de Infraestructuras Cafestore is the Sacyr Group company specialising in infrastructure maintenance and operation. By Cafestore provides restaurant and convenience contract volume the company is among the store services in four concessions segments: five largest nationwide. motorway restaurants (tourist, professional and special promotion), hospitals (cafés, shops Awards in 2012 totalled 93 million euros and catering) and urban transport hubs (cafés (including VAT) which provides good stability and franchises) and restaurant and catering for for years to come. Official Bodies. Revenue for the year amounted to 42 At the close of 2012, Cafestore managed the million euros, representing an increase of restaurants at a total of 28 service areas in 7.5% and profit before tax was 3 million Spain, four gas stations, three hospitals in the euros, which represents an increase of 54% Region of Madrid, a nursing home and the tax thanks to more efficient management, an office in Madrid. 11% reduction in structural costs, financial income and machinery stock operating at full The Cafestore service areas are located in the capacity. Ebitda totalled 7.9 million euros, major traffic corridors of 11 regions, and the representing an increase of 44%. company is the third national operator in this market. During 2012 Valoriza has maintained more than 4,250 equivalent kilometres of roads, The general decline in ADT on motorways 7 dams, a mini hydropower plant, two irrigation and the high investment costs have forced canal networks for a total 140 km and the Cafestore to revise its strategy, aligning with port of Bilbao. Also noteworthy is the progress the other companies of Valoriza Multiservicios. in the snowplow simulator project which To this end, the company has achieved expected to be operational by the end of the rankings that allow it participate in 2013, with an investment of 2.5 million euros. government tenders (M) and is bidding on the tenders of the Official Restaurant Bodies, so far having been awarded a Senior Residence (Catering for residents and a day centre in Residencia Nuestra Señora de las Nieves en Barbastro Huesca) and for the tax office at C/ Guzmán el Bueno in Madrid. 224 225 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance D. Industrial Sacyr Industrial is the result of the integration Electrical Infrastructure: Sacyr Industrial The main cogeneration plants of Sacyr Industrial are: of different companies and specialized provides engineering and construction divisions of the Sacyr Group dedicated to services for high voltage power Output Energy Generated Primary Energy the activities of industrial engineering and transmission lines, electrical substations Floor (MW) (Mwh/year) Savings (TeO/year) construction, covering the development and facilities in low, medium and high Compañía Energética Las Villas (Villanueva del Arzobispo, Jaén) 24,90 200,000 13,400 and design, engineering, construction and voltage. Compañía Energética Puente del Obispo (Puente del Obispo, Jaén) 24,90 200,000 6,700 operation of the following business areas: Compañía Energética Pata de Mulo (Puente Genil, Córdoba) 17,26 120,000 8,500 In 2012, the most relevant contracts awarded Engineering and energy. Sacyr Industrial Sacyr Industrial were the following: Olextra (Villanueva de Algaidas, Málaga) 16,60 115,000 8,500 is positioned as one of the major players Compañía Energética La Roda (Sevilla) 8,20 65,000 3,000 in the Spanish energy sector and an Engineering and construction of Phase Compañía Energética Linares (Linares, Jaén) 24,90 200,000 6,700 international benchmark in conventional II Margarita GTS project in Tarija, Bolivia, and renewable energy generation plants, comprising wellhead facilities, 30 Km cogeneration plants, the development Pipelines and the construction of the of biomass plants, solar energy and infield headers, with a budget of 42.50 The main biomass electrical plants of Sacyr Industrial are: geothermal energy plants, EPC contracts million euros. and operation of industrial processes and Output Energy Generated Primary Energy maintenance of power plants and industrial Engineering and construction of Floor (MW) (Mwh/year) Savings (TeO/year) facilities with an installed capacity of more generation plant facilities for the Extragol (Villanueva de Algaidas, Málaga) 9,15 66,000 25,000 than 900 MW. Gualberto Villarroel Refinery in Bolivia, Biomasas de Puente Genil (Córdoba) 9,80 73,000 27,500 using two gas turbine generators with 4.8 Bioléctrica de Linares (Linares, Jaén) 15,00 112,000 25,500 Environment and Mining: Sacyr Industrial kW for YPFB for 16.87 million euros. is one of the top international companies in the design, construction and operation Engineering and construction of generation of waste treatment and assessment plant facilities for the Guillermo Elder Bell plants, having performed the design and Refinery in Santa Cruz de la Sierra (Bolivia), The main MSW treatment plants built or under construction in 2012 are: construction of 43 waste management using a gas turbine generator with 4.4 kW AMOUNT plants and installed 114 MWe of power for YPFB for 8.6 million euros. Output ENGINEERING AND generation. The company also has Floor (MW) WORKS (€ MN.) Status 2012 experience in the development of mining “Los Hornillos” Waste Recovery Complex 400,000 124 Commissioned and processing plants. (Quart de Poblet, Valencia) Maresme Integrated Waste Recovery Centre 190,000 106 Commissioned Oil y Gas: Sacyr Industrial has agreements (Mataró, Barcelona). with other technology companies that Bilbao Mechanical Biological Treatment Plant 180,000 53 Under construction enable us to offer EPC solutions for Cogersa biomethanisation plant (Asturias) 60,000 18 Under construction refineries, chemical and petrochemical Adaptation of La Rioja Ecopark 140,000 13 Commissioned plants, gas and LNG processing and treatment, and the transportation and Composting plant in the Arico environmental complex 120,000 9 Commissioned storage of liquid and gaseous fuel. 226 227 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance ASSET VALUATION, 2011-2012 (Millions de Euros) 2,312 7.7 2,468 118 Property Division 124 21 21 437 451 293 294 Oﬃces 313 314 Shopping Malls 437 Testa, a leader in the real estate sector in In 2012, Testa recorded revenue of 252 451 Spain and boasts a portfolio of top-level, million euros and EBITDA, without taking into Rental Housing 36 prime-location properties leased to large account the results from asset sales, of 198 38 companies and major clients. This enables the million euros. Hotels company to maintain its long-standing and stable occupancy levels of around 100%. The rental portfolio amounted to 2.267 billion Industrial euros, which allows the company to achieve a Housing The bulk of the Sacyr Group’s property latent EBITDA of 1.940 billion euros involving business currently comprises offices for rent a margin of 80%. Others in Barcelona, Madrid, Paris and Miami. The Group has an area of over 1.5 million m2 in Backlog operation. 2012 2011 Asset Valuation TESTA KEY FIGURES (Millions of Euros) The value of the Testa’s assets at 31 The offices, with a joint assessment of 2.312 2012 2011 December 2012, according to the specialised billion euros, the shopping centres valued Turnover 251.6 250.90 firms CB Richard Ellis and Tasaciones at 313 million and the hotels, valued at 437 EBITDA* 198,4 200.20 Hipotecarias, amounted to 3.879 billion million euros, occupy the top positions in the Net Profit 60.6 72.50 euros, with unrealised gains of 1.092 billion ranking of assets. Rental Portfolio 2,267 2,636 euros. (*) without taking into account the results from asset sales. Asset Valuation (Millions of Euros) 2012 2011 Offices 2,312 2,468 Shopping malls 313 314 Rental Housing 293 295 Hotels 437 451 Industrial 118 124 Housing 21 21 Other 36 38 Backlog 349 362 TOTAL 3,879 4,073 Unrealized capital gains 1,092 1,163 228 229 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Costa Brava Building. Madrid Business summary Testa currently has 1,522,992 m2 in With respect to rental housing, Testa operation. Of these, 576,885 m2 are offices. manages a total of 1,534 flats and 1,338 It also holds 13,039 parking spaces, parking spaces, representing over 114,505 of which 9,840 belong to the office m2 and manages similar assets belonging buildings. to real estate funds. This represents an additional 775,770 m2, 8,448 homes and Gescentesta, a company created for 8,573 more parking spaces. the administration and management of shopping centres, has 128,078 m2 in this Testa also owns 10 hotels with a capacity of type of asset. 1,605 rooms. These assets add 124,611 m2. All the hotel establishments are classified as 4 and 5-stars and are leased to the bestknown hotel chains. SURFACE AREA PER PRODUCT TYPE (m2) 2012 2011 Homes 114,505 114,505 Offices 585,097 576,885 Shopping Malls 71,958 71,958 Industrial 210,430 210,430 Hotels 124,611 124,611 Housing 9,429 9,429 Car Parks 397,613 396,653 Multi-use 18,521 18,521 TOTAL 1,532,164 1,522,992 230 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Revenue LEASES BY PRODUCT TYPE (%) Testa achieved revenues at 31 December The rentable area at the end of the period 2012 of 252 million euros, generating Ebitda of amounted to 1,523.000 m2, below the 198.4 million euros, without taking into account 1,532.200 m2 registered at the end of 2011 Oﬃces 66% the results from asset sales, with the Ebitda over due to the sale of the office building at Paseo sale margin of 78.9%. The occupancy rate is de Gracia, 56, Barcelona. Hotels 12% 96.7% (Rentals). Shopping Malls 10% Homes 5% TURNOVER PER PRODUCT TYPE (Millions of euros) Logistics centres 3% 2012 2011 Homes 13.0 13.1 Housing 1% Offices 166.6 165.9 Shopping Malls 25.6 24.7 Car Parks 1% Industrial 8.6 9.9 Others 2% Hotels 29.5 28.6 Residencias 1.9 1.8 Aparcamientos 1.2 1.2 Uso mixto 0.5 Occupancy by product type TOTAL 246.9 245.3 % Ocup. m2 Service Revenue 4.7 5.6 Offices 95.8% 576,885 TOTAL 251.6 250.9 Hotels 98.1% 71,958 Shopping Malls 100.0% 124,611 Homes 96.4% 114,505 LEASES PER GEOGRAPHIC MARKET (Millions of euros) Logistics centres 74.1% 210,430 2012 2011 Residences 100.0% 9,429 Madrid 137.6 134.2 Car Parks 100.0% 396,653 Catalonia 33.7 35.2 TOTAL 92.2% 1,504,471 Andalusia 12.9 11.8 Balearic Islands 8.5 8.6 Remaining 11.4 11.8 Paris (France) 30.9 30.9 Miami (USA) 11.9 12.8 TOTAL 246.9 245.3 Others 4.7 5.6 TOTAL TURNOVER 251.6 250.9 232 233 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Offices The central business districts of major cities, Madrid, with 355,271 m2 and Barcelona with is the site chosen for the office rental assets 94,555 m2, Paris and Miami occupy a high of Testa. percentage of owned assets. OFFICE BUILDING Offices m2 SURFACE AREA PARKING PLAZAS Building Ribera del Loira, 60 Edificio Endesa 54,849 1,253 Building Avenida del Partenón Campo de las Naciones 37,692 663 Building Avenida de Bruselas, 33 Edificio Indra 33,718 853 Complejo Princesa Complejo Princesa 33,668 0 Building Juan Esplandiú, 11 13 Edificio O'Donnell 27,679 436 Parque Empresarial Ática Ática 7 23,395 502 Paseo Castellana 259 Torre Sacyr 21,390 631 Building Alcalá, 45 Alcalá, 45 18,655 40 Building, Avenida de Bruselas, 24 Edificio Procter 9,163 243 Building Avenida de Bruselas, 26 Edificio Codere 8,895 214 Building Costa Brava, 2 4 Raqueta 16,000 335 Building Castellana Paseo Castellana 83-85 15,055 271 Building Eucalipto, 2533 Los Jacintos 14,553 256 Building Príncipe de Vergara, 187 Príncipe de Vergara, 187 10,732 165 Building Pedro Valdivia, 10 Pedro Valdivia, 10 6,568 89 Shopping centres Building Juan de Mariana, 17 Juan de Mariana, 17 3,366 60 Building Josefa Valcárcel, 48 Josefa Valcárcel, 48 19,893 357 Testa’s portfolio of shopping centres MADRID 355,271 6,368 consists of 4 shopping centres, plus those Building Muntadas I Muntadas I 24,380 640 of real estate funds, which the company Port Pi Shopping also manages, all of which are in the best Building Avenida de Vilanova, 12-14 Edificios Endesa 16,494 94 Centre, Palma de shopping areas of capital and growing cities. Mallorca. Building Sant Cugat I Sant Cugat 15,374 219 Building Diagonal 605 Diagonal 605 14,795 217 Building Sant Cugat II 10 San Cugat 10,008 251 Building Avenida Diagonal, 514 Diagonal 514 9,721 76 SHOPPING CENTRES Building Muntadas II Muntadas II 3,783 82 m2 SURFACE BARCELONA 94,555 1,579 CITIES AREA LOCAL Nº REST OF SPAIN 24,840 173 Porto Pi Palma de Mallorca 26,359 169 Tour Adriá Tour Adriá 53,841 615 Larios Málaga 21,504 152 PARIS (FRANCE) 53,841 615 Complejo Princesa Madrid 13,202 51 Brickell Ave, 1111 Brickell Ave, 1111 48,378 1,105 Centro Oeste Madrid 10,893 66 MIAMI (USA) 48,378 1,105 TOTAL 71,958 438 TOTAL 576,885 9,840 234 235 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Hotels Housing Testa has the best hotel chains among its The new plans for the development of rental Testa was the first private operator in Spain to clients. The hotels owned by the company are housing, both at the state and regional create a specific subsidiary for this segment, in singular buildings, well located and with level, and the economic and fiscal measures Testa Residencial. excellent connections implemented by the Government are helping to revive this market. HOTELS HOUSING CITY CHAIN SURFACE AREA ROOMS CATEGORY SURFACE AREA PARKING HOMES Eurostars Madrid Tower Madrid Hotusa 31,800 474 ***** Plaza Castilla 20,574 302 Eurostars Grand Marina Barcelona Hotusa 20,030 274 ***** Valdebernardo 7,030 100 94 AC Forum Barcelona AC 13,768 184 **** Conde Xiquena 17 1,664 14 15 NH Sanvy Madrid NH 12,182 149 **** Alcorcón 10,750 182 159 Puerta Castilla Madrid Silken 13,180 262 **** MADRID LIBRE 40,018 296 570 Tryp Barcelona Aeropuerto Barcelona Sol Meliá 10,125 205 **** Pavones Este 7,574 115 104 Tryp Oceanic Valencia Sol Meliá 9,308 197 **** Usera 11,958 148 148 Tryp Alameda Málaga Sol Meliá 6,000 136 **** Leganés 6,864 103 80 Tryp Jerez Jerez Sol Meliá 4,637 98 **** Mostoles I 5,620 109 104 Eurostars Gran Madrid Madrid Hotusa 3,581 100 **** Mostoles II 4,082 92 75 TOTAL 124,611 2,079 MADRID VPO 36,098 567 511 Alameda de Osuna 9,318 95 95 VIVIENDA LIBRE REG. ESPECIAL 9,318 95 95 Senior residences Sta. María Benquerencia 10,327 103 103 TOLEDO LIBRE 10,327 103 103 The growing need for services for the elderly Testa’s presence in this business is focused suggests that the business of nursing homes on the development of the residences, which Benta Berri 18,744 277 255 tend to gain stability and projection into the are then leased to a specialised operator, thus S. SEBASTIÁN CONCESIONES 18,744 277 255 future. eliminating the risk of management. TOTAL 114,505 1,338 1,534 SENIOR RESIDENCES CITY SURFACE AREA ROOMS BEDS Faro de Hércules La Coruña 5,829 93 138 El Viso Madrid 3,600 95 119 TOTAL 9,429 188 257 236 237 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Office building in Calle Josefa Valcárcel 48, Madrid. Logistics centres The activity of logistics centres and Henares corridor, continues to increase its warehouses has remained at a very high level profitability in this segment. Testa logistics of occupancy, confirming the good prospects centres have a combined area of 210,430 that this business has for Testa. m2 in Barcelona, Zaragoza, Guadalajara and The company, focused on the MadridCoslada in Madrid. Barcelona corridor and, especially, the LOGISTICS CENTRES LOCATION m2 Area Cabanillas del Campo (Guadalajara) 70,134 Alovera (Guadalajara) 39,879 Coslada (Madrid) 35,934 Azuqueca de Henares (Guadalajara) 27,995 Pedrola (Zaragoza) 21,579 Lliça de Vall (Barcelona) 14,909 TOTAL 210,430 238 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.8 Promotion Division VDP DEBT EVOLUTION 3,000 Vallehermoso’s reputation in real-estate The Vallehermoso División Promoción (VDP) 2,500 development is backed by a solid 60 years development division builds its houses mainly of experience. The Sacyr Group’s real-estate for the middle and mid-to-high socio-economic 2,000 developer has established itself throughout segments. VDP also develops public housing, this time not only as the most experienced which accounts for 10% of its business. 1,500 company in the sector in Spain, but also as a market leader with a winning business model. Add to this strategy the skills, experience, 1,000 This model sets Vallehermoso apart from its and credentials of Vallehermoso’s team of competitors and keeps its business strong in professionals, and the quality and market 500 spite of the slowdown currently affecting the recognition of its name, it is easy to see how, market. despite unusually tough conditions, in 2012 Vallehermoso delivered more than 40% of the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Vallehermoso’s business activity is centred on homes for sale at 1 January 2013, or a total the primary home market, mainly in cities of of 508 homes, with a value of 131.5 million over 100,000 residents, where there is a real of euros. In 2012 the division booked total Loans Developers Land Debt and Others TOTAL DEBT demand and a greater turnover of properties. revenue of 189.885 billion euros, including Holiday homes account for only 10% of land sales for 52.7 million of euros and Vallehermoso’s business, and are located in services for 5.7 million of euros. firmly established areas. Asset Valuation The value of real estate assets of Vallehermoso at 31 December 2012, as VALLEHERMOSO KEY FIGURES assessed by the independent firm BNP Paribas (Millions of euros) Real Estate, amounted to 1.848,2 billion euros (1.437,9 billion corresponding land and 410.2 2011 2012 million to the rest of the assets). Revenue 179.60 189.89 Net Income -93.11 -94.28 Ebitda -53.08 -83.12 Presales 56 21 FINANCIAL DEBT 2012 2011 VAR. 12/11 FINANCIAL DEBT Land Bank 1,437,911,347 1,549,135,784 -7% 2010 2011 2012 Shopping Centres (R.e. Investment) 62,698,095 71,710,290 -13% Loans Developers 570 399 269 Finished Product 347,579,152 562,913,905 -38% Land Debt and Others 782 931 992 TOTAL 1,848,188,593 2,183,759,979 -15% TOTAL DEBT 1,352 1,330 1,261 240 241 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Ordicia Residential area. Madrid PROPERTIES BY URBAN LOCATION (%) The land bank of Vallehermoso at the end 5% of 2012 amounted to 7253.9 million m2, with a building area of 2346.9 million m2, 52% equivalent to 18,155 homes. 43% Rural Land Land open Land under to licence Management request GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF DELIVERED HOUSING PROPERTIES BY GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION PRODUCT FOR SALE (Thousands of Euros) (Percentage of number of homes) Southern Division Central Division Northern Division Southern Division Central Division Northern Division 50 % 41% 9% 19 % 27% 54% LAND BANK 2012 2011 VAR. 12/11 Amount (€ millions) 1,437 1,549 -7.2% Total Area (Mill m2) 7.2 7.2 0.0% 242 243 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Business summary GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF HOMES DELIVERED (%) Vallehermoso’s business activity is divided into three Regional Offices: 27% 32% • South: This area covers the regions of Andalusia, Valencia and Murcia. Primary 41% homes are clearly the main target market, although a small secondary market has been opened up in the holiday homes segment, specifically in high-quality, highdemand zones. • North: With headquarters in Bilbao, this regional office covers Castile and Leon, the Basque Country, Cantabria, Asturias, Aragon, Galicia, La Rioja, Navarre, Balearic Islands and Catalonia. • Centre: This regional office covers the Southern Central Northern Region Region Region territory of the Autonomous Community of Management Management Management Madrid, Castilla La Mancha, Canaries Islands and Portugal. DELIVERED HOMES (Units) 2011 2012 132 4 445 505 Diagonal Mar Building, U.A. 10. Barcelona Portfolio New home sales 244 245 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.9 Participating interests. Repsol Sacyr, following a strategy of diversification On 16 April, the Argentine government Repsol, S.A. is listed on Spain’s IBEX -35 This operation, which has economic effects of investments and taking into account the executed partial expropriation without index, as well as on the leading indexes in dated 30 September 2012, strengthened high potential and strategic importance of the compensation of the 51% of share capital the United States. At year-end 2012, the Repsol’s balance sheet and financial position, energy sector today, acquired a significant held by Repsol in YPF, leaving the Spanish Company’s share price stood at 15.335 reinforced ratings and reduced the company’s stake in Repsol in 2006. This investment company with just 6% of the capital of the euros (for a 35.39% revaluation compared net debt by more than half (excluding Gas amounted to 6.525,5 billion euros and Sacyr Argentine company. with 2011) and its market capitalisation was Natural Fenosa), to 2.2 billion euros. stood as the largest shareholder with a 19.263,5 billion euros. 20.01% stake. Repsol filed, during the month of June, an Repsol and Shell are proposing to close the appeal of unconstitutionality before the On 27 February 2013, Repsol reached an deal before the end of 2013, after obtaining Today, the Group maintains its presence in the courts in Argentina demanding the return of agreement with the Shell Oil Company for the all necessary approvals and the fulfilment of investee with 9.53% of share capital, as the expropriated assets or the payment of a fair sale of LNG assets (Liquefied Natural Gas) for agreed conditions. Repsol will continue to second largest shareholder of the company, price. 6.653 billion dollars, which includes minority operate the assets being sold until the closing and has cancelled much of the related debt, interests in Atlantic LNG (Trinidad and Tobago), of the deal. leaving the balance at 2.367 billion euros. Also, in December, Repsol filed a demand Peru LNG and Bahía de Bizkaia Electricidad This amount is refinanced by a syndicated for international arbitration before the (BBE), along with the LNG sales contracts With the proceeds of this sale, Repsol bank loan maturing in January 2015. International Centre for Settlement of and charter of LNG carriers, and its loans and will strengthen the organic growth of its Investment Disputes (ICSID), an agency related debt. Without taking into account upstream business, in which the company has under the World Bank, for “violation of the linked debt and associated credits, the value of successfully developed an intense exploration Repsol is the leading company in its sector Agreement for the Promotion and Reciprocal the assets subject to the transaction amounted activity in recent years. Specifically, in in Spain and one of the ten largest private Protection of Investments between Spain to 4.4 billion, for a profit before tax for Repsol countries where Repsol has sold its LNG assets, oil companies in the world. It is also the and Argentina, dated 3 October 1991 “, also of 3.5 billion dollars. the company will maintain a major level of leading seller of Liquefied Petroleum Gas requesting compensation amounting to 10.5 activity in exploration and production. (LPG) in Spain, serving more than eleven billion. million customers in our country alone. As for chemicals, Repsol continues to lead During 2012 Repsol, S.A. billed a total of in Spain and Portugal, and is the world 57.193 billion euros, with consolidated leader in plastics for agriculture. Repsol attributable profit reaching 2.06 billion euros. also participates in the energy companies Gas Natural SDG, S.A., with 30.85%, and in During the past year, Repsol, S.A. paid a Compañía Logística de Hidrocarburos, CLH, final gross dividend of 1.1225 euros per S.A with 10%. share (0.5775 euros as an interim dividend against 2011 profit and 0.545 euros as a final dividend for that year). Sacyr Vallehermoso Participaciones Mobiliarias, S.L.’s share of the dividend amounted to 137.17 million euros. 246 247 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Repsol Head Office Building Madrid. Along with the sale of assets, Repsol and Shell have signed an agreement, by which the latter company will supply LNG regasification plant in the Repsol Canaport complex (Canada) over the next 10 years, with a volume of about 1 million tonnes. The Canadian complex has been left out of the sale transaction because of the currently low level of gas prices in the United States, preventing a proper assessment of the importance of the asset over the medium and long term. Repsol will analyse all operational, financial and strategic options for the plant. FY 2012 RESULTS (CCS Net Income) 2011 +5% 1,407 536 2012 1,878 170 +34% YPF Net Income (YPF as Discounted Operations) PRODUCTION RESERV REPLACEMENT RATIO (Kboed) (%) 131 2011 2012 2010 162 229 332 2011 248 204 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.10 Social behaviour Summary of Activities As a result of the guidelines set out in the 2 Contribute to the improvement of all Corporate Responsibility Master Plan 2012 aspects of the Company’s Corporate 2013, the Group has set up a series of Reputation. concrete actions to ensure an orderly effort to achieve the objectives pursued in each of the • Quota of 2% of positions reserved for action lines: people with disabilities in those areas where it is possible, or equivalent 1 Improve dialogue with stakeholders alternative measures. • Incorporation of the CSR policies and • Publish an Integrated Annual Report (Annual achievements of Sacyr Group into the Financial Statements + Commercial Report equity story and printed documentation of + Corporate Governance & CSR Reports) in the company aimed at financial markets, 2013. investors and analysts both on the “buy side” and the “sell side”. • Place the company among the top 20 in the Spanish market for CSR compliance and • Incorporation of the CSR policies and policies, as measured by the Sustainability achievements of Sacyr Group into the Excellence Club. equity story and printed documentation of the company aimed at communication 3 Promote the values and ethics of the Group media in Spain and in those countries in the field of organization and set policy where we operate. guidelines for social action. • Create a standardised CSR document to • Encourage employee participation in accompany the documentation in bids and commitment of the Sacyr Group to the tenders. community by setting up a joint social action campaign among employees and the • Preparation of a global map of the Group’s Company. suppliers, with which to establish the minimum requirements for CSR compliance. • Establishment of the Sacyr Vallehermoso Foundation as a single channel to Levelling work. • Establishment of a specific code of conduct encompass the different actions related to Orihuela TJV for suppliers. social action, sponsorship and patronage. (Alicante). • 2% increase in training hours. • Fix two major lines of social action, for which the Group can be recognised • Implementation of the first certification and gain prestige: Children and Youth + of the Spanish market for an office for promoting R&D&i. attending Minority Shareholders. 250 251 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance • Establish a corporate social action • Third and fourth edition of the “Sacyr Degree of implementation of the Plan at 31 programme that can be permanently linked Awards for Innovation” Awards December 2012 to our brand image. 7 Continuity of policies and standards in the At year end 2012, the degree of compliance • Establish a special section for Sacyr field of CSR. with the actions stood at 71% of the total Vallehermoso Foundation within the planned for the whole of the two years corporate website. • Sacyr Group included in the FTSE4Good covered by the Action Plan. sustainability index and preparatory work is 4 Enhance the contribution to the underway for the DJSI. development of the societies in which it SyV operates, establishing a measurement • Progressive adoption of the UN Guiding and monitoring system Principles on Business and Human Rights. • Systematically gather information on • Adoption of the World Economic Forum’s GUIDELINE 1. Compliance the net contribution to the wealth of the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Improve dialogue with stakeholders status Comments countries where we operate. (PACI). 1.1 Incorporation of the CSR policies and 100% Specific chapters have been included in various group corporate presentations and we achievements of Sacyr Group into the have updated the content on the website. Similarly, we have included specific sections equity story and printed documentation of in the equity story for investors and analysts and have created a mailing list for the 5 Continue to strengthen the global 8 Adoption of a comprehensive internal the company aimed at financial markets, 300 largest institutional investors in the world, who will be directly and proactively framework for action on the environment, assurance system to guarantee compliance investors and analysts both on the “buy informed about any new or noteworthy fact arising in connection with the activity of maximizing the contribution to the with the CSR objectives. side” and the “sell side”. the company. sustainability of all activities of the Sacyr. 1.2 Incorporation of the CSR policies and 100% We have enhanced the integration of CSR policies and achievements in mass • Design and implementation of a global achievements of Sacyr Group into the equity communication elements. Specifically, there already is a specific section in the CSR • Define a climate change policy and system of objectification, control, story and printed documentation of the magazine Dimensión and specific sections in the “press” and “news” sections of the environmental strategy. monitoring and measurement for all CSR company aimed at communication media corporate website. in Spain and in those countries where we activities throughout the Sacyr Group, operate. • Define global sustainability challenges and both with regard to the business areas 1.3 Create a standardised CSR document to 100% We have prepared a 80-page document that is updated annually, which includes objectives. and employees, as well as the different accompany the documentation in bids and the main CSR achievements and standards of the group to accompany all proposals geographical areas in which we operate. tenders. submitted by the group in tenders requiring and/or rating actions in this regard. • Define and implement a Global Plan for 1.4 Preparation of a global map of the 50% After the experience in the construction area, it remains to export the model to other resource efficiency • Preparation of a central indicator table. Group’s suppliers, with which to establish units of the company. the minimum requirements for CSR 6 Strengthen R&D&i as a basic component of compliance. our technological capacity and expertise 1.5 Establishment of a specific code of 50% Our contracts and clauses already reflect the enforceable compliance with all of our conduct for suppliers. internal procedures regarding quality, safety, prevention etc.. The establishment of a new annex to the contract to reflect the obligation to comply with the code of conduct • Develop research programmes with within the organization is till pending. universities or scientists with whom we 1.6 2% increase in training hours. 25% At the close of 2012 there was a slight decrease in training hours, motivated primarily have agreements and create new links with by budgetary reasons (lack of administrative grants). research and teaching entities. 1.7 Implementation of the first certification 50% We have compiled and described a specific procedure for the performance of this of the Spanish market for an office for “office” within the structure of the Investor and Shareholders Relations Department. attending Minority Shareholders. During the year 2013 we will undertake the corresponding audit certification by AENOR, in the format of a Service Memorandum. 252 253 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance GUIDELINE 2. Contribute to the improvement of all GUIDELINE 4. aspects of the Company’s Corporate Compliance Systematically gather information on Reputation. status Comments the net contribution to the wealth of Compliance 2.1 Quota of 2% of positions reserved for 100% At the end of 2012 we met the requirements of the LISMI (Social Integration of the countries where we operate. status Comments people with disabilities in those areas where Handicapped Persons Act), except in the area of ​​construction, explicitly outside of 4.1 Systematically gather information on the 50% We have prepared a document in spreadsheet format to reflect the Ebitda and it is possible, or equivalent alternative this purpose because of its special characteristics, but which nevertheless passed the net contribution to the wealth of the countries number of employees at the company level in each of the countries in which we measures. work site inspections performed for the purpose. where we operate. operate, extrapolating the wealth generated in each country from this information. 2.2 Publish an Integrated Annual Report 100% Objective advanced. It has been decided to release an integrated annual report for It will conclude with the results obtained at the end of 2013. (Annual Financial Statements + Commercial 2012. We have already established the new structure of the report, adapted to the Report + Corporate Governance & CSR latest update of the International Integrated Reporting Council. Reports) in 2013. 2.3 Place the company among the top 20 in 50% In the 2011 ranking Sacyr improved its position from 96th place (2009) to 60th, over the Spanish market for CSR compliance and a total universe of 150 companies. Taking as starting point the weaknesses identified policies, as measured by the Sustainability in the report, we are developing concrete actions to eliminate them and place us Excellence Club. among the top 20 companies in the ranking. GUIDELINE 5. Continue to strengthen the global framework for action on the environment, maximizing the contribution to the sustainability of all Compliance activities of the Sacyr Group. status Comments 5.1 Define a climate change policy and 50% A model climate change policy and environmental strategy has been prepared. Pending environmental strategy. submission for approval of the CSR Working Group and then the senior management of GUIDELINE 3. the Company. Promote the values ​​and ethics of the 5.2 Define global sustainability 50% To be developed in 2013. Group in the field of organization and Compliance challenges and objectives. set policy guidelines for social action. status Comments 5.3 Define and implement a Global Plan 25% After some isolated actions in different areas of business and taking advantage of the 3.1 Encourage employee participation in 100% We have developed several social action campaigns between the company and for resource efficiency. experience in of Valoriza in the area of ​​energy efficiency as a business, we are taking the commitment of the Group to the community employees, through various forms of corporate volunteering. The most notable first steps for the production of an internal Plan at the Group level. by setting up a joint social action campaign included different Christmas campaigns (toys and food) and the development of the among employees and the Company. I and II Solidary Race together with the Entreculturas Foundation. 3.2 Establishment of the Sacyr Vallehermoso 75% Taking the existence of VAT in the different sponsorships undertaken by the Foundation as a single channel to encompass organization as an deciding element, we have grouped all those authorized by the different actions related to social action, management of the Company under the foundation, consigning them to the sponsorship and patronage. different action plans and accounting reports of the Sacyr Foundation. 3.3 Fix two major lines of social action, for which 50% The second action line /R&D&i) has been fully developed with the help of the GUIDELINE 6. the Group can be recognized and gain prestige: relevant department, with funding from different public bodies and agreements Strengthen R&D&i as a basic Children and Youth + promoting R&D&i. with universities and research centres. Also, the Sacyr Awards for Innovation are in component of our technological Compliance their III and IV years. capacity and expertise status Comments 6.1 Develop research programmes with 100% About 30 agreements are in place with agencies and universities, among which we would universities or scientists with whom we highlight those signed with: University Alfonso X El Sabio, Universidad Politécnica de have agreements and create new links Madrid, the Universities of Valencia, La Coruña, Vigo, Cantabria, Polytechnic of Catalonia, with research and teaching entities. among others. 6.2 Third and fourth edition of the “Sacyr 100% The convening of III awards were on 16 January 2013, and the fourth call is already Awards for Innovation” Awards. budgeted between for the 2013 Action Plan of the Sacyr Foundation, managed by the Communications Department. 254 255 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Commitment to Society Fundación Sacyr Vallehermoso GUIDELINE 7. Continuity of policies and standards in the field of CSR. Compliance status Comments The Sacyr Group also contributes to the • Social and Health Care progress and welfare of the community Spanish Red Cross 7.1 Sacyr Inclusion in the FTSE4Good 25% As a preliminary step and prerequisite, Sacyr has already been officially sustainability index and preparatory work is invited to apply for inclusion in the FTSE4Good index. Depending on through social action, through which we Collaboration on several occasions during underway for the DJSI. budgets, this will be addressed or not during 2013. develop a wide range of charitable initiatives. the year with the Transfusion Centre of this 7.2 Progressive adoption of the UN Guiding 25% A preliminary study has been performed by the Legal Department. institution, as part of its national donation Principles on Business and Human Rights. Pending the approval of the Compliance Authority and subsequently by During 2012, the Sacyr Group has contributed campaigns. senior management. to the development of various projects for 7.3 Adoption of the World Economic Forum’s 25% Analysing the requirements of this standard for submission to the the benefit of the community, which can be Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). Compliance Authority after consultation and approval of the Internal Audit grouped into 6 categories: • Initiatives linked to the Group’s activities area. National Centre of Excellence in • Social and Health Care Desalination (Perth. Australia) • Development Cooperation • Art and culture Collaboration in the study “Best practice • Sports governance arrangements for the • Socio-economic development of the delivery of urban water security through environment desalination and water for mining• Initiatives linked to the Group’s activities community responses to new institutional GUIDELINE 8. Adoption of a comprehensive internal asarrangements and pricing”. In collaboration surance system to guarantee compliance Below we describe some of the major with the University of South Australia. with the CSR objectives. Compliance status Comments initiatives in social action launched by the 8.1 Design and implementation of a global 100% A preliminary study for the review of ISAE 3000 has been performed. To Sacyr throughout 2012. system of objectification, control, monitoring be undertaken for the first time about the year 2012. • Sports and measurement for all CSR activities • Art and culture Entreculturas Foundation throughout the Group, both with regard to the business areas and employees, as well as Prince of Asturias Foundation Collaboration through volunteerism and the different geographical areas in which we Economic contribution and presence of sponsorship of the second edition of operate. the Group Chairman on the Board of that the street race “Run for a cause, run for 8.2 Preparation of a central indicator table. 100% Adopted GRI Version 3.1 as the standard model, with the full set of Foundation. education” aimed to generate resources for indicators. The next update will appear as an attachment to the 2012 education in Haiti. Annual Report. • Development cooperation • Social economic development of the Chile Spain Foundation environment Economic contribution and presence Sacyr Awards for Innovation in its Board of Trustees. Promotion of development actions in Chile. On 16 January 2013 we held the ceremony for 3rd Annual Sacyr Awards for Innovation, Carolina Foundation (previously Sacyr Awards “We do the Economic contribution and presence impossible”), chaired by the Minister of in its Board of Trustees. Promotion of Development, Ana Pastor, and Chairman of development actions in Latin America. Sacyr, Manuel Manrique. 256 257 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance These awards, which aim to encourage and of Madrid, Juan José Montoya, Director 4. To promote the protection of the Directors of Sacyr Vallehermoso, which, in publicly reward those who, individually or of the Foundation University Alfonso X el environment as well as environmental practice, are the highest governance body collectively, research and work on projects, Sabio, Carlos Rubio Carvajal, Partner Rubio awareness, education and research. of the company who take effective control developments and innovative, creative and & Alvarez-Sala Architectural Studio, Juan of the social action of Group, which amply pioneering ideas, ambitions raised such Antonio Santamera Sánchez, President of the 5. To promote all fields of education and demonstrates the implication of the Group as overcoming challenges and knowledge, College of Civil Engineering, in addition to training for professional development in the active management of this matter. have a prize of 6,000 euros in each of the company executives and Enrique Coperías and the promotion of learning, scientific three categories, the winners were: Jimenez, Deputy Director of the magazine research and technological development • Objective criteria have been established as Muy Interesante and secretary of the jury. in all fields, but especially, without reference for project selection: • Alejandro González Martínez, for the project limitation, in the fields of construction and “Treatment of effluents with high nitrogen Sacyr Vallehermoso Foundation engineering. Alignment of the project with the purpose content by new biological technologies of of Fundación Sacyr Vallehermoso contained autotrophic nitrification-denitrification”, Given the increasing volume of initiatives 6. To promote and support sports, as it is in its bylaws. University of Granada, in the category of developed for the benefit of the community in essential for the balanced development of Technology and Environment Innovation. recent years, the Board of Directors of Sacyr in individuals and serves to foster positive Social profitability Assessment of the December 2007 took decision to establish a competitive spirit and educates individuals degree of urgency of aid and the number of • DataAE+HArquitectes team of Barcelona, corporate foundation, which would allow the to respect norms and opponents. potential beneficiaries. for the ICTA-ICP building project at the Group to maximize results of social action in Autonomous University of Barcelona in the benefit of its recipients, and contribute more 7. To promote the protection of heritage and arts. Regional balance: Prioritising projects in the category of Construction Project. effectively to the welfare and environment in area of influence of the group and avoid the Group operates. 8. To raise awareness of and provide distortions in geographical distribution of aid. • Mayte Pascual, of the television show institutional support for civil education, Informe Semanal on TVE, for the story Sacyr Vallehermoso Foundation was to promote constitutional values and to Budgetary balance: To avoid excessive “Tesla the genius who did the light” in the registered in the Spanish Registry of strengthen the rule of law and democracy. concentration of aid in one of the category of Technological and Economic Foundations on 22 September 2008. Foundation’s aims. Journalism. 9. To promote assistance for victims of terrorism In accordance with its by-laws the aims of the and gender violence. Technical and financial soundness of the In this edition of the Sacyr Awards for foundation are the following: collaborating agency or beneficiary. Innovation, the three winners were selected In the framework of the constitution of from among nearly a hundred candidates 1. To promote and spread arts and culture in the Sacyr Vallehermoso Foundation, and Budget fitness. presented. Again, the awards have been, as general, to foster artistic and cultural skills, to ensure adequate social action by the in the first two editions, a fantastic welcome, and to bring culture closer to society. Group, we have prepared an internal both for the quantity of the applications procedure and methodology governing the submitted and for the high quality of the 2. To promote human rights, encourage reception, selection, financing and tracking projects received. The 3rd annual Sacyr respect for all people and foster of social project. Some of the main novelties Awards for Innovation had a specialised cooperation for the development of introduced are: jury chaired by Manuel Manrique Cecilia, disadvantaged groups and regions. Chairman of Sacyr and which included: • The Board of Trustees assumes maximum Antonio Calvo Roy, President of the Spanish 3. To promote healthcare, voluntary help, responsibility regarding the approval and Association of Science Communication; social action and assistance for people who supervision of social projects. Luis Cueto Alvarez de Sotomayor, Deputy are in risk of social exclusion. General Manager of Business Innovation It is noteworthy in this regard that the Development for the Ministry of the Economy members of the Board of Trustees of the and Competitiveness, Miguel Angel Noceda, Foundation are the same as the Board of Vice President of the Press Association 258 259 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.11 Environmental performance Responsible consumption, optimal use of The following are among the environment• Purchase of steel containing between 94% resources and waste management related measures taken by the Sacyr Group in and 98% of recycled material. its endeavours during 2012: The range of activities performed by the Sacyr The Group is always looking for a way to • Recycling of logging material for use as Group involves the consumption of many make its activities as sustainable as possible. • Recycling track ballast for use on paths and compost to improve topsoil. different resources from a variety of sources. Therefore, the steps taken result in the platforms and to improve access to future optimisation of resources and recycling of the railway stations. • Reuse of phenolic boards used in formwork As established by the principles underlying materials and waste that are produced during to make information signs and safety signs its environmental policy, one of the Group’s their performance. • Recycling of material obtained by asphalt regarding drum washing areas, danger of priorities in the performance of its activities milling to make embankments, manufacture landslides, etc. is to reduce the amount of resources used The most significant figures for resource mixes for base layers, repair roads and build by replacing them with recycled and/or consumption are listed below per business project detours, etc. • Recycling of poured concrete as fill; recyclable products. As a result, the Group division and country, and the most significant concrete drums are cleaned over containers takes actions to encourage the use of projects are listed per business division. • Leftover corrugated steel is reused as field which are emptied after they are filled and recycled materials, both from internal and marking for various areas of projects. the concrete has set. The concrete is then external sources and the use of leftover crushed and used as fill. materials as alternatives while carrying out • Reuse of recycled aggregate to repair roads the activity itself. and roundabouts. • Reuse of materials from excavation work for the construction of work and access platforms, ditch filling, embankments, etc. GENERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF CDW AND INERT WASTE IN THE SERVICES AREA • Reuse of excavation materials to restore PORTUGAL, and repair quarries, improve properties, etc. ANGOLA, CAPE VERDE SPAIN CHILE AND BRAZIL BOLIVIA CONSTRUCTION • Topsoil reused to protect drain ditches, % VARIATION cover embankment slopes, etc. 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Concrete and mortar • Reuse of soil and rocks from clearing work; (m³) 300,409 327,140 22,690 415 185,469 216,722 508,568 544,277 7.02 the rocks are used to build masonry walls, Structural steel 149,846 57,435 263 23,669 16,612 173,515 74,310 -57.17 as well as wing walls and basins for crossAggregates and section drainwork; clearing material such rockfill (t) 1,651,759 699,816 28,278 1,720,201 586,423 1,368 3,371,960 1,315,885 -60.98 as selected ground material is reused in Asphalt /Bitumens (t) 56,448 41,343 25,190 56,448 66,533 17.87 ecological barriers and embankments. Cement (t) 96,717 32,362 85,277 75,333 5,000 181,994 112,695 -38.08 Ceramic materials (m²) 671,563 459,506 671,563 459,506 -31.58 260 261 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Primary consumption of resources in the SERVICES area (2011/2012) Environment Water (Spain, Multiservices (Spain and Industrial Portugal and The following steps have been taken during Among the former, there are materials (Spain) Portugal) (Spain) Australia) SERVICES the performance of the various services recovered thanks to good practices, such % VARIATION rendered by the Group: as waste generated by company processes. 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 These are reincorporated into company Garbage bags (U) 5,893,567 6,976,056 3,072,749 3,370,980 8,966,316 10,347,036 15.40 • Used motor vehicle and machinery oils have processes in one way or another and thus Fluxing agents (sodium been recycled to lubricate fixed machinery represent savings in raw materials. chloride, calcium chloride, in facilities and to grease chains and belts, etc.) (t) 7,725 145,503 174 395 4,43 4,73 7,903 145,903 1,746.18 as long as permitted by the characteristics In 2012, a notable case was the reuse of discs Sodium chloride and of the oil. In 2012, 450 litres, or 37% of the from sweepers used in roadway cleaning ferric chloride (kg) 1,200 236,100 312,236 237,300 312,236 31.58 oil in the environmental area was recycled. services. This was done by replacing the Biomass (t) 282,841 276,557 282,841 276,557 -2.22 worn bristles from brushes with new ones, Hexane (t) 97,86 92 98 92 -6.01 • In all, 54.7% of garbage bags used for thus reducing the amount of metal waste in Hydrochloric acid (kg) 12,819 12,195 143,630 21,340 156,449 33,535 -78.56 cleaning and maintenance of buildings was these work centres, since the disks holding Hypochlorite (kg) 14,675 8,897 49,816 14,675 58,713 300.09 recycled, up from 33.68% in 2011. the bristles were not removed. The mean Sulphuric acid (kg) 45,410 69,809 45,410 69,809 53.73 percentage of recovery obtained by the Sodium hypochlorite (kg) 24,700 8,410 24,144 603,159 674,012 627,859 706,566 12.54 • Reuse of milled asphalt from maintenance service centres that implemented this step Calcium hydroxide (kg) 174,373 229,874 174,373 229,874 31.83 performed on roadways in order to repair was 93%, or 1,088 discs. service roads in conservation work; 100%, Dispersing agents (kg) 21,478 23,147 21,478 23,147 7.77 or approximately 3,409 m3 of the milled Another highlight was the recovery of Coagulating agents (kg) 121,470 1,797,535 121,470 1,797,535 1,379.82 material was reused. leachates generated in composting processes Pesticides (plant and dumpsites in some of our waste protection and herbicides) (I) 4 925 4,732 3,603 180 126,5 4,916 4,655 -5.32 • In roadway maintenance and conservation, treatment plants. The leachate is recirculated Fertilisers (kg) 596 6,285 596 6,285 954.53 100% of the beams and laminates from by reinserting it into the process, where it the signal panels that were removed contributes moisture to the organic material Paints (l) 6,025 6,981 16,408 17,925 22,433 24,906 11.02 were reused to manufacture sheds inside in fermentation. As a result, a large amount of Cleaning products (I) 358,948 216,718 22,518 45,177 160 381,466 262,055 -31.30 industrial bays in conservation centres. this waste disappears and water consumption Oils (I) 4,618 3,903 85,019 127,024 3,311 1,543 92,948 132,470 42.52 is reduced. This is common practice in the Caustic soda (kg) 383,408 57,653 383,408 57,653 -84.96 • Roadway maintenance and conservation facilities shown below: Polyelectrolytes (kg) 20,700 29,352 20,700 29,352 41.80 activities included trimming roadside Carbon dioxide (kg) 135,790 156,994 135,790 156,994 15.62 bushes and trees: this material was used as • The purchase of recycled raw materials also Other chemical products (I) 24,735 52,227 24,735 52,227 111.15 fertiliser for these same areas. Estimations increases the use of recovered materials in Other chemical products (kg) 18,658 86,268 18,658 86,268 362.36 indicate that 2,232 m3 or 12.23% has been company activities: put to use advantageously. Adblue (l) 3,430 4,620 1,000 20,00 130 4,430 6,750 52.37 • Purchase of recycled garbage bags for Mortar (Kg) 127,955 12,330 127,955 12,330 -90.36 • Composting using remains of undergrowth, cleaning activities, sometimes covering Anti-freeze (l) 392 400 (VII) 8,095 392 8,495 2,067.09 stubs, trimming remains, etc. as organic soil 100% of total garbage bag consumption, Cooking oil (I) 5,502 0 5,502 provision. such as occurs in Roadway Cleaning in Catering paper (napkins, As Pontes (A Coruña), in Cleaning and table cloths and kitchen Within the environmental services division, it Garbage Collection in Soria and in the paper) (kg) 9,425 0 9,425 is important to distinguish between materials Urban Maintenance Service in Arroyo de la that are recovered as the result of good Encomienda. In all, 37,846 recycled bags. environmental practices carried out in the Group’s work centres and those that pertain to the activity. 262 263 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Non-hazardous waste in the CONSTRUCTION AREA • Reusing leaves and grass cuttings for In 2012, paper consumption by the Sacyr PORTUGAL, compost in urban gardens and reusing Group was 175,017 kg. The purchased ANGOLA, CAPE VERDE AND TOTAL trimmings as mulch in gardens in the product should bear the FSC certification, SPAIN CHILE BRAZIL CONSTRUCTION Urban Maintenance Service in Arroyo de la proving that it comes from sustainable % VARIATION Encomienda. These totalled approximately sources. This FSC stamp guarantees that WASTE TYPE 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 1,338 m3 in 2012. the paper products purchased come from Household garbageproperly managed forests. solid urban waste (kg) 1,460,239 455,861 82,590 1,542,829 455,861 -70.45 • The Rioja waste treatment plant reuses leachates in the biomethanation process Paper and carton (Kg) 1,327,424 1,003,095 920 36,280 1,405,934 1,039,375 -26.07 77,590 after treatment and for agricultural Ink and toner purposes. Approximately 30,000 m3 are 405 2,295 141 546 2,295 320.33 cartridges (kg) used in the first process, while the second Plastic containers (kg) 278,001 229,491 278,001 229,491 -17.45 uses approximately 15,000 m3, for a total of 45,000 m3. Remains from clearing, 1,561,588 87,080 1,561,588 87,080 -94.42 stubs, trimming (kg) Tyres (U) 567 220 200 0 767 220 -71.32 Electric and Paper consumption electronic device 388 461 8 396 461 16.41 SERVICES waste (kg) CONSTRUCTION Water (Spain, Septic tank sludge (m3) 2,501 1,340 119,6 2,501 1,460 -41.64 (Spain, Portugal, Environment Portugal Brazil, Cape Verde, MULTISERVICES (Spain and and CONCESSIONS non-hazardous 680 208 680 208 -69.42 Angola and Bolivia) Spain Portugal) Australia) (Spain) waste (t) 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 Paper (Kg) 122,492 9,915 7,105 35,284 277 Waste Management Another priority that the Sacyr Group applies preparation for reuse, recycling, other in all its activities is to minimise waste and uses including energy recovery and finally, improve waste management. To do so, it elimination. On the other hand, the Group applies the necessary measures to reduce, searches for the best options provided by recover and recycle the waste and then our suppliers. All this while continuously ensures that waste that cannot be recovered encouraging good environmental practices is eliminated correctly. via training and improving awareness. Investments in the environment are also The main methods put into practice in made to include materials and waste reuse this area are designed to obtain the best and recovery technologies. environmental result. On the one hand, the priorities for waste prevention and The waste generation figures per business management are as follows: prevention, division are shown below. 264 265 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Non-hazardous waste in the SERVICES AREA WASTE GENERATED IN THE REAL ESTATE AND CONCESSIONS AREA REAL ESTATE CONCESSIONS Environment Water Multi-services (Spain and (Spain, Portugal Industrial TOTAL Waste type 2011 2012 2012 (Spain) Portugal) and Australia) (Spain) Services hazardous waste % VARIATION Batteries (kg) 7 4 73 Waste type 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Film, cloth, paper, etc. soaked in hazardous substances (kg) 16 52 45 Paper and carton (Kg) 6,491 3,709 10,537 5,631 550 31,746 17,578 41,086 133.74 Fluorescent tubes (kg) 27 38.5 152 Ink and toner cartridges (kg) 92 139 178 328 106 101 376 568 51.06 Contaminated containers ad packaging (kg) 13 46 4 Plant waste (branches, trunks, etc.) (kg) 629,072 4,560,910 3,521,778 12,447,685 27,733 9,014 4,178,583 17,017,609 307.26 Hydrocarbon sludge (kg) --6,960 Wood (kg) 30 112 465 495 112 -77.37 Electric and electronic device waste (kg) 99 465 109 Containers (kg) 25,204 27,349 819 19,580 4,874 1,550 30,897 48,479 56.91 Large batteries / Nl-Cd accumulators / Small batteries (kg) --5 Ferric waste (kg) 70 1,764 34,530 2740 135,470 10,662 4,504 180,732 3.912.70 Used oil (I) 17 1 -Tyres (U) 22 5,682 456 1,387 478 7,069 1.378.87 Oil filters (kg) ---Electric and electronic device waste (kg) 868 480 833 340 1,701 820 -51.79 Aerosoles containing hazardous substances (kg) 7 140 -Water treatment non-hazardous waste plant sludge (kg) 26,183,451 40,741,080 26,183,451 40,741,080 55.60 Junk (kg) --1,500 Septic tank sludge (kg) 106,170 74,340 106,170 74,340 -29.98 Treatment waste (kg) 118,355 28,340 2,360 5,820 120,715 34,160 -71.70 Waste from WTP scraping, degritting and degreasing (kg) 1,145,000 634,700 1,145,000 634,700 -44.57 Rejected refined compost and improper biomass (kg) 12,000 11,000 12,000 11,000 -8.33 AMOUNT OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (Kg) ACCORDING TO TREATMENT Air filters (kg) 5,560 16,198 30 302 5,590 16,500 195.17 Asphalt from pavement milling (T) 13,193 8,183 13,193 8,183 -37.97 Edible oil and grease 1,025 0 1,025 In 2012, the Sacyr Group made an enormous effort to report the treatment methods applied to the waste it generated. The following table shows the treatment received by all nonhazardous waste generated in 2012. Recycled Recovered Reused Other Taken to dumpsite 416,636.10 851,640.16 4,295,921.04 13,308,695.21 19,430,361.47 266 267 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Hazardous waste in the CONSTRUCTION AREA Hazardous waste in the SERVICES AREA Water Environment (Spain, Portugal and Multi-services (Spain and Industrial Portugal and TOTAL Spain Chile Cape Verde Construction (Spain) Portugal) (Spain) Australia) Services % VARIATION % VARIATION WASTE TYPE 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Waste type 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Batteries (kg) 957 4,933 2,420 3,377 4,933 46.08 Batteries (kg) 3,110 3,693 6,000 9,587 56 9,166 13,280 44.88 Film, cloth, paper, etc. soaked in Film, cloth, paper, etc. hazardous substances (kg) 10,142 12,314 12,300 22,442 12,314 -45.13 soaked in hazardous 544 438 1,589 5,280 607 581 55 599 2,795 6,399 128.94 Aerosoles containing hazardous substances (kg) substances (kg) 5,993 4,852 5,993 4,852 -19.04 Fluorescent tubes (kg) 771 1,898 444 91 10 25,5 73 1,244 2,030 63.18 Fluorescent tubes (kg) 10 688 10 688 6,780.00 Used oil (kg) 4,665 1,832 33,873 35,725 18,750 26,367 1,514 1,814 57,388 65,424 14 Used oil (Iitres) 30,691 23,072 21,710 1,000 52,401 24,072 -54.06 Oil filters (kg) 20 50 8,037 3,538 808 1,064 8,865 4,652 -47.52 Oil filters (kg) 2,665 543 2,665 543 -79.62 Contaminated containers 2,237 7,660 2,566 4,264 1,948 1,411 972,5 5,832 6,824 13,846 102.9 Contaminated containers and ad packaging (kg) packaging (kg) 26,960 122,954 3,070 30,030 122,954 309.44 Contaminated soil (kg) 32,400 9,936 5,000 32,400 9,936 -69.33 Contaminated soil and rocks (m3) 125 12 15 208 140 220 57.14 Small batteries (kg) 70 25 1,116 37 22 52 1,208 114 -90.56 Small batteries (kg) 694 414 694 414 -40.35 Hydrocarbon sludge (kg) 46,627 71,214 46,627 71,214 52.73 Hydrocarbon sludge (kg) 20,880 0 20,880 Fuel waste (kg) 357 357 10 367 357 -2.72 Sludge and waste from washing Electric and electronic machinery (kg) 70,589 14,196 3,150 73,739 14,196 -80.75 54 2,488 12,900 97 48 12,966 2,488 -80.81 device waste (kg) Solvents (kg) 828 48,295 828 48,295 5732.73 Reagents and laboratory 844 875 844 875 3.67 Fuel waste (kg) 13,062 28,371 13,062 28,371 117.20 chemicals (kg) Electric and electronic device waste Oily water (kg) 331 1,473 331 1,473 345.02 (kg) 168 168 0 -100.00 Solvents (kg) 3 4 760 1,490 763 1,494 95.81 Ink and toner cartridges (kg) 313 411 141 454 411 -9.47 Ink and toner cartridges 56 8 336 141 39 394 8 -97.97 Concrete releasing agent (kg) 10,048 623 10,048 623 -93.80 (kg) Curing liquids (kg) 5,420 5,420 0 -100.00 Sludge from cleaning hydrocarbon storage tanks 600 600 -100 Leftover paint (kg) 4,925 0 4,925 (kg) Asbestos (kg) 33,122 46,241 33,122 46,241 39.61 Large batteries / Nl-Cd 512 847(II) 4,405 847 4,917 480.52 Remains of chemical products used accumulators (kg) frequently in laboratories (kg) 42 42 0 -100.00 Aerosoles containing 16 162 16 162 912.5 hazardous waste (t) 146,46 58,02 146 58 -60.39 hazardous substances (kg) Paint waste (kg) 461 268 269 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance The following table shows the treatment received by all hazardous waste generated in 2012. AMOUNT OF WASTE (Kg) ACCORDING TO TREATMENT MULARROYA DAM TJV AN EXAMPLE OF SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION D1 D3 D5 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 N1 N2 N3 N4 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R7 R9 R12 R13 Use of dam ravine excavation material in embankment The Standard Dam View shows Shade Areas This also reduced the consumption of 230,698.72 within the crest walls. The work on the “shaded” resources such as diesel fuel, since this areas was carried out using rock fragments material was stocked temporarily alongside from excavations in the ravine, containing the Dam, thus considerably reducing the siltstone and red clay siltstone with embedded transport distance for vehicles used for this red and whitish sandstone. purpose. 106,695.80 81,903.21 In other words, the Dam embankment was 57,358.91 made from part of the material extracted during 22,850.52 10,429.25 15,994.17 the excavation of the Dam foundations. This 2,038 536.98 196 680 135.27 660 310 5 41 12 25 4 982 3,235.68 16.50 1,606 prevented having to excavate 285,546 m3 of adjacent terrain. Recovery of inert waste The treatment identification code (D1, D2, D3, The Sacyr Group encourages reusing inert etc.) is that used by current Spanish legislation. waste from ongoing and finished projects. This prevents having to dispose of this When the Sacyr Group operates in countries waste in the dumpsite, which commonly where the environmental legislation is not as results in the purchase of new materials. It strict as that of other countries, or where it exists is therefore common company practice to but is not implemented, the Group attempts to reuse surplus project materials in restoration apply the guidelines established by the strictest projects, in landfills, to level clearings and standards. However, this is not always feasible due embankments, etc. to external obstacles. GENERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF CDW AND INERT WASTE IN THE SERVICES AREA Water Multiservices Environment (SPAIN AND GENERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF CDW AND INERT MATERIAL WASTE IN THE CONSTRUCTION AREA (Spain) (Spain) PORTUGAL) Services PORTUGAL and % VARIATION SPAIN CAPE VERDE CONSTRUCTION SPAIN 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 % VARIATION Inert Waste CLASSIFICATION 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Earth and leftover rocks (m3) 2,736 5,153 15,086 72,884 442 333 18.264 78.370 329.10 Inert material waste Reused (m3) 2,736 5,022 12,542 64,847 251.172 272.8 15.529 70.142 351.68 Excavated (m3) 12,296,580 5,227,064 3,123,353 554,160 15,419,933 5,781,224 -62.51 To dumpsite (m3) -125 2,544 8,037 19 14.5 2.563 8.177 219.02 Reused (m3) 8,729,955 4,284,614 1,771,734 431,369 10,501,689 4,715,983 -55.09 Recovery (m3) -6 ---46 0 52 -Recovery/recycling plant (CDW) 156,654 20,199 --156,654 20,199 -87.11 Construction and demolition waste (CDW) (CDW indicated below refer only to Spain) Taken to dumpsite (m3) 3,409,971 922,251 1,351,619 122,791 4,761,590 1,045,042 -78.05 Total (m3) 14 5 695 509.24 29 0.03 738 925.26 25.37 Construction and Demolition Waste (CDW) Recycled/Recovered (m³) 14 5 695 508.83 --709 924.83 30.44 Excavated (m3) 126,588 169,518 4,501 3,427 131,089 172,945 31.93 Reused (m3) ---0.4 ---0.4 -Reused (m3) 11,264 33,978 --11,264 33,978 201.65 Dumpsite (m3) ----25.76 0.03 25.76 0.03 -99.88 Recovery/recycling plant (CDW) 74,464 64,706 4,162 34,183 78,626 68.125 25.77 Taken to dumpsite (m )3 40,860 70,833 339 8 41,199 70,841 71.95 270 271 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Efficient use of water Efficient use of water is vitally important for In the construction division, water is used for 2012 are that 149,534 m3 of water Water: water supply for the population, for sustainable development. The Sacyr Group primarily in temporary facilities such as were reused in the construction projects human consumption in offices; is aware of the value of this resource and concrete and crushing plants, earth-moving carried out in Spain. Otherwise, and in the continues advancing toward increasingly work, probes, cleaning, road watering and for understanding that this may not even be the Multi-services: water for human efficient water management. It does so human use in offices, changing rooms, etc. real volume involved, this water would have consumption in offices and in the by searching for ways to optimise water This consumption is shown below: had to be obtained from other sources. conservation centres, as well as to clean consumption in all its activities, while making these. it a priority to reuse water and consume Water consumption in the services division recycled water. in Spain can be mainly broken down into the following items; Environment: water used mostly to flush Water consumption in the CONSTRUCTION AREA (m3) streets and water parks and gardens; Portugal, Angola y SPAIN Chile CaPE Verde CONSTRUCTION Water consumption in the SERVICES AREA 2011 / 2012 (m3) % VAR. 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Environment Water Mains (I) 202,353 71,027 11,370 78,016 89,975 87,503 303,698 236,546 -22.11 Multi-services (Spain and PortuIndustrial (Spain, Portugal and (Spain) gal) (Spain) Australia) SERVICES Reservoir or river 131,305 19,415 30,720 92,599 162,025 112,014 -30.87 % Others (irrigation canals, etc.) 118,653 40,240 74,220 (II) 118,653 40,240 -66.09 VARIATION Well / Gallery 11,402 22,494 14,546 12,000 25,948 34,494 32.94 SPAIN 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 Mains 11,582 16,971 979,814 1,484,288 31,619 8,145 61,826 101,053 1,084,841 1,610,457 48.45 Recycled internally and 821 186,579 186,579 373,158 821 -99.78 externally Reservoir or river --8,060 1,277 53,210 46,704 --61,270 47,981 -21.69 TOTAL 463,714 153,998 197,949 152,236 197,949 152,236 859,612 458,470 -46.67 Other (irrigation canals, etc.) --32 -85,209 91,288 556,847 2,240,774 642,088 2,332,062 263.20 Well / Gallery 2,447 3,085 19,695 18,620,1 38,415 37,792 13,611,762 14,029,004 13,672,319 14,088,501 3.04 (I) Note: consumption marked as “Mains” refers to consumption from the mains network and water hydrants Desalinator (supply) ------5,475,204 6,405,309 5,475,204 6,405,309 16.99 (II) Note: this is sea water. Sea Water ------14,869,768 15,250,800 14,869,768 15,250,800 2.56 Reclaimed water externally --20,490 15,189 ----20,490 15,189 -25.87 Each construction project is different, with its in the concrete and crushing plants, and to Reclaimed water particular circumstances. This implies that the water vegetation and build dividers. internally -202 53,289 561,181 --479,010 946,550 532,299 1,507,933 183.29 steps taken to reduce water consumption in TOTAL 14,029 20,258 1,043,674 1,540,148 208,453 183,929 34,997,220 38,878,489 36,263,376 40,622,824 12.02 each project are different. Among the most Recycling or reusing all the water used over a effective measures that can be taken are year-long period in the construction activity reusing water from tunnel work, water used to of a company is a challenging proposal, made clean concrete tanks, rainwater that collects more difficult by project time periods and the As in the Construction division, water-saving rather than using water from other sources. in basins throughout the project, surface variety of locations. Only on rare occasions measures are studied and implemented in Significant progress was made in 2012 in the water pools, etc. This water is used mainly are there water inventories available in this the Services division. In addition, priorities services division: to prevent dust during vehicle traffic by regard. However, this does not mean that all are set to reuse surplus water from internal watering paths and access roads, compacting the possible steps are not taken to reduce processes and to consume recycled water embankments and general cleaning of the water consumption and to prevent water worksite. Other possibilities are reusing water from being wasted. The Group’s estimations 272 273 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance OUTSTANDING FIGURES for 2012 • Waste Water Treatment Plant (EDAR) Emmasa the preparation of reagents, gas scrubbing (Spain): 8,951,521 m3 of sewage water were towers (deodourising) air turbocompressor treated by this plant, of which 8,218,804 cooling and biogas compressors, road m3 were used for agricultural purposes and cleaning, floats and general facilities. More 732,717 m3 were used to water parks and than 95% of the water consumed in this clean streets. plant was recycled water. • In 2011, dry coolers were installed in the La • Total water consumption in public restrooms Roda Energy Company (Valoriza Operación and changing rooms in the Itemosa and y Mantenimiento), which drastically reduced Itepesa transport hubs was 15,597 m3. the operation of the cooling towers used to cool the low temperature circuit, thus • In the Agua España Division, 2.43% of drastically reducing water consumption consumed water was recycled water. in the system in 2012, as is shown in the corresponding water consumption table. • Testa reduced water consumption by 5.91% versus the previous year, the current volume • Biomasas de Puente Genil, a company being 121,686 m3. belonging to the Sedebisa Complex (Complejo Sedebisa) (Valoriza Operación y Mantenimiento Spain): reused approximately In environmental activities (Spain), 45,929 1,755 m3 of water recovered by bleeding the m3 of the water used was recycled and reused boiler. water, which represents 2.98% of all the water used in this activity. The recycled water comes • Waste Water Treatment Plant (EDAR) La from external sources, specifically from waste Spills Reguera (Spain): Of a total of 7,723,115 m3 water treatment plants (EDAR) belonging to of treated water in 2012, 402,600 m3 were the Community of Madrid, and is used to clean Some of the activities performed by the This is the case of tunnel work, where the Bemposta subjected to tertiary treatment for internal streets and water gardens. The reused water Group generate liquid effluents that are appearance of large amounts of water during Hydroelectric Power use. Specifically, the treatment consisted in comes from internal sources, leachate and always discharged according to applicable excavation is common. The solution to this Plant, Portugal. filtration by using dyna-sand filters, prior outputs from waste treatment plant processes legal requirements and the conditions problem is always a priority for the project. chlorination and ultraviolet disinfection. that are reinserted into the waste treatment established by the pertinent authorities. It is a common practice to design and install This water was used internally for flushing, processes either directly or after treatment by water treatment systems prior to disposing of watering, equipment cleaning, preparing settling and physical-chemical and biological The wastewater generated by the the water. polyelectrolytes and in the deodourising and treatment, in order to reach the necessary construction division is water used for cooling towers of some of the equipment moisture conditions. sanitary purposes and water used while In some cases, Waste Water Treatment Plants (turbocompressors and biogas compressors). performing the work. Its destination varies (EDAR) are installed and in others, settling More than 95% of the water consumed in according to the location of the activity. The basins are installed. this plant was recycled water. water is usually discharged at authorised points of the public water (waterways and • Waste Water Treatment Plant (EDAR) Torrejón underground) and sewage networks. de Ardoz (Spain): Of a total of 9,422,750 m3 of treated water in 2012, 543,950 m3 Sometimes, the water needs to be treated were subjected to treatment for internal before discharging it into a collector. In these use. Specifically, the water was subjected to cases, the Group chooses the best techniques filtration, chlorination and UV disinfection available to minimise the environmental treatment (tertiary treatment) and then used in: impact of a direct spill. 274 275 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance The activities associated with the services Water spills by BUSINESS AREA area that generates discharges are the integral water cycle (purification and desalination), waste water treatment plants, AREA OF ACTIVITY SPAIN CHILE PORTUGAL PORTOCAMBA TJV electricity generating plants and waste Construction 244,987 153,682 cleaning and collecting. As in the construction Real Estate 97,358 N/A N/A PORTOCAMBA TJV (SACYR-CAVOSA-MLNA water collection well and pumping to the area, the medium receiving the liquid waste Concessions 12,478 N/A N/A RIOVALLE) is building the Portocamba tunnel, head of the treatment system. Excavation near differs, depending on the process that generates the waste and the location of Energy 41,581 N/A N/A in the Campobecerros-Portocamba section of the left hand tunnel mouth where all the water the North-Northwest High Speed Rail Corridor, mentioned before is conducted. From there it the facility. Common dumping areas are the Water 31,102,791 N/A 13,630 Services on the Madrid-Galicia High Speed Rail Line, is pumped to the first basin where treatment is sea, the sewage network and the authorised Environment 1,232,118 N/A 7,973 located in Ourense, according to the decision started. discharging sites in the public water network. Multi-Services 16,207 N/A N/A published in the Official State Journal (BOE) dated 15/03/2012. Head basin. The pH meter, adjustment The processes performed by the measures (CO2 and caustic soda) and the environmental services division in its waste In 2012, total discharges in Waste Water The East tunnel mouth is accessed across a coagulation and flocculation equipment to treatment facilities do not include spills. This Treatment Plants (EDARs) nationwide for 22-metre high clearing along the left-hand start the settling process are placed here. is due to the design of the facility, where water treatment were 16,431,706 m3. track and 15-m high clearing along the right leachates are recirculated and evaporated hand track, and a distance of 400 m. Settling basins. A series of basins in a line, without needing to discharge them outdoors. EMMASA, the Joint Water Company of Santa joined by a tube through which water flows Cruz de Tenerife, carried out a census of the A berm has been built at 10 metres from the from one to another until it reaches the last Wastewater is analysed systematically main industries located in the municipality, initial level of the terrain to detour the Foxo basin, where it exits. From here it is piped to the and according to schedule to ensure that The company developed a spill control Vello Stream, a small waterway pertaining to spill point. The solids settle during this process applicable requirements are fulfilled. These procedure in 2009 to safeguard the the Miño-Sil River Authority that runs almost until values under 80 mg/l are obtained, when are both legal requirements and those conditions of the sewage system and the parallel to the clearing area. the water is apt for spilling into the stream. established by the corresponding authorities treatment plant. This procedure has been to ensure the quality of the spill. used since then to identify the most polluting Surfacing of the ground water, filtrations from The basins are work debris containers. A single industries and to follow up by characterising the Foxo Vello stream, the runoff from the water row was used at the start, but the occasional The quality of the drinking water is the spill so the client can implement the basins and the rain water made it impossible high water flow made it necessary to have two guaranteed by the direct analysis of certain measures necessary to minimise the impact. to work without emptying these water flows. In rows. The first row was formed by 6 containers parameters in company laboratories and A total of 183 analyses of wastewater spills in addition, the slope towards the entry to the tunnel measuring 7 m3 each and a second row of 4 specialised external laboratories. More than the network were carried out in 2012. favours water accumulation in the work area. containers measuring 7 m3. A primary basin21,235 samples of pre-drinking, drinking and container with 9 m3 capacity was placed at the treated water, spills and sewage are taken Brine is discharged into the sea and is The intense vehicle and machine traffic junction, where all the equipment was placed annually, apart from the controls carried out immediately diluted in the sea water without contaminate the water, which is initially clean, and distributed to both rows. in the company’s own facilities. There are causing the least harm to marine fauna or with a high degree of solids in suspension that 23,397 analyses performed each year that flora. In 2012, 8,846,000 m3 were discharged. make it impossible to dump directly into the mainly determine parameters such as: BDO5, stream. solids in suspension, DQO, NH$, H-NO, total nitrogen and phosphorous. Therefore, and until the clearing level is reached, where the final settling basins have The estimated volume of water discharged been built, a provisional system has been in 2012 was 32,922,804.08 m3. This installed consisting of: calculation was made by taking into account the coefficient of return included in the Hydrologic Plan of the Tajo River (approved by Royal Decree 1664/1998, dated 24 July, which approved the Hydrologic Plans for waterways). The details are shown below: 276 277 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Thermoelectric Power Station, Lebrija (Seville). Accidental spills prevention The Sacyr Group has an information system In 2012, approximately 5 litres of oil were that collects all the information regarding spilled during the operation, maintenance and emergency situations that occur during its conservation of transport hub concessions; activities. These emergency situations include specifically caused by a bus breaking down. spills of hazardous substances, rupture of The oil was cleaned using sepiolite and taken piping (collector drains, supply pipes, etc.), to the hazardous waste storage area for fires, etc. delivery to the authorised waste managing company. In addition, the Transport Consortium This information system detected ten was informed that the operating company had accidental spills in 2012 in the construction driven a bus in poor condition into the hub and business division. Five of these were the situation was not repeated. involuntary and occurred during fuel tank loading and unloading; another four were These types of incidents occur very rarely machine oil leaks due to a breakdown or and do not entail serious risk due to the improper machine operation; the last case was implementation of preventive measures and due to a missing retaining trough in fuel and the definition and application of adequate emulsion tanks, which caused involuntary fuel procedures in the event of spills. spills resulting in soil surface contamination. The contaminated soil was swiftly collected The Sacyr Group has established preventive in all these cases and taken to the hazardous measures to prevent these incidents as waste storage area, where it was subsequently well as specific measures to minimise the delivered to the authorised hazardous consequences of spills involving chemical waste management companies. A missing substances, oil and fuel. Both company retaining trough was also placed under the staff and collaborators are informed corresponding tank. Estimated spill volume of these measures via the manual of was 177 litres of fuel and 22.5 litres of oil. good environmental practices and the environmental emergency plan provided in As in previous years, mechanical incidents, each work centre. which are inevitable in a large fleet of vehicles, occurred during road cleaning and urban Significant spills were not reported for 2012 waste collection. The company recorded 32 in the rest of the activities and countries that accidental spills due to rupture of hoses and the Sacyr Group was involved in and that have other hydraulic system elements, causing spills been included in this report. These refer to of 1,355 litres of oil. All these spills occurred Sacyr Chile and various activities by Valoriza on pavement in urban areas and were cleaned España and Somague, both in construction and by the cleaning services or by the company the environment. itself and disposed of by authorised waste management companies according to the nature of the spill. 278 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance 7.12 Sustainable development and biodiversity Our commitment in the fight against climate change Climate change is the great environmental The network of companies that make up the Transport and mobility in general are These steps reduce energy consumption and socio-economic challenge of the 21st Sacyr Group design and implement certain directly associated with climate change, and, as a result, emissions. century. Its potential impact is enormous specific measure within the framework contamination and energy dependency. and confronting it requires a profound of the basic principles that underlie its Therefore, steps have been taken to reduce change in energy and production models environmental policy. Some of these fuel consumption, optimise business trips, and a global commitment at the highest measures are oriented to encouraging implement technologies that minimise level. energy savings and others to adopting travel, etc. energy-efficient measures, such as: Sacyr has demonstrated its willingness to fight against this environmental problem A business strategy for the development of for years through an Environmental Policy alternative energy sources that are more committed to saving energy and controlling environmentally friendly. emissions into the atmosphere, as well as a Energy production business strategy dedicated to developing The calculation and recording of the (kWh) alternative sources of energy. organisation’s carbon footprint. 2011 2012 ENERGY ENERGY Sacyr Industrial was founded in 2012 and The replacement of equipment (coolers, EXPORTED EXPORTED now leads the development of Sacyr’s boilers and lifts, etc.) with modern units that POWER ENERGY TO THE ENERGY TO THE INSTALLATION ENERGY SOURCE (KW) GENERATED NETWORK GENERATED NETWORK energy strategy. It is the result of combining are highly energy efficient. several specialised corporate companies C.E. Puente del Obispo Cogeneration with natural gas 24,990 190,174,000 184,738,122 203,530,070 197,906,775 and divisions that are dedicated to Changes in lighting, replacing fluorescent C.E. La Roda Cogeneration with natural gas 8,202 58,274,000 53,591,300 60,781,710 56,304,669 engineering and industrial construction. tubes with LED lamps. COMPLEJO SEDEBISA C.E. Pata de Mulo (CEPALO) Cogeneration with natural gas l 17,260 118,551,482 105,618,892 119,119,901 108,148,661 Sacyr Industrial is one of the leading Optimising the use of industrial equipment Biomasas de Puente Genil renewable energy companies in Spain. and machinery. (BIPUGE) Biomass 9,820 70,138,910 67,208,064 77,615,550 74,330,840 It develops and operates its own plants OLEXTRA and EXTRAGOL COMPLEX using various types of technology. It is a The installation of timers in lighting systems national icon in biomass energy recovery in all the centres where this is feasible, Olextra Cogeneration with natural gas 16,647 122,188,609 117,919,863 112,794,944 108,870,510 and currently operates more than 150 depending on the activity involved. Extragol Biomass 9,150 70,004,350 66,427,388 58,475,136 55,442,708 MWs in 9 plants distributed throughout C.E. Las Villas Cogeneration with natural gas 24,977 194,486,400 192,238,111 209,168,800 206,818,763 Andalusia. The corporation is promoting 5 Encouraging informative, training and C.E. de Linares Cogeneration with natural gas 24,990 206,158,496 199,613,985 212,087,996 205,398,555 new biomass plants in Spain with a capacity awareness initiatives. Bioeléctrica de Linares, S.L. Biomass 15,000 111,290,820 103,154,825 108,345,828 100,319,351 of 70 MWs. 280 281 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Energy It is important to mention that, apart from Another type of biomass consumed in these Energy consumption is strictly associated renewable fuel, Valoriza Energía biomass facilities is forest biomass from thinning with the various processes involved in facilities also use fuel sources from olive mountain forests, which reduces the risk of Sacyr Group activities. In general, energy orchards (olive tree trimmings, trunks and fires. consumption is associated with operating stocks). These were traditionally burnt industrial facilities, vehicle and machine outdoors, emitting uncontrolled combustion fleets, lighting and climatising buildings particles and wasting energy. and facilities. Consumption per business division is as follows: Biomass consumption evolution in Valoriza Energía (2011-2012) Energy consumption in the CONSTRUCTION AREA PORTUGAL, ANGOLA BIPUGE EXTRAGOL BIOLINARES GEOLIT SPAIN CHILE AND CAPE VERDE CONSTRUCTION BIOMASS CONSUMPTION (kg) 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Orujillo 49,507,433 40,559,743 56,806,093 46,508,611 51,327,034 43,382,530 --% VAR, 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/ 2012 Energy Crops (poplar, eucalyptus, pine with Indirect consumption 11,087,760 20,900,042 14,534,840 13,159,240 45,134,578 49,841,087 --a management plan Electrical Power approved for this use) 11,909,953 5,916,228 93,358 219,030 10,243,464 10,826,495 22,246,775 16,961,753 (23.76) (kWh) Agricultural waste 14,755,669 22,307,572 6,355,980 8,466,180 18,521,863 15,960,130 --Direct consumption Forest planning 273,980 135,800 200,120 4,107,340 2,723,160 --Gas Oil (l) 7,413,523 9,551,146 --6,859,305 6,440,604 14,272,828 15,991,750 12.04 Other Biomass 7,929,191 5,877,848 113,300,00 1,557,645 6,320,640 628,235 413,947 Gasoline (l) 95,419 26,188 --167,053 122,221 262,472 148,409 (43.46) Gaseous Fuels Total 83,554,033 89,781,005 78,010,333 68,134,031 120,648,460 118,227,547 628,235 413,947 -1,179 --41,257 25,157 41,257 26,336 (36.17) (natural gas) (m³) Fuel Oil (l) 1,247,380 1,592,552 ----1,247,380 1,592,552 27.67 Biodiesel (l) 17,968 154,917 ----17,968 154,917 762.18 Crude Oil (l) --4,285,539 432,928 --4,285,539 432,928 (89.90) Liquefied --7,050 225 --7,050 225 (96.81) Petroleum Gas (kg) 282 283 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Energy consumption in the SERVICES AREA ENVIRONMENT (SPAIN WATER (SPAIN, PORTUGAL MULTI-SERVICES AND PORTUGAL) ENERGY AND AUSTRALIA) SPAIN 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Indirect consumption Electrical Power (kWh) 469,740 699,700 5,737,129 13,127,484 49,104,240 49,027,353 78,081,886 263,281,374 Direct consumption Gas Oil (l) 1,193,642 2,111,799 4,331,876 6,316,453 195,306 200,112 568,794 1,891,086 Gas Oil A (l) 1,143,813 2,066,369 3,542,087 5,394,437 6,975 1,183 199,965 241,998 Gas Oil B (l) 912 -492,341 581,871 166,221 198,929 --Gas Oil C (l) 48,917 45,430 21,500 62,613 22,110 -5,599 14,739 Gasoline (l) 20,175 24,877 82,821 300,925 --12,029 1,486,360 Gaseous Fuels (natural gas, 3,702 (III) 3,292 44,915 11,535,939 207,988,206 236,232,357 --butane gas, etc.) (m³) Biogas (m³) ------819,349 1,170,002 TOTAL SERVICES % VAR. SPAIN 2011 2012 2011/2012 Indirect consumption Seville Metro. Interior of station. Electrical Power (kWh) 133,392,995 326,135,911 144.49 Consumo directo Gas Oil (l) 6,289,618 10,519,450 67.25 Gas Oil A (l) 4,892,840 7,703,987 57.45 Gas Oil B (l) 659,474 780,800 18.40 Gas Oil C (l) 98,126 122,782 25.13 Gasoline (l) 115,025 1,812,162 1.475.45 Gaseous Fuels (natural gas, 208,033,121 247,771,588 19.10 butane gas, etc.) (m³) Biogas (m³) 819,349 1,170,002 42.80 284 285 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance ENERGY CONSUMPTION in the REAL ESTATE AND CONCESSIONS areas REAL ESTATE CONCESSIONS DEVELOPMENT AND CONCESSIONS % VAR. SPAIN 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011/2012 It is estimated that 32% of the energy consumed by Valoriza Indirect consumption in 2012 was generated by the activity itself. Electrical Power (kWh) 11,403,219 11,896,011 -8,517,150 11,403,219 20,413,161 79.01 Direct consumption Gas Oil (l) 43,518 60,005 -11,566 43,518 71,571 64.46 Gasoline (l) ---63 63 -Gaseous Fuels ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE COMPLETED: 308,852 304,336 --308,852 304,336 (1.46) (natural gas, etc.) (m³) Total Energy Consumption in 2012 Sacyr Group Waste Water Treatment Plants managed in Spain have generated 1,170,002 The Construction and Services sectors m³ of biogas, of which 638,830 m³ have been consumed as boiler feed and are mainly characterised by the the remaining 531,172 m³ are released as gas flare. Indirect consumption (MWh) (Gj) dispersal of the work centres, the temporary nature of the work and Electrical Power (kWh) 363,510,825 363,510.82 1,308,638.97 The Waste Water Treatment Plant (EDAR) at Santa Cruz de Tenerife has the variable amount of industrial Direct consumption (m³) (Gj) generated 74,614 kWh in the sludge digestion process, consumed by the equipment used. These characteristics, Gas Oil (l) 26,582,771 26,582.77 980,585.26 plant itself, thus reducing the purchase of electricity by that amount. along with the interruptions and the Gasoline (l) 7,852,459 7,852.46 226,402.10 fluctuation of the activities performed Gaseous Fuels At Valoriza Environmental Services, 29.73% of the energy consumed in during the contract period, make 248,102,260 248,102,260 9,678,469.16 (natural gas, etc.) (m³) 2012 was produced internally. it difficult to calculate interannual Fuel Oil (l) 1,592,552 1,592.55 59,218.99 variations. Biodiesel (l) 154,917 154.92 5,118.80 The Waste Water Treatment Plant (EDAR) thermal sludge drying plant at Petróleo (l) 432,928 432.93 15,969.85 Reocín generated 51,459,448 kWh in 2012, of which 7.6% was consumed by the plant itself and the rest exported to the network. Gas licuado (kg) 225 0.4 9.47 Biogás (m³) 1,170,002 1,170,002 28,360.85 The Waste Water Treatment Plant at La Rioja generated 10,245,111 kWh, the entirety of which has been exported to the network. Primary energy consumed in order to produce the electricity acquired by national electrical systems The Waste Water Treatment Plant at Bragança reduced the acquisition of 2,514 Electricity kWh due to internal power generation during the process of anaerobic sludge Energy content of consumed fuel acquired digestion. Countries from the network Units Units Carbon Fuel Oil GAS Biomass Waste Remaining (1) TOTAL The Waste Water Treatment Plants at Bragança and Font Salem generated Spain 173,352,453 Kwh GJ 222,364 134,280 760,635 15,099 8,620 267,761 1,408,758 a combined total of 534,333 m3, which have been used internally for both kWh 61,767,675 37,300,016 211,287,442 4,194,089 2,394,375 74,378,017 391,321,614 digester heating as well as for energy production. Chile 219,030 Kwh GJ 545 526 170 148 0 331 1,720 kWh 151,366 146,075 47,253 41,111 0 91,880 477,685 Portugal 22,350,460 Kwh GJ 58,217 17,548 78,591 7,675 2,513 27,132 191,677 kWh 16,171,446 4,874,570 21,830,951 2,132,049 698,021 7,536,664 53,243,701 Australia 166,000,000 Kwh GJ 1,311,646 20,144 273,685 16,854 0 37,496 1,659,826 kWh 364,346,105 5,595,651 76,023,671 4,681,772 0 10,415,671 461,062,871 Angola 1,385,425 Kwh GJ 0 3,981 0 0 0 3,793 7,774 kWh 0 1,105,816 0 0 0 1,053,680 2,159,496 Cape 203,457 Kwh GJ 815 306 716 2 0 136 1,975 Verde kWh 226,494 84,896 198,887 659 0 37,669 548,606 286 287 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance Príncipe de Vergara 187, building. Madrid. Emissions Direct emissions caused by fuel combustion to obtain energy The main emissions of greenhouse gases derived from Sacyr Group activities are Sacyr uses combustion facilities included in classified as follows: the scope of application of Directive 96/61/ EC, dated 24 September 1996. This Directive • Direct emissions (Scope 1) caused by fuel refers to integrated pollution prevention combustion to obtain energy. and control (IPPC) requiring notification of data for the European Pollutant Release • Direct emissions (Scope 2) caused by and Transfer Register (PRTR) as well as consumption of fuel used to operate combustion facilities that are not included in machinery, vehicles, auxiliary equipment this Directive, where emissions are calculated such as generators and temporary facilities voluntarily by the organisation. (concrete and crushing plants), diesel fuel and gas boilers, etc. The sources of these The emissions of all the Valoriza Energía emissions are owned or controlled by the facilities are based on the guidelines for the organisation. notification of emissions from power plants and other combustion facilities. Emissions • Indirect emissions (Scope 3) from from facilities included in the scope of generating electricity obtained and application of the IPPC Directive are made consumed by the organisation. These take public as specified in Community Regulations place physically in the plant where the concerning the European Pollutant Release electricity is generated; i.e., the emissions and Transfer System. do not occur during the performance of Sacyr Group activities. 288 289 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance EMISSIONS OF THE PUENTE GENIL INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX TOTAL EMISSIONS (KG/YEAR) CEPALO BIPUGE (PUENTE GENIL BIOMASS PLANT) (C.E. PATA DE MULO) COMPAÑÍA COMPAÑÍA COMPAÑÍA COMPAÑÍA ENERGÉTICA BIOELÉCTRICA ENERGÉTICA LAS ENERGÉTICA DE OLEXTRA EXTRAGOL ENERGÉTICA TOTAL EMISSIONS OF PUENTE DEL OBISPO DE LINARES, S.L TOTAL EMISSIONS TOTAL EMISSIONS VILLAS LINARES LA RODA NATURAL GAS OF BIOFUEL (KG/YEAR) (KG/YEAR) POLLUTANT (KG/YEAR) CO2 67,280,095.61 134,070,672.00 201,350,767.61 92,309,008.34 115,392,598.97 96,482,349.14 173,661,960.71 61,324,504.38 106,621,106.87 29,998,620.00 CO 42,050.06 2,055,053.99 2,097,104.05 670,888.69 13,393.78 701,219.93 2,659,198.77 38,327.82 1,627,332.74 8,035.34 CH4 3,003.58 25,138.25 28,141.83 494.51 5,151.46 516.87 32,561.62 2,737.70 19,926.52 160.71 N2O 1,561.86 6,005.25 7,567.11 1,648.38 2,678.76 1,722.90 7,778.61 1,423.60 5,243.62 535.69 NH3 8,904.98 28,281.02 37,186.00 12,217.73 15,273.00 12,770.10 37,241.68 8,116.72 21,462.22 0.46 COVDM 1,201.43 139,656.95 140,858.38 75,825.26 206.06 79,253.36 180,897.88 1,095.08 110,708.09 107,137.93 NOX 276,328.96 279,313.90 555,642.86 149,074.35 65,079.83 145,082.25 361,795.75 251,868.50 222,441.65 535,689.64 Benceno 6,247.44 2,522.20 8,769.64 313.19 10.72 327.35 3,267.02 5.63 1,999.29 101.78 SO2 --0 ------SOx 4,925.86 71,511.43 76,437.29 6,758.34 8,448.39 7,063.89 77,591.57 4,489.83 90,893.91 2,196.33 PM10 1,081.29 9,775.99 10,857.27 18,132.13 1,854.52 18,951.89 12,662.85 985.57 35,203.52 5,892.59 Cd -2.51 2.51 ---3.26 -1.99 -Cr -12.57 12.57 ---16.28 -9.96 -Hg -29.47 29.47 ---2.73 -1.67 -Ni -2.11 2.11 ---25.33 -15.5 -Pb -19.55 19.55 ---37.99 -23.25 -Sb -29.33 29.33 ---6.15 -3.76 -Co -4.75 4.75 ---5.07 -3.1 -Mn -3.91 3.91 ---1,244.58 -761.64 -Cu -29.47 29.47 ---38.17 -23.36 -Zn -252.78 252.78 ---0.76 -0.47 -As ------17.19 -10.52 -Va ------327.43 -200.37 -HAP ------2.19 -1.34 -Trichloroethylene ------23.34 -14.28 -Total particles -----0 2,329.57 -7,749.20 -290 291 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance As a result of the entry into effect of the Kyoto EMISSIONS Protocol, the Spanish companies included in CONSTRUCTION SERVICES REAL ESTATE CONCESSIONS the National Emission Assignment Plan (PNA) PORTUGAL, are responsible for and required to ensure ANGOLA that their emissions are controlled efficiently AND CABO SCOPES EMISSIONS SPAIN CHILE VERDE SPAIN AUSTRALIA PORTUGAL SPAIN SPAIN and comply with the limits established in current legislation. SCOPES 1 CO2 (teq) 29,549.00 1133.06 17,712 52,422.00 6,969.00 1,460.00 940.00 30.00 SCOPES 2 CO2 (teq) 1,431.73 53.01 2,086 25,118.12 40,172.00 3,173.31 2,878.83 2,061.15 SO2 (teq) 3.05 0.11 -53.45 85.49 6.75 6.13 4.39 2012 NOx (teq) 2.16 0.08 -37.88 60.59 4.79 4.34 3.11 TONNAGE ENERGY EXPORTED ENERGY GENERATED G CO2/ KWH SCOPES 3 CO2 (teq) --464 -----INSTALLATION OF CO2 VERIFIED (KWH) (KWH) GENERATION Olextra 60,785 108,870,510 112,794,944 538.90 Extragol 343 55,442,708 58,475,136 5.87 Celvi 116,011 206,818,763 209,168,800 554.63 As for emissions of gases that damage the A list of the protected areas where the Sacyr ozone layer, the only ones generated by Group carried out projects in 2012 is shown Cepuente 91,487 197,906,775 203,530,070 449.50 the Sacyr Group are those from possible below: Cepalo 66,681 108,148,661 119,119,901 559.78 leaks of air conditioning equipment, which Bipuge 0 74,330,840 77,615,550 0.00 are minimal given the proper maintenance • Natural Parks: 5 Celinares 95,623 205,398,555 212,087,996 450.87 performed on them. Biolinares 0 100,319,351 108,345,828 0.00 • Special Bird Protection Areas: 9 Currently, Sacyr continues to use equipment TOTAL 2011 421,646 1,036,919,250 1,082,993,067 389.33 containing R22 gas, but this is being gradually • Sites of Community Importance: 10 TOTAL 2012 430,930 1,057,236,163 1,101,138,225 391.34 replaced by other equipment containing gas that does not damage the ozone layer and has • Natura 2000 Network: 4 a low greenhouse effect. The grams of CO2/kwh generated in 2012 Diversification and Savings) in December • Reserva Nacional: 7 were very similar to those of 2011. The 2012. Steps for the protection of biodiversity differences between the results of both years • Biosphere Reserve: 2 are considered insignificant. Scope 2 emissions were calculated using the Respect for the environment is a key value for annual data of equivalent emissions of CO2, Sacyr. As such, the Group’s working strategy • Ecological Protection Area: 2 The table below shows the Scope 1 and 2 SO and NOx per kWh produced in the national for biodiversity management is based on emissions for Sacyr Group activities and electricity generation system provided by the preventing damage to the environment. When • Natural Reserve: 1 Scope 3 emissions for the construction Adena-WWF Electricity Observatory for 2012. this is not possible, the Group studies and division in Portugal. implements the most adequate measures • Other: 7 for each scenario, depending on the type It should be noted that the Scope 1 of protection needed and the activity being greenhouse gas emissions for 2012 have performed, in order to minimise the impact of been calculated by using the conversion the activity being performed. factors published in the document “Final energy-primary energy conversion factors and CO2-2011 emission factors for fuels” by the Instituto para la Diversificación y Ahorro de Energía (IDAE) (Institute for Energy 292 293 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance The measures implemented in 2012 to prevent, or at least minimise, the potential Bahía de Cádiz Cádiz Parque I 10,522 3.5 Foundation work. Placing retaining barriers impact of Sacyr Group activities in the most Natural Park Natural/ Drainage work. for solids. important protected areas are those found LIC/ ZEPA Extracting water quality control samples. below: Sierra Morena Ciudad Real LIC/ ZEPA A 134,308 0.1 Construction work The transit areas for in the pump station machinery are marked off. and water intake The work is restricted to tower. between July and January PROTECTED AREAS WHERE THE SACYR GROUP HAS CARRIED OUT ACTIVITIES DURING 2012 to prevent harming the reproduction cycle of the PROTECTED AREA fauna. SIZE OF THE AREA MEASURES IMPLEMENTED TO Sierra de Cabrera-Bédar. NAME OF THE TYPE OF TYPE OF AFFECTED BY ACTIVITIES PREVENT OR MINIMISE THE Sierra de Almería LIC I 33,568 83.98 Trimming and Temporarily transplanting and PROTECTED PROTECTED PROTECTED THE ACTIVITY PERFORMED IN IMPACT OF THE ACTIVITY ON Cabrera-Bédar clearing, earth maintaining 84 olive trees AREA LOCATION AREA LOCATION AREA (HA) (HA) THESE AREAS THESE AREAS moving, building (Olea europaea) for future CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES (SPAIN) viaducts and use in restoration work drainage work. Signing of the agreement Construction of with the University of Almeria peninsulas for the to adapt, optimise and piers of piles 1 and Precision filling of the monitor the Restoration Plan 2 on either side of peninsulas and marking off with autochthonous species. Río Lérez Pontevedra LIC I 1.23 1.23 the river. the margins. Selection of areas containing Floating barriers to protect deteriorated land, old dumps against spills of greasy or and quarries within the LIC Excavation of piles oily fluids and to retain solid affected by the location of and piers. waste. new dumps of inert materials. Excavation and Campaigns for periodic water Building a floodable Weekly and monthly Regatta construction of retention in addition to daily ford for the sampling. Molinao Guipúzcoa Natural Park A 1 0.1 retainer walls. water level control. construction of the Collection and transfer of 3 Monitoring by experts. viaduct over the Mora turtles to a new habitat Adaptation of the work plan. Aguas river. Replacement of fine retaining Jalón River Earthworks Silent blasting. barriers using bales of straw gorges Zaragoza ZEPA I 23,500 510 Blasting. on both banks of the Aguas River. Blasting on the right-hand Parque Natural de Santa Cruz Parque A 7,499.7 22.9 Earth moving and Plant health measures to abutment of the Monitoring and inspection of Cumbre Vieja de Tenerife Natural excavation work. control and eliminate pests dam (hundreds of the cave by experts. caused by harmful agents metres from the Seismometer in the cave. Transplanting and reusing all Sima del Árbol Zaragoza LIC A 0.4 0.01 LIC). Adaptation of the work plan. the specimens affected by the work. Restoring the dump Transplanting two specimens sites of the project with of Drago, Palmera canaria, autochthonous species Palmera de abanico and Crop maintenance. Cardón to future garden Natural Park Reforestation by students areas. of Sierra attending the local school. de Cazorla, Release of first 150 mountain Segura and Dam construction rabbits (Oryctolagus Las Villas. Jaén LIC/ ZEPA I 200,000 213.3 work. cuniculus). 294 295 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance HermiguaLa Gomera Crossing. PROTECTED AREAS WHERE THE SACYR GROUP HAS CARRIED OUT ACTIVITIES DURING 2012 PROTECTED AREA MEASURES IMPLEMENTED SIZE OF THE AREA TO PREVENT OR MINIMISE NAME OF THE TYPE OF TYPE OF AFFECTED BY ACTIVITIES THE IMPACT OF THE PROTECTED PROTECTED PROTECTED THE ACTIVITY PERFORMED IN ACTIVITY ON THESE AREA LOCATION AREA LOCATION AREA (HA) (HA) THESE AREAS AREAS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES (SPAIN) Sierra Martés y Valencia LIC I 35,242 0.1 Concrete Dust and noise are el Ave manufacturing minimised by watering the roads and storage Sierra de ZEPA I 71,173 0.1 areas. Martés-Muela de Cortes Sierra de ZEPA A 15,066 0.01 Excavations, Noise measurement. Malacara foundation, ditches, structures SERVICE ACTIVITIES (MULTI-SERVICES, WATER AND ENVIRONMENT IN SPAIN AND AUSTRALIA) Parque Natural Valencia LIC/ ZEPA A 21,120 6.25 Road cleaning. The road is swept and de la Albufera waste is collected manually. Mechanical cleaning and chemicals are not used. Valle del Tiétar Ávila LIC/ ZEPA I 64,377.10 11 Waste treatment and Waste control. disposal. Parque Natural Jaén LIC/ V I 200,000 30 Trimming vegetation The use of herbicides is Sierra de on the sides of the prohibited. Cazorla, Segura A-319 road between Restricted scrub clearing y Las Villas Kp 23+000 and on sides because this 53+000. may affect endemism in danger of extinction (Viola Cazorlensis). Humedal de Bunningup (Conservation I 3.13 1.76 Berm (8 metres high) Weed control and Bunningup (Oeste de Category monitoring of native Australia) Wetland). species. Note: Location refers to the location of the activity with regard to the protected area (I: Interior, A: Adjacent) (I) Note: This corresponds to Somague activity carried out in Portugal. In 2012, there were not any protected areas in Chile affected by the work carried out there. The protected areas affected by construction work carried out by Sacyr Concesiones are included in the previous table, in the construction area. 296 07 Financial Sacyr 2012 performance In 2012, projects were also carried out in • Vulnerable: 3 However, there are other species, both fauna areas of high biodiversity value. The measures • Endangered: 1 and flora, that are not included the red list of taken to protect these habitats were the same • En peligro de extinción: 2 the UICN or in the various national catalogues. as those taken in protected areas. • Of special interest: 13 The steps taken to prevent these species from • Almost Endangered: 1 being affected were the same as those set out Projects and services performed in 2012 in the table titled “Main endangered species affected the habitats of vegetable and animal The activities carried out by the Sacyr Group in whose habitats the Sacyr Group carried species that were endangered in some way. in 2012 in habitats of endangered species are out activities in 2012” for species that were The number of species whose habitats were detailed below. These are included in national endangered to some degree or of special affected is listed below, according to the catalogues and in the red list of the UICN. In interest. In other words, measures were taken degree of danger: all cases, steps were taken to prevent and to prevent and when possible minimise the minimise the risks for these species. affects on these species. PRIMARY ENDANGERED SPECIES IN HABITATS WHERE THE SACYR GROUP HAS CARRIED OUT ACTIVITIES DURING 2012 DEGREE OF LIST WHERE IT IS ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT IN THE ACTIONS IMPLEMENTED TO PREVENT LOCATION SPECIES DANGER INCLUDED HABITATS OF THESE SPECIES AND MINIMISE DANGER TO THE SPECIES CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES (SPAIN AND CHILE) Almería Mora turtle Vulnerable UICN Red List Trimming and clearing. Strict marking off of the route before (Testudo graeca) clearing. Habitat restoration measures Endangered Red book of Earth moving work. Marking off the perimeter by buried amphibians and fencing of the area covering the largest reptiles in Spain. number of findings per m2. The duration of the work and the various Approximately 94.5% of the surface area periods during which restoration work was affected in Spain was restored. This percentage Málaga Bonelli’s Eagle Vulnerable UICN Red List Construction of a highway in an Building nests for eagle breeding. (Hieraaetus area near its habitat. carried out on the land make an accurate corresponds to 13 different locations, 3 of fasciatus) appraisal of the surface restored over a which have been verified by independent and Atacama Region Tamarugo Vulnerable Red Book of Construction of Route 5 North Fencing in of nearby species. specific period of time a complicated eternal professionals. (Chile) (Prosopis tamarugo) Chilean Flora, link road. endeavour. However, an estimation can be CONAF. made with the information available. SERVICE ACTIVITIES (MULTISERVICES, WATER AND ENVIRONMENT IN SPAIN) Valencia Fartet In danger of National Catalogue Use of chemical products The area is cleaned by hand, without (Aphanius iberus) extinction of Endangered that can penetrate land and machinery or chemical products. Species UICN contaminate water in irrigation Red List Red ditches and canals in Port de List of Spanish Catarroja. Vertebrates. Samaruc In danger of National Catalogue (Valencia hispanica) extinction of Endangered Species UICN Red List Red List of Spanish Vertebrates. 298 299 08 Future perspectives 8.1 Long-term view and strategy for the future 302 8.2 Value rationale 304 08Future Sacyr 2012 perspectives 8.1 Long-term view and strategy for the future 2013 The steps taken in recent years, the good • a mixture of complementary activities progress in the operative business activities with a high degree of synergy and the of the Group and a renewed strategy have set value of management and technical teams the foundation for the future growth of the that are highly qualified and experts in organisation: complex situations. • The consolidation as an international construction, real estate, infrastructure and These ideas place Sacyr in a new scenario services group; that defines us as an innovative, global, 2012 responsible, customer-oriented and positive • The firm belief that profitability should company. Debt 8,600 take priority over size, without rejecting the Corporate Debt 360 former a priori; Implide Ebitda 16,000 • Focusing on business that can contribute Margin 14.0% more to the market in terms of quality and added value due to the technical and Backlog 40,000 executive excellence of our teams; International 55% Competitive • containing structural costs; debt levels position always understood as the support for an now for the asset that justifies them and supports them 2008 next future. in turn; Debt 19,500 • high quality of assets in all of the Group’s Corporate Debt 1,900 business divisions; Implide Ebitda 11,000 Margin 11.3% Backlog 36,000 Focus on core business First Quality with high technical International 27% assets+Solid Business expertise basis for grotwth. Strong develop of industrial construction area Continuous internationalization process New Scene. Maximum care of corporate structures and profitability Total corporate debt reduction. 302 303 08Future Sacyr 2012 perspectives 8.2 The corporation has grown Value rationale 25 years in the throughout the 5 continents to over 200 Companies market 1.5 40 Billion 16 billion 36 million euros of euros licensed square meters business of implicit assets in rent portfolio Ebitda Our renewed strategy has allowed us to • An international group dedicated to The Group is currently working in 20 At the same time, the debt has been stabilise the financial situation of the Group, construction, infrastructure and services, countries throughout the 5 continents. restructured and adapted in time and form both as regards financial debt and deadlines. present in 20 countries and with activities These countries range from Australia to the to the current situation. In addition, the two At the same time the necessary capex is that are clearly focused abroad (the United States and from Latin America to the main items have been refinanced: the Group’s guaranteed in terms of equity for all the external portfolio is currently the Group’s European Union, with fledgling activity in participation in Repsol and its building projects awarded. major growth factor). Africa and Asia. development portfolio until 2015. We have also maintained adequate • Moreover, but not less important, the The Group has gone from carrying out The company has also strengthened its operational results, notably improving their Group’s technological capacity has been small contracts in these foreign markets to resources by carrying out two capital profitability, which is near 14%: proven and recognised, which ensures taking on some of the largest engineering increases and one bond issue to cover its its success when it takes on projects that projects in the world: the largest desalination investment needs in terms of equity for the At the same time, we have been capable of are very large in scope and strategically project in Perth or the third set of locks in immediate future. considerably increasing our international significant. the Panama Canal are two examples of the exposure. company’s capabilities. As a result, the debt is adjusted and • Thirdly, the Group’s complementary essentially linked to each of the Group’s The Sacyr corporation recently celebrated activities and low operational costs provide Despite the drop in global business due to assets and to the Ebitda flows they generate. its first 25 years in the market. This makes us adequate margins with a profitability that the economic crisis, the company’s Ebitda the youngest of the large construction and improves continuously. has been affected only slightly and remains Given the capital-intensive nature of its infrastructure companies in the country. stable. What is more important: profitability activities and how they are currently set The corporation has grown to over 200 has increased substantially, the portfolio has up, it can be said that the current debt Despite this, we have become large enough companies of significant value. 36 licensed grown with the subsequent implicit increase is appropriate for the company’s type of to compete on equal terms in the domestic assets, 1.5 million square meters in rent in Ebitda, international exposure has doubled business activities and their age. market and, especially abroad, where our or important construction and services and the company’s net financial debt has awards and successes are noteworthy. contracts make its potential clear, backed by fallen to a third of its previous level. Therefore, when we talk about the Group, we 40 billion euros in its business portfolio with are talking about: the capacity to generate more than 16 billion Sacyr has addressed a process of financial euros of implicit Ebitda. consolidation that has drastically reduced the debt to levels that are optimum for a company with 3 very capital-intensive activities. 304 305 08Future Sacyr 2012 perspectives International Portfolio 78% 64% 33% Construction Concessions Services portfolio portfolio portfolio 75% of the debt is due in more 2012 22,200 than 4 years millions of euros 2008 9,700 millions of euros Ebitda Certain steps remain to be taken, such The firm belief that these times require The Group effectively combines short and as divesting non-strategic assets and profitability to have priority over volume has long term businesses. Thus, in Construction 14% permanently adjusting costs to achieve, as resulted in an increase in margins that has and Concessions, the Group controls and is the case now, the most efficient corporate become the permanent philosophy of the provides added value at all the stages. In the structure possible. Group. Services and Industry business, the company 59% is oriented to satisfying the global needs of Concessions As regards deadlines, 75% of the debt is due While maintaining a notably stable Ebitda, its clients. The company provides efficient 11% in more than 4 years. the overall margin has increased from 11% and strict management in the Real Estate 16% to 14%. business to continue increasing business Services As regards the international expansion of value. the company, the markets that have been By activities, the figures achieved have 87% targeted are those with a consolidated reached 87% for Real Estate, 59% for All the above would not be possible Real Estate financial structure and legal certainty. Concessions – even taking into account that without the capacity for leadership, service, Moreover, the Group continues to detect most of these assets are in the launching innovation, endeavour and commitment valuable opportunities for controlled growth. stage-, 16% in services with room demonstrated by the Group’s teams to our 5.8% Four years ago, its international portfolio was for improvement and around 5.8% in clients and the market. Construction 9.7 billion euros; now it totals 22.2 billion. Construction. Percentage wise, it represents 80% of the Operational profitability has improved while company’s construction portfolio, 66% of maintaining a stable and noteworthy Ebitda. the concessions portfolio and 33% of the services portfolio. The company’s various businesses are operating normally, demonstrating the value All these achievements have gone hand in of the diversification strategy put into place hand with consistent work controlling costs by the Group since its beginnings: activities and improving efficiency in all the business linked to the economic cycle alongside more divisions and staff departments. The result recurrent activities, all with assets of optimal is probably the lightest costs structure in the quality. sector at this time. 306 307 08 Future Sacyr 2012 perspectives CONCLUSION BUSINESS MODEL • Prepared to take reaction to changes in the advantage of a potential surroundings improvement in the macro setting. • From a company whose FINANCIAL STABILITY growth was based on reaction versus the market crisis • Free percentage in the leverage and corporate stock exchange over 40% operations search for size. =less volatility. • From 20 to 8.6 billion in financial debt. PREDICTABILITY AND • Very high stock potential. • To a company focused on its TRANSPARENCY primary businesses and its reaction versus market demand • From 2 billion to 300 million • Company with a major proven technical capacity. in corporate debt. number of PURCHASE Search for profitability and • Clear and defined strategy. INTERNATIONALISATION recommendations. valuation of its qualitative reaction versus domestic market • From a significant % of debt strengths. situation with recourse to the parent • Very high profile company to debt supported communications policy. by assets. • From 27% of international PORTFOLIO AND EBITDA portfolio to 56% of presence reaction versus loss of size • From a company with short• High degree of quarterly abroad: term debt to 75% of debt financial information. • From a portfolio worth due after more than 3 years. 80% in Construction 36 billion to a portfolio OPERATIONAL BUSINESSES 66% in Concessions worth 41 billion. adequate mix versus adverse • Refinancing of Vallehermoso 33% in Services and Industry cycles via “ring fencing” until 2015. • From 11 billion in Ebitda • From negligible international to 16 billion. ASSET QUALITY • Reduction in exposure to • Stability of Testa. invoicing to 41% of invoicing Repsol and refinancing until from abroad. 2015. • From 600 million • Stable evaluation of • Profitable growth of in annual Ebitda to Testa. Services and Industry. • Capital reinforcement: 51% in Construction more than 500 million in terms of equity, capex 64% in Concessions (permanent sustained • Occupation of 97%. covered 100%. level). • Potential of Sacyr 27% in Services and Industry Concesiones. • Standard divesting policy • Value of Vallehermoso based on asset quality. • From 11% to 14% of much higher than the operating margin. • International growth of debt. construction. • Ordered balance sheet. • Remaining 28 years in • Adjustment of asset • Elimination of Concessions. Financed assessment and necessary Vallehermoso stock (from 100%. provisions. 12,000 to 700 units). • 11.5 billion portfolio in Valoriza with 16% margin. • Recognised technical capacity in construction work. 308 309 09 Appendices 1 GRI Table of Contents 312 2 Audit certificates and reports 334 3 Verification certificates and reports 336 4 Abbreviations and acronyms 338 5 Your opinion is important 340 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 1 GRI Table of Contents 2 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explana2 Organizational Profile Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 2.8 Scale of the reporting 6, 12, 13, 102 Fully organization. 2.9 Significant changes during 28 Fully the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2 2.10 Awards received in the Don´t received awards Fully If applicable, 3 4 reporting period. in the reporting Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explanaperiod 1 Strategy and Analysis Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 2 1.1 Statement from the most 15 Fully If applicable, 3 4 senior decision-maker of Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explanathe organization. 3 Report Parameters Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 1.2 Description of key impacts, 42, 67, 82, 86, Fully 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., 4 Fully risks, and opportunities. 302-309 fiscal/calendar year) for 2 information provided. If applicable, 3 4 3.2 Date of most recent 4 Fully Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explanaprevious report (if any). 2 Organizational Profile Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, 4 Fully 2.1 Name of the organization. 6, 7 Fully biennial, etc.) 2.2 Primary brands, products, 6, 7 Fully and/or services. 2.3 Operational structure of 6, 7 Fully the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's 346 Fully headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where 8, 9 Fully the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and 6 Fully legal form. 2.7 Markets served (including 6-7, 34 Fully geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 312 313 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explana3 Report Parameters Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 3 Report Parameters Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 3.4 Contact point for questions 344 Fully 3.10 Explanation of the effect 4 Fully regarding the report or its of any re-statements of contents. information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.5 Process for defining report 4, 5 Fully reasons for such recontent. statement (e.g.,mergers/ 3.6 Boundary of the report 4, 6 -9 Fully acquisitions, change of (e.g., countries, divisions, base years/periods, nature subsidiaries, leased of business, measurement facilities, joint ventures, methods). suppliers). See GRI 3.11 Significant changes from 4, 36 Fully Boundary Protocol for previous reporting periods further guidance. in the scope, boundary, 3.7 State any specific 4 Fully or measurement methods limitations on the scope or applied in the report. boundary of the report (see 3.12 Table identifying the 312-337 Fully completeness principle for location of the Standard explanation of scope). Disclosures in the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint 6, 7, 8, 9 Fully 3.13 Policy and current practice 4 Fully ventures, subsidiaries, with regard to seeking leased facilities, external assurance for the outsourced operations, report. and other entities that can significantly affect 2 comparability from period If applicable, 3 4 to period and/or between Governance, CommitCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explanaorganizations. 4 ments, and Engagement Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 3.9 Data measurement 4 Fully 4.1 Governance structure of 52 56 Fully techniques and the bases the organization, including of calculations, including committees under the assumptions and techniques highest governance body underlying estimations responsible for specific applied to the compilation tasks, such as setting of the Indicators and other strategy or organizational information in the report. oversight. Explain any decisions not 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair 53 Fully to apply, or to substantially of the highest governance diverge from, the GRI body is also an executive Indicator Protocols. officer. 314 315 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Governance, CommitCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaGovernance, CommitCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explana4 ments, and Engagement Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 4 ments, and Engagement Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion 4.3 For organizations that have 53 Fully 4.9 Procedures of the 54 56 Fully a unitary board structure, highest governance state the number and body for overseeing the gender of members of the organization's identification highest governance body and management of that are independent and/or economic, environmental, non-executive members. and social performance, including relevant risks 4.4 Mechanisms for 124, 131, 157-158, Fully and opportunities, and shareholders and 162 adherence or compliance employees to provide with internationally agreed recommendations or standards, codes of conduct, direction to the highest and principles. governance body. 4.10 Processes for evaluating 54 56 Fully 4.5 Linkage between 64 65 Fully the highest governance compensation for members body's own performance, of the highest governance particularly with respect to body, senior managers, economic, environmental, and executives (including and social performance. departure arrangements), and the organization's 4.11 Explanation of whether 67 71 Fully performance (including and how the precautionary social and environmental approach or principle performance). is addressed by the organization. 4.6 Processes in place for the 54 -56 Fully highest governance body to 4.12 Externally developed 250 259, 261, 276, Fully ensure conflicts of interest economic, environmental, 280 are avoided. and social charters, principles, or other 4.7 Process for determining the 54 -56 Fully initiatives to which the composition, qualifications, organization subscribes or and expertise of the endorses. members of the highest governance body and its 4.13 Memberships in 98 100 Fully committees, including any associations (such as consideration of gender and industry associations) and/ other indicators of diversity. or national/international advocacy organizations in 4.8 Internally developed 20 22, 60 63, Fully which the organization: statements of mission or 76 79 * Has positions in values, codes of conduct, governance bodies; and principles relevant to * Participates in projects or economic, environmental, committees; and social performance * Provides substantive and the status of their funding beyond routine implementation. membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 316 317 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Governance, CommitCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO Explana4 ments, and Engagement Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion EC Economic Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion 4.14 List of stakeholder 5 Fully EC3 Coverage of the The SyV Group has Fully groups engaged by the organization's defined two pension plans for organization. benefit plan obligations. employees in Empresa 4.15 Basis for identification and 5 Fully Mixta de Aguas de selection of stakeholders Santa with whom to engage. Cruz de Tenerife, S.A. (EMMASA) and in 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder 158 162 Fully Empresa engagement, including Mixta de Aguas de Las frequency of engagement Palmas, S.A. (EMALSA).” by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns 102, 257, 261, 276, Fully EC4 Significant financial 97 Fully that have been raised 280 assistance received from through stakeholder government. engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and Market presence 8, 9 Fully concerns, including through its reporting. EC5 Range of ratios of standard Irrespective of Fully entry level wage by gender the location of 2 compared to local minimum operation, SyV If applicable, 3 4 wage at significant locations offers its employees Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO Explanaof operation. remuneration EC Economic Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion that is equal to or Economic performance 6-7 Fully greater than the local minimum wage in accordance with their EC1 Direct economic value 6, 12, 13, 38, 40, 41, Fully professional category generated and distributed, 152, 174, 182, 183, including revenues, 257 EC6 Policy, practices, and The SyV Group does Fully operating costs, employee proportion of spending on not have a global compensation, donations locally-based suppliers policy and other community at significant locations of focusing on investments, retained operation. prioritisation of earnings, and payments the use of local to capital providers and suppliers governments. EC7 Procedures for local hiring The SyV Group does Fully EC2 Financial implications 280-282 Partially A quantitative The tools necessary 2014 and proportion of senior not have any specific and other risks and estimate of the to report this management hired from procedures that give opportunities for the financial implications information are not the local community at priority organization's activities due of climate change in available at this significant locations of to hiring local labor. to climate change. the company has not time. operation. been performed. Indirect economic impacts 250-259 Fully EC8 Development and impact of 198-202, 209-2010, Fully infrastructure investments 219-220, 223-224, and services provided 226 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 318 319 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO ExplanaCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO ExplanaEC Economic Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion EN Environmental Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion EC9 Understanding and 257 Fully describing significant indirect economic impacts, Water 272 274 Fully including the extent of EN8 Total water withdrawal by 272, 273 Fully impacts. source. 2 EN9 Water sources significantly No water sources Fully If applicable, 3 4 affected by withdrawal of significantly affected Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO Explanawater. by withdrawal of water EN Environmental Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion were detected in 2012 Materials 260 264 Fully EN10 Percentage and total volume 272 274 Fully of water recycled and EN1 Materials used by weight or 260 264 Fully reused. volume. EN2* Percentage of materials 263 Partially The scope of the Currently, Sacyr 2014 used that are recycled input data reported in the does not have Biodiversity 293 296 Fully materials. indicator refers only a reporting EN11 Location and size of land 293 Fully to Spain. mechanism owned, leased, managed capable of in, or adjacent to, protected gathering the areas and areas of high information biodiversity value outside required by the protected areas. indicator at an international level. EN12 Description of significant 293 299 Fully impacts of activities, Energy 281 287 Fully products, and services on EN3* Direct energy consumption 283 286 Fully biodiversity in protected by primary energy source. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN4* Indirect energy 283 286 Fully protected areas. consumption by primary source. EN13 Habitats protected or 293 299 Fully restored. EN5 Energy saved due to 283 286 Fully conservation and efficiency EN14 Strategies, current actions, 293 299 Fully improvements. and future plans for managing impacts on EN6 Initiatives to provide 280 282 Fully biodiversity. energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect 280 284 Fully energy consumption and reductions achieved. 320 321 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO ExplanaCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO ExplanaEN Environmental Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion EN Environmental Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion EN15 Number of IUCN Red 298 Fully EN24 Weight of transported, The SyV Fully List species and national imported, exported, or Group does not conservation list species treated waste deemed transport, import, with habitats in areas hazardous under the export or treat affected by operations, by terms of the Basel hazardous level of extinction risk. Convention Annex I, II, III, waste, and hence and VIII, and percentage of this indicator 288 293, 264 271, transported waste shipped is considered Emissions, effluents and waste 275 278 Fully internationally. non-material EN16* Total direct and indirect 290 293 Fully greenhouse gas emissions EN25 Identity, size, protected In 2012 Fully by weight. status, and biodiversity no episodes value of water bodies and were observed EN17 Other relevant indirect 292 293 Fully related habitats significantly in which liquid greenhouse gas emissions affected by the reporting effluents generated by weight. organization's discharges of by the organisation EN18 Initiatives to reduce 47, 95, 139, 143, 144, Fully water and runoff. caused any significant greenhouse gas emissions 280, 281, 288 damage to the and reductions achieved. environment EN19 Emissions of ozone290 – 293 Fully depleting substances by The data are supplied weight. in Kg/year rather than Products and services 29 Fully in metric tons EN26 Initiatives to mitigate 94 96, 98, 146, 150, Fully environmental impacts of 280–282, 294-299 EN20* NOx, SOx, and other 290 293 Fully products and services, and significant air emissions by extent of impact mitigation. type and weight. EN27 Percentage of products In due consideration Fully EN21 Total water discharge by 277 Fully sold and their packaging of the nature of the quality and destination. materials that are reclaimed products and by category. services sold by EN22* Total weight of waste by 265 271 Fully the SyV Group, type and disposal method. this indicator was EN23 Total number and volume of 278 Fully considered significant spills. nonmaterial. Compliance 260 Fully EN28 Monetary value of 152 Fully significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 322 323 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part MOTIVO ExplanaSocial: Labor Practices Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaEN Environmental Direct answer Fully not reported DE LA OMISIÓN tion LA and Decent Work Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion LA3 Benefits provided to full128, 129 Fully time employees that are Transport 324 Fully not provided to temporary EN29 Significant environmental Most transportation Fully or part-time employees, by impacts of transporting activity is carried out major operations. products and other goods by subcontractors and materials used for the and suppliers, which organization’s operations, receive a code of and transporting members good practices Labor/management relations 102 Fully of the workforce. based on the main LA4 Percentage of employees 131 Fully environmental covered by collective aspects in bargaining agreements. association with transportation that LA5 Minimum notice period(s) 131 Fully have been identified regarding significant by SyV. operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Overall 260 Fully EN30 Total environmental 151 152 Fully Occupational health and safety 133 135 Fully protection expenditures and investments by type. LA6 Percentage of total 133 Fully workforce represented in 2 formal joint managementIf applicable, 3 4 worker health and safety Social: Labor Practices Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaLA and Decent Work Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Employment 118 119 Fully LA7* Rates of injury, occupational 112 115 Partially Breakdown by gender. The reporting 2014 LA1* Total workforce by 32, 102 111 Partially Breakdown of contract Currently, Sacyr 2014 diseases, lost days, and The scope of the system is not employment type, types by gender. The does not have absenteeism, and number data reported in the capable of employment contract, and scope of these data a reporting of work-related fatalities by indicator refers only breaking down region, broken down by per work day refers system capable region and by gender. to Spain. the information by gender. only to Spain. of gathering gender. the missing information. LA8 Education, training, 133 Fully counseling, prevention, LA2 Total number and rate of 102, 108-109, Fully and risk-control programs new employee hires and 111-112 in place to assist workforce employee turnover by age members, their families, group, gender, and region. or community members regarding serious diseases. 324 325 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaSocial: Labor Practices Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaHR Social: Human Rights Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion LA and Decent Work Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion LA9 Health and safety 134 136 Fully Investment and procurement topics covered in formal practices 130 Fully agreements with trade unions. HR1 Percentage and total 130, 154 Fully number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include Training and education 120 128 Fully clauses incorporating LA10 Average hours of training 121-122, 149 Fully Breakdown by gender. The reporting 2014 human rights concerns, or per year per employee by The scope of the system is not that have undergone human gender, and by employee data reported in the capable of rights screening. category. indicator refers only breaking down HR2 Percentage of significant 130, 154 Fully to Spain. the information by suppliers, contractors and gender. other business partners that LA11 Programs for skills 123 128 Fully have undergone human management and lifelong rights screening, and actions learning that support the taken. continued employability of HR3 Total hours of employee 130 Fully employees and assist them training on policies and Although there are no in managing career endings. procedures concerning training programmes LA12 Percentage of employees 126 Fully aspects of human rights that focusing on receiving regular are relevant to operations, human rights, SyV performance and career including the percentage of guarantees that all its development reviews, by employees trained. activities (including gender. those of its suppliers) are carried out pursuant to protection Diversity and equal opportunity 128 129 Fully of such rights.” LA13 Composition of governance 52, 56, 57 Fully bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to Non-discrimination 130 Fully gender, age group, minority HR4 Total number of incidents 131 Fully group membership, and of discrimination and other indicators of diversity. corrective actions taken. Equal remuneration for women and men 129 130 Fully LA14 Ratio of basic salary and 129 Fully remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Employment 118 119 Fully LA 15 Return to work and 113 115 Fully retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 326 327 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaHR Social: Human Rights Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion HR Social: Human Rights Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion Freedom of association and collective bargaining 131 Fully Assessment 129 Fully HR5 Operations and significant 131 Fully HR10 Percentage and total 130 Fully suppliers identified in which number of operations that the right to exercise freedom have been subject to human of association and collective rights reviews and/or impact bargaining may be violated or assessments. at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Remediation 129 Fully HR11 Number of grievances 130 Fully Child labor 130 Fully related to human rights HR6 Operations and significant 130 Fully filed, addressed and suppliers identified as resolved through formal having significant risk for grievance mechanisms. incidents of child labor, 2 and measures taken to If applicable, 3 4 contribute to the effective Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for Explanaabolition of child labor. SO Social: Society Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion Prevention of forced and compulsory labor 130 Fully Local communities 152 Fully HR7 Operations and significant 130 Fully SO1 Percentage of operations 140, 257 Fully suppliers identified as with implemented local having significant risk community engagement, for incidents of forced impact assessments, and or compulsory labor, and development programs. measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Corruption 152 Fully labor. SO2 Percentage and total 67 Fully number of business units Security practices 76 79 Fully analyzed for risks related to corruption. HR8 Percentage of security The SyV Group Fully personnel trained in the does not have SO3 Percentage of employees 76-77 Fully organization's policies or its own security trained in organization's procedures concerning personnel, since it anti-corruption policies and aspects of human rights that always subcontracts procedures. are relevant to operations. these services to SO4 Actions taken in response to 71 Fully specialist firms incidents of corruption. No incidents of corruption occurred in 20112 Indigenous rights 129 Fully HR9 Total number of incidents of No such incidents Fully violations involving rights occurred in 2012 of indigenous people and actions taken. 328 329 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Social: Product ResponCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaCross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaPR sibility Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion SO Social: Society Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion Customer health and safety 96 Fully Public policy 162 Fully PR1 Life cycle stages in which 96 Fully SO5 Public policy positions 160 Fully health and safety impacts and participation in public of products and services are policy development and assessed for improvement, lobbying. and percentage of significant products and SO6 Total value of financial and No contributions are Fully services categories subject in-kind contributions to made to political to such procedures. political parties, politicians, parties or associated and related institutions by institutions. PR2 Total number of incidents 96 Fully country. of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Anti-competitive behavior 67 Fully safety impacts of products and services during their life SO7 Total number of legal Penalties have Fully cycle, by type of outcomes. actions for anti-competitive not been imposed behavior, anti-trust, and for monopolistic monopoly practices and competition or Product and service labelling Fully their outcomes. equivalent activities. PR3 Type of product and service In due consideration Fully information required by of the professional Compliance 250 Fully procedures, and percentage business of the of significant products and SyV Group, there is SO8 Monetary value of 152 Fully ordinarily no need services subject to such significant fines and total for any labelling information requirements. number of non-monetary of products and sanctions for nonservices. SyV does, compliance with laws and however, guarantee regulations. compliance with all its legal obligations to provide information Local communities 152 Fully to customers, SO9 Operations with significant SyV does not carry Fully particularly potential or actual out any operations information negative impacts on local with adverse concerning the communities. effects on local qualities of the communities materials employed, instructions for maintenance, SO10 Prevention and mitigation Since SyV does not Fully contact data for measures implemented in carry out operations claims etc. operations with significant with adverse potential or actual effects on the local negative impacts on local communities where communities. it operates, no courses of action are deployed to mitigate or prevent these impacts, with the exception of environmental action mentioned under “Commitment to the Environment 330 331 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 2 If applicable, 3 4 If applicable, 3 4 Social: Product Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaSocial: Product Cross-reference/ 1 indicate the part Reason for ExplanaPR Responsibility Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion PR Responsibility Direct answer Fully not reported omission tion PR4 Total number of incidents No such incidents Fully PR7 Total number of incidents No such incidents Fully of non-compliance with occurred in 2012 of non-compliance with occurred in 2012 regulations and voluntary regulations and voluntary codes concerning product codes concerning marketing and service information communications, including and labeling, by type of advertising, promotion, outcomes. and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to 140, 154-155 Fully customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Customer privacy 87 Fully PR8 Total number of 87 Fully substantiated complaints No such incidents Marketing communications Fully regarding breaches of occurred in 2012 customer privacy and losses PR6 Programs for adherence The SyV Group Fully of customer data. to laws, standards, and does not currently voluntary codes related to subscribe to marketing communications, voluntary codes including advertising, or standards promotion, and sponsorship. governing this issue. There is, however, a code Compliance 96 Fully of conduct that covers all areas of PR9 Monetary value of 152 Fully management. significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. * Performance indicators reviewed by PwC, with a limited assurance scope, based on standard ISAE 3000 332 333 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 2 Audit certificates and reports 334 335 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 3 Verification certificates and reports 336 337 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 4 Abbreviations and acronyms N/A Not available AENOR Spanish Association for Standardisation and Certification OCIC Internal Control and Communications Body (Prevention of money laundering) CDTI Centre for Industrial Technological Development ILO International Labour Organisation C.E. Energy Company NGO Non-Governmental Organisation CNMV National Securities Market Commission UN United Nations EAD Annual Development Interview OPA Initial Public Offering EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification schemes EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme ORP Occupational Risk Prevention GPO Group Policy Object Management PTEC Spanish Technological Construction Platform GRI Global Reporting Initiative SME Small and Medium-sized Enterprises ha Hectare CR Corporate Responsibility R&D+i Research, Development and innovation CDW Construction and Demolition Waste IPPC Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control HR Human Resources kg Kilogramme SUW Solid Urban Waste km Kilometre EMS Environmental Management System kW Kilowatt SyV Sacyr Vallehermoso Group kWh Kilowatt hour t tonne l Litre U Units LIC Site of Community Interest TJV Temporary Joint Venture m Metre SBPA Special Bird Protection Area m2 Square metre m3 Cubic metre MTAS Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (currently Ministry of Labour and Immigration –MTIN-) 338 339 09 Appendices Sacyr 2012 5 Your opinion is important At Sacyr we hope that this Investors Relations Department, report adequately satisfies your requirements using any of the following: for information concerning the organisation and helps to attain the fullest possible E-mail: vision of the Group’s current situation. IR@sacyr.com Should you wish to send any questions, Regular mail: comments or suggestions regarding the Investors Relation contents of this report or our responsible Sacyr, S.A. management practices, please contact the Pº de la Castellana, 83-85. Planta 11ª. relevant departments in the Organisation’s 28046, Madrid Headquarters. T. +34.91.545.50.00 Department of Corporate Responsibility, using any of the following: E-mail: rcorporativa@sacyr.com Regular mail: Responsabilidad Corporativa Sacyr, S.A. Pº de la Castellana, 83-85. Planta 11ª. 28046, Madrid T. +31.91.545.50.00 Shareholder assistance: 902.196.360 Your opinión is extremely useful to us and helps us improve both the quality of the information made public and our own management of the economic, social and environmental aspects associated with our activity. At Sacyr we thank you for your cooperation in advance and trust that it will lead to better service on our part. 340 341 Sacyr 2012 Contact information National International SACYR VALLEHERMOSO, S.A. SADYT, S.A. CAVOSA CHILE SyV CONCESIONES COSTA RICA Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 Av. Vitacura 2939. Of. 1102. Edificio Terraforte4º piso, 200 metros sur 28046, Madrid 28046, Madrid Edificio Millenium. Las Condes, Centro Comercial Multiplaza. Escazú de la Santiago de Chile Tienda CAFESTORE, S.A.U. SCRINSER Carrión San José, Costa Rica Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 Avda. Corts Catalanes, 2-2º local 3 GRUPO UNIDOS POR EL CANAL 28046, Madrid 08173, San Cugat del Vallés (Barcelona) Edificio 732, Corozal Oeste. SOMAGUE S.G.P.S. Corregimiento de Ancon, Rua da Tapada da Quinta de Cima-Linhó CAVOSA OBRAS Y PROYECTOS, S.A. TESTA INMUEBLES EN RENTA, S.A. Distrito de Panamá. Ciudad de Panamá 2714-555 Sintra, Portugal Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 28046, Madrid 28046, Madrid HIDURBE SOMAGUE ENGENHARIA ANGOLA RuaEngº Ferreira Dias, 161-1º Esq. 4100-247. Rua Ho-Chi Min, 1º Andar. Corpo D do FEBIDE VALORIZA FACILITIES, S.A.U. Porto, Portugal Complexo da Sededo MPLA. Luanda-Angola c/ Elcano, 9-1ª pta. Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 48008, Bilbao (Vizcaya) 28046, Madrid SACYR CONCESSIONS LTD SACYR IRLANDA 5th floor, Harmony Court, Harmoy Row Unit 11.Harmony Court. Harmony Row SACYR INDUSTRIAL VALORIZA SERVICIOS MEDIOAMBIENTALES Dublín 2, Ireland Dublín 2, Ireland C/ Ribera de Axpe, 28-2º C/ Juan Esplandiú, 11 planta 13 48950, Erandio (Vizcaya) 28007, Madrid SACYR CONCESIONES CHILE SOMAGUE ENGENHARIA BRAZIL Av. Vitacura 2939. Of. 1102. Edificio Rua Fidencio Ramos, 195-14º andarNEOPUL SOCIEDADE DE ESTUDOS VALORIZA CONSERVACIÓN DE Millenium. Las Condes, Santiago de Chile Conjuntos 142/144-Cep ECONSTRUÇOES, S.A. INFRAESTRUCTURAS, S.A.U. 04551-010, Sao Paulo. Brazil C/ Fernán González, 57-1º Izda. Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 SACYR CONCESIONES IRELAND 28009, Madrid 28046, Madrid 5 th. Floor, Harmony Court, Harmony SOMAGUE ENGENHARIA CAPE VERDE Row-Dublin 2 Achada Grande-apartado 242-Cidade da Praia PRINUR VALORIZA FACILITIES -Cape Verde C/ Puerto, 14-1º Avda. del Partenón, 16-18 SACYR CHILE 29016, Málaga 28042 Madrid Av. Vitacura 2939. Of. 1102. Edificio SACYR PANAMA, S.A. Millenium. Las Condes, Santiago de Chile C/ Aquilino de la Guardia. Edificio Igra 8 SACYR CONCESIONES, S.L. VALORIZA GESTIÓN, S.A.U. 0001, Panama Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 SACYR ITALY 28046, Madrid 28046, Madrid Corso di Porta Vittoria, 9 SIS S.C.P.A. 20122 Milán, Italia Vía Invorio, 24/A SACYR CONSTRUCCIÓN, S.A.U. VALLEHERMOSO DIVISIÓN PROMOCIÓN, S.A.U. 10146 Turín, Italy Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 Pº de la Castellana, 83-85 VIVEROS DO FALCAO 28046, Madrid 28046, Madrid Estrada de Oeiras. 2780-284 TESFRAN Porto Salvo, Portugal 12, RueNotre-Dame des Victoires 75002 París, France 342 343 Sacyr 2012 Sacyr Paseo de la Castellana, 83-85 28046 Madrid Telf.: +34 91 545 50 00 www.sacyr.com info@sacyr.com Design and layout Externa Marketing & Events, S.A. Legal Deposit: M-17849-2013 344
