2012 [COMMUNICATION ON PRO PROGRESS GRESS] The Communication ation on Progress (COP) is an annual disclosure thro through ugh which Monti informs stakeholders and its efforts in implementing the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. This document discloses corporate activities and po policies, which reflect the Company’ss implementation implementat of two issue areas: labor and environment. Statement of Continued Support for the United Nations Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Monti Incorporated continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti anti-corruption. corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to continue to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Moreover, this statement renews Monti’s on on-going going commitment to the initiative and its principles. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes Monti’s efforts to implement the ten principles. Monti supports public accountability and transparency, and therefore has provided the following information to serve as our COP. The following documents demonstrate our commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day day-to-day day operations of our company. The following document iss the company’s disclosure of our efforts in implementing the United Nation Global Compact and its principles. It signifies our continuous effort to put into practice the ten principles pr of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Jeff Crowley Chief Operating Officer Monti Inc. Labor Assessment, policy and goals Our People Monti truly has a passion for taking care of its employees because we understand that the success of our business and the satisfaction of our customers can only be accomplished through having to top p quality people. We employed over 1150 employees at the end of 2012 at our Cincinnati, Ohio headquaters. As a Core Value of Mo Monti nti Incorporated, we maintain a family culture environment that develop develops and empowers our employees. Monti strives to develop our people; and most importantly, engrain a culture of continuous improvement where our employee’s voice is heard and acted upon. In 2012, we e acted on over 300 ideas to eliminate waste and improve imp our employee’s working conditions conditions—in in turn improving productivity, employee satisfaction and moral moral, and truly making Monti a place where people enjoy working. Implementation Monti onti has taken several actions to prevent discrimination in all employment decisions.. We have allocated time and resources in developing and validating employee selection tests to eliminate discrimination in our employment decisions.. By establishing an Effective Employment Testing Program, Program Monti ensures that selection procedures are made without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age (40 or older), or disability. Additionally, Monti utilizes Employee Performance Evaluations to prevent and eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and o occupation. ccupation. The evaluation removes any subjectivity from our employment decisions, and provides employees with objective criteria for which performance is measured. Please see our 90 90-Day Employee Evaluation: Employee Performance Evaluation Measurement of outcomes Monti continuously monitors and evaluates the performance of our employment decisions. Senior Management meets monthly to review employee evaluations. Monti Inc. has never been part of an investigation, legal case, ruling or been fined for incident incidents of violations of Labor principles. At the most senior level there are 2 female managers and 8 male managers with a range of ages across the spectrum. Monti Inc. works in areas which are by their nature quite male dominated e.g. manufacturing,, but this in no way reflects our approach to encouraging and promoting our employees. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Environment As a Core Value of our Business, Monti focuses on the environmental impact of our operations. Annually, we assess our carbon footprint and share our findings with key stakholders as a participant of the Carbon Disclosure Project: www.cdproject.net Monti addresses sustainability issues by identifying risks and opportunities driven by chan changes in environmental regulation, physical climate parameters, and climate related developments: Environmental Risks and Opportunities Implementation During renovations aat our headquarters in Cincinnati, we installed flourecent, energy efficient lighting. Molly Fender is our Environmental, Safety and Human Resources Manager, she is responsible for environmental protection and assement at Monti, Inc. Measurement of outcomes Monti Inc. has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Monti Inc. uses licensed waste removal companies for the disposal of our waste. Monti has never been part of an investigation, legal ccase, ase, ruling or been fined for violations of the environmental principle.
