2012 Sustainability Report Index Find out more about tim Presentation 1 Message from the CEO 1 Fastest growing operator in the country 2 Shareholder structure 3 Strategic investments 4 2012 Highlights 5 Corporate governance Governance structure 7 Business resilience 9 Audience engagement 12 Strategies and perspectives Growth and profitability 16 Tim commitments 19 Services and plans 20 Sustainability Highlights and goals for 2012 21 Environmental management 23 Social performance 19 Social responsibility 41 About the report Profile 43 Gri index 45 Assurance letter 51 Annual social statement 53 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 1 Find out more about TIM Find out more about TIM Find out more about TIM Presentation Message Find out about TIM’s main from the CEO achievements, challenges In spite of the forceful and projects in its path regulation milestone, we towards sustainable have expanded investments development in 2012 in infrastructure and innovation This is the 2012 Sustainability Report for TIM Participações S.A., in which the company’s main achievements, challenges and projects in 2012 are reported, as well as financial 2012 was a very difficult and challenging year for the teleperformance data, details about the institution’s managecommunications industry in Brazil, and particularly for TIM. I ment and its activities towards sustainable development in took over as CEO of the company in March 2013, willing to the telecommunications industry. lead, together with the whole team, a new phase of institutional consolidation and commercial expansion. The digital format report, available on the website and for download in PDF, is a result of the company’s initiatives to During the past months, in addition to presenting innovative save natural resources, by avoiding material printing. Since solutions for communication free from cost and time barri2008 the report has followed the directives of the Global ers, it was necessary to look inside and reevaluate strategies Reporting Initiative (GRI), a non-governmental organization and investments, in order to ensure and reinforce organizadefining international level standards for the report of ecotional commitment towards innovative offerings, generated nomic, social, environmental, and governance performance. by TIM’s constant capacity for innovation. Even though the company was mobilized to apply its resources in infrastructure and invest in network expansion to encourage communications and bring people together, comPublished only in digital plaints about service quality led to the adoption of harsh measures by Anatel for the whole industry. TIM was one of the format, the report arises worst affected by suffering from a sales ban for a period of 11 from the company’s days, in 18 states and the Federal District. initiatives in favor of natural resource savings Innovation and investments for leadership In the face of this crisis scenario, it was necessary to find effective solutions to reverse the negative impact generated by the Anatel ruling. With over 11 thousand professionals comAmong the highlights for 2012 is the achievement of the mitted to search for alternatives supporting service quality, 70.3 million customers milestone, maintaining TIM as the TIM adjusted its goal plan to seek continuous development leader in the pre-paid segment. Even though the year has and outgrow its own limits. seen significant investments in innovation and network quality, the operator needed to reevaluate its strategies afThis difficult period renewed our efforts towards innovation, ter measures adopted by the National Telecommunications quality and transparency in the offer of best services. In addiAgency (Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações – Anatel), tion, our commitment towards sustainable development and which directly impacted business management. transparency in the relationship with our stakeholders drove us forward. This document reinforces the sustainable business practice and the commitment towards ethical and transparent One of the initiatives related to positioning regarding custommanagement in order to achieve balance between the ers was the launch of the beta version of the Quality Portal, in economic, environmental and social points of view, adding October 2012. The official version, which was called Portas value to the stakeholders. Abertas, was made available to the general public in February 2012. In this relationship portal, customers can track the TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 2 Find out more about TIM plans or progress of antenna installations, network capacity Find out more about TIM Fastest growing expansion and 3G coverage expansion. operator in the The company has managed to consolidate its positioning through transparent and innovative offerings. This explains country how we achieved leadership in the number of pre-paid users in the country and ended 2012 with a customer base of 70.3 million. And further work will be done to arrive at the milestone of 90 million Brazilians connected to TIM networks. With network quality and innovation, TIM reached the Commitment towards sustainability milestone of 70.3 million Investment in sustainability is more than a commitment, it is a requisite for growth and business continuity on the long customers in 2012 term. The operator remained for the fifth consecutive year on the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), and for the third year it was selected to be part of the Efficient Carbon Index Active across the national territory, TIM Participações S.A. pro(ICO2), both portfolios of BM&FBovespa. vides telecommunications services through its subsidiaries, TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda. OperatIn 2012, we were also able to expand two important intering in Brazil since 1998, it has consolidated itself as a national national certifications, ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004, corporation after 2002, working as operator of services in the demonstrating the quality of provided services and environareas of mobile, fixed and long distance telephony, as well as mental preservation, respectively. data transmission. It is a company with openly traded shares, the second biggest mobile telephony company in the country, TIM is aware that its activities can generate environmental with a market value of over R$ 20 billion, leader in the pre-paid impact, mainly because of the deployment and operations segment with 59.6 million users (an 8.8% growth when comof the Radio Base Stations (RBS), structures required for pared to the previous year). the functioning of its mobile telephony service. One of the most significant environmental impacts observed in the activities of companies in this industry arises from emissions of electromagnetic radiation from network equipment. As a result, TIM monitors radiation emissions in its activities. Working across the TIM is a voluntary member, since the 2010 cycle, of the Comcountry, TIM covers 95% panies for Climate platform (Empresas Pelo Clima – EPC), of the urban population while also continuously tracking its greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions since 2008, through GHG inventory. Since 2011, a through GSM technology, third party verification of the inventory has been conducted, a active in over 3.4 thousand measure that ensures transparency and reliability for the process. TIM’s Social and Environmental Responsibility Policies cities are based on the principles of the UN’s Global Compact, an agreement of which the company is a signatory since 2008. This report has the purpose both of being the company’s Communication of Progress (Comunicado de Progresso – Controlled by TIM Brasil Serviços e Participações S.A. (subCOP) on the ten principles in the Global Compact, as well as sidiary of the Telecom Italia Group) and headquartered in a record under the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) model. Rio de Janeiro (RJ), the company achieved the milestone of 70.3 million customers in 2012, a 9.8% increase in the total The goals for coming months are even more challenging. base compared to 2011. TIM also accumulates the title of But we are getting ready to strengthen our positioning in fastest growing operator in the country, as a result of many the Brazilian market and expand investments in infrastrucinvestments in innovation and network quality. ture and expansion of the optic fiber network. We will also stay aligned with our policy of offering innovative products and services, capable of expanding access to information and communication. Rodrigo Abreu CEO TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 3 Find out more about TIM Using GSM technology, TIM reached in December 31st 2012 TIM companies in Brazil a national coverage of approximately 95% of the urban population, with activities in over 3.4 thousand cities. The company The TIM Group operates in Brazil through companies TIM has also wide data coverage in the entire country, with 100% Celular S.A. and Intelig Comunicações Ltda. The acquisiGPRS (General Package Radio Service) and 94% Edge (digtion, in 2011, of AES Atimus (100% of Eletropaulo Telecomuital technology for mobile telephony that allows better data nicações Ltda. and 98.3% of AES Communications Rio de transmission), in addition to a sophisticated third generation Janeiro S.A.), which was renamed afterwards as TIM Fiber, network (3G) available for more than 72% of Brazil’s urban was fundamental for business expansion in the greater São population. It also has international roaming agreements in Paulo and Rio de Janeiro areas, reinforcing TIM’s strategy of place for TIM customers: there are over 450 available netmodernizing and expanding its network capacity. In October works in over 200 countries, across six continents. 2012, the company was incorporated by TIM Celular. Company Services TIM Celular Mobile telephony operator with activities across Brazil, leader in the pre-paid segment, with a total base of 70.3 million customers in the mobile market TIM is the second largest and provider of infrastructure and high performance communication solutions for the main cities in the mobile telecom company in metropolitan regions of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. The company covers a potential market of the market and a leader in approximately 8.5 million homes, through an optic fiber network of 5.5 thousand kilometers. the pre-paid segment, with Intelig Provider of voice and data fixed telephony across 59.6 million users the country, the company offers integrated and customized solutions to the corporate market of medium and large corporations, for the government and operators segment (Carriers), with national and international coverage. With a 100% digital network, the company has an installed optic fiber network with a 39 thousand kilometer extension, from north to south of Brazil. The potential market coverage includes approximately 550 thousand companies. Intelig also has telephone centrals, satellite stations, connection to large international networks and capacity in the main submarine cable systems. Mission To be close to the customer, offering innovative possibilities of connectivity, focusing on its diversified expectations and needs and contributing as an agent of social evolution through sustainable management. Find out more about TIM Vision Share structure To be the customer’s number one choice, offering innovative and high quality services, becoming a profitability reference in Brazil’s telecommunication market. Inclusion in the Novo Values • Proactiveness Mercado of BM&FBovespa, • Transparency in 2011, is a milestone • Connection speed • Professional excellence for the company and its • Focus on the customer shareholders • Team spirit • Innovation • Entrepreneurial spirit The period was marked by events that changed the shareholder structure of the company. The arrival of TIM Participações S.A. in Novo Mercado resulted in the conversion of preference shares to ordinary shares. In addition, the acquisition of AES Communications Rio de Janeiro S.A. and EletroTIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 4 Find out more about TIM paulo Telecomunicações Ltda. by the fully owned subsidiary • the company’s Board of Directors must include at least TIM Celular S.A. was also important for the company and its 20% independent members; shareholders, enabling TIM’s business expansion through expansion and modernization of its network capacity. • in case of sale of share control, the buyer will extend the purchase offer to all other shareholders, ensuring the Telecom Italia same treatment given to the selling controller (100% tag along); 100% • disclosure of financial information according to internatioTelecom ItAlia Internacional N.V. nal standards and in more depth, including quarterly reports with statements of cash flow and consolidated re100% ports reviewed by an independent auditor; TIM Brasil Serv. Minority • the regulation demands that the company maintain a miniE Part. S.A. Shareholders mum percentage of 25% in free floating shares. Ordinary Ordinary Shares: 67% Shares: 33% (1,611,969,946) (805,662,701) TOTAL: 67% TOTAL: 33% (1,611,969,946) (805,662,701) TIM Participações S.A. Strategic 100% 100% investments Operator invests R$ 3.8 TIM Celular S.A. Intelig billion and expands voice and data traffic capacity across the country Shareholder structure Two pillars that make up the base for TIM’s investment deciOrdinary % Total % sions are innovation and quality. As a reflection of the comTim Brasil Serviços mitment to improve high quality service provision, R$ 3.4 bil1,611,969,946 67 1,611,969,946 67 e Participações S.A. lion were invested, of which approximately 93% in network infrastructure. When considering the acquisition of the 4G Others 805,662,701 33 805,662,701 33 license, this number totals R$ 3.8 billion. Of this amount, the Total 2,417,632,647 100 2,417,632,647 100 company assigned R$ 379 million to expand its optic fiber network in the country, and thus increase its capacity to serve customers with better speed. Novo Mercado: top governance level Part of this budget was allocated to the construction of the new Belém-Manaus route, part of the LT Amazonas consorBM&FBovespa segment presenting maximum level of cortium, enabling digital inclusion of the population in remote arporate governance, the Novo Mercado consists of shares of eas of the country. The initiative will include cables through companies with voluntary commitment towards adoption of transmission line towers and power substations throughout best practices and information reporting beyond what legis27 cities in the states of Amazonas, Pará and Amapá. The lation demands. TIM is the sole telecommunications cominvestment will yield an increase of up to 100 times in the pany to integrate this segment. Main characteristics of the capacity for voice and data transmission in the region. companies listed in the Novo Mercado Regulation: Another significant investment of the operator with the goal of • the companies must have only ordinary shares, which is increasing voice and data traffic was the modernization of the to say, all shares have voting rights in the Shareholders transportation network between Belo Horizonte and SalvaAssembly; dor. The operator installed in this stretch the first WDM 100G network (a set of equipment and physical means with the TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 5 Find out more about TIM capacity to optimize the use of optic fiber networks) in Latin ticipation in the National Broadband Program (Programa America, increasing the installed capacity for voice and data Nacional de Banda Larga – PNBL) and the construction traffic by 50%, while also multiplying the system’s expansion of the necessary infrastructure for the 2014 World Cup in capacity by 16. Manaus. It thus ensures efficiency and rational use of resources in the sector. For 2013, the company estimates investments of approximately R$ 700 million, in order to connect 90% of the antennas of mobile data transmission in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo to the optic fiber network, in comparison to the current 50%. In addition, according to the Improvement Actions Plan, approved by the Anatel in August 2012, in the three year period until 2014, the company will invest R$ 8.2 billion in infrastrucLEARN MORE ABOUT TIM’S NUMBERS ture and quality. • 70.3 million customers – 9.8% annual growth • 6.3% million new lines added in 2012 • 12,264 collaborators Sustainable businesses • 95% of Brazil’s urban population serviced by GSM technology, in 3.4 thousand cities Sustainability is one of the topics considered strategic for • 72% of the urban population in Brazil serviced TIM. That is why there is a committee, directly linked to the by 3G technology Board of Directors, which brings discussions about the top• 100% of data coverage with GPRS and 94% ic to the top decisions in the company. In 2012, the compawith Edge ny expanded certifications for international standards ISO • 450 international roaming networks, available 14001:2004 – Environmental Management – and ISSO in over 200 countries in the six continents, 9001:2008 – Quality Management. for voice use • R$ 3.8 billion in investments in Another concern for TIM is to launch products and services infrastructure and network through which it develops interpersonal relations and com• 27.4 thousand kilometers in long distance munications. As a result, it replaced charging telephone networks and 11.5 thousand kilometers in calls by minute with pay per call, also launching an unlimmetropolitan networks (optic fiber) ited Internet offering and unlimited instant messaging with charges only for the day of use. TIM also participates in the “0800 Broadband” project, promoted by the federal government. The initiative will enable low income users to access the Internet through their cell Find out more about TIM 2012 highlights phone without needing to purchase a data package from a service provider, working in the same manner as the existing 0800 voice services: the person paying the bill is not the one accessing the site, but rather the owner of the In a year marked by crisis page. In the initial phase, tests will be performed with 80 citizens of the satellite city of São Sebastião (DF). TIM is and challenges, the responsible for distributing 20 kits containing Smartphone company maintained its Samsung Galaxy Y handsets with the Infinity Pre plan associated to the lines. Credits in the amount of R$ 15 will be leadership in the pre-paid offered for use in this test. segment Meanwhile, Telebras and TIM signed in March 2012 a sharing agreement for both infrastructures, including towers Anatel’s rulings, issued to improve the quality of services proand sites, and in October signed a Memorandum of Undervided to the population, led TIM to readjust its investment plan, standing, which will enable taking high speed and quality in order to meet the new demands of the regulation agency, by broadband to the inland areas of the north and northeast presenting an Improvement Action Plan. This document deregions of Brazil. The agreement is a result of synergies in tailed infrastructure development initiatives until 2014. both companies’ transportation networks and will enable expansion in the capillarity of the 3G and LTE networks (4G). This cooperation between companies will allow parTIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 6 Find out more about TIM Expansion in the number of customers Awards and recognition One of the main achievements of TIM in 2012 was to reach Pioneer among the mobile telephony companies in Brazil for the milestone of 70.3 million users across Brazil, a 9.8% inachieving the ISO 14001 network environmental certificacrease in its total base in mobile lines. With a market share tion, TIM also achieved a standout performance regarding of 26.9%, the company consolidated its second position in best relationship practices. That is why in 2012 TIM Unlimitthe market and its leadership in the pre-paid segment. For the three year period of 2013-2015, the goal is to reach approximately 90 million mobile users. In October, the company Even though the company achieved a solid performance, in 2012 business was directly affected by the sales ban launched the beta version of voice and data packages issued by Anatel, in 18 states of the Quality Portal, so and the Federal District and over a period of 11 days, significantly changing performance and acquisition of new customers could track the customers. evolution of investments As a result, the operator launched the beta version of the Quality Portal in October 2012, so that customers could track the evolution of investments and improvements in each state of the country. In February 2012, after performing some aded received the Gold trophy in the External Communication justments in the portal’s features, TIM launched the official Campaign category. In addition, the company achieved the version of the site, called Portas Abertas (Open Doors), enBronze trophy in the Social Responsibility category, with the suring transparency in management processes and reaffirmcase “TIM Tudo Azul... Verde e Amarelo” (both integrate the ing its commitment towards the quality of provided services. 12th edition of the ABT Awards). In addition, for the second consecutive year, the operator proved to be the mobile telephony company with the best Main initiatives customer relationship strategy by achieving the Consumidor Moderno award for Excellence in Services for Customers in In 2012, TIM participated in important national and inits category. ternational events. In June, it participated in the United States Conference on Sustainable Development, Rio+20, At the Brazilian Direct Marketing Association (Associação held in Rio de Janeiro, with the goal of discussing the relBrasileira de Marketing Direto – Abemd) 2012 awards, TIM evance of the telecommunications sector in the planet’s was chosen as the best of the best in the Digital area, havsustainable development. The company was active in the ing also achieved the Gold trophy in the categories of CamCorporate Sustainability Forum, an event running parallel paign – Lead Generation and Digital – Marketing in Social with the Conference, promoted by the UN’s Global Pact. Networks. Among the over twenty awards received by the company in 2012, other highlights include: In October, the company participated in the 14th edition of Futurecom, the main telecommunications event in Latin • Four awards at the 183rd Awards of the Brazilian MarkeAmerica, which happened in Rio de Janeiro for the first ting Association (Associação Brasileira de Marketing), time. In addition to presenting unique solutions for the corthanks to TIM Beta (a plan with special rates for people porate segment and presenting its main products and serwho use the cell phone a lot to communicate, send insvices, the operator announced a partnership with Telebras tant messages and stays connected to the Internet and that will enable expansion of the National Broadband Plan social networks all the time. Participants also enjoy cus(Plano Nacional de Banda Larga – PNBL). tomized services); Also in the fourth quarter of 2012, TIM participated in the • Silver trophy in Integrated Campaign at the Wave Festi7th National Reconciliation Week (Semana Nacional de val in Rio 2012, thanks to TIM Beta; Reconciliação) in Rio de Janeiro, being the only mobile operator to settle in 100% of the hearings conducted by • Ranked among the Most Digital Brands in Brazil (Marcas this task force, organized by the State’s Court of Justice. Mais Digitais do Brasil), in the Telecom category. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 7 Governance Governance Instances of corporate governance Governance structure General meeting The responsibilities of the members of the bodies are in the Articles of Board of Directors Fiscal Council / Incorporation, among other Audit Committee documents Compensation Committee* TIM is an open capital share-based company, ruled by a Board of Directors and a Board of Executive Officers, with the additional supervision of a Fiscal Council that also plays the role of Audit Board. The duties and responsibilities of the Internal Control and members of these bodies are determined in Brazilian legisCorporate Governance lation, the company’s Articles of Incorporation, the internal Committee * rules of the boards, the company’s internal rules and the Listing Regulation for the Novo Mercado. BOARD OF Conduction of business with ethics and transparency is one EXECUTIVE OFFICERS of the principles of the company, included in the portfolios of Corporate Governance Index (“IGC”) and the Index of Shares with Differentiated Tag Along (“ITAG”). * Bodies linked to the Board of Directors. COMPOSITION ATTRIBUTIONS Board of Directors Responsible for the high-level administration of the company. TIM’s Board of Directors consists of nine members, elected and dismissed by the General Assembly for a term of two years, with reelection allowed, of which three of them are independent members, under the terms of the Novo Mercado Regulation. It is up to the members of the Board to choose their president, and it is forbidden for a person to accumulate the positions of president of the Board of Directors and presiding director or main executive of the company. The composition of the Board of Directors is available on the site www.tim.com.br/ri. Compensation Committee and Internal Control and Corporate In charge of evaluating topics that are part of its scope and issue Governance Committee recommendations to the Board of Directors, body to which they are Each committee consists of three members, chosen by the Board of linked. The Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee Directors among its own members. started in 2010 to include sustainability in its discussions, also having the attribution of tracking and providing general guidance for the company’s Sustainability Policy, in order to practice the company’s commitment towards sustainable development. Board of Executive Officers Executive management of the company. Formed by a presiding director and six executive directors elected by the Board of Directors, for a term of two years. Fiscal Council/Audit Committee As the Fiscal council, it works to monitor the company’s administrative Consisting of at least three and at most five independent professionals actions and the information provided to shareholders. As the Audit without any other link to the company, elected and dismissed by the Committee, this agency’s work has the goal of issuing recommendations General Assembly for a term of one year. The composition of the Fiscal and reports on the company’s audit processes, internal and external. council can be seen at the site www.tim.com.br/ri. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 8 Governance The compensation for the members of the Board of DirecPublic policies tors, the Board of Executive Officers and other executives is not linked to the social and environmental performance Since 2010, TIM has participated in the discussions of the of TIM. Managing Committee for the Digital Inclusion Program (Comitê Gestor do Programa de Inclusão Digital – CGIn 2012, the groups responsible for governance at TIM PID), while also striving to participate in public consultaconsisted of a total of 31 collaborators, most of them men tions and other events launched by the Brazilian federal between 36 and 45 years old and above 60. [LA13] government, with the goal of developing public policies in the telecom segment. In the institutional arena, TIM is part of the National Syndicate of Telephony Companies Total participants in the groups responsible and Personal and Cell Phone Mobile Services (Sindicato for corporate governance, by gender Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia e de Serviço Móvel Celular e Pessoal – SindiTelebrasil), which institutionally Percentage Gender represents the operators authorized by Anatel to provide 2011 2012 2011 2012 personal mobile services in Brazil, while also participating in the Brazilian Association of Competitive TelecommuMen 20 29 91% 93.5% nications Services Providers (Associação Brasileira das Women 2 2 9% 6.5% Prestadoras de Serviços de Telecomunicações Competitivas – Telcomp), which has the mission of promoting a fair Total 22 31 100% 100.0% and equitable competition environment in the provision of telecommunications services, contributing in a constructive and ethical manner to regulation of the sector. Total participants in the groups responsible for corporate governance, by age range Through these institutions, the company discusses projects, such as the ones for telecommunications infrastrucPercentage ture for the Confederations Cup, the World Cup and the Age range 2011 2012 2011 2012 18 to 35 years 4 4 18% 13.0% 36 to 45 years 6 8 27% 25.8% TIM contributes to the 45 to 60 years 4 7 18% 22.5% expansion of the National Above 60 8 12 36% 38.7% Broadband Plan (PNBL) Total 22 31 100% 100.0% across national territory Total participants in the groups in charge of corporate governance, by race/color World Youth Journey; the Engineering Code for Tourist Percentage Spaces and improvements in deployment at cities, accordCor/raça ing to international examples; Reverse Logistics; and fo2011 2012 2011 2012 rums, events and committees with the government. White 19 28 86% 90.3% TIM contributes to the expansion in the national territory of Black 0 0 0% 0.0% the National Broadband Plan (Plano Nacional de Banda Mixed race 3 2 14% 6.5% Larga – PNBL), the Brazilian government’s public policy aimed at massively disseminating broadband Internet offerYellow 0 1 0% 3.2% ings until the year of 2014. The objective is to spread access Indigenous 0 0 0% 0.0% to urban and rural homes, properties, companies and cooperatives, also integrating 100% of government agencies, Total 22 31 100% 100.0% including public schools, health stations and public libraries. In this context, TIM contracted Telebras transmission network access to provide access to end users under PNBL TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 9 Governance assumptions. The contract includes coverage for four cities: Governance Business Samambaia and Recanto das Emas, in the Federal District, plus Águas Lindas and Santo Antônio do Descoberto, in the resilience state of Goiás. In 2012, TIM created the Wi-Fi Project, under which free access was provided to all TIM customers in the communities Ethical management aims of Rocinha (RJ) and Paraisópolis (SP), providing digital inclusion of people of all ages. to achieve balance between economic, environmental In addition, thinking of bringing people closer together, the company launched the Infinity, Infinity Web and Infinity Torpeand social points of view do products. Infinity Pré, for instance, enabled long distance calls charged by call, instead of time in minutes, significantly reducing the price of the service, effective for all of Brazil. The ten principles established by the Global Compact, of Aware that access to the information generates several benwhich TIM has been a signatory since 2008, inspired the efits and development possibilities, TIM also enabled Internet adoption of some codes and policies by the Telecom Italia connection for customers of all social layers, charging a lower Group and by the company. This specific set of policies conprice. [EC8] tributes to better company administration, while also highlighting commitment in matters regarding human rights, enviWith innovative products, TIM, increased its customer base ronment, labor and corruption. from approximately 36 million in the beginning of 2009 to over 70 million at the end of 2012, and believes that this The goal is to achieve balance between the economic asgenerated positive contributions, such as: pects, through value creation, meeting expectations of stakeholders and generating profit for shareholders; environmen• increase in employment level; tal aspects, through responsible management of natural resources and waste generated by the processes involving • increase of corporate competitiveness; use of paper, electricity and water, in order to maintain the balance of ecosystems; and social aspects, based on the • growth of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP); “principle of equity”, through prioritization of human and civil rights of all citizen • encouragement for local human development; • contribution to industrial and technological development; Environmental and quality certifications Result of continuous efforts by TIM to improve services • access to information and services in the areas of health, and processes, in April 2012 the company obtained expaneducation, commerce and entertainment; sion of two important certifications of international rules: ISO 14001:2004 – Environmental Management – and ISO • encouragement for economic growth, through changed 9001:2008 – Quality management. The first one, focused on habits and processes of individuals, companies and go“Management and Operation of the TIM Celular Network” vernments, with impact on productivity and competitiveactivities, whose scope covered only part of the states of Rio ness; [EC9] de Janeiro and São Paulo, was extended to the states of Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo and São Paulo. TIM continues as Regarding political parties, TIM is formally forbidden by the the sole mobile telephony operator in Brazil to hold an ISO company’s Code of Ethics and Conduct to make any kind of 14001 certification, according to the Inmetro website. contribution. [SO5, SO6] The second expansion refers to the quality in “Management of TIM Celular Network”. The scope was expanded to the entire national territory where TIM’s network processes happen, including the company’s internal processes aimed at continuous improvement with a focus on the customer. Before, the certification covered the states of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais, Bahia and Sergipe. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 10 Governance Codes, Principles and Policies Social responsibility policy at TIM Reports the directives followed by TIM in matters such as health and safety, diversity value, child and forced labor, Code of Ethics and Conduct freedom of association and right of collective bargaining, Developed in 2012, the new Code of Ethics and Conduct, apdiscrimination and harassment, work hours and wages. proved by the Board of Directors on May 24th, 2013, expresses Available at TIM’s site. the company’s essential values – particularly transparency, honesty and loyalty. The Code’s recipients include TIM corporate bodies, employees, executives and service providers, as Environmental policy well as collaborators and third parties with business relationEstablishes principles aimed at promoting continuous imships with the company . provement of the environmental performance and a sustainable and responsible management. These principles inThe Code is available on the intranet for all collaborators, and on clude: reduction of waste generation, support for collection the company websites (www.tim.com.br e www.tim.com.br/ri). categories, recovery and recycling, and full compliance with current environmental legislation. Available at TIM’s site. The basic goal described in the Code is ensuring service excellence for its customers, while at the same time generating value for its shareholders and the community and respecting the prinSupplier relationship policy ciples established in the Code, as well as the people who work Transparency, integrity, respect for worker’s rights and comfor the company. Therefore, all industrial and financial stratemitment towards sustainability are some of the principles gies are aimed at sustainable growth with profitability, based on expressed in this policy that govern TIM’s relationship with the highest ethical standards. all its suppliers. Available at TIM’s site. Under the Code, TIM rejects and condemns illegal and improper behavior (including any kind of corruption) in the achieveCompetition defense policy ment of its economic goals, which must be pursued exclusively In order to align employees and collaborators to TIM’s ethical through excellence in its products and services in terms of qualideals, the document has the objective of internally spread ity and cost/benefit. the principles that guide the defense of competition policy in Brazil, considering its relevance in respect for consumers and the Brazilian economy. In this manner, professionals, particularly those dealing with the company’s stakeholders, TIM DUTIES EXPRESSED IN ITS CODE OF ETHICS become familiar with the antitrust legislation and the work of AND CONDUCT the agencies responsible for applying it in Brazil. They can thus identify and avoid the occurrence of acts contrary to es• Business transparency tablished norms. • Promote fair competition • Seek excellence and competitiveness in the market • Support the well-being and growth of communities Communication and marketing policy in which it operates This policy is aimed at ensuring alignment of TIM’s market• Value its human resources ing communication projects and actions with its mission and • Have sustainable development as an objective its principles related to sustainability (http://www.tim.com. br). The company follows the regulations of the National Council of Advertisement Self-regulation (“CONAR”) and the Consumer Defense Code for disclosure of correct, clear and full information in its product and service ads. In 2012, TIM works to raise awareness about the Code among its tar20 proceedings against TIM were handled by Conar, five of get audiences, organizing training to disseminate the values to which were filed by the agency and 15 by competitors. Of be adopted by all members of the company these proceedings, 17 were closed in the same year. [PR6] Regarding unfair competition, trust practices and monopoly, Business code of conduct the company registered three lawsuits in 2012, all unresolved Establish criteria for the relationship with vendors, customand under analysis. One of them was filed by operator Vivo, ers, consumers and community, preventing situations or claiming that TIM announced, among other information, the behaviors that are potentially harmful to the interest of the need for operators to migrate to GSM technology and the company, aiming at a fair and equitable relationship with the lack of quality of the company’s coverage compared to TIM market and the business environment. technology. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 11 Governance The second is an ordinary proceeding filed by GVT against Model, and its activation will be performed with the new OrTIM, aiming to declare null the contractual clause referring ganizational Model. to the practiced VU-M value, as interconnection, claiming it is abusive and illegal. It also seeks to order the companies to pay indemnification for the amounts charged excessively Anti-corruption policy since July 2004. Lastly, the company Hoje Sistemas de InPrepared in 2012, the new Anticorruption Policy, approved formática filed a lawsuit against mobile telephony operators by the Board of Directors on May 24th, 2013, applies global TIM, Vivo, Oi and Claro, claiming that these companies are anti-bribery policies, forbidding the offer, payment, request or imposing abusive prices, without negotiation of the prices acceptance of any kind of advantage and guiding its target charged for the use of the mobile network. [SO7] audiences on how to act in these situations. The target audiences of this Policy include: corporate bodOrganizational model ies, administrators, executives, employees and all those with Based on Legislative Decree 231/01 of Italian law, which debusiness relations with the company. scribes the entity’s administrative responsibility regarding the practice of crimes of interest/advantage in the same organiTherefore, it is forbidden to impose or accept any service if its zation by the high management (executives and administraexecution may compromise the values and principles of the tors) or those under it, TIM adopts an Organizational Model. Code of Ethics and Conduct, or violate the applicable rules This principle avoids extrapolation of the personal responsiand procedures, under penalty of sanctions and adoption of bility of those committing the crimes described by law to the administrative measures. corporation, while also being a necessary instrument to regulate internal processes. Besides that, each new collaborator has a period of up to one month to attend TIM’s online ethics course, which in 2012 The Organizational Model consists of the Code of Ethics and reached a total of 3 thousand hours. Another training course Conduct, General Principles of Internal Control, Principles for on the topic of corruption is the one related to the SarbanesBehavior regarding Public Administration and Internal Control Oxley (SOx) law, broadly recognized as an anti-corruption Structures. procedure for financial affairs, offering 804 hours. In total, in 2012 3.8 thousand hours were assigned to training, while in These documents detail directives and establish processes 2011 this total was 884 hours. to avoid frauds and corruption. Collaborators who received training in After the recent approval of the new version of the Organizaanti-corruption procedures and policies tional Model by controller Telecom Italia, the Organizational CRC* 2011 2012 Model is undergoing adjustments and fine tuning. Managers 0 4 Supervisors 6 44 Risk management Relationship consultants 431 3,893 Offering innovative connectivity possibilities is part of TIM’s Holding, networks, regional and stores 2011 2012 business logic. The customers’ need for communication is Directors 0 9 the basic impulse for adoption of methods and measures ensuring the efficiency of processes and structures, as well Managers 14 124 as the correct application of investments in technical support and network infrastructure. In order to avoid negative busiExperts 26 379 ness impact, TIM tracks risk in order to support the effectiveAnalysts and consultants 55 795 ness of risk mitigation measures. Assistants 1 100 The risk factors for the operator may be related to the company or the telecommunications sector in Brazil. In the second case, *Customer Relationship Center. the possibility of mitigating any risks is very small, as decisions are taken in external environment. Therefore, management based on ethics and transparency contributes to the adoption TIM does not perform evaluation of risks related to this topic of diligent methods that avoid disrupting business feasibility at its units. However, for the reporting of corruption cases, while remaining capable of minimizing potential impact. the company offers channels that lead directly to Audits or Security, areas that have access to systems and tools for colThe Compliance area will provide an intranet address for lecting, analyzing and consolidating the evidence in a report collaborators to inform any violations of the Organizational that is distributed to the relevant areas. The Compliance area TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 12 Governance will provide an intranet address for collaborators to inform any b) Support and protect people involved, from whom transviolations of the Organizational Model, and its activation will parency behavior is expected. be performed with the new Organizational Model. This policy applies to all TIM employees and the corporate Accusations cases related to accounting, internal accounting areas involved in managing potential cases of conflict of controls or audit affairs and reports, equally confidential and interest. anonymous, from employees of the company or its affiliates, in regards to questionable topics in accounting or auditing, can be submitted to the Fiscal council, which also performs the function of Audit Committee for the company. Governance The Fiscal Council/Audit Committee established a special proRelationship with audiences cedure to receive, retain and control these accusations and reports, which can be sent by email, through the Accusations Channel or also through the Post Office. The names of people who send accusations or reports are kept confidential. In its The company invests in a annual report to the General Assembly, the Fiscal council/Audit Committee reports the accusations and reports received durcontinuous relationship ing the year and the result of its investigations. in order to develop In critical accusation cases, the involved parties may have improvements legal proceedings brought against them, and they are almost always fired for cause from the company. In 2012, 194 cases of corruption were registered (including fraud, bribery, extorIn order for TIM to achieve increasing space in the telecomtion, money laundering, conspiracy or any abuse of position for munications market of Brazil, it needs to stay aligned with personal gain), of which 97% were closed on the same year. the expectations of its relationship audience, ensuring busi[SO2, SO3, SO4] ness continuity through management improvement. This is why it is necessary to continuously invest in the relationship with its stakeholders to develop continuous improvement, Conflict of Interest Management Policy according to demand. Planned in 2012, the new Conflict of Interest Management Policy, approved by the Board of Directors on May 24th, The operator’s external stakeholders are customers, sup2013, defines the reference structure for prevention, when pliers, competitors, civil society organizations, environment possible, and management of conflict of interest situations, (environmental regulation agencies), community, governin order to: ment and business partners. The internal ones are the collaborators and shareholders. a) Avoid or contain disruption of the company’s interests; Relationship types/actions Objective Customers Receive requests, questions and complaints, while allowing customers Customer Relationship Center (CRC) to change their data online. It is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, through email, fax, telephone or letter. Exclusive area on the site (for self-service) Activate and deactivate services and queries in accounts. Check balance or status of invoices, perform recharges, access information about promotions, update profile data, obtain barcode for Meu TIM payment of bills or request second copy, among other options. Available for users of Android smartphones and Apple handsets. Track the evolution of the company’s network and the improvement Portas Abertas website (http://qualidade.tim.com.br) actions by state. Portal *144# Access, through the cell phone, to information and answers. Twitter – TIMTIM por TIMTIM channel Provide commercial and institutional information (www.twitter.com/Timtimportimtim) TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 13 Governance Relationship types/actions Objective Identify relevant topics for stakeholders that do not show up on the Online monitoring of social media, such as blogs, sites and networks formal channels. Monthly evaluate satisfaction regarding CRC and every six months, Satisfaction surveys the customer’s general satisfaction regarding the company, identifying opportunities for improvement. Enables self-service for consumers, including blocking and unblocking Audible Response Unit (Unidade de Resposta Audível – URA) of lines and requests for second copy of invoice. Channel in the corporate intranet through which collaborators can Fale pelo Cliente submit user problems and questions directly to the CRC. Suppliers Provide a channel for exclusive dialogue with suppliers, for registration, Site www.timcommerce.com.br questions and suggestions. Competitors Participation in several industry associations, such as the National Syndicate of Personal and Cell Phone Mobile Service and Telephony Maintain a cooperative relationship, contributing to development of the Companies (Sindicato Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia e de Serviço industry Móvel Celular e Pessoal – SindiTelebrasil), and in work groups about technical topics of the sector Inform TIM collaborators about the relevance of complying with Information manual for defense of competition competition laws. Environmental regulation agencies Contact with the main environmental regulation agencies, such as the state and city departments for the environment, construction work and city planning, as well as the Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Continuous improvement of environmental performance. Renewable Natural Resources (Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis – Ibama) Channel for the Environment and Climate Change Submit questions to be answered or suggestions about the environment (ssma@timbrasil.com.br) and climate change. Community and civil society organizations Permanent dialogue channels between TIM and the community, through Support social, cultural and educational initiatives aimed at improving emails (sustentabilidade@timbrasil.com.br, projetosocial@timbrasil.com. the quality of life of people; answer suggestions or sending questions br and ssma@timbrasil.com.br), or through regional offices; donations about the environment and climate change; and contribute to the well(periodic support to specific causes); and investments in social action being of the community. projects with long term involvement Internal audiences Corporate intranet; SMS for collaborators; TIM News (internal corporate Inform employees and present the novelties of the company; motivate TV, with transmission in highly attended areas); internal communication collaborators to present their ideas and share their experiences, emails with the main highlights suggesting topics to be discussed. Channel for Work Safety and Health Identify and control occupational risks with preventive and awareness (ssma@timbrasil.com.br) actions through a specialized team. Integration week for new employees Promote integration of collaborators in the company. Organizational climate surveys Improve the work environment. Shareholders Provide relevant information for investors, such as results, relevant Website communications, quotes and analysis, following criteria for honesty, (www.tim.com.br/ri) clarity and equal access to information. Answer questions from investors (current and potential) and analysts and enable submission of suggestions to the Board of Directors, which are Fale com RI analyzed and forwarded to the body’s secretary office, for consideration of the suggested topic. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 14 Governance Relationship types/actions Objective RI 2.0 (web 2.0 services integrated to the Investor Relations site). Available tools: Slideshare (all investor presentations are available for consultation at www.slideshare.net/ritim); Twitter (www.twitter.com/ Expand information reach and transparency. tim_ri); Mobile (version of RI’s site for cell phones at www.tim.com.br/ri); RSS (language standard enabling disclosure of news and information, in a summary form, at sites and blogs) Business partners Mundo TIM (intranet) Presents administrative offerings and procedures. Sales Business Report (email) Includes offers, procedures and incentive programs. Instant messaging Message reinforcing offerings and announcing sale incentive campaigns. Marketing email Emails to reinforce incentive campaigns. Relationship with audiences *144# Portal, which offers self-service, including blocking and TIM believes that by communicating with its audiences it can unblocking of lines and requests for second copy of invoice. consolidate itself and strengthen a mobilization process. That There is also the Fale pelo Cliente channel on the intranet, in is why throughout the years the company has improved the which employees can present problems and questions from way it contacts its stakeholders, thus improving this relationusers. In 2012, TIM intensified its relationships in social meship, in order to better align developed actions to demands. dia, such as Twitter, and launched its profile on Facebook. Another highlight was the launch of the Portas Abertas site. With the goal of performing the materiality test – in order to [PR5] determine and organize critical topics for communication and sustainability management in corporate strategy –, in 2009 Below is the Quality Improvement Plan presented to Anatel. TIM conducted a survey among its target audiences only by telephone and email. In 2011, one of the main actions in this Quality Improvement Plan process was the stakeholder panel, which allowed the company to identify material topics for its strategic planning in this Network actions Service actions area, guiding the accountability through the sustainability report and other communication channels. Expansion: Increase of Multi-channel: projects for approximately 33% in access implementation of alternative means In 2012, the company created the Policy for Interaction with network capacity in 2012. of contact to facilitate servicing Stakeholders, with the goal of guiding and stimulating collabothe demands of users and improve existing channels. rators in a participative conduction of relationships, in order to encourage dialogue and higher involvement of the main target Network resilience: work on Simplification of processes: audiences of TIM companies in Brazil. the main causes of failure for projects developing improvements in equipment, transmission and people management and optimizing energy, responsible for 98% procedures focused on demand of service interruptions. resolution, relationship simplicity and excellence in service (training Customer service reinforcement and incentive programs for consultants). In order to ensure quality and efficiency in servicing its 70.3 Optimization: program Technological renewal: improve million customers, TIM has four of its own Customer Relafor adjustment of systems customer identification in any contact tionship Centers and seven outsourced, with many trained and parameters, working in channel and perform specific, efficient professionals to provide appropriate responses to customer partnership with the main and quick forwarding of demands. requests. vendors, in order to increase the satisfaction of our customers. The Relationship Center – telephone channel – is the main customer service channel for TIM. It records all contact and Every month, the company conducts surveys to evaluate conprovides online answers or in up to five days, if the complaint sumer satisfaction regarding the service area, and every six demands a deeper evaluation from TIM and can’t be solved at months two other surveys are executed, evaluating satisfacthe time of the request. Customers can also contact through tion regarding the company in general. In 2012, the satisfacother channels, such as fax; Post Office; emails; employees tion average with customer service was 7.43; customer’s genat TIM Stores, prepared to handle post-sale cases; and the eral satisfaction was 8.03.In 2011, these values were 7.80 for TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 15 Governance satisfaction with service, 8.05 for general satisfaction (on a received at the company in 2012 (in comparison with the scale of 0 to 10). The main complaints are related to coverage previous year). This plan included some activities aimed at (quality or lack of signal, dropped calls, lack of coverage) and improving the company’s relationship with its customers, the Internet (not being able to access, slow speed). with the following highlights: Quality in customer service directly impacts the payment of • further investments in self-service; call center professionals, as a way to encourage good service provision. Under this model, partners who are well evaluated • deployment of the electronic invoice project; by users and handle their requests in an effective and quick manner gain bonuses. • development of a new model, more flexible, to serve corporate customers; In addition to prioritizing service quality, TIM has a Customer Data Privacy Policy, which prevents unauthorized access and • implementation of the Liberty Smart Consumer offering improper use of the customers’ personal information. The pol(data without charging for surplus); icy only allows access to profile records and user communication data to collaborators and third parties that, as a result of • deployment of a service model that tracks the whole custoprofessional activities, need to access this information. mer cycle, from sale to post-sale interactions (“end-to-end”). In all cases, disclosure of the information, internally or exterTotal complaints and criticism received nally, is forbidden, allowed only in case of provision of data to 2011 2012 other telecommunications services operators (as described in Resolution 343/2003 from Anatel) and to the Courts, under At the company 10,645,858 4,514,802 guidance of the appropriate internal area. TIM ended 2012 with seven proceedings about loss of privacy of customers At Procons and other consumer 20,174 13,540 defense agencies with pending trials. In 2011, there were two cases. [PR8] At Anatel 263,400 283,840 At the courts 63,796 73,942 Complaints and solutions Percentage of complaints and criticism Cell phone telephony was the leader in complaints at the resolved consumer protection and defense agencies (Procons) of the 2011 2012 country in 2012, according to the National Consumer Department (Senacon) of the Ministry of Justice. At the company 92.0% 90.3% In 2012, the company consolidated its position as the second At Procons and other consumer defense 100.0% 100.0% agencies largest telecom company in the country, with the smallest participation in complaints at Procons integrated to Sindec. At Anatel 99.3% 95.4% In order to increase customer satisfaction, TIM implemented At the courts 92.0% 62.5% the Lean Six Sigma Program, which reduces failures, mis*This percentage refers to complaints and criticisms regarding Intelig. takes, waste and rework, while developing collaborators and increasing customer satisfaction. In 2012, the company achieved the following results: 13 projects concluded and 22 Since 2011, TIM has maintained the second position in collaborators certified in the program, plus a financial benefit the Service Performance Index (Índice de Desempenho of approximately R$ 16 million. In 2012, TIM received 13,540 de Atendimento – IDA). According to the official result ancomplaints at Procons, a drop of approximately 33% comnounced by Anatel, on October 2012 the company reached pared to the previous year. As in 2011, TIM solved 100% of 89.35 points, only 5.8 less than the leading company. its criticism and complaints. The rate of complaints in the company resolved in up to five At the SAC, the number of calls received dropped approxibusiness days in 2012 was 91.04%. The goal for 2013 is to mately 9%, totaling 125,808,392 calls. On the other hand, focus efforts on reducing complaints across all consumer rethe number of answers in 2012 more than doubled, arriving lationship channels, aligned with the commitment to ensure at 4,862. [PR5] maximum customer satisfaction and effectively contribute to the development of quality mobile telephony service across In 2011, TIM initiated a Quality Improvement Action Plan that Brazil. yielded a reduction of 57.6% in the number of complaints TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 16 Strategies and perspectives Sales ban With the goal of encouraging improvements regarding the Portas Abertas quality of telecom service provision, Anatel issued a precauTwo months after the launch of the pilot project for the tionary measure leading to the temporary ban (11 days) of Quality Portal, TIM presented on February 2013 the ofTIM service sales in 18 states (Acre, Alagoas, Bahia, Ceará, ficial version of the site, which was named Open Doors Espírito Santo, Goiás, Maranhão, Minas Gerais, Mato Gros(Portas Abertas). The portal enables consumers to so, Pará, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Piauí, Paraná, Rio de Janeitrack the evolution of the company’s network and imro, Rio Grande do Norte, Rondônia and Tocantins) and in the provement actions, reinforcing TIM’s commitment toFederal District. The measure also resulted in the sales ban wards quality and transparency. of Oi services in five states and Claro services in three states. In addition, it is possible to track the main company This initiative damaged the company’s image, and there was achievements, such as antenna installations, expanalso a reduction in new net additions, encouraging TIM to sion of network capacity and expansion of 3G coverage, readjust its investment plan in order to meet Anatel new deamong other initiatives, detailed by state. mands, presenting an Improvement Action Plan. The document, as demanded by the Agency, presented in detail the The portal was divided into three main sections. In initiatives that would be executed in order to improve the in“Commitment”, in addition to finding out the goals of the frastructure up to 2014. portal, consumers can verify details about the Improvement Plan presented to Anatel and track deliveries of the Call dropping operator through a map that shows what is being done One of the innovative concepts introduced in the telecomin each region of the country, so the service continues munications market by TIM in Brazil was changing the way in constant evolution. The section also provides TIM recalls are charged, from time in minutes to payments per call. sults in the main quality indicators. However, an advance report from Anatel, disclosed prematurely by a media vehicle before TIM could explain the situMeanwhile, the “Services for Customers” combines ation, without a final conclusion from the regulation agency, many interactive tools, the main of them being the real claimed the operator purposefully disconnected calls, generTIM coverage map, showing the effective network image ating higher costs to consumers. – including shadow areas, where the mobile telecom service is still not working properly – and the current and Guided by ethics in its relationships, the company investigatplanned infrastructure. There is also a place for warning ed the call dropping cases through two independent instituabout failures and scheduled maintenance, which can tions, which claimed that there wasn’t any evidence at the be queried through DDD by the customers. Telephone Centrals and the Ericsson Intelligent Network Solution that indicated purposeful or intentional ways of disconLastly, there is the “Educational” section, which answers necting calls at the Personal Mobile Service (Serviço Móvel questions about the functioning of telecommunications Pessoal – SMP) network. The final report from Anatel, issued services. Tutorial video are included showing, for inon May 2013, showed no evidence of intentional call dropstance, how a call is made at the company’s network. ping of customers in the Infinity plan. For more information, access the website www.tim.com.br/portasabertas. Strategies and perspectives Growth and profitability Investments in infrastructure to drive the use of voice and data services TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 17 Strategies and perspectives The search for innovative solutions, accessible to all audiand gain further opportunities for growth, supporting the loences, while maintaining the focus on the balance between cal economy and enabling increased income generation. growth and profitability, contributes to expand the company’s activities in the national territory, while also promoting Another initiative was the modernization of the backbone communication through various offers and according to the (transportation network) between Belo Horizonte and Salvademands of company stakeholders. dor. The operator installed in this stretch the first WDM 100G network (set of equipment and physical media with the capaIn this manner, TIM intensified investments in infrastructure bility of optimizing optic fiber network use) in Latin America. in order to encourage the use of voice and data services, The new technology is already active and enables a 50% while also seeking excellence in the quality of these servicincrease in the installed capacity for voice and data traffic, es and in customer service. Until 2014 the company is planwhile multiplying the system expansion capacity by 16. ning investments in the amount of R$ 8.2 million (including licenses). With these, the company plans on increasing The solution overcomes technical limitations and enables voice capacity by 75% and data capacity by 433%. long distance transmission of 100G signals. Until then, the channels didn’t go beyond 40G. This project will be expandThe company’s significant efforts in the first half of 2012 ed to other stretches during 2013. were focused on investments in network infrastructure and integration of the mobile network with the fiber optics of TIM Fiber, incorporated by TIM Celular, in August 2012. Economic performance In 2013, the forecast is for 80% of big Brazilian cities to have TIM’s business have a direct impact on the economy, exantennas connected through fiber optics, significantly impanding development potential of regions through tax reveproving the quality in voice and data transmission. nue, resource generation for its business partner, and more directly by generating job positions. In 2012, TIM received R$ 82.4 million in help from the government through tax reNetwork capacity ductions, 42% less than in 2011, when the amount was R$ 142 million. [EC1, EC4] In order to comply with the demands of the regulation agency and improve the quality of its services for over 70.3 million customers, the operator increased investments in netValue generation work expansion and quality. The Improvement Action Plan 2011 2012 includes an expansion of over 70% in network capacity by (in thousands (in thousands 2014, compared to 2011. of R$) of R$) In 2012, TIM invested R$ 379 million in optic fiber projects (A) Gross revenue 22,239,785 24,467,812 across the country, with the goal of reinforcing its transmission network, responsible for transporting voice, data and (B) Goods and services acquired 9,951,053 11,120,343 from third parties signals, and increasing customer serving capacity. Costs of provided services and 6,544,679 7,658,116 Two new optic fiber routes were created. The Belém-Brasília sold goods stretch, already activated, has 2.5 thousand kilometers and Supplies, energy, third party runs through four states: Maranhão, Pará, Tocantins and services and others 3,406,374 3,462,227 Goiás. The second route is Belém-Manaus, which is part of the LT Amazonas consortium to deploy cables through (C) Gross added value (A-B) 12,288,732 13,347,469 transmission line towers and energy substations throughout (D) Retentions (depreciation and 27 cities in the states of Amazonas, Pará and Amapá. amortization) 2,569,767 2,688,588 This project will make connections almost five thousand (E) Net added value (C-D) 9,718,965 10,658,881 times quicker than current ones, increasing one hundred (F) Transfers 874,010 1,030,803 times the capacity for voice and data transmission, contributing both to the improvement of communications and (G) Added value to be distributed 10,592,975 11,689,684 Brazil’s social and economic development. The route will be (E+F) activated in the beginning of the second half of 2013. This will lead to more connected people, who will be able to exchange experiences, research new solutions for their region TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 18 Strategies and perspectives Distribution of added value 2011 (in thousands of R$) 2012 (in thousands of R$) Personnel and charges 519,302 602,532 Wages 350,613 352,447 Social security charges 36,945 48,573 Private social security -796 11,664 Benefits 97,833 125,304 Participation in results 34,707 64,544 Government 7,371,006 8,056,331 Taxes, fees and contributions, excluding subsidies (relief) 7,371,006 8,056,331 Financers 1,421,439 1,581,933 Interest and rent 1,421,439 1,581,933 Shareholders 304,292 344,111 Interest on its own capital and dividends 304,292 344,111 Retained 976,936 1,104,777 Profits/losses in fiscal year 976,936 1,104,777 Economic goals TIM’s strategic plan identifies significant opportunities for This scenario will demand continuous investment, and that is work in the Brazilian market, particularly resulting from rewhy TIM approved a R$ 10.7 billion plan for the period from modeling in revenue distribution in the telecom market. In this 2013 to 2015, with the main focus being on infrastructure context, the company expects to increase total net revenue in (more than 90% of the total). the next three years at a high single digit rate – between 6.7% and 10% (compound annual growth rate CAGR 2012-15). Indicator Definition Measure Goal 2013 to 2015 Total Net Revenue Revenue after tax payments, sales returns and calculation of % High single (Receita Líquida Total – discounts on services. digit growth* RLT) EBITDA Profits before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization: % High single net revenue less costs and expenses, representing cash digit growth* generation of operations. Capex Medium and long term investments in purchase, improvement, billions of R$ 10,7** development or extension of infrastructure, equipment, systems and properties. Estimated value to be invested at the end of the three year period of 2013-2015. *High growth at single digit rates, which is to say, between 6.7% and 10%. This growth is calculated with the CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) methodology, which is the year to year growth rate of a specific indicator regarding a specific period of time. Its calculation is based on the compound average of annual growth, to the power of 1 over N, less 1, in which N is the number of years in the period being considered (in this case 3 years), according to the following formulas: 1 1 RLT 2015  N EBITDA 2015  N CAGR = 1 CAGR = 1 RLT 2012 EBITDA 2012 **Specifically for Capex, the goal defined by the company for the year of 2013 is R$ 3.6 billion. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 19 Strategies and perspectives Strategies and perspectives tions, environment and anti-corruption. They are reflected in TIM ten principles, which are part of the strategy, culture and daily operations of the organization. commitments The 10 Principles of the Global Compact The company is committed towards improving its relationship with its stakeholders For TIM, business should be conducted taking into consideration the expectations of all those who participate, are Human Rights interested and involved in the activities. This attitude arises 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of from the ethical management conducted by the company, internationally proclaimed human rights; and which believes that this is the only way to maintain the 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights business over time. abuses. Furthermore, the performance of environmental indicators Labor is another of the commitments assumed by the operator. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association That is why, since 2010, the topics related to sustainability and the effective recognition of the right to collective are part of the meetings of the Internal Control and Corpobargaining; rate Governance Committee, linked directly to the Board 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory laof Directors. bour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TIM actions are based Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to on the Global Compact environmental challenges; principles, an initiative 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and of which TIM has been a 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environsignatory since 2008 mentally friendly technologies. Corruption 10 B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In addition to creating offerings that encourage expansion of communication and connectivity, shortening distances and reducing the need for travelling, the operator also invests in GRI process restructuring and technology to achieve maximum energy efficiency, thus aiming to reduce its greenhouse gasThe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent orgaes emissions (GHG). nization, whose mission is to develop and globally disseminate directives for the preparation of sustainability reports. With the help of companies and partners across the world, GRI organized a standard for sustainability reports that is currently the Global Compact best accepted in the world, and TIM adopted it. In 2008, TIM joined the Global Compact, a United Nations GRI directives are mainly an important tool to measure results (UN) initiative aimed at mobilizing the corporate community to and reflect on the actions taken in the three pillars of sustainadopt, in their business practices, essential and internationability (economic, social and environmental), identifying gaps ally accepted values in the areas of human rights, work relaand pointing out possibilities for improvement. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 20 Strategies and perspectives CDP Strategies and perspectives Since 2007, the company has answered the CDP questionnaire about its GHG emissions and its strategy regarding Services and plans climate change. CDP is a non-governmental organization The company will continue that built the largest global database of corporate information about climate change, queried by investors, governto invest in expansion of ment agencies, legislators, the academic community, and the 2G and 3G networks, the general public. while also launching the 4G technology Companies for the Climate (EPC) With the assumption of ensuring communication without Since 2010’s cycle, TIM has participated in the Companies frontiers for the whole customer base, TIM is responsible for for the Climate (Empresas pelo Clima – EPC). This voluntary introducing innovative concepts in the Brazilian telecommuinitiative, coordinated by the Center of Sustainability Studies nications market, allowing people to talk more and use the of Getulio Vargas Foundation (Centro de Estudos de SusInternet more without worrying about cost and time barriers. tentabilidade da Fundação Getulio Vargas – GVCes), is a permanent corporate platform, whose goals are to mobilize, raise awareness and articulate corporate leaders towards management and reduction of GHG emissions, climate risk Mobile telecom management and the proposal of public policies and positive incentives in the context of climate change. Leveraging the two main service platforms offered by TIM – Infinity (pre-paid) and Liberty (post-paid) – the company presented concepts that restructured national telecommunications. In the Infinity plan, customers are charged per Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) call (and no longer per minute) in local calls and long distance calls with the 41 code to TIM numbers. Meanwhile, For the fifth year in a row, TIM was included in the Corporate on the Liberty plan, use is unlimited in local calls and long Sustainability Index (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial distance calls with the 41 code to any TIM number, for a – ISL) portfolio, created by BM&FBovespa together with orfixed monthly amount. ganizations like the Ethos Institute and the Ministry of the Environment. ISE has the goal of being a reference for soIn 2012, TIM launched a Spanish course through the cell cially responsible investments. Evaluated as an inducer of phone, TIM+Espanhol. Just like TIM+Inglês, the course best practices and encouragement for performance of new provides interactive and customized content, which can be actions every year, the index consists of shares from comaccessed anytime and anywhere the user desires, with an panies with known commitment towards social responsibileasy to use format. The service has four difficulty levels, ity and corporate sustainability. from beginner to advanced, and a price of R$ 0.99 per week. Efficient Carbon Index (ICO2) Ultra broadband The company is part of the Efficient Carbon Index (Indíce In August, the operator launched Live TIM, a broadband serCarbono Eficiente – ICO2) from BM&FBovespa, since its vice for homes and offices, in the state of São Paulo, and creation in 2010, with the commitment to measure, disclose then in September in Rio de Janeiro. In less than six months and monitor its GHG emissions. As a result of this, the comof operation, 4.2 thousand buildings were connected and pany develops the inventory of emissions according to the more than 8.5 thousand installation authorizations were regdirectives of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), istered in both states. In addition, 160 thousand people have a globally used methodology that enables mapping the main registered on the TIM Fiber site to receive the service, while improvement points in emission management, allowing iden10 thousand are already using it. tification of the main emission sources. In 2012, the service was offered only in the cities of Rio de Janeiro (RJ), Duque de Caxias (RJ) and São Paulo (SP). However, the optic fiber network acquired by TIM currently covers 21 cities. Therefore, there is a potential expansion to 18 additional cities. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 21 Sustentabilidade 4G technology Corporate solutions After investing approximately R$ 400 million to purchase the batch of the “V1” band and six batches in the “P” band in the With the goal of serving the growing search of the corporate frequency range bid for 4G, conducted by Anatel in June, TIM market for solutions that add business value, speed up prosigned an agreement with Ericsson, Huawei and Nokia Siecesses and reduce costs, Intelig, a member company of the mens to promote its infrastructure for the Long Term Evolution TIM Participações S.A. group, launched the videoconfer(LTE) technology. In addition, Anatel approved in the beginence service called TIM Intelligence. By connecting people ning of 2013 a RAN sharing agreement between the company through a virtual environment, regardless of the physical and Oi, in order to promote network infrastructure sharing for distance between them, the integrated solution helps large this service. With the reduction in the costs of network deployand medium businesses in their operational activities, while ment to meet the coverage goals established by Anatel, users also reducing the cost of their activities. are benefitted, as the areas considered as less attractive will also have the service available, even before the deadlines established in the bid. It is important to also highlight that infrastructure sharing has a In less than six months, the positive urban impact, with the improvement in the occupation of spaces, resulting from the reduction in the number of new Live TIM broadband service stations impacting the urban landscape and disrupting the reached 10 thousand population, particularly in high population density areas. Another important topic is the contribution towards sustainability users and over 8 thousand derived from the rational use of energy, with the reduction in authorizations the global number of stations needed to fulfill the goals among operators employing network infrastructure sharing. TIM will provide the new generation digital infrastructure to serve the headquarter cities of international events such as Another service that contributes to accelerate productivity the Confederations Cup in 2013, and the World Cup in 2014, is TIM Radar 2.0, which allows the owner/administrator of and other established commitments. Meanwhile, the compaa company to monitor the approximate location of its cell ny will continue to invest on expanding the coverage of all its phone devices, viewing them in a control panel accessible networks (2G and 3G), in order to support universal use of through the Internet. In this manner it is possible to guide voice and data with its innovative plans. the closest employee to a customer demand and/or provide information to the customer about the location and estimated delivery of a product. FOURTH GENERATION The mobile ultra broadband started operating in 2006, in South Korea, migrating to the Long Term EvoluSustainability Highlights and tion (LTE) standard, which enables downloads of 100 megabits per second (Mbps) through mobile access. goals for 2012 Today, there are over forty 4G networks in operation in the world, which will connect 61 million of mobile devices by the end of 2013, reaching 100 million devices. TIM encourages practices The LTE network will offer the Brazilian population new mobile applications, particularly for high speed data that reinforce its transmission or video services. The estimated transcommitment towards mission rate for 4G networks represents up to 10x quicker access than the one achieved with current 3G ethical and sustainable networks. management Among the goals established for 2012 and others identified for 2013, below is the progress of the main commitments assumed by TIM. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 22 Sustainability Goal for Indicator Measure Dec/11 Dec/12 Result For 2013 2012 Allowance of one day of work for % (internal collaborators who voluntarily participate 1 1 3 Fulfilled 1 collaborators) in the Citizen without Borders Program. Training Number of hours Training (total of hours: in classroom (internal collaborator, + online + on the job). Citizen without 636,202 600,000 679,675 Fulfilled 600,000 interns and third Borders. parties) Sustainability (quantity of people % (internal participating in at least one training about collaborators, interns 34 30 35 Fulfilled 30 sustainability issues) and third parties) Environment/Batteries Collection of end-of-life cell phones, batteries and other accessories for Tons 16 13 13.9 Fulfilled 13 recycling Environment/Waste Percentage of recycling of waste % 55 58 74 Fulfilled 65 generated at the office. Environment/Waste The company will replace the plastic cup recycling goal with Percentage of recycled plastic cups the goal of reduction compared to the total purchased in 2012 % N/A 40 44 Fulfilled in consumption of at administrative offices. A3 and A4 paper for administrative use – FSC and recycled(1). Environment/Waste Reduction in the purchase of A4 and A3 paper for administrative use (FSC + % N/A N/A N/A N/A 5(2) Recycled) Energy/Network Reduction in expected increase of % (limit increase planned energy consumption, compared from 7% to from 7% to Not in electricity N/A N/A to the previous year, for the TIM Celular 3.5% 7.25% Fulfilled (3) consumption) mobile network. Energy/Network Reduction in specific electricity consumption by mobile network kWh/mobile line N/A N/A N/A N/A 4.17(4) equipment, in comparison with the previous year. Vendor management Number of vendors evaluated in matters Accumulated number 140 180 188 Fulfilled 228 related to sustainability after 2009 (1) The justification for this change is that plastic recycling has been losing economic feasibility in some regions in Brazil, and therefore there was difficulty in recruiting vendors qualified to perform this activity. (2) The total volume of paper purchased in 2012 for administrative use was 60,346 kg. The goal is to reduce this amount to 57,329 kg in 2013. (3) During the definition of the reduction goal from 7% to 3.5%, the estimated growth for installation of access equipment (specifically TRX receptors) was 14%, based on the total equipment installed in 2011. However, there was an expansion of 35% regarding the previous year, resulting in an increase of 7.2% in energy consumption in TIM Celular mobile network equipment. For 2013, the absolute goal will be replaced by a specific goal, considering consumption of electricity in the network equipment weighted by the total number of subscribers in mobile lines. (4) The total specific consumption of electricity in 2012 in network equipment was 4.24 kWh/mobile line. The goal is to reduce this number by 1.6%. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability Sustainability Announce the directives and encourage internal and external Environmental audiences to participate in awareness campaigns and initiatives, supporting responsibility towards the environment. management Total investment and expenses in environmental Principles applied to its protection In 2012, TIM invested R$ 418 thousands in the mainteactivities reinforce the nance of operational processes to improve the environment, commitment towards R$ 613.4 thousand in initiatives to train the internal audience regarding environmental issues and R$ 5 thousand sustainable development in evaluations of processes related to the topic. This year, TIM started a project for adjusting to the National Policy of Solid Waste (PNRS). The first waste inventory is being deAccording to TIM’s Environmental Policy, the company took veloped, plus several “PNRS” training courses, explaining inspiration from the directives of the Global Reporting Initiathe high investment and expenses in environmental protective (GRI) and the ten principles of the Global Compact while tion in 2012, when compared to 2011. [EN30] establishing initiatives to be applied across all its activities. Therefore, the principles are correlated to the indicators reInvestments and expenses in environmental ported by the company. The goal is to promote continuous protection (in thousands of R$) improvement of environmental performance, meeting the 2011 2012 demands of current legislation and regulatory agencies, and the directives of the Telecom Italia Group, thus reinforcing the Maintenance in operational processes for 211.0 418.0 commitment towards sustainable development. The compaimprovement of the environment ny’s commitments include: Initiatives to educate the internal audience 5.9 613.4 regarding environmental issues • Continuous improvement and prevention of pollution Evaluation of processes related to Constantly evolve its work processes, focusing on reducing environmental issues 6.4 5.0 their impact on the environment and seeking work effectiveOther projects 12.2 0.0 ness, while adopting a proactive attitude in the attainment of these results. Total 235.5 1.036.4 • Waste management Seek minimization of waste production and encourage difClimate change ferentiated collection, recovery and recycling. TIM considers the climate change issue strategic to busi• Electromagnetic emissions ness continuity, monitoring its greenhouse gas emissions as Control operational aspects of its sites, ensuring compliance a way of preempting the challenges presented by the topic with internal standards and legal and regulatory demands, and the growing demands of society. in order to minimize risks to the environment. Part of this work is conducted through participation in na• Legal compliance tional and international initiatives related to the topic, such Seek full compliance with current environmental legislation. as CDP – a global system for reporting information related to emissions, risks and opportunities, and the corporate ini• Consumption of natural resources tiatives associated to the climate change topic. Develop actions aimed at reducing the waste of energy and materials, ensuring sustainable use of natural resources. TIM is also part of the portfolio for the Efficient Carbon Index (ICO2), a BM&FBovespa and BNDES joint initiative, and the • Technological innovations Companies for the Climate (EPC) group, coordinated by the Stimulate technological research capable of minimizing the Center of Sustainability Studies of the Getulio Vargas Founnegative impact of services and products. dation (Centro de Estudos de Sustentabilidade da Fundação Getulio Vargas – GVCes). This group gathers industry • Publicity leaders, to discuss initiatives and offer corporate directives regarding the inclusion of the climate variable in business strategies, and it is one of the main national references for a low carbon scenario. [EC2] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 24 Sustainability In addition, among its collaborators, TIM also works to intersource, and can be explained by the change in the methodolnalize the topic, raising awareness about the relevance of ogy for extraction of the primary data (fuel consumption). energy consumption reduction and selective waste collection. [EN16, EN17, EN18] Following the directives of the GHG Protocol, the most used methodology on a global scale for measurement, preparation and publication of greenhouse gas inventory, TIM reports its TIM’s GHG inventory emissions according to a division by scope, as follows: An inventory of an organization’s GHG emissions is an important internal management tool, as it enables identifiScope 1 – Direct emissions cation of emission sources and measurement of the com• Fuel burning from its own fleet. pany’s contribution to climate change, thus pointing out • Diesel oil burning for energy generation. clearer paths towards the adoption of corporate policies • Fugitive emissions from gases used in cooling devices. related to this topic. Scope 2 – Indirect emissions associated to imported Following this directive, TIM prepares its GHG inventory energy generation since 2008, retroactive to 2007, based on the most wide• Consumption of purchased electricity. ly accepted guidance in the global and national scenarios regarding measurement and reporting of GHG emissions, Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions such as the GHG Protocol and the directives of the Intergov• Fuel burning from air travel of employees. ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). [EC2] • Fuel burning from the daily commute of employees. • Fuel burning from outsourced fleet and vehicles of sales For the base year of 2012, the TIM GHG inventory was valiconsultants. dated for the second year in a row by an independent third • Waste management. party, thus ensuring more transparency and reliability for the presented information. Greenhouse gas emissions In addition, an improvement was observed in the reliability of 2011 2012 the results obtained in emissions arising from third party activities (suppliers). This can be explained by the fact that, for Scope 1 the base year of 2012, real data was collected regarding their tCO2e 2,555.1 3,157.3 activities, thus enabling an estimate of emissions with reduced uncertainty in their results. The biggest reduction in GHG Scope 2 emissions in 2012, compared to 2011, was precisely from this MWh 346,305.1 373,036.3 tCO2e 10,130.3 24,374.8 Greenhouse gas emissions 2011 2012 Emissions Emissions Factors Factors (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Scope 1 2,555.1 3,157.3 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Own fleet 732.1 789.7 Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Generators 752.5 425.0 Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories IPCC Second Assessment Report: IPCC Second Assessment Report: Fugitive emissions 1,070.5 Climate Change, 1995 (HFC-134a); Ashrae 1,942.6 Climate Change, 1995 (HFC-134a); Ashrae Standard 34, 1997 (R407-c) Standard 34, 1997 (R407-c) Scope 2* 10,130.3 24,374.8 *Emissions from electricity consumption rose significantly (141%) as a result of the increase in the national grid emission factor provided by the Ministry of Science and Technology, which considers the Brazilian energy matrix and its provision through the Interconnected National System (“SIN”) (emission factors: 2011 – 0.0292 tCO2/ MWh; 2012 – 0.0653 tCO2/MWh). During the same period, an 8% increase was observed in the consumption total of imported electricity in SIN. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 25 Sustainability 2011 2012 Emissions Emissions Factors Factors (tCO2e) (tCO2e) MCT – Emission factor of national grid for MCT – Emission factor of national grid for Electricity consumption 10,130.3 24,374.8 2011 2011 Scopes 1 and 2 12,685.4 27,532.1 Scope 3** 24,426.6 16,870.9 2010 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s GHG 2011 Guidelines to Defra/DECC's GHG Air travel 4,877.4 5,159.6 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gases Inventories (car, Greenhouse Gases Inventories (car, Employee commuting 3,675.3 motorcycle and bus); MCT – emission 4,507.8 motorcycle and bus); MCT – emission factor of national grid for 2011 (train and factor of national grid for 2011 (train and subway) subway) Outsourced fleet – 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 13,000.6 3,767.6 Logistics Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Outsourced fleet – Others 1,211.2 1,462.6 Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Sale consultants 1,576.2 1,915.5 Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Waste management 85.9 57.8 Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories **The evolution of TIM’s GHG Inventory enabled better collection of information necessary for measurement of GHG emissions from this source. Therefore, the 2012 results are more reliable, when compared to the values of 2011. The methodology used to estimate GHG emissions by the outsourced logistics fleet was modified. Opportunities and risks taking cutting edge technology to the market. Currently, The company conducted a preliminary evaluation of opelectronic recharges represent 100% of the company’s portunities and risks regarding climate change. The results recharges. are also available to the audience on the CDP website (www.cdproject.net). TIM Chip Avulso is a service that allows customers the option of acquiring just the chip, without the need to purchase new handsets. In this manner the unnecessary Opportunities exchange of devices is avoided, reducing the volume of Industry plans aimed at low carbon savings can generelectronic waste generated by discarding devices, batterate at companies the need to reduce employee travelling, ies and accessories. with greater use of videoconferences and home offices. This can lead to a bigger demand for telecommunications and broadband services, generating opportunities for TIM, Risks as this business enables reduction of emissions in other The main identified risks were regulatory risks, the possectors through the use of information and communication sibility of increase in maintenance and operation costs and technologies. the direct impact on operations. Even though it has identified the aspects that it considers more influential in busiIn addition, electronic recharges, whose main example ness, TIM has not financially calculated these risks. is TIM PDV, allowing online recharging through specific cell phone devices, contribute to the reduction in the conRegulatory sector Plans established as a result of the Nasumption of raw materials and natural resources, while tional Policy on Climate Change could also cover the telealso reducing card discarding. This system enables reduccommunications sector. tion of GHG emissions resulting from card transportation, reduces the risk of theft, increases product availability and offers more convenience and customer satisfaction, TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 26 Sustainability Physical sector Plans established as a result of the NaRefrigeration gases R-22 and R-141B are used mainly in tional Policy on Climate Change could also cover the telethe environment cooling equipment at TIM units. communications sector. There is no calculation for the emissions of NOx, SOx and • Increased consumption of electric power to maintain neother controlled air pollutants. [EN19] twork equipment at a proper temperature; • Increased cost of energy and shortage of its offer caused by the fact that a large part of the energy generated in Waste management Brazil comes from fluvial sources; TIM seeks to minimize waste production and encourage dif• Shortage of renewable energy sources; ferentiated collection, recovery and recycling in its activities. In addition, it works on the prevention of post-consumption • Influence of humidity and salinity in the useful life of damage by developing programs for collection and environequipment; mentally appropriate final disposal of potentially impactful products and materials. • Negative impact on the mobile telephony signal from increased levels of rainfall; The waste generated by TIM has four destinations: landfill, recycling, return to manufacturer or delivery to a special• Negative financial impact caused by price increase of ized vendor for appropriate final disposal. In 2012, 654 tons insurance related to natural disasters; of waste was generated by the company, of which 238.4 tons (36%) was hazardous waste and 415.6 tons (64%) was • Impact on the health and well-being of employees; non-hazardous waste. • Loss of income among consumers; At administrative offices, the collection is done selectively with the separation of organic waste for public pickup, a re• Interruptions or deteriorations in telecommunications sersponsibility of city administrations. The reusable and recyvices provision due to potential environmental disasters clable waste is sent to cooperatives, companies or public on the network infrastructure; organizations of collection, registered according to region. • Changes in consumer behavior: loss of income and reThe recycling percentage for the waste generated in the ofsulting loss of service purchasing power. fices, in 2012, was 74%, 16% above the goal for the year, which was 58%. In 2011, the recycling rate was 55%. As for the use of plastic cups, 44% of the total purchased items Emissions of ozone layer depleting substances were recycled, surpassing the goal of 40%. In addition to calculating GHG emissions associated to its activities, TIM measures the emissions of ozone depleting The hazardous waste generated at administrative offices, substances. such as lamps, is returned to manufacturers or sent to vendors contracted to provide appropriate disposal for this ma2011 2012 terial. Meanwhile, the hazardous waste generated by the In tons of gas chain, such as batteries and equipment parts, is returned to the manufacturers. R-22 0.99 1.26 R-141B 1.60 In 2012, TIM exported to Belgium* 87.8 kg of waste collected by the programs Recarregue o Planeta and Papain t-eq CFC-11* Pilhas (the latter is a partnership with Banco Santander). R-22 0.05 0.07 At TIM stores and administrative buildings, special urns are provided to collect used batteries, unused cell phones R-141B 0.18 and corresponding accessories. In order to minimize the generation of this kind of waste, the company offers the * Calculated based on total consumption of the gases and their ozone-depleting potential, presented in the Montreal Protocol, 2000 customer the option of a spare TIMChip, which enables reduction of turnover in the exchange of cell phone devices. [EN22, EN24] * TIM exports electronic waste (e-waste) to Belgium, as no economically feasible national vendor was identified to handle this type of waste in an appropriate manner. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Sustainability Total generated waste (t) Even though TIM initiated a campaign to encourage its sub2011 2012 scribers to adopt the summary bill format, and thus avoid higher levels of paper use, in 2012 there was an increase in Hazardous 176.4 238.4 missed payments from customers, resulting in a higher volume of collection letters. In addition, there was an increase of Non hazardous 748.0 415.6 almost 10% in the total number of lines, resulting in increased Total 924.5 654.0 consumption. Like in the previous year, in 2012 no significant spills were Through instant messaging, contact at the Customer Relarecorded. [EN23] tionship Center and the site, TIM encourages the collaboration of customers to reduce paper waste, informing that by Paper choosing the summary model, the information for the full bill TIM monitors paper consumption in four fronts: internal use, can be viewed at the site’s exclusive area. In 2011, the total bags, marketing and invoices. Out of this total, 90.3% is pavolume of summary invoices issued was 13,338,114, and in per with the certification of the Forest Stewardship Council 2012 this number rose to 35,769,287, a 168% increase. (FSC), 9.4% is recycled paper and less than 1% is common white paper. The invoicing area is the one that consumes the Internally, the company develops an awareness campaign tomost materials, followed by the marketing area. In 2012, they wards rational use and disposal of paper, including a printing consumed, respectively, 1,736.5 tons and 791.4 tons of FSC policy – front and back and in black and white – applied at all paper, the only type both of them use. The consumption of branches, resulting in savings of paper and toner. [EN1, EN2] white paper was reduced by approximately 58%, while the consumption of FSC grew approximately 33%. Paper consumption [EN1, EN2] 2011 2012 Percentage of recycled Percentage of recycled Total consumed (kg) Total consumed (kg) material compared to total material compared to total Recycled paper 197,240.7 9.4% 94,399 3.7% FSC paper 1,894,640.9 90.3% 2,534,176 96.2% White paper 6,313.3 0.3% 3,716 0.1% Total 2,098,194.9 100.0% 2,632,291 100.0% Energy will continue during 2013, contributing to improve operationThe energy consumed by TIM is essentially obtained from al capacity and reduce energy expenses. the electricity grid, representing 96.4% of the total energy consumption, with the remainder consumed by its own fleet Meanwhile, TIM develops educational measures to raise and energy generators. The operator has Radio Base Staawareness of the internal audience in administrative oftions (RBS) with operational autonomy in case of interrupfices, while conducting building maintenance actions, such tion of energy supply and generators that can be used in as reduction of operation hours for the cooling and elevator order to ensure service operation in case of prolonged lack equipment. of energy supply. One way in which TIM monitors energy consumption is by The biggest energy consumers are the network machines, using the eco-efficiency indicator, which links the quantity of and that is why the company resumed its Modernização e transferred bits (voice and data traffic) with consumed enSwap Project, which consists of the replacement of access ergy (fossil fuel and electricity consumed to perform these equipment with more modern and efficient models. More services). Compared to 2012, this indicator grew approxithan 50% of the network was modernized, and the project mately 25%, an eco-efficiency gain. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 28 Sustainability grids, responsible for controlling the effluent treatment proENERGY CONSUMPTION1 [EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6] cess. It is worth noting that the company does not perform disposal with high environmental impact and that no water 2011 2012 body is significantly affected. In 2012, no kind of significant In its own sources 2 (GJ) 3 spill occurred. Gasoline 38,380 43,114 Water consumption (m³) DieselVehicles 1,110 929 2011 2012 Diesel – Generators 10,434 5,904 Collected by the company 562 7,957 Total 49,924 49,947 Supply grids 178,535 207,139 From third parties (GJ)3 Total 179,097 215,096 Electricity 1,246,689 1,342,931 Total 1,246,689 1,342,931 Environmental impact of products and services 1 Energy consumption refers to all units and vehicles of TIM Participações S.A. in Brazil, including its two subsidiaries, TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig TelecomuniThe Radio Base Stations (RBS), structures needed for the cações Ltda. The amounts also cover activities of TIM Fiber, incorporated by TIM operation of the mobile telecom service, have an impact of Celular in 2012. 2 In Brazil, it is impossible to determine the primary energy consumption for proelectromagnetic radiation, in addition to their own deployduction of indirect energy. The concessionaires (hydro power, thermal power, ment. According to the publication from Acel Telefonia Ceetc.) are under no legal obligation to disclose the energy production source in lular, Conheça Bem essa Tecnologia, prepared according the country. 3 In order to calculate consumption in gigajoules, the conversion rates of the to the study Sistemas de Telefonia Celular: Atendendo ao National Energy Balance of 2012 were used. Chamado da Razão, conducted by the Electrical Engineering Department of the University of Brasília, studies developed Water and effluents by the World Health Organization (WHO) point out that there Even though TIM’s activities do not use much water, the is not enough evidence that the use of cell phones is dancompany monitors the volume consumed at its units, both gerous to health, as long as limits and precaution rules are in the urban supply grid and from its own collection (later followed. Also according to the Acel publication, radiation can used in gardens and to clean parking lots). In 2012, the be ionizing or non-ionizing. The non-ionizing type, issued by company’s collection of rain water was interrupted for the the radio waves used on cell phone telephony, does not have construction work to expand the São Cristóvão unit in Rio enough energy to damage human body tissue, causing only de Janeiro. In the same year, the collection of underground temperature increase, or thermal effects. water was started, by installation of an artesian well at the São Paulo unit. According to the publication, the antennas installed in towers or masts issue an insignificant level of radiation, even conThe company implements initiatives to reduce water considering continuous exposure. In reality, the radiation level to sumption in its operations, such as adjustment work and which the population is exposed (as a result of radio wave inspections constantly performed in bathrooms and panemissions from antennas) is 50 to 1,000 times less than the tries to avoid water leaks, and deployment of more efficient safety level established by Anatel regulation. Through Resoequipment in bathrooms (faucets with timers and toilets with lution #303/2002, Anatel establishes the limits of exposure to coupled boxes). In 2012, the programs for conscious water electromagnetic fields in the radiofrequency range used by consumption were intensified, announced through the corcellular telecom. porate intranet, emails and information TVs. The instruction leaflet also explains that the safety level is However, an increase of 20% was observed in the total determined by the Specific Absorption Rate (SAR), indicatwater consumption, compared to the volume consumed in ing the average rate of radiation absorption by the human 2011, as the consumption of Intelig and the former TIM Fibody per kilogram (Watts/kg). In order to ensure the safety ber – incorporated by TIM Celular in 2012 – started to be of customers, cell phones available on the market undergo a considered in 2012. [EN8, EN9, EN10, EN21] SAR test before they are sold, presenting levels well below the established limits. Regarding effluents, TIM does not have initiatives for their treatment and later reuse. Therefore, all the volume proSince 1996, WHO maintains the Electromagnetic Fields Projduced by the company is directed to the public sanitation ect (EMF Project) with the goal of providing international coTIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability ordinated response to questions in this area. WHO’s estimate Environmental litigation (quantity of is that more than US$ 250 million has been spent on studies processes) about this topic across the world and a further US$ 130 mil2011 2012 lion will be spent until 2014. Administrative processes (active) 208 453 TIM monitors RBS radiation emissions, ensuring the safety of these structures regarding society. Calculations and meaAdministrative processes (incoming) 11 248 surements consider the shared station cases, in which technical parameters of transceivers and antennas of other opJudicial processes (active) 49 46 erators are evaluated. Judicial processes (incoming) 2 3 In this manner, all company RBS are authorized by Anatel. The license operates as network directive so all sites are deAs another way of minimizing the environmental impact of its ployed in locations allowed by the local competent authority business, TIM intensified its internal awareness campaigns reand authorized through urban and environmental licenses, garding consumption of energy, lamps and water. And, regardwhen applicable. ing GHG emissions, with the inventory it is possible to identify the main company emission sources to establish voluntary TIM started the process of identifying RBS in its sites that goals for GHG reduction. Currently, TIM does not have GHG might be located in Permanent Preservation Areas (Áreas reduction goals, but it sees the already established goal for de Proteção Permanente – APP) and in areas protected for reduction of electricity consumption in network equipment as a historical heritage, in order to adjust their situation with the way to encourage the reduction of such emissions, as it stimucompetent authorities. So far, two RBS in permanent preslates operational efficiency and conscious consumption in the ervation areas have been identified, one of them in Pico de activity that most heavily consumes electricity in the company. Jabre (Paraíba) and another in Silva Jardim (Rio de Janeiro). In areas protected for historical heritage, three RBS were Regarding paper consumption, all TIM regional sites use reidentified, one at Morro do Cristo Redentor, in São Cristóvão cycled paper and perform replacement of printers, fax, scan(Sergipe), another in Lençóis (Bahia) and the third in Ouro ners and copiers with multifunctional equipment. In addition, Preto (Minas Gerais). [EN12, EN11] printing restriction policies and internal awareness campaigns resulted in smaller consumption not just of material, but also Another impact generated by TIM operations is noise emistoners and other resources, with smaller costs. [EN26] sion. In this case, usually emission monitoring is conducted by determination of the legislation (state and city) or by demand from public agencies. In order to obtain the operation license for the Radio Base Station (RBS), it is also necessary Sustainability Social to perform this measurement. performance In 2012, the company measured the level of electromagnetic emissions on 2,058 sites (33.7% more than in the previous year), and in two of them noise levels were measured. In this case, field measurement is conducted when the company is TIM invests in its notified or when this is requested as part of the process to adjust site compliance. [EN26, SO1] collaborators through training and functional In 2012, TIM was fined for a total amount of R$ 1.5 million, referring to 79 fines for environmental non-compliance. capacitation 244 violation records were registered, as well as 453 active administrative proceedings, 46 judicial proceedings and three conduct adjustment terms (Termos de Ajustamento de The main success factor for the whole company is representConduta – TACs), still ongoing. ed by the contribution of the people working in it, in a context of loyalty and mutual confidence. That is why the company The three TACs were: one in Ceará, where TIM removed a stands for safety and health in the workplace and considers tower from the city of Ipueiras; one in Amazonas, where TIM respecting labor rights essential for performance of economic needed to license RBS; and another in Roraima, established activities. between TIM Celular S.A. and the City of Boa Vista, in order to adjust compliance of urban licensing for all the RBS inTIM seeks to invest in its collaborators through training and stalled in the city. [EN28] tools for career development and expansion of their qualifications. In 2012, board members and managers, relationTIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 30 Sustainability ship consultants and members of the sales force, among units, which will also serve as training center for new consulother functions, participated in a group that underwent tants and for employees of TIM’s partner resellers. 679,675 training hours (in classroom, online and on the job), approximately 44 thousand hours more than in 2011, when Training programs 636,202 hours of training were offered. In addition, 35% of TIM invests in training programs in order to prepare its colthe collaborators participated in at least one training about laborators for future challenges. The main initiatives are: sustainability matters. • Programa de Graduação, offering college-level education for up to 50 collaborators; Education and qualification • Formação Internacional, offering overseas experiences to collaborators; In 2012, TIM offered 120 positions in the Administration graduation course to its own collaborators lacking univer• Specific technical training, focused on technical qualifisity courses. The course offered by TIM is a result of the cations and updates for performing assigned functions; partnership with the International Association of Continued Education (Associação Internacional de Educação Continu• Institutional trainings, supporting integration of the collaada – Aiec), one of the best Internet colleges in Brazil. Those borator in the company. approved to participate receive scholarship support from the operator, in an amount ranging from 25% to 80%, until the 3rd In 2012, R$ 10.2 million were invested in corporate education year of the course (according to the position occupied by the programs offered to employees. In addition, TIM helps more professional), and 100% in the last year of graduation. than 510 collaborators with financing of formal education, totaling an investment of R$ 3.9 million. In November, the operator started the second cycle of Skill Assessment 2012, a certification that enables constant Total hours dedicated to corporate alignment of the sales force with business expectations, education programs (hours/year) driving continuous development of these professionals. UsAverage training hours for functional ing a test, Skill Assessment evaluates the knowledge level 2012 category, by employee of the competencies that every sales professional needs in order to perform his job. Executive officers 455.4 In order to promote maintenance and dissemination of Management 16,652.6 knowledge inside the company, a number of collaborators Other positions 67,209.4 also underwent an online training course regarding ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications. Sales force 454,997.5 In addition, in November, the operator promoted the MenRelationship Consultants (CRCs) 140,360.1 tes Abertas workshop, with the topic “Leadership and Active Total time dedicated to corporate education Roles inside the Organization”, in Rio de Janeiro, gathering programs – hours/year 679,675.0 250 company managers with the goal of reflecting on the strategic role within the company and the importance of active roles in such a competitive scenario In regards to employees in termination process, TIM has the policy of indemnification for termination and indemnification Loja-Escola for service time, as established in the law. Taking into conFocused on further improving customer service at its points of sideration the well-being of laid-off collaborators, in specific sale, TIM launched in 2012 a first of its kind project in the motermination cases, TIM extends the health plan benefit bebile telecom sector in Brazil: the Loja-Escola. Seven training cause of a surgery, for instance. centers, simulating company stores, were inaugurated in December, in regional offices of the company – São Paulo (SP), The company has a Individual Development Plan (Plano de Brasília (DF), Curitiba (PR), Rio de Janeiro (RJ), Recife (PE), Desenvolvimento Individual), which defines actions to be Belém (PA) and Porto Alegre (RS) –, to train sales consultants performed according to the competencies of each profesin a convenient and interactive way. The project received insional and his area of work. Based on this, movement is vestments of R$ 1 million. defined regarding career and merit. The expectation is that all 2 thousand collaborators from the In order to arrive at this plan, TIM annually conducts a percompany’s own stores will undergo periodic training at the formance evaluation of its employees, based on activities TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainability and goals established for the period and the group competencies defined for each function. After the evaluation, manager and collaborator organize a feedback meeting, New goals will be in which they establish consensus about the competencies that must be developed over the next year, while also definestablished through an ing new goals and objectives. employee performance Seeking excellence in the quality of TIM’s customer service, evaluation the company has a Consultores de Excelência Program, specifically targeting Relationship Consultants. With the goal of promoting professional improvement of this audience, employees are evaluated monthly regarding previously agreed In 2012, 4,717 collaborators were laid-off, 52% voluntarily quality, productivity, behavior and collective indicators. and 47% involuntarily. During the same period, 5,787 collaborators were hired, of which 61% were women and 89% The evaluation results are shared with the collaborators and were up to 35 years of age. All hirings in 2012 were conused as support for decision making regarding career develducted through external contracting. [ LA2] opment. The annual average of the results is converted into a concept that summarizes the CR performance, aligned Total rate of hirings / firings with the corporate performance management process. Percentage* Percentage of employees submitted to 2011 2012 2011 2012 performance analysis [LA10, LA11, LA12] Hired 4,522 5,787 44% 49.7% 2011 2012 Fired 4,394 4,717 42.8% 40.5% Employees1 80% 99% *Rate of hirings = hired/total collaborators at the end of the period. Rate of firings = laid off/total number of collaborators at the end of the period Relationship Consultants 100%2 100% Firings Total3 30% 41,4% Percentage* 1 The presented percentage refers to employees who received training compared to the total number of employees eligible for such activity. The eligibility criteria include, 2011 2012 2011 2012 among other factors, the employee’s company time. 2 In 2011, a rate of 0% was reported, but now this percentage was adjusted to 100% regarding that year. What happens is that 100% of the CRs undergo result evaluaVoluntary 2,397 2,479 54.5% 52.6% tion, which is a different training than the one provided to employees. This is why a value of 0% was reported. The correct number is 100%, considering that result Involuntary 1,980 2,228 45.1% 47.2% evaluation is a kind of training. 3 Based on the total number of employees at the company. Other causes 17 10 0.4% 0.2% Total 4,394 4,717 100% 100% * Firings = voluntary or involuntary/total collaborators fired at the end of the period. Turnover rate 2011 2012* Voluntary 23.2% 21.3% Involuntary 19.3% 19.1% Total 42.5% 40.4% *After 2012, turnover started being calculated using the total number of employees at the end of the period covered by the report, in order to comply with the methodology proposed In the GRI Set of Protocols and Indicators. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 32 Sustainability Hirings/firings by gender Percentage* Gender Hired Fired Hired Fired 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Men 1,641 2,245 1,540 1,727 15% 18% 14% 14% Women 2,881 3,542 2,854 2,990 27% 29% 26% 24% Total 4,522 5,787 4,394 4,717 42% 47% 30% 38% *Rate of hirings = hired/total collaborators at the end of the period. Rate of firings = laid off/total number of collaborators at the end of the period. Hirings by age range Taxa* Age range 2011 2012 2011 2012 Below 35 4,141 5,152 38.3% 42.1% Between 36 and 45 330 543 3.1% 4.4% Between 45 and 60 51 91 0.5% 0.7% Above 60 0 1 0% 0% Total 4,522 5,787 41.9% 47.2% *Rate of hirings = hired/total collaborators at the end of the period. Rate of firings = laid off/total number of collaborators at the end of the period. Profile of collaborators Internal units In 2012, TIM expanded the chain of its own stores by almost In addition to encouraging professional development, TIM pri70% in Brazil, ending the year with 130 units directly manoritizes a healthy work environment, open to new ideas. That is aged by the operator. The new points of sale generated 840 why collaborators are continuously informed about the compajob opportunities, increasing the company’s sales force by ny’s progress in the telecommunications market and the estab58%. For 2013, the company plans to open approximately lished goals through the corporate intranet, TIM News (internal 30 new of its own stores, which will demand approximately corporate TV, with transmission in areas with significant circula500 new sales consultants. tion), and internal communication emails. In total, TIM has approximately 10 thousand points of sales, At the end of 2012, TIM’s staff included 12,264 collaborators, including premium stores and resellers (dedicated or multi of which 11,650 were employees, 316 apprentices, 289 interns brand), while also benefitting from the capillarity of the large and nine outsourced on administrative work. The average age is retail chains. Customers of the pre-paid segment also have 31: 29% of the collaborators is 25 or less; 48% are between 25 alternate channels for recharging, such as supermarkets and 35; 17% between 35 and 45 and 6% are above 45. and newsstands, with a total of more than 470 thousand points of sale distributed across the country. Out of the total number of employees, most are concentrated in the states of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Espírito Santo. Ap. proximately 91% have less than 10 years of company time. All employees have full time jobs. [LA1] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability Number of employees by type of employment Employees by company time 2011 2012 Employees 10,266 11,650 Interns 278 289 4,439 Apprentices 270 316 4,271 Total collaborators 10,814 12,255 Administrative outsourced 18 9 Total internal audience 10,832 12,264 20 Number of employees by region 24 2011 2012 920 1,976 PA, AM, MA, AP, RR 236 233 DF, GO, TO, MT, MS, RO, AC 283 316 PE, AL, PB, RN, CE, PI 1,869 1,931 Up to 1 year Between 1 and 5 years MG, BA, SE 413 503 Between 5 and 10 years SP, RJ, ES 6,105 7,239 Between 10 and 20 years Between 20 and 30 years PR, SC, RS 1,360 1,428 More than 30 years Total 10,266 11,650 Percentage of employees by company time Employees by type of contract 2011 2012 2011 2012 Up to 1 year 32.5% 36.7% Indeterminate contract 10,266 11,650 Between 1 and 5 years 42.4% 38.1% Determinate contract 548 605 (apprentices)* Between 5 and 10 years 17.4% 17% Total 10,814 12,255 Between 10 and 20 years 7.2% 7.9% *Contracts with determinate time. Between 20 and 30 years 0.3% 0.2% In 2012, TIM was named in 10,823 labor lawsuits and paid Over 30 years 0.2% 0.1% an amount of R$ 2.7 million in proceedings with favorable rulings. [SO8] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 34 Sustainability Employees distributed by region ESTÁGIO SEM FRONTEIRAS (Internship Without Borders) The number of people enrolled in the 2012 edition of 3,618 the Estágio Sem Fronteiras program broke records, 3,621 when compared to previous years. Almost 17 thousand candidates from the states of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais, Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul, Pará and Pernambuco competed to 123 positions at the operator, a quantity 40% higher than the one recorded in the 233 2011 edition. The high percentage of hirings for interns and the benefits offered by TIM are among the main factors for the result achieved in registration. 1,931 Climate survey 503 1,428 In 2012, TIM conducted the climate survey of the Telecom 316 Italia Group in partnership with Bocconi University, from Italy, in order to verify the quality of the work environment. AccordSão Paulo Regional Units ing to the opinion of collaborators, the average general satisfaction was 7.54 (on a scale of 1 to 10), placing TIM as the Rio de Janeiro Regional Units company in the Telecom Italia Group in which collaborators South Regional Units presented the highest levels of satisfaction. In addition to the Center-West Regional Units general satisfaction average, 22 other items (external image, East Regional Units market guidance, leadership, diversity, among others) were Northeast Regional Units evaluated, on a scale of 1 to 7. The grades achieved by TIM ranged from medium (4 to 5) to medium high values (5 to 6). North Regional Units Top Management employees by region In external recruiting cases, TIM strives to offer preference for people 15 85 living in the city of origin of the position 2 1 2 Market presence TIM does not have a structured policy for contracting in the 4 local community; however, in external recruiting cases, the company seeks to offer preference to local labor, residing in the city from which the position comes. In some cases, as a way of mobilizing people for the recruitment and selection process, neighborhood associations of nearby communities São Paulo Regional Units become aware of the opportunities through the corporate posters, by website or personal contact. Rio de Janeiro Regional Units South Regional Units In addition, the nearby local communities are contacted to Center-West Regional Units announce positions on local call centers. [EC7] Northeast Regional Units North Regional Units TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainability Respecting diversity and fighting discrimination TIM believes that a diverse environment, including people regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, religion, soing diversity in the general staff and in the groups responcial or physical conditions, is the way to promote a rich sible for governance, the company makes this positioning exchange of ideas. Therefore, the company encourages clear in articles posted in various internal communication talent and offers equal opportunities for all. Even though media. [LA13] there are no formal initiatives aimed at ensuring or expandEmployee distribution by gender and functionCentral of Customer Relationship (CRCS) Percentage Position Men Women Men Women 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Managers 9 7 18 19 0,8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.6% Professionals 96 84 191 183 9.1% 8.0% 6.2% 5.6% Fraud / Relationship 928 928 2,866 3,014 87.6% 88.9% 92.3% 92.3% Consultants Interns 1 0 1 2 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% Apprentices 25 25 28 48 2.4% 2.4% 0.9% 1.5% Total 1,059 1,044 3,104 3,266 100% 100% 100% 100% Distribution of employees by gender and function Holding and regional offices Percentage Position Men Women Men Women 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Executive Officers 41 0 3 0 1.2% 0% 0.1% 0% Managers 420 507 199 224 12.0% 11.8% 6.3% 6.2% Professionals 1,830 2,093 1,422 1,540 52.1% 48.5% 45.3% 42.4% Sales Force / Stores 964 1,312 1,037 1,239 27.4% 30.4% 33.1% 34.1% Fraud / Relationship 40 162 202 338 1.1% 3.8% 6.4% 9.3% Consultants Interns 155 158 121 129 4.4% 3.7% 3.9% 3.6% Apprentices 64 81 153 162 1.8% 1.9% 4.9% 4.5% Total 3,514 4,313 3,137 3,632 100% 100% 100% 100% TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 36 Sustainability Collaborators by color/race Percentage Color/race 2011 2012 2011 2012 White 7,206 8,124 66.6% 66.5% Black 420 665 3.9% 5.4% Mixed race 2,997 3,251 27.7% 26.6% Yellow 30 95 0.3% 0.8% Indigenous 37 37 0.3% 0.3% Not declared 124 83 1.1% 0.7% Total 10,814 12,255 100% 100% Collaborators by age range Percentage Age range 2011 2012 2011 2012 Under 18 131 166 1.2% 1.4% 18 to 35 8,340 9,407 77.1% 76.9% 36 to 45 1,774 1,995 16.4% 16.3% 45 to 60 551 666 5.1% 5.4% Above 60 18 21 0.2% 0.2% Total 10,814 12,255 100% 100% TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 37 Sustainability Wages Base wage for women (R$) The wage policy is not linked to any kind of discrimination and 2011 2012 reflects market behavior. In 2012, even though the wages earned by men were still higher than women’s, there was conDirectors 1,104,500.00 1,448,600.00 tinuous effort to reduce the difference in average pay. [LA14] Managers 23,904,673.94 27,397,323.98 Proportion of base wages Professionals 71,418,248.92 84,722,724.94 between men and women Sales Force/Stores 17,511,034.70 22,021,674.08 2011 2012 Relationship Consultants/Fraud 24,098,637.52 26,527,625.47 Executive Officers 1.0 1.7 Managers 1.2 1.2 Professionals 1.2 1.2 Sales Force / Stores 1.4 1.2 The wage policy is not linked to any kind of Relationship Consultants / Fraud 1.0 1.0 discrimination and reflects market behavior Base wage for men (R$) 2011 2012 Internally, the ratio between the biggest and the smallest wage Directors 15,595,020.00 18,202,142.00 paid to employees is 54.8 times. In general, in 2012, most states experienced pay increases. In Rio de Janeiro, PerManagers 55,501,417.92 65,660,030.50 nambuco, Alagoas, Paraíba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceará and Piauí, the wage increase led to a reduction in the negative Professionals 103,696,120.05 126,800,297.66 proportion between the local minimum wage and the minimum paid by the company. Sales Force/Stores 22,223,322.40 28,258,288.89 As TIM signed collective agreements in all regions, no collabRelationship Consultants/Fraud 7,279,310.37 8,525,338.37 orator is subjected to the rules for the local minimum wage, as the application of this amount only occurs in places where no collective agreement has been reached. Therefore, the wage parameter to be considered is the local floor (piso – value defined in the collective agreement), and in these conditions there are no collaborators receiving below this floor. [EC5] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 38 Sustainability Salary parameter Local minimum wage Lowest wage paid Percentage of employees Ratio regarding local (R$) (R$) receiving the lowest wage minimum wage SP 690.0 665.0 24.5% -3.5% RJ 729.6 625.0 17.1% -14.1% ES 622.0 887.0 20.0% 42.6% PR 811.8 625.0 36.1% -23.0% SC 700.0 887.0 37.4% 26.7% RS 700.0 875.0 0.5% 25.0% DF, GO, TO, MT, MS, RO, AC 622.0 887.0 24.7% 42.6% MG, BA, SE 622.0 837.0 10.3% 34.6% PE, AL, PB, RN, CE,PI 622.0 625.0 40.9% 0.5% PA, AM, MA, AP, RR 622.0 835.0 0.4% 34.2% Collective agreements Política de Recompensa The company ensures compliance with the rights of freedom The Reward Policy (Política de Recompensa) was develof association and collective negotiation, in accordance with oped by TIM with the purpose of recognizing and prioritizing current Brazilian legislation. The company negotiates apcollaborators according to achieved results and individual proximately 85 collective labor agreements, with 27 unions, contributions. Among the goals are the adjustment of pay as and has 372 unionized employees. a result of performance, recognition of results and retention of the best employees, plus the offer of growth and profesIn November 2012, a significant part of the collaborators of sional development opportunities. TIM and Intelig voted, in an assembly at the Union of Telecom Company Workers, to approve the Collective Labor The reward modes are: merit, promotion, internal opportuniAgreement for 2012-2014. Negotiations were concluded in ties, bonus (thanks to high performance) or extra (for the December. The main request from the unions was met, with development of a specific project/activity). The application the granting of a real increase for more than 40% of the can result in wage increase or in a specific bonus / extra. workers and full compensation for the accumulated inflation rate for the remainder. Another highlight was the increase All collaborators with at least six months at the company who above inflation rate for the social benefits, and the maintehave had at least a result equal to “fully met expectations” nance of conditions negotiated in previously effective collecin the last Performance Management (GD) are eligible to tive agreements. participate in the policy. The bigger the performance evaluation, the bigger the wage range limit that a collaborator can In 2012, TIM also participated in negotiations of the Result reach. Within this policy, this level can reach up to 150% of Participation Program (PPR 2012/2013), which ended in the market average. September, with the signing of a collective instrument between TIM/Intelig and the unions. [LA4] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainability Rules Wage increase Bonus / extra Maximum percentage adjustment in the Up to 35% of the wage. Up to 3.5 wages. year Frequency Up to two wage increases per year, with One bonus / extra per year at least 10% in each move, as long as the maximum limit is respected. Minimum interval of three months between the actions. Combination of instruments It is possible to combine more than one type of instrument, as long as the maximum equivalent limits are respected (every 10% of wage increase correspond to a bonus wage, as equivalence criteria) Throughout 2012, 1,087 collaborators were contemplated with merit and internal opportunities actions, reaching 39.7% of the eligible population, with an average salary inTIM offers its employees crease of 20.5%. many labor benefits, adding up to R$ 125.3 million in Benefits TIM offers its employees a series of work benefits, such 2012 as medical and dental plans, life insurance, private security (managed by Itaú), food/meal coupons, transportation coupons, nursery support and cell phone devices with functional voice and data plan. In 2012, expenses with benefits totaled R$ 125.3 million. SOCIAL SECURITY The contribution is 1% of the wage up to R$ 2,620, TIM collaborators also can participate in the Stock Opfully paid by TIM. If the employee receives a higher tions Program (long term incentive plan), whose goals are wage, 1% of R$ 2,620 is paid, and after this amount, to encourage expansion, success and achievement of the 6.6% is paid referring to the remainder of the wave, company’s social objectives, while aligning interests of exwith the collaborator and TIM participating with equal ecutive officers and collaborators with the interests of its contributions. The employee can also make additional shareholders. contributions to the plan, according to choice. In addition, all employees participate in the company’s profParticipation in the plan is voluntary, and the collaboits and results program, with executive officers, managers rator also benefits from some advantages, such as and coordinators receiving the Management by Objectives exemption of the fee for entering and exiting the plan (MBO), and the other employees the Participation in Profits and possibility of deduction in income tax statements. and Results (Participação nos Lucros e Resultados – PLR). For collaborators coming from Intelig who were not It is worth highlighting that the Stock Options Program intransferred to TIM, the Intelig complementary social cludes high management, who also receive vehicle and security plan remains active, managed by HSBC. fuel, and directors and managers, who also have the right to an international medical assistance plan. [LA3] TIM also sponsors social security plans managed by closed social security entities, such as Sistel and Timprev. [EC3] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 40 Sustainability Occupational health and safety TIM has 11 Internal Committees for Preventing Work Acgrama de Conservação Vocal, announcement of informacidents (Comissões Internas de Prevenção de Acidentes tion through the intranet and actions at offices to better ex– Cipas) distributed across company units with more than plain topics and encourage employees to maintain healthy 50 collaborators. At the units with the minimum number of life habits. [LA6, LA7, LA8 e LA9] collaborators, a person in charge is trained to perform these activities. Cipas operate according to Regulatory Norm 05 (NR 05) Suppliers in preventing work-related illnesses and accidents. These actions are conducted together with the Specialized Service TIM has 64 important suppliers*, and 100% of them unin Safety Engineering and Labor Medicine (SESMT) or with dergo evaluations related to sustainability. However, the anthe company’s Labor Safety representative. The commitswers to these evaluations are not considered in the supplitees are formed half by collaborators appointed by the comer qualification and selection processes, functioning only to pany’s management body and the other part by employees strengthen mutual commitments regarding the Relationship chosen by their peers. Policy. This questionnaire includes themes related to ethical principles, child and forced labor, work health and safety, TIM also has a channel for labor health and safety (Saúde freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, e Segurança no Trabalho – SST) including professionals discrimination, harassment, prioritization of diversity, and specialized in labor health, safety and environment in all its management of environmental impact. [EC6] regional sites. The team works to identify and control occupational risks through preventive and awareness actions. In 2012, TIM did not register serious accidents involving emIn order to be a TIM vendor, ployees. In order to avoid the risk of occupational illnesses, particularly in the Customer Relationship Center, in which an organization needs to there is cognitive risk, the company performs: labor gymnasfollow the company’s Code tics programs, ergonomic evaluations, Occupational Health Medical Control Program (Programa de Controle Médico of Ethics and Conduct and de Saúde Ocupacional – PCMSO) and Environmental Risk the principles of the Global Prevention Program (Programa de Prevenção de Riscos Ambientais – PPRA). In addition, it has the Programa de Compact Qualidade de Vida TIM, which provides information and encourages employees to maintain healthy life habits. By registering to be a TIM vendor, an organization needs In case of accidents, they are registered on INSS by the to sign a statement promising, as applicable, to comply online CAT system and are analyzed and investigated and disseminate in its activities and business chain the through specific documents, which are available on the TIM Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Global Compact SSMA network. These procedures are described in the LaPrinciples of the UN. Compliance with these two commitbor Accident Communication Policy, available for consulments is also included in the legal contracts and other tation on the intranet, and accident management is conagreements signed by suppliers in general. ducted through the Occupational Health System (Sistema de Saúde Ocupacional – SOC). There is no kind of evaluation among suppliers regarding compliance with these principles, nor specific procedures TIM, together with the Telecommunications Workers Union to identify operations or processes in its production chain (Sindicato dos Trabalhadores em Telecomunicações – about risk of slave-type work. Sinttel), works on campaigns and studies with the goal of finding solutions for work safety and medicine problems. Also, to fight child labor and slave-type labor, TIM handles the topic through its Code of Ethics and Conduct, availAs an additional action performed while thinking about the able on the Internet, and through participation in the Globhealth, safety and well-being of employees, in addition to al Compact, which includes directives with commitment the adoption of measures for collective and individual protowards these topics, promoting them both internally and tection, the company organizes the Internal Week for Preexternally. TIM does not perform formal training regarding vention of Work Accidents (Semana Interna de Prevenção human rights for its collaborators and security professionde Acidentes de Trabalho – Sipat), flu vaccination, Proals. [HR2, HR3, HR4, HR6, HR7, HR8] TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 41 Sustainability Expenses with local vendors Percentage 2011 2012 2011 2012 Local suppliers 6,370,229.5 7,142,602.0 95.9% 96.9% Other suppliers 270,955.7 227,201.0 4.1% 3.1% Total 6,641,185.2 7,369,803.0 100% 100% quality and raise the efficiency of service provision in health SUSTAINABILITY systems is known as m-Health and is a segment of the broader Social field of electronic health (e-Health). responsibility TIM’s partnership with Pastoral da Criança also includes the execution of public utility campaigns. In 2012, three actions were performed, with over 5 million SMS sent on measures to avoid Investments in educational dehydration in summer, breastfeeding and the importance of children receiving the first dose of the antibiotic at UBS. projects to prioritize inclusion of children and Bateria dos Jovens Surdos TIM supported in 2012 one of the percussion bands created youngsters in the TIM Música nas Escolas program – an educational initiative targeting students in the public school system, based on the universal language of music, which ended on DecemThe established criteria to regulate private social investment ber 2011 – formed by youngsters with hearing disabilities. at TIM are related to the promotion of inclusion of people in The Bateria dos Jovens Surdos includes 20 students, with less favored groups, mainly children and youngsters, through ages between 9 and 19, who study at the National Institute investments in educational projects capable of reinforcing the for Education of the Deaf (Ines), under the command of per“no borders” concept in the social area. cussion master Mangueirinha. TIM action at Pastoral da Criança The learning process features a specific methodology that In 2012, TIM established a partnership with Pastoral da Criança meets the needs of participants by using repetition and body to use the cell phone to transmit information about the health of awareness. The instrument training and the repertory of this children and pregnant women. Approximately 1,000 volunteers group focus on the music genres related to samba schools and from the organization have been trained, in cities in the northBrazilian rhythms. In 2012, in the period between March and east and south regions of Brazil, and by December 2013, an adDecember, there were 33 weekly meetings with a duration of ditional 1,500 volunteers from across the country will undergo one hour and a half. the same training. TIM ArtEducAção Surpassing the limitations of a manual process, which took up Coordinated and created by NGO Humanizarte, the program to three months between collecting and publishing the data, the featured in 2012 the participation of over 4,300 youngsters in initiative enabled development of a tool allowing volunteers to 12 cities of Minas Gerais. The initiative establishes partnertransmit in real time information about shortage of antibiotics ships with the city administration of the participating cities, and vaccines for pregnant women and children in Basic Health seeking to encourage the development of self-esteem and Units (UBS) and about the service for this audience, among social inclusion of youngsters through workshops of music, other data. This transmission can be performed through cell theater, dance, storytelling, capoeira and other forms of artistic phones by the Internet and using text messages (SMS). expression, including digital language. The TIM Action at Pastoral da Criança is aligned with the diTIM Plural Conectados rectives of the World Health Organization (WHO), which point Still in test phase, the TIM Plural Conectados project has as out as a priority, for the 2012-2017 period, the e-saúde actions, its main goals promoting social mobility through the cell phone which is the use of mobile and wireless technologies to serve and creating opportunities for generation of jobs and income public health policies. In WHO’s evaluation, these technologies for people in poor communities of the city of Rio de Janeiro. In have the potential to improve health service provision across 2012, people in the communities of Complexo do Alemão, Vila the world. The use of mobile telephones to increase service Kennedy, Nilópolis and Borel participated in the project. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 42 Sustainability Espaço TIM UFMG do Conhecimento (Etuc) The project is part of the Praça da Liberdade Cultural CirTIM INSTALLS WI-FI NETWORK AT ROCINHA AND cuit, which is one of the main initiatives of the current adPARAISÓPOLIS ministration of the state of Minas Gerais in the culture area. TIM provided wi-fi Internet access to inhabitants of The site, which is prepared to serve annually approximately communities in Rocinha (RJ) and Paraisópolis (SP), 300 thousand visitors, includes a modern planetarium with in order to offer development, citizenship and a better scientific, cultural and educational purposes. Internet experience to TIM customers, as well as a better relationship with government agencies. This high speed wireless Internet connection can be Volunteer work used by TIM customers with pre and post-payment plans, and is a complementary service to the data In order to encourage and support volunteer work among plan already offered by the operator. In Paraisópoits employees, TIM develops the Cidadão Sem Fronteiras lis, the users of other operators can also access program, through which professionals can dedicate one the broadband using the Paraisópolis Wi-Fi netday of work per year to solidarity work. In 2012, 358 colwork. Through it, locals can navigate freely in public laborators were involved in social solidarity initiatives. utility sites, such as those of the City Administration, The quantity of participants in the Cidadão sem Fronteiras state government, Procons and Poupatempo, among program was 63% higher than the number registered in others. The TIM Wi-Fi project in communities started the previous year. By comparison with the participation in in December 2011, at Rocinha, and in September 2010, the result is 126% better. 2012 at Paraisópolis. Private social investment [SO1] Main Social and environmental projects supported Earth Hour For the third year in a row, TIM joined the World Wide Foundation (WWF) for the Earth Hour, an initiative that seeks to raise awareness about the relevance of climate changes. Using text messages (SMS), the company invited customers to turn the lights off for one hour, a symbolic act against global warming. Fundraising for storm victims in RJ Impacted by the damage from torrential rain hitting the Southeast in the beginning of 2012, TIM developed and MG a campaign with the goal of collecting food, water and mattresses for people who lost their homes. The company sent text messages to customers in Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais, informing how and where to donate. In total, 1.5 million text messages were sent out – between January 24 and 26 – and 1 million were received, so the effectiveness of this action was 68%. Main cultural support Carnival in Bahia Sponsorship of rehearsals of known artists of the Northeast region during the pre-Carnival period, including: AraKetu, Filhos de Jorge and Moraes Moreira. Multiculturas Included support for projects in various cultural segments, such as: “Sons das Praças”, “Verão Cultural Salinas”, “Música na Praça”, “Verão Itinerante” and “Pará Cultura Mix”. The event lasted for 12 days, with many attractions in the “Verão de Salinas” and also the “Carreta Loja Itinerante”, “Carreta Lan House” and “Palco Show”. Fundição Progresso Festival celebrating the anniversary of the Fundição Progresso culture center. Major events with musical shows gathering renowned artists and new talents, as well as debates open to the community with a focus on discussing the culture market. Semana Farroupilha and Event to remember the cultural history of Rio Grande do Sul. TIM’s activity was based on Piquete TIM, Traditionalist Movement of Rio including many activities during the 15 days, like the chimarrão circle, mouth organ player, workshops Grande do Sul and traditional dance. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 43 About the report TIM na Estrada Festival with shows featuring the main artists of country music in the following cities: Balneário Camboriú, Campo Grande, Goiânia, Jaguariúna, Porto Alegre, São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto and São José dos Campos. ArtRio With the goal of supporting universal access to art, the initiative aims to bring art to the daily lives of people, in different formats and possibilities, including urban interventions, creation of art itineraries in the public spaces of the city of Rio de Janeiro, and guided visits to museums and collections. The height of the movement is the international fair of modern and contemporary art. Folklore Festival of Parintins The Folklore Festival of Parintins is an annual event held in June. Marked by impressive allegories represented by floats prepared by artists of Parintins, the dispute is based on local legends, which year after year appear in popular imagination, representing the history of Amazonian people through a great party. Oktoberfest Inspired by the biggest beer party in the world, Oktoberfest from Munique, the version in Blumenau is a festival of German traditions offering typical food, dance and music. Oktoberfest in Blumenau is a product that is kept authentic, preserving the German traditions brought by settlers 160 years ago. Amount allocated to social projects Investment (in R$) About the report Area 2011 2012 Profile Education 3,489,089.1 1,093,319.6 For the fifth year in a row, TIM publishes its Culture 511,022.6 sustainability report Health and sanitation 102,059 87,452.6 according to the directives Sports 10,000 759,293.1 of the GRI Others 1,061,478.7 1,355,223.7 TIM reinforces its commitment towards ethical and transTotal invested* 4,662,626.8 3,806,311.7 parent business management, reporting the highlights,  objectives and challenges of the period between January * In 2012, the fiscal incentive is included in the above amount and corresponds and December 2012. to 44% of these investments. In 2011, this percentage was below 19% of the invested total. The content of this report covers the activities of TIM Participações S.A. in Brazil, including its two subsidiaries, Culture and sports sponsorships TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda. In addition to the sustainability report, TIM publishes its anInvestment (R$) nual report, in which it is possible to track in more detail Area the company’s economic and financial performance. 2011 2012 In order to contact the company and obtain more explanaCulture 12,264,873.1 12,259,497.6 tions about the contents of this publication, send an email to sustentabilidade@timbrasil.com.br. Sports 5,687,848 1,269,653.6 Total invested* 17,952,721,1 13,529,151.2 Application level  This report reaches application level B+ of GRI, self-de* Note: the fiscal incentive is included in the amount above and corresponds to clared. This application level determines the report of all 49% of the invested amount. profile items, information about management method and at least 20 performance indicators, including at least one indicator from the following areas: economic, environmental, human rights, labor practices, society and product responTIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 44 About the report sibility. This report includes 61 indicators, of which 41 are essential and 20 are additional. HIGHER RELEVANCE COMPANY EXTERNAL 3.00 Materiality As part of its 2012 Report, TIM performed a reevaluation of 04 02 its material topics, helping to identify which social, environ05 mental, economic-financial and governance topics should 08 06 01 10 be included or analyzed in greater depth. 1.50 09 07 03 The definition of topics includes what the different stakeholders are thinking and the perception of the organization itself about the impact of its products, services and operations. This process allows TIM to focus on the content of 0.00 1.50 3.00 the sustainability report in the topics that interest the stakeCOMPANY INTERNAL HIGHER RELEVANCE The definition of At the end of the process, 10 topics were identified in regards to the main social, environmental, economic and material topics helps the governance topics of TIM, according to the following list: company define actions 1. ethics in business; and strategies towards sustainable development 2. management of solid waste, selective gathering and recycling of devices, batteries, electronic components, etc.; 3. initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of products and services; holders, improving the relationship with these audiences, while managing the more critical points through goals and 4. consumer satisfaction and quality in services and cusaction plans. tomer serving; The materiality test, originally conducted in 2011, is the re5. compliance with laws and environmental regulations; sult of a process that involved talking to almost 100 people, with the goal of determining and organizing critical topics 6. development, training and education of employees; for the preparation of the report and the communication and management of sustainability in the point of view of the 7. transparency and accountability; company and its priority relationship audiences. The identification of these topics helps to understand what is really 8. prevention and fight against bribery and corruption, and important for the company, defines the focus and content monitoring mechanisms; of the report, contributes to the management of the critical points and helps communicate TIM’s commitments. 9. encouragement of social and environmental responsibility practices among suppliers; The survey with stakeholders was conducted through a panel, conducted at TIM’s headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, 10. policies and practices to promote local development. featuring the participation of collaborators, suppliers, distributors, NGOs and competitors. In addition, the company contacted collaborators and consumers through online surveys and used as reference internal documents and reports of other companies in the industry. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 45 About the report GRI Index PROFILE Indicator Description Page/ Response Global Compact 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO’s Message 1 1.2 Description of main impact, risks and opportunities 1, 2, 5 and 25 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Organization Name 1 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services 2 and 3 2.3 Operational structure of organization 2, 3 and 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 2 Countries in which the organization operates and in which its main 2.5 2 and 3 operations are located 2.6 Type and legal nature of the property 2 2.7 Covered markets 2 and 3 2.8 Organization size 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 2.9 Main changes during the period covered by the report 5 and 14 2.10 Awards received in the period covered by the report 6 3. Parameters for the report 3.1 Period covered by the report for the presented information 43 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 43 3.3 Report issuing cycle 43 3.4 Data for contact in case of questions regarding the report or its content 43 3.5 Process for defining the content of the report 44 3.6 Limit of the report 43 Statement about any specific limitations regarding scope or report 3.7 43 boundaries 3.8 Basis for preparation of the report 43 3.9 Techniques for data measurement and calculation bases 43 There is no adjustment of 3.10 Reformulation of information provided in previous reports information provided in previous reports. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 46 About the report Indicator Description Page/ Response Global Compact There are no significant Significant changes in scope, limit and measurement methods applied in changes in scope, limitation 3.11 the report and measurement methods applied on the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of information on the report 45 Current policy and practice regarding the search for external verification 3.13 51 for the report 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the 4.1 7 top governance body 4.2 Presidency of the top governance body 7 4.3 Independent or non-executive members of the top governance body 7 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to make recommendations 12,13 and 14 Relationship between compensation and organization performance 4.5 8, 38 and 39 (including social and environmental) 4.6 Processes to ensure avoidance of conflicts of interest 12 4.7 Qualifications of members of the top governance body 7 _ Mission statement and values, codes of conduct and relevant internal 4.8 3 and 10 _ principles Responsibilities for the implementation of economic, environmental and 4.9 9 _ social policies 4.10 Processes for performance self-evaluation of the top governance body 7 _ Explanation of if and how the organization applies the precaution 4.11 11 _ principle 4.12 Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally 6, 8 and 9 _ 4.13 Participation in national/international organizations and/or associations 9 _ 4.14 List of stakeholder groups interacting with the organization 12 _ 4.15 Base for identification and selection of stakeholders for interaction 12, 13 and 14 _ 4.16 Approaches for interaction with stakeholders 14 and 44 _ 4.17 Main topics and concerns raised by interaction with stakeholders 44 _ TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 47 About the report PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Indicator Description Page Global Pact EC1 Essential Direct economic value generated and distributed 17 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities resulting from EC2 Essential 23 and 24 7 climate change EC3 Essential Coverage of obligations of the benefit pension plan 39 EC4 Essential Significant financial aid received from the government 17 Market presence Variation of proportion of lowest paid wage compared to local minimum EC5 Additional 37 1 and 6 wage EC6 Essential Policies, practices and proportion of expenses with local suppliers 40 EC7 Essential Local employee contracting 34 6 Direct economic impact EC8 Essential Impact of investments in infrastructure offered for public benefit 9 EC9 Additional Description of significant indirect economic impact 9 Environmental performance indicators Indicator Description Page Global Compact Materiais EN1 Essential Used materials by weight or volume 27 8 EN2 Essential Percentage of used materials originating from recycling 27 8 and 9 Energy EN3 Essential Direct energy consumption discriminated by primary energy source 28 8 EN4 Essential Indirect energy consumption discriminated by primary source 28 8 and 9 EN5 Additional Energy saved through improvements in conservation and efficiency 28 8 and 9 EN6 Additional Initiatives to provide products and services with low energy consumption 28 8 and 9 Water EN8 Essential Total withdrawal of water per source 28 8 and 9 EN9 Additional Water sources significantly affected by water withdrawal 28 8 EN10 Additional Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water 28 8 and 9 Biodiversity EN11 Essential Location and size of owned area 29 8 EN12 Essential Significant impacts on biodiversity from activities, products and services 29 8 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 48 About the report Indicator Description Page Global Compact Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Essential Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 23 8 EN17 Essential Other relevant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 23 8 EN18 Additional Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieved reductions 23 7, 8 and 9 EN19 Essential Emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer 26 8 EN21 Essential Total water disposal, by quality and destination 28 8 EN22 Essential Total weight of residues, by type and method of disposal 26 8 and 9 EN23 Essential Number and total volume of significant spills 27 8 EN24 Additional Weight of transported waste considered hazardous 26 8 Products and services EN26 Essential Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact 29 7, 8 and 9 Compliance Amount of fines and total number of sanctions resulting from violations of EN28 Essential 29 8 environmental laws General EN30 Additional Total investments and expenses in environmental protection, by type 23 7, 8 and 9 Performance indicators referring to labor practices and decent work Indicator Description Page Global Pact Employment Total number of employees, by type of employment, work contract and LA1 Essential 32 region LA2 Essential Total number and rotation rate of jobs, by age range, gender and region 31 6 LA3 Additional Comparison between benefits for full time and part time employees 39 Relationship between workers and governance LA4 Essential Percentage of employees covered by collective negotiation agreements 38 1, 2 and 3 Work safety and health Percentage of employees represented in formal committees of safety and LA6 Additional health, consisting of managers and workers, helping in monitoring and 40 1, 2 and 3 guidance about occupational health and safety programs Rate of injuries, occupational illnesses, lost days, absences and deaths LA7 Essential 40 1 related to work, by region TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 49 About the report Indicator Description Page Global Pact Programs for education, training, advisement, prevention and control of LA8 Essential ongoing risks, in order to provide assistance to employees, their families 40 1 or members of the community regarding serious illnesses Topics related to safety and health covered by formal agreements with LA9 Additional 40 1 unions Training and education LA10 Essential Average training hours per year 31 6 Programs for managing competencies, continuous learning and LA11 Additional 31 retirement LA12 Additional Percentage of employees receiving performance analysis 31 Diversity and equality of opportunities Composition of top management and boards, plus proportion by groups LA13 Essential 8 and 35 1 and 6 and genders Proportion of base wage between men and women, by functional LA14 Essential 37 1 and 6 category Performance indicators regarding human rights Indicator Description Page Global Pact Investment practices and procurement processes HR2 Essential Contracted companies submitted to human rights evaluations 40 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 HR3 Additional Policies for evaluation and treatment of human rights performance 40 1, 4 and 5 Non-discrimination HR4 Essential Total number of discrimination cases and measures taken 40 1 and 6 Child labor HR6 Essential Measures adopted to help abolish child labor 40 1 and 5 Forced or slave-type labor HR7 Essential Measures taken to contribute to the eradication of forced labor 40 1 and 4 Security practices HR8 Additional Policies for training regarding human rights for security personnel 40 1 and 2 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 50 About the report Performance indicators regarding society Indicator Description Page Global Pact Community Programs and policies to evaluate and manage the impact of operations SO1 Essential 29 and 42 1 in communities Corruption SO2 Essential Units submitted to evaluation of risks related to corruption 12 10 Percentage of employees trained in the anti-corruption policies and SO3 Essential 12 10 procedures SO4 Essential Measures taken in response to corruption cases 12 10 Public policies SO5 Essential Measures taken in response to corruption cases 9 10 Policies regarding financial contributions to political parties, politicians or SO6 Additional 9 10 institutions Unfair competition SO7 Additional Number of lawsuits for unfair competition 11 Compliance Description of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 Essential 33 sanctions Performance indicators regarding product responsibility Indicator Description Page Global Pact Product and service labeling PR5 Additional Practices related to customer satisfaction, including survey results 14 and 15 Marketing communications PR6 Essential Programs for compliance with laws, rules and voluntary codes 10 Compliance PR8 Additional Proven complaints regarding customer privacy violation 15 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 51 About the report Assurance report issued by independent auditors To the Directors and Officers of TIM Participações S/A Rio de Janeiro – RJ Introduction We have been engaged by TIM Participações S/A to present our limited assurance report on the compilation of the Information regarding Social Responsibility and Sustainability of TIM Participações S/A, related to the year ended December 31st, 2012. Responsibilities of company management The management of TIM Participações S/A is responsible for preparing and adequately presenting the Information in the Sustainability Report in accordance with the Guidelines for Sustainability Reports of the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI (GRI-G3) and by the internal controls determined as necessary to ensure this information is free from material misstatement, independently if it was resulted by fraud or error. Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the information in the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with Technical Notice (CT) 07/2012 approved by the Federal Accounting Council and prepared in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews), issued by the Federal Accounting Council CFC, which is the equivalent to international standard ISAE 3000 issued by the International Federation of Accountants applicable to Non-Historical Information. These standards require compliance with ethical requirements, including independence ones and also that the engagement is conducted in order to provide a limited assurance that the information in the Sustainability Report taken as a whole is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) primarily consists of making enquiries to Company management and other Company’s employees involved in preparing the information in the Sustainability Report and also applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to make a limited assurance conclusion about the information taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires additional procedures when the independent auditor acknowledges issues which lead them to believe that the information in the Sustainability Report taken as a whole could present material misstatement. The selected procedures were based on our understanding of the issues related to the compilation and presentation of the information in the Sustainability Report and other engagement circumstances and considerations about areas where material misstatement could exist. The procedures consisted of: (a) the planning of the work, considering the relevance, amount of quantitative and qualitative information and the operational systems and internal controls that served as a basis for preparation of the information in the Sustainability Report of TIM Participações S/A; (b) the understanding of the calculation methodology and the indicators consolidation procedures through interviews with the personnel in charge of the preparation of the information; (c) the application of analytical procedures to the quantitative information and enquiries about the qualitative information and its relation to the indicators disclosed in the information presented in the Sustainability Report, and; (d) the comparison of the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 52 About the report The limited assurance engagement also comprised the adherence to the Guidelines for Sustainability Reports of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI (GRI-G3) that applies to the preparation of the information in the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited conclusion. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in an assurance engagement aiming to express an opinion about the information in the Sustainability Report. Due to this, it does not ensure us that we are aware of all the issues that would be identified during an assurance engagement which aim to express an opinion. If we had conducted an engagement in order to express an opinion, we may have identified other issues and possible misstatements which can be in the information presented in the Sustainability Report. Therefore, we are not expressing an opinion about this information. The nonfinancial data is subject to more inherent limitations than the financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate this data. Qualitative interpretations of the data’s materiality and accuracy are subjected to individual presumptions and judgments. Additionally, we did not examine data informed for prior periods or future projections and targets either. Conclusion Based on the applied procedures, described in this report, we have not identified any relevant information that leads us to believe that the information in the Sustainability Report was not compiled, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines for Sustainability Reports of the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI (G3). São Paulo, June 12th, 2013. Annual Balance Sheet / 2012 KPMG Risk Advisory Services Ltda. Eduardo V. Cipullo CRC 2SP023233/O-4 Accountant CRC 1SP135597/O-6 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 53 About the report 1 – Calculation base 2012 value (in thousands of R$) 2011 value (in thousands of R$) Net revenue (“RL”) 18,763,947 17,085,977 Operational result (“RO”) 2,321,445 2,067,442 Gross payroll (“FPB”) 743,632 626,616 Value (in Value (in 2 – Internal social indicators % of FPB % of RL % of FPB % of RL thousands) thousands) Food 60,823 8.18% 0.32% 48,245 7.70% 0.28% Mandatory social contributions 258,098 34.71% 1.38% 211,422 33.74% 1.24% Private social security 11,664 1.57% 0.06% -775 -0.12% 0.00% Health 47,603 6.40% 0.25% 39,475 6.30% 0.23% Work safety and health 2,866 0.39% 0.02% 2,747 0.44% 0.02% Education 3,942 0.53% 0.02% 1,088 0.17% 0.01% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Training and professional development 10,221 1.37% 0.05% 6,623 1.06% 0.04% Nurseries or financial support for nurseries 2,922 0.39% 0.02% 2,738 0.44% 0.02% Participation in profits or results 67,918 9.13% 0.36% 66,719 10.65% 0.39% Others 16,064 2.16% 0.09% 14,740 2.35% 0.09% Total – Internal social indicators 482,121 64.83% 2.57% 393,022 62.72% 2.30% Value (in Value (in 3 – External social indicators % of RO % of RL % of RO % of RL thousands) thousands) Education 1,093 0.15% 0.01% 3,493 0.17% 0.02% Culture 12,771 1.72% 0.07% 12,201 0.59% 0.07% Health and sanitation 87 0.01% 0.00% 102 0.00% 0.00% Sports 2,029 0.27% 0.01% 5,698 0.28% 0.03% Food security and fight against hunger 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Others 1,355 0.18% 0.01% 1,061 0.05% 0.01% Total contributions to society 17,335 2.33% 0.10% 22,555 1.09% 0.13% Taxes (excluding social contributions) 7,929,831 1,066.36% 42.26% 7,255,760 350.95% 42.47% Total – External social indicators 7,947,166 1,068.70% 42.36% 7,278,315 352.04% 42.60% Value (in Value (in 4 – Environmental indicators % of RO % of RL % of RO % of RL thousands) thousands) Investments related to the company’s 694 0.03% 0.00% 241 0.01% 0.00% production/operation Investments in external programs and/or 343 0.01% 0.00% 14 0.00% 0.00% projects Total investments in the environment 1,037 0.04% 0.01% 255 0.01% 0.00% TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability Report 54 About the report Regarding the establishment of “annual goals” ( ) does not have goals ( ) does not have goals to minimize waste, general consumption ( ) fulfills between 51 and 75% ( ) fulfills between 51 and 75% in production/operation and increase ( ) fulfills between 0 and 50% ( ) fulfills between 0 and 50% effectiveness of natural use resources, the (x) fulfills between 76 and 100% (x) fulfills between 76 and 100% company 5 – Functional body indicators 2012 2011 Number of employees at the end of the period 11.650 10.266 Number of hirings during the period 5.787 4.522 Number of outsourced employees 9 18 Number of interns 289 278 Number of employees above 45 years of age 668 569 Number of women working at the company 6.899 5.938 Share of management positions occupied by 44,38% 43,49% women Number of blacks working at the company 3.916 3.239 Share of management positions occupied by 13,74% 12,00% blacks Number of people with disabilities 35 36 or special needs 6 – Relevant information regarding the 2012 value (in thousands of reais) Goals 2013 exercise of corporate citizenship Ratio between highest and lowest payment in 55 n/d the company Total number of work accidents 39 n/d ( ) executives ( ) executives The social and environmental projects (x) executives and management (x) executives and management developed by the company were defined by: ( ) all employees ( ) all employees (x) executives and management (x) executives and management The safety and health standards for the work ( ) all employees ( ) all employees environment were defined by: ( ) all + Cipa ( ) all + Cipa Regarding union freedom, the right of collective ( ) is not involved ( ) is not involved negotiation and the internal representation of ( x ) follows OIT rules ( x ) follows OIT rules the workers, the company: ( ) encourages and follows OIT ( ) encourages and follows OIT ( ) executives ( ) executives Private social security covers: ( ) executives and management ( ) executives and management (x) all employees (x) all employees ( ) executives ( ) executives Participation in profits or results is open to: ( ) executives and management ( ) executives and management (x) all employees (x) all employees When selecting suppliers, the same standards ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered for ethics and social and environmental (x) are suggested (x) are suggested responsibility adopted by the company: ( ) are required ( ) are required ( ) is not involved ( ) is not involved Regarding participation of employees in ( ) supports ( ) supports voluntary work programs, the company: (x) organizes and encourages (x) organizes and encourages at the company: 4,514,802 at the company: n.d. Total number of complaints and criticism from at Procons: 13,540 at Procons: n.d. consumers: at the courts: 74,569 at the courts: n.d. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A.: 2012 Sustainability relatório Report de sustentabilidade 2012 55 About the LOREM report IPSUM DOLOR at the company: 90.3% at the company: n.d. Percentage of complaints and criticism that is at Procons: 100% at Procons: n.d. answered or solved: at the courts: 64.75% at the courts: n.d. Total added value to distribute 2012 2011 (in thousands of R$): 68.92% government 69.58% government 5.15% collaborators 4.90% collaborators Added value distribution (“DVA”): 2.94% shareholders 2.87% shareholders 13.53% third parties 13.42% third parties 9.45% retained 9.22% retained 7 – Other information CRedits Coordination TIM Participações S.A. – Department of Regulation and Institutional Affairs and Press Relations GRI consulting, text and editing Report Sustentabilidade Review Assertiva Produções Editoriais Graphic design and layout Report Sustentabilidade Typography Teuton, František Štorm, 2005 Trade Gothic, Jackson Burke, 1948 Helvetica, Max Miedinger and Eduard Hoffmann, 1957
