TABLE OF CONTENTS Strategies for Success Product Innovation....................................... 36 Nourishing Our Planet Overview.............................................................2 Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction............. 38 Overview.......................................................... 72 CEO Letter..........................................................3 Food Safety and Quality............................ 39 Resource Stewardship................................. 75 Corporate Profile and Impact......................5 Advancing Social Impact with Water Resource Mapping.......................... 78 Consumers........................................................ 41 Key Impacts and Opportunities.................6 Sustainability Scorecard.............................80 Locations and Facilities.................................8 Nourishing Our Neighbors Sustainable Packaging................................ 82 Management Strategy and Analysis.........9 Overview..........................................................45 Sustainable Agriculture..............................84 Materiality Analysis.......................................10 Supporting Volunteerism...........................46 Supply Chain, Logistics and CSR and Sustainability Governance.......14 Transportation................................................86 Dollars for Doers........................................... 47 Managing Performance................................ 15 Volunteering with Strategic Focus......... 47 Resources Performance Scorecard............................... 16 Giving.................................................................49 About This Report........................................ 92 Goals and Performance............................... 18 Achieving Lasting Social Impact............. 52 GRI Index.......................................................... 93 Corporate Governance and Ethics.......... 19 Healthy Communities.................................. 55 UNGC Index................................................... 103 Public Policy and Engagement................20 Positive Impacts to Youth.......................... 57 Independent Review.................................. 104 Winning with Integrity................................. 21 Feedback........................................................ 106 Stakeholder Engagement.......................... 23 Nourishing Our Employees Recognition..................................................... 27 Overview..........................................................60 The Way We Work......................................... 61 Nourishing Our Consumers Extraordinary Workplace........................... 63 Overview..........................................................30 Diversity & Inclusion.....................................66 Healthy and Nutritious Products.............. 31 Safety.................................................................69 Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report ii 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Strategies for Success Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Overview CSR at Campbell: Promoting global wellness and nutrition while building a sustainable environment and honoring our role in society from farm to the family The Significance of CSR Reporting This report is a critical testament to our overarching corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy and commitment to honoring our role as sustainable producers. Communicating to our employees and external stakeholders is an ongoing process today that involves much more diligence and engagement than publishing a single annual report. However, the process of reporting forces a critical look at our actual performance and an accounting of our actions, which in turn ensures we remain accountable to our corporate, social and environmental stakeholders. This report is the latest segment of a conversation that began more than 140 years ago, when our Company’s founders first started canning quality vegetables and soups from a small warehouse in Camden, New Jersey. Today, reporting is but one element of a much richer conversation among our employees, customers, consumers — and everyone else connected with Campbell Soup Company and our family of brands — about the role of a food and beverage company in our society — its impact, contributions and obligations. We know not to be reactive, but strategically proactive. With multiple new trends emerging almost daily, at its core, responsible corporate behavior has focused on accountability, transparency and engagement. For companies in the food and beverage sector, however, there are a number of additional dynamics that contribute to the overall picture. Some issues unique to our sector, for example, include sustainable agriculture, responsible sourcing, promotion of human health and sound nutrition, and responsiveness to consumers’ ever-changing expectations of the foods they choose for themselves and their families. At Campbell, we strive to address each of these issues through a lifecycle lens — from start to end. Defining Context Because CSR and sustainability have different definitions among different stakeholders, it is important to provide some context on how we view these terms at Campbell. At the core, CSR and sustainability at Campbell Soup Company mean: – Advancing global wellness and nutrition; – Helping build a more sustainable environment; and – Honoring our role in society from the farm to the family. More broadly, we believe corporate social responsibility and sustainability are integrated business platforms that build longterm shareowner value. These platforms foster innovation, drive operational efficiency, improve environmental performance, reduce costs, and strengthen our employees’ relationships with our customers, and ultimately create business advantage. We expect our Company to be judged not only on its financial performance but also on its commitment to CSR and sustainability. We believe firmly that our consumers, customers, employees and investors expect no less from us as we head into a time of fewer resources and multiple challenges. We believe the importance of this commitment will only increase. As you peruse the next few pages, which will offer a quantified lens at our progress in FY2012, we invite you to join the conversation and become our partners in becoming responsible corporate citizens. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS CEO Letter A CEO perspective on our commitments to our stakeholders, our journey toward being a more sustainable company and creating long-term value in society Dear Campbell Stakeholders, Welcome to Campbell’s latest Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. I’m pleased to have this opportunity to update you on our progress and share my perspective with you. I’m encouraged to report that Campbell continues to strengthen its long-standing commitment to creating longterm value in society by becoming a more sustainable and socially responsible company. I believe two key elements are required to implement a successful CSR strategy, and Campbell is diligently advancing both fronts. The first is to actively integrate CSR into how we conduct our business and ensure that these concepts are not standalone initiatives. The other is to effectively engage our employees by making CSR a part of their performance expectations. By bringing these two important facets together, CSR becomes an integral part of our culture. “To me, the professional and personal elements of our successful CSR work came together beautifully one day this past October at an elementary school in Camden, New Jersey. The experience brought to life my personal mission that leadership is service and reinforced the true power of giving back.” The Campbell Leadership Team and I served a healthy lunch to 150 students at Holy Name School, to help celebrate national Make a Difference Day. Our executive team and Campbell chefs created a lunch that was nutritious, delicious and, importantly, fun for the students — and for us. It featured turkey sandwiches on Pepperidge Farm Goldfish bread, Healthy Request Tomato soup and gelatin made with V8 V-Fusion juice. The lunch met the federal standards for both healthy and affordable lunches. It was a memorable day for everyone involved. I had the chance to see the excitement of so many kids. Their faces lit up as they ate — one child enthusiastically called it a “5-star lunch.” I also witnessed our leaders walking the talk, serving the children in Camden, New Jersey, the place we’ve called home for more than 140 years. The experience I had in Camden that day is not unusual. As I travel throughout the Campbell world, I hear from our employees about their pride — in our company and also for their communities. I believe it is part of Campbell DNA to be involved in the communities where we live and work. Our employees are generous with their time and expertise, and readily serve as active participants improving people’s lives in their hometowns. Whether as community group members, volunteer firefighters, school coaches, or Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS however they chose to get involved, our employees are truly making a difference. On a recent trip, I had the chance to visit our largest manufacturing facility in Napoleon, Ohio, and tour our new 60-acre solar field, one of the largest solar panel installations in the United States. As I stood on that ground, it became clear how sustainability is a win-win proposition. This source of renewable energy will significantly lower greenhouse gases while providing our plant with 15% of its power at a lower cost. We know that improving environmental performance is good for our business. More importantly, it’s good for our planet as we work to preserve the environment for the generations that follow us. At Campbell, we are hard at work executing a new strategic framework designed to make us a more innovative, balanced and responsive company. I believe that as we build a better company under this strategic vision, we also have the opportunity to become one of the most socially responsible consumer goods companies in the world. We have a long-standing commitment to CSR, spanning more than 140 years. We are proud of our past, but are focused forward on consumers and ahead to create our future. We are also continuing to work to strengthen the core elements of our culture and our performance evaluations. We’ve captured our commitment in a statement we call “The Way We Work” that states “We will positively contribute to building and sustaining a safe, diverse, inclusive, engaged and socially responsible workplace focused on delivering business results with integrity.” Each Campbell employee has a responsibility to bring this statement to life in their own way, again marking the important intersection of the professional and personal aspects of our CSR strategy. Last year, we made significant progress against the 2020 destination goals outlined in our 2010 CSR report. In the following pages, we have endeavored to present a candid review of our efforts and achievements toward those goals. While we are proud of our achievements, we know that we have much more work to do. We are committed to nourish consumers’ lives “their way” with tasty, affordable, convenient food and beverages while helping to make our communities and environment better. I encourage you to learn more about our initiatives by reviewing the 2013 update of our CSR Report. We hope you’ll share your comments and feedback with us at: csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. In the years to come, I look forward to celebrating with you the ongoing success of this great company. Best, Denise M. Morrison President and Chief Executive Officer Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Corporate Profile and Impact An overview of our product portfolio, which is focused in three core areas: simple meals, baked snacks and healthy beverages Campbell Soup Company is the world’s leading soup maker and a manufacturer of high-quality, branded foods. Our $8 billion portfolio is focused in three core areas: 1. Simple meals 2. Baked snacks 3. Healthy beverages Our product portfolio features many market-leading brands, such as Campbell’s soups, Swanson broths, Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in North America, Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, Liebig and Erasco soups in Europe, and V8 beverages. Other brands of note include Pace and Prego sauces. Headquartered in Camden, New Jersey, Campbell employs approximately 17,500 people in more than 20 countries. Our products are sold in 100 countries but our principal geographies are the United States, Australia, Canada, France, Germany and Belgium. The Company’s operations are reported in the following segments: U.S. Simple Meals The U.S. Simple Meals segment represents U.S. retail businesses in U.S. Soup and U.S. Sauces. The U.S. Soup business includes products like Campbell’s condensed and ready-to-serve soups, and Swanson broth and stocks. The U.S. Sauces retail business includes Prego pasta sauces, Pace Mexican sauces, Swanson canned poultry and Campbell’s canned gravies, pasta and beans. U.S. Beverages The U.S. Beverages segment represents the U.S. retail beverages business and consists of V8 juices and beverages and Campbell’s tomato juice. Global Baking and Snacking The Global Baking and Snacking segment includes the following operating segments: 1.  epperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery and frozen products in P U.S. retail 2. Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS International Simple Meals and Beverages The International Simple Meals and Beverages segment includes the simple meals and beverage businesses outside of the U.S., including Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and China, and the retail business in Canada. The segment’s operations include: –A  sia Pacific: Campbell’s soup and stock, Swanson broths, V8 beverages, Kimball sauces and Prego pasta sauces – Belgium: Devos Lemmens mayonnaise and cold sauces, Campbell’s and Royco soups –C  anada: Habitant and Campbell’s soups, Prego pasta sauces, Pace Mexican sauces, V8 juices and beverages and certain Pepperidge Farm products – France: Liebig and Royco soups – Germany: Erasco and Heisse Tasse soups – Sweden: Blå Band soups and sauces North America Foodservice The North America Foodservice segment includes the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrées, beverage products, other prepared foods and Pepperidge Farm products through various food service channels in the United States and Canada. Key Impacts and Opportunities Understanding the impact of our products, from farm to fork Campbell’s global business and family of brands have multiple impacts within and across their product lifecycle from farm to fork. As a food and beverage company, our ingredients are grown on farms and are inherently renewable, but how we manage these resources today and in the future is critical. From agriculture and resource management to product innovation, nutrition and packaging, and extending to distribution and consumption, we impact our employees, the communities we live and work in, our customers, consumers and suppliers, and a wide range of other stakeholders that interact with our people and products. We look at every step in our operations and every personal interaction as an opportunity to advance our performance and benefit to consumers and society. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 6 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS AGRICULTURE • Building strong relationships with local and regional farmers • Conducting research and engaging farmers to help conserve and protect water resources, reduce energy use and greenhouse gases, and enhance soil quality, leading to higher-quality ingredients and products SUPPLIERS • Standards and expectations set for supplier performance • Supplier scorecards and assessments • Purchasing high-quality ingredients produced by local farmers and key suppliers • Supplier engagement in sustainable agriculture and packaging initiatives MANUFACTURING • Leading systems and technology for ensuring quality and safety of ingredients and products • Global objectives set and investments made in energy and water conservation, alternative energy, and waste management and recycling DISTRIBUTION • Logistics optimization to improve environmental impact and distribution of finished products to retail customers • Innovation from packaging to shipping to reduce transportation costs • SmartWaySM certification of our shipper fleet CUSTOMERS • Support of and partnership with customers on CSR and sustainability initiatives and priorities • Sharing of best practices and strategies from suppliers through customers • Participation in the Sustainability Consortium CONSUMERS • Sector-leading consumer insights and recognized leadership in consumer affairs • Advancing nutrition and wellness across the portfolio • Balancing demand for quality, affordability and convenience with sustainable packaging COMMUNITIES • Strong relationships with our hometown communities and their residents • Engaged employee volunteers linked with strategic social impact programs, informed by community needs and designed to make meaningful and measurable impacts Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Locations and Facilities Where we operate — countries and facilities USSM = U.S. Simple Meals GBS = Global Baking and Snacking ISMB = International Simple Meals and Beverages USB = U.S. Beverages NAFS = North America Foodservice Campbell Soup Company East Brunswick, NJ Richmond, UT Belgium SELANGOR DARUL Corporate Headquarters (GBS) (GBS) Puurs EHSAN Camden, NJ 130 Employees 430 Employees (Administrative/ISMB) (Administrative/ISMB) (Administrative and Sales) 290 Employees 310 Employees South Plainfield, NJ Everett, WA 1,700 Employees (USSM/USB) (NAFS) Canada Mexico Pepperidge Farm 30 Employees 230 Employees Toronto Mexico City Corporate Headquarters (Administrative/USSM/ (Administrative) Norwalk, CT Maxton, NC Milwaukee, WI (USSM/ISMB) (USSM) ISMB/NAFS) 80 Employees (Administrative and Sales) 700 Employees 1,050 Employees 840 Employees 40 Employees VillagrÁn Napoleon, OH Australia China (ISMB) United States Xiamen (USSM/USB/NAFS/ISMB) Glen Iris 240 Employees Manufacturing Facilities 1,510 Employees (Sales) (Administrative/Sales) New Zealand Dixon, CA 110 Employees 30 Employees NewMarket (USSM/USB) Willard, OH 250 Employees Huntingwood France (ISMB/GBS) (GBS) (GBS) Le Pontet 70 Employees Sacramento, CA 620 Employees 610 Employees (ISMB) Sweden (USSM/USB/ISMB) Denver, PA 330 Employees Kristianstad 800 Employees (GBS) Marleston (GBS) BOULOGNE (ISMB) Stockton, CA 910 Employees 400 Employees (Administrative) 130 Employees (USSM/USB) Downingtown, PA 70 Employees 200 Employees (GBS/NAFS) North Strathfield (Administrative) Germany Bloomfield, CT 310 Employees Luebeck Employment levels are (GBS) Aiken, SC 330 Employees rounded as of end of (ISMB) 260 Employees (GBS) Shepparton Fiscal 2012 450 Employees Lakeland, FL 120 Employees (ISMB) Indonesia Rounded numbers include (GBS) Paris, TX 220 Employees seasonal workers Jawa Barat 310 Employees (USSM/USB/ISMB) Virginia (GBS) Downers Grove, IL 780 Employees (GBS) 2,010 Employees (GBS) 960 Employees 360 Employees Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Management Strategy and Analysis Campbell’s approach to strategic CSR and sustainability management and integration The Campbell Mission: Nourishing people’s lives everywhere, every day. Our mission statement is an incredible tool in informing our decision-making as well as inspiring us to produce high-quality, wholesome products that are trusted the world over and to make a positive difference in the world we live in. In keeping with our company mission, we continually look to making our world’s future more nourished and sustainable. To honor that, we have reinforced new strategic business drivers. Campbell will be: A More Innovative Company We will be critically focused on consumer-driven innovation in products and packaging as the primary driver of organic growth. A More Balanced Company We will drive our company’s growth by providing a wide array of delicious, nutritious and convenient products across a growing global consumer base. A More Responsive Company We will be far better positioned for engagement with new and growing consumer groups. Our cultural focus is summed up in The Way We Work, which inspires us to build a safe, diverse, inclusive, engaged and responsible company — we realize the weight of those words! — that conducts business and delivers strong results with the highest standards of integrity. Defining CSR and Sustainability Strategy Each year we conduct a formal strategic planning process in which we reassess and refine our core business strategies — including CSR, sustainability and community affairs. At Campbell, these are core platforms that are incorporated into key business and functional-unit strategic plans with three-year time horizons and annual performance goals that then lead to executive and personal performance objectives. Strategic CSR: Campbell Nourishes Our strategic planning process begins with a broad situation assessment, where we examine our key internal and external drivers and challenges to our CSR and sustainability strategy, including, but not limited to, key trends in the sustainability and the evolving expectations of our stakeholders. Our strategic plan for CSR and sustainability rests on four key pillars: – Nourishing Our Planet: Environmental stewardship – Nourishing Our Consumers: Our interactions with customers and consumers – Nourishing Our Neighbors: Community service – Nourishing Our Employees: Building an extraordinary workplace As part of our annual situation assessment, we not only review our performance in each of these areas, but also take into consideration external trends and drivers in the marketplace, and our stakeholders, through a multifaceted lens. We analyze a matrix of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats to help us fine-tune our goals, strategies and operational priorities in each of our four primary CSR platforms. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 9 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS This process of self-evaluation and critical introspection helped us identify several characteristics that are important to longterm success. These include: – A shared perspective on CSR across the company; – Definition of core metrics and long-term performance goals; and – Recognition that our executives and employees must have the necessary resources and tools to activate our strategy. We declared that our strategy should provide for active stakeholder engagement; that our practices, performance and results be transparent; and, most importantly, that our efforts be shaped by a focus that is unique to Campbell and the impact we can have. Materiality Analysis Carefully examining a myriad of internal and external issues that help shape our CSR and sustainability programs Defining materiality is an important component of an effective CSR and sustainability program. We believe that this process of examining the internal and external drivers of our purpose and mission is crucial. This also helps us determine which areas align with marketplace and stakeholder priorities. There are many areas in which Campbell’s long-term business success aligns with marketplace and stakeholder priorities, including: –S ustainable agriculture: Our suppliers depend on us to educate them, engage with them on new technology, resource and energy conservation, etc., and to include them in our business’ long-term strategy. In fact, we believe that we owe them those things. –R esponsible sourcing: Choosing our suppliers — who have an undeniable role in furthering our mission of nourishing our consumers’ lives — is critical for our mission to be a success. –P romotion of human health and sound, yet affordable, nutrition: Millions remain without access to nutritious food choices, while obesity continues to increase. We seek to change that by promoting sound healthy and affordable choices. We believe that carefully considering these areas of alignment can lead to a more informed CSR strategy and help drive both positive social impact and long-term business success. While most materiality issues remain relatively stable year to year, we view the monitoring and assessment process as a key organizational learning function. In addition to our ongoing issues monitoring and assessment processes, we conduct several rigorous efforts to inform and refine our CSR materiality assessment. This year’s process included: Formal meetings: We held formal meetings with social and advocacy investment stakeholders and researchers to better understand and engage on issues of priority to them. Community polls: We polled our community and external partners involved in our childhood hunger and obesity initiative, learning that issues involving our youth remain at the top of the priority list of our community stakeholders, and that, while all issues were ranked high, an immediate concern such as hunger ranked higher than education or the environment in our communities. Consumer surveys: We fielded another survey of Campbell consumers, asking them to rank issues by materiality and provide open-ended comments on our business and CSR strategy. Here, too, responses were stable. In-depth research: Dr. Daniel Sonke, Manager of Agriculture Sustainability Programs, conducted a series of approximately 50 interviews to examine priority focus areas for our suppliers. Interviewees included farmers, agriculture suppliers, retail and food service customers, NGOs and global Campbell employees. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Materiality Analysis Identity Identify issues from a wide range of stakeholders and sources Primary Sources Issues • Benchmarking •P olicy Makers •A dvertising/Labeling • Ingredients/Sourcing • Brand Partners •P ress/Social Media •A ffordability • International Trade • Community Partners/ •P rofessional •B usiness Continuity •L  abor Relations Surveys Organizations •C amden Community •M  arket Performance • Consumer Insights •P ublic Policy Investment •O  besity • Customers •S cientific & Industry •C ause Marketing •O  perational Efficiency • Emerging Issues Research •D iversity •P  ace of Innovation Monitoring •S ervice Providers •E mployee Safety •P  ackaging Sustainability • Employees •S hareholder Advocates •E nergy/Climate •P  lant Communities • Factory Managers •S uppliers •E nterprise Risk •P  olitical Contributions • Innovation Partners and •T rade Groups Management •S  ustainable Agriculture Portals •E thical Sourcing •T  raining & Development • Investors •E thics, Corporate •T  ransparency • Key Cause Partners Governance •T  ransportation • National Advertising •E xecutive Pay Infrastructure Division, FTC •F ood Safety & Quality •W  aste Management • NGOs and Issue •H uman Rights •W  ater Use Advocates •H unger Relief •W  ellness, Nutrition Filter Measured Against • Brand Reputation •  mployee Recruitment and Engagement E • Campbell Leadership Model • Impact to Community • Campbell Mission and New Strategy Focus • Regulatory Frameworks • CSR Focus Areas • Strategic & Operating Plans • Customer and Consumer Needs • Total Delivered Cost • Destination Goals and Metrics Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Prioritize Customer/ Stakeholder Workplace Environment & Consumer Relations Supply Chain Importance to Campbell Stakeholders & Community Customer/Consumer Customer/Consumer • Consumer Choice/Delight • Consumer and Customer • Affordability Priorities • Wellness Education • Advertising and Labeling • Product Attributes • Nutrition, Weight Management • Food Safety & Quality Customer/Consumer Customer/Consumer • Supply Chain Performance • Healthy Beverages/ • Enterprise Risk Management Baked Snacks • Global Growth • Pace of Innovation • Increasing Positive Nutrients in Products Impact on Campbell Business Customer/ Stakeholder Workplace Environment & Consumer Relations Supply Chain Importance to Campbell Stakeholders & Community Community Community • Key Cause Campaigns • Childhood Obesity • NGO Relationships and Hunger Stakeholder Relations • Political Accountability • Community and Investor Outreach Community • Youth Programs • Education Impact on Campbell Business Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Prioritize Customer/ Stakeholder Workplace Environment & Consumer Relations Supply Chain Importance to Campbell Stakeholders & Community Workplace • Culture, Ethics Workplace Workplace • Leadership •Training and Development • Board Governance • Benefits and Compensation • Executive Compensation • Diversity and Inclusion Impact on Campbell Business Customer/ Stakeholder Workplace Environment & Consumer Relations Supply Chain Importance to Campbell Stakeholders & Community Supply Chain Environment • Responsible Sourcing • Resource Stewardship • Sustainable Packaging Environment • Recycling Supply Chain • Supplier Performance • Transportation and Logistics Impact on Campbell Business Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Review Integrate into business planning and external stakeholder relationships Internal Review External Review • Strategic and Annual Operating Plans • Feedback to CSR Report • Board and Governance Updates • Customer, Consumer and Supplier Input • CSR Leadership Network • Investor, NGO, Stakeholder Engagement • Emerging Issues Management • External Research, Regulations, Trade Groups CSR and Sustainability Governance A formal and effective CSR and sustainability governance structure One of the most important criteria for successful CSR strategy execution is an effective governance structure, with the resources and authority to make efficient decisions, establish accountabilities and drive execution. Leadership Teams We have created an active CSR Leadership Network at Campbell that consists of five leadership teams. Each team has a formal charter, mission statement and indicators of success. Four of the teams are focused on key content areas: 1. Environmental sustainability; 2. Community affairs; 3. Building an extraordinary workplace; and 4. Delivering on the promises of our brands to our customers and consumers. These teams meet regularly to define strategy and review performance. The fifth team is our CSR Steering Committee, led by the CEO, and composed of senior executives of the company’s largest businesses and corporate functions, including Finance, Human Resources, Supply Chain, Legal, Research & Development, Public Affairs and Information Technology. The Steering Committee reviews the overall situation assessment and strategic plan for the CSR, sustainability and community affairs functions. Periodic updates on the Company’s CSR and sustainability strategy, as well as topic briefings, are also provided to the Board of Directors throughout the year. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Campbell Soup Board of Directors Steering Committee Campbell Corporate Leadership Team Customer/Consumer Community Workplace Sustainability Research & Communications Human Resources Research & Development Development Campbell Soup Communications Consumer Insights Foundation Procurement Compensation and Consumer Affairs Childhood Obesity Benefits Agriculture and Hunger Cause Marketing Organizational Packaging Volunteerism Development P&L Business Leads Global Operations Cause Marketing Talent Acquisition Sales and Marketing Plant Management and Management Campbell Chefs Sector and Supply Chain Diversity and Stakeholder Global Nutrition Inclusion Logistics Engagement Plants and Facilities International Legal International Government Affairs Business Rep Business Rep Managing Performance CSR and sustainability are integrated across business units, functional strategic plans and balanced scorecards Balanced Scorecard Campbell employs a “balanced scorecard” process to define annual objectives and measure the performance of the Company as a whole, as well as in individual business units. Goals defined in the scorecard fall within four key measurement areas with respect to the Company’s financial, strategic, operational and marketplace objectives. The CSR, sustainability and community affairs organization maintains an additional corporate balanced scorecard that addresses strategic, operational, internal and external metrics. Through our balanced scorecard, we assess not only whether we achieve our objectives, but also how we achieve them. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 15 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS The Way We Work: Integration of CSR Further, CSR and sustainability metrics are included in categories across Campbell’s strategic planning process and are cultural components of our individual performance objective process: The Way We Work. These are the primary tools used to drive accountability and judge success on annual performance expectations. Objectives range from specific steps in strategy development to individual reporting milestones, such as establishment of agreed-upon metrics, expansion of community service programs, workplace diversity and inclusion, supplier diversity and safety. Some examples of objectives in the CSR/sustainability balanced scorecard from FY2012 include: – Advance operational performance in key metrics and execute an additional renewable project – Develop stakeholder-informed sustainable agriculture strategy – Define communications and metrics for the Campbell’s Healthy Camden Program – Drive alignment between Campbell’s community programs and its business mission – Effectively leverage value of memberships in external organizations – Deepen strategic relationships with suppliers and customers on sustainability – Extend reach and depth of CSR communication vehicles – Effectively execute and grow employeeand community-related CSR programming – Update and/or publish key policy statements such as the Supplier Code of Conduct Performance Scorecard Strengthening our baseline metrics and key measures and tracking our progress year over year ECONOMIC ($ millions) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Net Sales $7,998 $7,586 $7,676 $7,719 $7,707 Earnings Before Interest and Taxes $1,098 $1,185 $1,348 $1,279 $1,212 Taxes on Earnings $268 $347 $398 $366 $342 Dividends Paid $329 $350 $365 $378 $373 Capital Expenditures $298 $345 $315 $272 $323 Research and Development $115 $114 $123 $129 $125 Products with a Reduction of Negative Nutrients1 (revenue) $3,389 $3,729 $3,902 $3,978 Products with a Reduction of Negative Nutrients1 (revenue/total revenue) 52% 57% 60% 61% Products with Increased Positive Nutrients2 (revenue) $2,125 $2,205 $2,297 $2,216 Products with Increased Positive Nutrients2 (revenue/total revenue) 33% 34% 36% 34% Healthy Products3 (revenue) $1,741 $2,060 $2,269 $2,217 Healthy Products3 (revenue/total revenue) 27% 31% 35% 34% 1 Includes products that are lowered in or developed with less saturated fat, trans fats, sodium or sugars (U.S. only). 2 Includes products that provide positive nutrition through vegetable and fruit servings (at least 1/4 cup [1/2 serving]), fiber and/or good source levels of vitamins A or C, calcium, potassium and iron (U.S. only). 3 Includes products that meet the FDA definition for “healthy.” Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS ENVIRONMENTAL ($ millions) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Water Use (gross 000 gal.) 7,829,355 7,050,749 6,891,498 6,671,102 6,271,102 Water Use Cu. Meter/Tonne of Food Produced 10.33 9.35 9.06 8.72 8.72 Energy Use (mmbtu) 10,239,864 10,276,947 10,154,522 9,835,859 8,960,585 Energy Use (mmbtu)/Tonne of Food Produced 3.57 3.60 3.53 3.40 3.29 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (mmtCO2) 899,537 879,084 850,376 831,706 748,407 GHG Emissions (mmtCO2)/Tonne of Food Produced 0.31 0.31 0.30 0.29 0.28 Solid Waste Recycled 64.0% 1 84.5% 83.1% 80.2% 85.0% Waste Disposed (tonne)/Tonne of Food Produced 0.020 0.019 0.022 0.019 0.015 Capital Investment in Environmental Compliance & Sustainability $12.3 $15.1 $15.7 $23.3 $18.6 Scope 3 Emissions2 (mtCO2) 7,466 11,343 1 Waste Disposed and Recycled % for 2008 is result for U.S. only. Subsequent numbers represent global operations. 2 Includes only air and rail travel. SOCIAL ($ millions) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Supplier Diversity Spend $125 $140 $119 $129 $142 Recordable Case Rate 3.10 2.76 2.65 2.64 2.39 Lost Day Case Rate 0.46 0.33 0.36 0.42 0.32 Women in Global Workforce 44% 45% 45% 45% Women in Global Management Positions 33% 33% 33% 35% Charitable Giving, Including In-Kind $32.6 $37.2 $50.6 $40.6 Food or In-Kind Donations $18.4 $21.5 $28.4 $40.7 $32.13 Tuition Assistance Paid $1.4 $1.1 $1.4 $1.2 Health Care Expense, U.S.1 $105 $99 $107 $112 $119 Pension Expense, U.S.2 $13.5 $15.8 $44.0 $60.5 $58.8 Post-Retirement Medical & Life Expense, U.S. $27.5 $26.0 $24.0 $27.6 $28.3 401(k) Retirement & Supplemental Retirement Plan Contributions3 $19.0 $17.6 $18.1 $21.5 $24.9 1 Includes employee contributions, administration and management overhead fees. 2 Includes administration and management overhead fees. 3 Includes retirement savings plan & supplemental retirement plan employer contributions, administration and management overhead fees. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Goals and Performance Embarking on a long-term journey that will leverage Campbell’s unique role in society Goals Campbell’s Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda is anchored in our core competencies, fueled by our employees’ innovation, and driven by four key destination goals. We recognize that we are on a journey that will leverage Campbell’s distinct strengths to solve the challenges and take advantage of opportunities for environmental sustainability — not as stand-alone functions, but as an essential framework to make better business decisions, advance nutrition and wellness, engage our employees and strengthen the communities where we live and work. CSR CorporateImperative CSRCorporate Imperative 2020 2020 Destination Destination Goals Goals NOURISHING NOURISHING NOURISHING NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS: OUR NEIGHBORS: OUR EMPLOYEES: OUR PLANET: Continue to Provide Measurably Leverage CSR Cut the Consumers with Improve the Health and Sustainability Environmental Nutrition and of Young People as Key Drivers Footprint of Our Wellness Choices in Our Hometown of Employee Product Portfolio in Our Product Communities Engagement in Half Portfolio in Our Culture Supporting Goals: Make a positive impact in the lives of 100 million youth through our volunteer, community and signature programs Reduce energy use by 35% and source 40% of the electricity used from renewable or alternative energy sources Recycle 95% of waste generated globally Eliminate 100 million pounds of packaging from Campbell products Deliver 100% of global packaging from sustainable materials (renewable, recyclable, or from recycled content) Reduce water use per lb. of ingredient by 20% Reduce nitrogen applied per lb. of ingredient by 10% Reduce GHGs per lb. of ingredient by 20% Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 18 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Corporate Governance and Ethics Our long-standing commitment to winning in the marketplace and the workplace in compliance with the law and the highest ethical standards Ethical Purpose Campbell employees are expected to practice the highest ethical standards in every decision and process they deliver. Our multifaceted Winning With Integrity program provides the systems and tools to help our employees win while honoring Campbell’s distinguished heritage. All Campbell associates share the responsibility to ensure that our pledge to win with integrity in the marketplace, the workplace and the community is fulfilled every day, through each and every action they take. Corporate Governance To pursue the highest standards in corporate governance, our Board has long been led by an independent, non-executive chairman. Our goals are reflected in our Corporate Governance Standards, which are evaluated annually with systematic procedures in place for assessing the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees. Corporate Governance: Our Board of Directors Purpose & History: Campbell’s commitment to responsible corporate citizenship and a sustainable business model begins with our Board of Directors. Consisting of 14 independent members and one executive director, our Board operations are managed by an independent, non-executive chairman. All of our directors stand for election annually. In FY2012, the full Board convened six times, the four standing committees met a total of 29 times and all directors attended at least 75% of scheduled Board meetings and the sessions of the committees on which they served. A segment of every Board meeting was allocated exclusively for the directors to confer on relevant issues without the participation of management. Diverse Board Makeup: The diversity of our directors’ perspectives and experiences contributes exponentially to sound corporate governance. Our current Board includes five women, two African Americans, a director from India, and a director born and raised in Argentina. Our directors represent a cross-section of industries, including the food industry, consumer products, financial services, retail, packaging, finance and international businesses. Responsibilities: The Board focuses on areas that are important to shareowners, such as strategy, leadership development, director recruitment, external development and executive compensation. Directors have numerous opportunities to interact with individual members of Campbell’s senior management team, including periodic visits to plant facilities and customer locations to assess operations and gain additional insights into the Company’s business. The Campbell Board is also extremely focused on enterprise risk management and has a framework in place that helps assign specific accountabilities to the Board. The responsibilities reflected in the framework are included in meeting agendas for the Board and its committees, with the Audit Committee reviewing the entire framework annually. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Risk Management The Process: Campbell has an extensive Risk and Crisis Management system in place, with Senior Vice President and Chief Legal and Public Affairs Officer Ellen Kaden and Chief Financial and Administrative Officer Craig Owens heading the function. They report directly to the CEO. Additionally, the Vice President of Environmental Programs and the Vice President of Public Affairs and Corporate Responsibility present the Company’s progress and status regarding environmental sustainability to the Audit Committee and Board of Directors annually, focusing on the Company’s progress on energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, energy conservation projects, water use, wastewater treatment and solid waste recycling, and further, how these efforts are impacting climate change. Public Policy and Engagement Our commitment to open dialogue, thorough disclosure and accountability in key regulatory issues Encouraging Dialogue Campbell participates actively in the discussion of local, state, national and international public policy issues that are relevant to our business strategies and operations, from food safety and advertising to healthcare and international trade. We also contribute to public dialogue on policy issues through our memberships in food and related industry trade associations. Disclosure Full Disclosure... Committed to industry-wide transparency, we emphasize candid dialogue and open interactions with government agencies and officials. Campbell’s U.S. lobbying disclosure reports are filed with the appropriate state and federal authorities under the U.S. Lobby Disclosure Act. We also file disclosure reports with the Election Law Enforcement Commission for lobbying activity with the State of New Jersey. ...and Built-in Accountability Campbell has a formal set of Political Accountability Guidelines and related disclosures, which are available on the company’s public website. In the U.S., Campbell does not endorse any individual political party or candidate, but we do encourage voluntary political activity by our employees. Our employees can contribute funds to political candidates and organizations engaged in policy issues that are important to our Company, such as food manufacturing standards and worker safety, through Campbell’s Political Action Committee (PAC), a segregated fund that is affiliated with the Company. Contributions made by the Campbell PAC are publicly reported, in accordance with federal law. To view Campbell PAC’s disclosures of contributions and expenditures to the Federal Election Commission (FEC), visit the FEC website. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Key Issues 1. Support for increased resources for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and science-based U.S. food safety laws and regulations 2. Support for bilateral and multi-lateral free trade agreements, and related legislation and regulations that reduce tariff and non-tariff trade barriers to Campbell products 3. Support for sound energy policies, including development of non-food crops as sources of renewable fuels. Support for the elimination or phasing out of subsidies and mandates for corn-based ethanol, and the imposition of tariffs on imported sources of ethanol 4. Support for sound agriculture policies, especially reform of U.S. commodity programs such as sugar and eliminating penalties for farmers who wish to replace “program” crops (e.g. corn, soybeans, wheat and cotton) with fruits and vegetables 5. Support for efforts to enhance trade facilitation in North America, including science-based regulatory cooperation and harmonization and safe, more efficient movement of goods and services across the U.S.-Canada and U.S.-Mexican borders, and at U.S. ports of entry 6. Support for science-based federal U.S. food safety and labeling laws for products manufactured for interstate commerce, including laws governing ingredient disclosures, food warnings and tolerances with federal preemption 7. Support for workplace legislation that protects employees’ rights to choose whether or not to join a union by secret or private ballot, and free of intimidation or coercion 8. Support for effective industry self-regulation of advertising and marketing programs 9. Support for health care reforms that provide incentives to broaden, protect and strengthen employer-provided insurance; ensure that Campbell can provide uniform, national benefits to employees by not weakening the Employee Retirement and Income Security Act (ERISA); and that do not mandate benefits or impose taxes that increase costs and make insurance less affordable 10. Support for general business and industry positions as measured in vote scorecards administered by the National Association of Manufacturers, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and other major industry trade associations and coalitions Winning With Integrity Providing the resources, tools and guidance that enable our employees to understand and comply with our ethical standards and expectations for business conduct Beginning with Integrity... “We will compete vigorously, but we will be honest, lawful and fair in our dealings with employees, customers, consumers, communities and all others whose lives we touch. This bedrock principle drives all that we do and illuminates all that we aspire to achieve. Our employees are expected to honor our Company’s commitment to integrity at all times, everywhere in the world.” Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 21 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Campbell’s Winning With Integrity program provides the resources, tools and guidance that enable our employees to understand and comply with our standards and expectations for business conduct. The program includes, among other things: – An interactive website; – Extensive written materials; and – A comprehensive, worldwide training program. ...Strengthening with Principal Codes and Policies Campbell’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the foundation document of the Winning With Integrity program. The Code outlines our Company’s basic standards and expectations, highlights important Campbell policies, and summarizes certain fundamental legal requirements that our employees must follow at work. It also provides guidance about other resources that employees can use to answer any questions or concerns they might have regarding a potential legal or ethical dilemma. Respecting the diversity of our workforce, the Code is available in multiple languages, with every Campbell employee receiving a personal copy at the time of hire. ...and Ensuring Compliance = Winning With Integrity Our CEO is instrumental in keeping our worldwide workforce aware of corporate policy statements on specific compliance issues as they occur. Business units issue other policies and guidelines throughout the year, as needed. A central Index of Standards and Procedures for Compliance, maintained by the Legal Department, provides a comprehensive inventory of the policies, procedures and guidelines in use at the corporate level and within the individual businesses and functions. Similarly, a companion Central Index of Mechanisms for Monitoring and Auditing Compliance is maintained by the Legal Department to confirm responsibility for ascertaining that the policies and procedures are being followed. Revised corporate policies and guidelines are issued every year. Existing policy statements that are regularly reviewed and revised as needed include: – Code of Business Conduct and Ethics – Anti-Bribery Policy – Guidelines and Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children – Environmental Sustainability Policy – Human Rights Principles – Political Accountability Guidelines – Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual Education and Training: Employee Empowerment & Innovation Campbell provides comprehensive training for every employee on core issues such as ethics and compliance and risk-based training that is tailored to individual roles in the Company and the issues associated with their specific job responsibilities. As part of the Winning With Integrity program, all employees are required to complete annual training on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This training is available online or in person, and is offered in 13 languages. Campbell’s Integrity Hotline Campbell’s Integrity Hotline is a service through which complaints and concerns can be reported to the Company or the Board on a confidential and/or anonymous basis. Access to the hotline is available through a secure Internet website and toll-free from all countries in which Campbell does business. To comply with special requirements of the European Union, and in certain EU member states, we maintain a separate hotline service for employees in France, Belgium and Germany. The availability of this Integrity Hotline is widely publicized and encouraged among our employees, with all reports to our hotlines investigated. Evolution of the Program Our Winning With Integrity program is continuously assessed and adjusted to reflect developments in our business. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Stakeholder Engagement Winning With Our Stakeholders: Recognizing the critical importance of engaging our multiple stakeholders in business strategy Often the missing piece of business strategy and consumer orientation is true engagement. Our team at Campbell recognizes the competitive advantage we achieve from engaging our diverse spectrum of stakeholders. To that end, we use multiple approaches to gather diverse external perspectives on our business activities. IDENTIFY: In addition to third-party consumer and customer research, our Consumer and Customer Insights and Consumer Affairs departments and our Customer Relationship Managers help us identify the priorities of our marketplace stakeholders. SET PROCESSES: Specific processes are used to engage suppliers, employees, investors and external thought leaders in a range of topics, including health and nutrition, food safety and quality, environmental stewardship, community relations, and diversity and inclusion. BENCHMARKING: We conduct benchmarking for leadership performance within and outside our sector and interact with many trade and issue management groups worldwide. To complement the rich input we receive through our existing stakeholder engagement models, in FY2011 we conducted specific surveys on CSR and sustainability with consumers, suppliers and community stakeholders. With more than 230 Campbell consumers taking the time to score different topics in terms of their relevance to them and to society in general, we received incredible input and hundreds of direct comments. Direct Market Feedback: A few conclusions of our most recent CSR consumer survey indicated that: 1. Strategic Community Initiatives: Giving back to the community is something that is expected. Food companies should also help minimize hunger in the community. 2. Commitment to Food Safety: A commitment to food safety should be listed as a priority for Campbell Soup in our CSR reporting to the public. 3. Prioritizing Affordability: Manufacturing and marketing products in a way to keep food affordable, while maintaining shareowner value, should be included as a priority for our Company. 4. Championing Nutrition: Improving the nutritional content of food should also be a focus area, including a focus on using all-natural ingredients. And here are some of the ways we are responding. Public-Private Partnerships Campbell’s business leaders serve as trustees or members of the advisory boards of many organizations engaged in the CSR and sustainability agenda, including, for example, the following: – American College of Nutrition – American Council for Fitness and Nutrition – Association for Consumer Research – Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship – Center for Food Safety at the University of Georgia – Childhood Obesity 180 – European Cluster for Fruit and Vegetable Innovation – Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network – Food Allergy Research and Resource Program – Food Bank of South Jersey Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS – Food for All – Foundation for Strategic Sourcing – Graham Sustainability Institute at the University of Michigan – Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation – Net Impact – Philabundance – Society of Consumer Affairs Professionals (SOCAP) – Local United Way Chapters Scientific Advisory Panel Campbell is leveraging a Scientific Advisory Panel made up of experts in Nutrition and Food Science from leading universities in the U.S. and Europe to provide external perspective on plant-based nutrition (e.g., vegetables, grains, fruits, spices). The panel has been designed to provide strategic insights on current and emerging science around plants, including their nutrient/ phytochemical composition and potential health benefits that could be derived from these ingredients and compounds. The panel also provides valuable perspective on how formulation and processing can be utilized to optimize health benefits and create products with consumer appeal, interacting directly with senior executives biannually and on an as “as-needed” basis for specific initiatives. To summarize: Employees Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Anonymous channels •B  usiness trends, interests and •O  pen and reliable channels of • Brandand plant-based intranet sites knowledge communication across entire • Business Resource Affinity Networks • New  ideas for innovation workforce • Employee forums – Recognition •A  sense of shared perspective, with • Employee surveys – Team Optimization multiple touch points to support • Innovation portal alignment • Labor negotiations Health Research and Advocacy Bodies Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • R&D relationships •N  utrition and labeling standards •C  utting-edge science on nutrition • Campbell memberships •C  linical research •A  ccurate and understandable labeling • Research results • Industry partnerships •C  ause marketing relationships aligned • Strategic issue partnerships – Wellness strategies with Campbell brands • Innovation concepts – Impacts of policy changes Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 24 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Consumers Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Dedicated Consumer Affairs •P roduct ingredients •U  nderstanding and alignment with organization, web portal, telephone, •N ew product inputs consumer interests and trends and written interaction – Packaging •D  irect, high-touch relationship with • Consumer insights research •L abeling Campbell’s consumers • Campbell’s Kitchen website •N utrition •T  rust and ability to communicate • Nutrition and Wellness website •P roduct use and recipes rapidly • Specific consumer studies, including •B uying and use behavior –Alignment on consumer on CSR/sustainability •C onsumer priorities communications •F ood Safety Customers Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Direct customer relationship •B  usiness relationships •T  ailored business strategies organizations •C  ustomer service & support that meet our customers’ needs • Top-to-top customer meetings •M  arketing support and priorities (including CSR/sustainability strategy) •T  rade practices •A  bility to identify and work on CSR • 360° customer feedback vehicles •L  ogistics & supply chain capabilities synergies, e.g., consumer education, Industry and trade groups FMI/GMA/ •C  SR Benchmarking and strategy wellness, food waste CGF alignment Suppliers Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Assessments and audits •P  roduct quality and safety •R  obust and reliable supply chain • Face-to-face meetings •S  ustainable packaging •A  lignment on ethical, human rights • Business continuity plans – Ethical Sourcing and environmental expectations • Community partnerships •S  upply chain risk mitigation – Benchmarking • Supplier diversity initiatives •C  ost-saving opportunities •P  artnership on Scope 3 carbon • Product design •P  artnership in local citizenship accounting • Sustainable packaging fairs activities – Surveys Shareowners Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Meetings with institutional investors •B  usiness performance •C  lose and interactive relationship and major shareowners to address •H  ealth and Wellness product with shareowners from institutional business and CSR/sustainability issues strategies to retail • New expanded outreach to socially • International expansion plans •E  nhanced understanding of responsible investors •S  ustainability targets and results Campbell’s business strategies – Engagement on specific topics of – Water use and Scarcity –Shared perspective on a range of interest •G  overnance practices topics of interest Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 25 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Communities and NGOs Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Direct, on-the-ground relationships •C  ritical local needs — hunger, obesity, •F  ocused, tailored approach to • Networking relationships across our youth, support services in our community service that is aligned community partners communities with the Campbell family of brands, • Recognition events •S  trategic partnership priorities: Heart our local communities, and the • Brainstorming discussions health, obesity, sustainable agriculture, most pressing priorities on which • Regional priority plans — health, diversity Campbell can have the greatest community revitalization, youth •V  olunteerism and giving impact • Signature partnerships • Input to strategies and materiality • Surveys assessment Governments, Policy Makers Interactions Types of Issues Strategic Benefits • Campbell Public Policy Committee •F  ood safety, quality, labeling •C  redible and authentic relationships sets priorities •R  egional priorities with policy makers • Direct engagement on issues •T  rade policy implications •C  onsistent policy positions globally important to Campbell business •H  ealth, wellness and nutrition policy •B  uilding a reputation as a trusted • Regulatory affairs employees at plant source of industry perspective and international sites • Significant monitoring and communication activities Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 26 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS Recognition Acknowledgment of Campbell’s comprehensive strategy and strong results We are proud of the work that we have done in the area of CSR and sustainability, and are honored to receive acknowledgment and other forms of recognition from credible external stakeholders. The following include just some of the recognition that we have received for our efforts in the past year: Dow Jones Sustainability Index Campbell was named to the 2012/2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI). This is the fourth year that Campbell was named to the North America index and the third year it was named to the World index. The DJSI was launched in 1999 and represents the top 10% of the world’s largest companies in terms of sustainability and CSR performance. CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens For the second consecutive year, Campbell Soup Company was placed among the Top 10 of all large-cap Russell 1000 companies on Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s annual 100 Best Corporate Citizens List, regarded as the top corporate responsibility ranking based on publicly-available information. Campbell was also number one in the Consumer Staples Sector for the second year in a row. Civic 50 Campbell was named to the top 10 of the Civic 50 list for 2012. The survey ranks companies on community leadership, strategy, measurement, transparency, partnerships, cause alignment and employee civic health. This survey is the first of its kind to implement a scientific approach to measuring and evaluating corporate civic engagement. Maplecroft Climate CII Benchmark, part of the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes Campbell was ranked among the top 100 companies in the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes (CII), designating it for the first time as a “Leader” among the best performing companies in Maplecroft’s report covering the year 2011. Newsweek 2012 Green Rankings Campbell moved up 55 spots on the 2012 Newsweek Green Rankings list and ranked number 207 out of the U.S. 500. The Green Rankings comprehensively assess the environmental performance of the largest publicly traded companies in America and around the world. DuPont Awards for Packaging Innovation and an Ameristar Award from the Institute of Packaging Professionals Pepperidge Farm was honored with two of the packaging industry’s most prestigious awards. Both awards recognize the company’s Deli Flats thin rolls and Goldfish breads for innovative packaging design, sustainability and waste reduction. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27 01 / STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS EPA Climate Leader Awards Campbell was named as a winner of the inaugural Climate Leadership Awards, recognizing corporate leadership in addressing climate change and reducing carbon pollution. Campbell was recognized in two different categories for aggressively managing and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and for establishing aggressive GHG reduction goals. PRNews Corporate Social Responsibility Hall of Fame PRNews inducted Campbell into its 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Hall of Fame. The honor acknowledges the impact of Campbell’s CSR efforts and the company’s status as an exemplary program. Governance and Environmental Management Strength (GEMS) Rating Campbell was named to the number 10 spot on the 2012 Governance and Environmental Management Strength (GEMS) Rating™ system ranking published by IWFinancial and Soyka and Company. Campbell moved up from number 13 on this ranking which seeks to objectively measure sustainability Governance, Policy, Infrastructure and Systems, Results and Disclosure. NJBIZ’s Best Places to Work NJ Campbell was once again named one of New Jersey’s best places to work in 2011 by NJBIZ Magazine. Campbell ranked 10th among the state’s top 41 largest companies. Campbell was honored for the many benefits it offers to employees, including the new Campbell Employee Center. The award also recognized Campbell’s leadership, community involvement, and employees’ overall satisfaction with their role, work environment and manager. 2012 National Business Group on Health for Promoting Employee Wellness Campbell was among 66 U.S. employers that received the 2012 Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles award at the Leadership Summit sponsored by the National Business Group on Health’s Institute on Innovation in Workforce Well-being. FOCUS FORWARD While proud of our results, we know we are at the beginning of our journey. We will strive for deeper engagement and accountability within Campbell to achieve even greater social and business benefit. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Nourishing Our Consumers Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 29 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Overview Offering consumers a choice of nutritious, delicious and convenient products to suit individual lifestyle and dietary goals At the heart of Campbell’s mission statement, Nourishing People’s Lives Everywhere, Every Day, is our commitment to Nourishing Our Consumers their way. Earning and maintaining our consumers’ trust is, and always will be, our paramount focus. This begins with providing a wholesome product portfolio. For more than a century, we have dedicated ourselves to nourishing consumers by providing affordable, nutritious, high-quality, convenient and great-tasting foods. As a leading food and beverage company, we routinely monitor industry trends so that we can provide consumers with products that meet their needs. Today’s consumers are increasingly interested in products that help them get more fruits, vegetables and whole grains into their diet or those that can help them manage their weight or that fit in a heart-healthy lifestyle. To do that we focus on: – Enhancing the safety and quality of our products; – Offering a variety of affordable and convenient foods; – Using consumer feedback and market research to improve our products; – Providing value-added services, such as recipes, in our advertising and on our websites; and – Marketing our products responsibly. Campbell also understands that it is our responsibility to help educate our consumers. Through our Campbell Nutrition website, advertising and other communications, we provide consumers with information about how our products can fit into a balanced diet. This includes providing consumers easy access to recipes, meal plans, product search tools and nutrition information. An important component of this effort is to provide accurate and reliable labels with ingredients and nutrition information to help our consumers make informed purchasing decisions. In 2012, we agreed to participate in the industry-wide Facts Up Front initiative to provide front-of-label nutrition information. (For more information, see Advancing Social Impact with Consumers.) Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 30 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Healthy and Nutritious Products Providing our customers and consumers with choices: nutritious and affordable options for families Sales of Healthy* Products As a food company, we recognize the role of food in $2.3 $2.2 $2.1 maintaining and advancing health and personal wellbeing. To better meet the needs of our consumers, we will $1.7 continue to leverage emerging science and technologies Total U.S. to provide an array of healthful product choices. Gross Sales 27% Our goal is to provide consumers with nutritious, high-quality and great31% tasting products that can be part of a healthy lifestyle. 35% Consumers are increasingly seeking healthier products to incorporate into 35% their daily diets. In FY2012, total U.S. sales of healthy products exceeded FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 $2.2 billion, which is 30% more than FY2009 sales. $ value reflects U.S. gross sales in billions; % reflects percent of total U.S. gross sales Promoting Healthier Foods *Healthy — Products that meet the FDA As part of our commitment to providing consumers with healthy food definition of “healthy.” choices, we continue to look for opportunities to advance the nutrition and wellness attributes of our products. We do this by providing vegetable and fruit servings, whole grains, fiber, vitamins and minerals that, according to Promoting Positive Nutrition the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans, are under-consumed in the U.S. Gross sales of products that provide positive diet. nutrition to the American diet through vegetable and fruit servings*, fiber and/or good source levels Balanced Nutrition of Vitamins A, C, calcium, potassium and iron. consumers-healthy-products According to the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans, poor diet and physical inactivity are the most significant factors contributing to the obesity epidemic and are associated with major causes of morbidity and mortality, $2.3 $2.2 $2.2 such as cardiovascular disease, hypertension and Type II diabetes. To help our $2.1 consumers achieve a balanced diet, Campbell offers hundreds of products that have been prepared with less fat, saturated fat, sodium and sugar. Total U.S. In the U.S. alone, we offer: Gross Sales 33% More than 390 products that are low in fat, saturated fat and cholesterol; 34% More than 300 products (excluding Pepperidge Farm cakes, cookies, 36% croutons, crackers, stuffing, and pastries) with reduced levels of sodium 34% (products launched at FDA level of 480 mg or below, or reduced from FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 original product 10–50%); $ value reflects U.S. gross sales in billions; More than 270 products that have 100 calories or fewer per serving; and % reflects percentage of total U.S. gross sales More than 80 products that are certified by the American Heart Association. *At least ¼ cup (½ serving) consumers-positive-nutrition Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 31 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Global Commitment to Nutrition and Wellness Consumers around the world are more interested than ever in foods that Sales of Products with help maintain and advance their health and personal well-being. Campbell is Improved Nutrient Profiles* committed to offering a variety of products to help promote and encourage Percentage of total sales volume of products that are lowered in or developed with less saturated fat, trans fats, healthful eating. This effort, which extends across our international sodium or sugars businesses, includes offering a variety of products with the great taste and nutritional attributes expected by our consumers. In FY2012, Campbell $4.0 $3.9 Arnott’s became a founding member of the Australian Food and Grocery $3.7 $3.4 Council, Healthier Australia Commitment (HAC). As part of this commitment, Campbell Arnott’s has committed to reduce the following nutrients of concern by 2015: Total U.S. Gross Sales – Reduce sodium in products by 25% 52% – Reduce saturated fat in products by 25% 57% – Reduce energy in products by 12.5% 60% 61% Vegetables and Fruits FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Research suggests that making vegetables and fruits part of one’s diet can *$ value reflects U.S. gross sales in billions; promote good health — including helping to reduce the risk of heart disease, % reflects percentage of total U.S. gross sales stroke, diabetes and some cancers. At Campbell we are proud to be a leader in the industry by offering a variety of great-tasting and convenient options Includes products with 0 grams trans fat, that are low in saturated fat or total fat, that meet the to help consumers eat more vegetables and fruits. government’s criteria for healthy level of sodium – In the U.S., we have more than 160 products across the soup, sauce and (< or = 480 mgs), are 100 calories or less, or those with < or = 12 gms of sugar beverage categories that provide at least a half cup serving of vegetables and/or fruit. –S  ixty-three percent of Campbell’s soups in Australia provide at least one serving of vegetables. Collectively, Campbell’s soups in Australia provide consumers-improved-products an estimated 5,500 tonnes, or 73 million servings, of vegetables to the Australian food supply each year. – All V8 fruit and vegetable juices in Australia provide at least one full serving of fruit and one full serving of vegetables per serving of juice. V8 vegetable juices provide three servings of vegetables per labeled portion of juice. In FY2012, the entire V8 fruit and vegetable juice range provided Australians with over 115 million servings of vegetables and 30 million servings of fruit. –S  nackRight Fruit Slice and SnackRight Wildberry, which carry the Australian Heart Foundation Tick, are all sources of dietary fiber and have a low glycemic index. Both also contain at least 35% real fruit and, in the last 12 months, have provided over 220 tonnes of fruit to the Australian food supply. – In Canada, we have 73 products with at least one full serving of vegetables, and 28 million pounds of fresh vegetables are used in our soups each year. Whole Grains and Fiber Worldwide, whole grains and fiber are important components of a healthy and balanced diet. Research suggests eating more whole grains and fiber may help reduce the risk of heart disease, diabetes and some cancers, as well as help people manage their weight. Campbell’s global product portfolio is uniquely positioned to help consumers add more whole grains and fiber to their diets. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 32 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Key facts and product introductions in FY2012: – In the U.S., we offer more than 40 whole grain varieties of Pepperidge Farm breads, rolls, English muffins, bagels, crackers and cookies. This includes five new whole grain products. –M  ore than 45 Pepperidge Farm products meet the U.S. FDA standards as good or excellent sources of fiber. – In Australia, Arnott’s Vita-Weat range of crispbread, crackers and snacks continues to help consumers add more whole grains and fiber to their diet. In FY2012, Vita-Weat provided over 3,300 tonnes of whole grains and over 420 tonnes of dietary fiber to the Australian food supply. Campbell Australia also has a range of whole grain Country Ladle soups. – In 2011, Campbell Canada launched Nourish, a complete meal, to address the growing issue of hunger in Canada and around the world. This product is made with a full serving of 100% whole grains, and uses a unique ingredient, Naked Oats, developed by Canadian scientists and licensed to a grower in Manitoba, to help provide nutrients such as protein, iron and calcium. Weight Management Excess weight and obesity are growing global health problems. At Campbell, we know there’s no “magic bullet” for achieving and maintaining a healthy weight, but strategies such as portion and calorie control can help. Research also suggests that eating foods like soup and vegetables, which can be high in water and fiber, can help you feel more satisfied on fewer calories. We offer consumers a variety of products that can play a role in weight management. – In the U.S., 92% of the products offered are 200 calories or less per labeled serving size. –P  epperidge Farm helps consumers control portion size by offering a number of 100 calorie packs for cookies and Goldfish crackers. – In FY2012, Arnott’s launched Tiny Teddy Big Tedz, specially formulated to meet Australian State Government school canteen criteria, making it a better snacking choice for the school kids of Australia. Each single serve Big Tedz pack has less than 400kJ (96 calories), less than 2g of saturated fat and at least 1g dietary fiber. – In FY2012, we expanded the Cruskits range to include Rice Cruskits. The entire Cruskits range offers consumers a lighter, convenient, nutritious lunch option, with: • Less than 60 calories per serving • Less than 1g of fat per serving (except Cruskits Original with less than 2g of fat per serving) • No artificial colors or flavors –T  o help consumers control portion size, Arnott’s launched a variety of chocolate biscuits in single serve Snack Packs. Each pack has a “Be Snack Smart” message encouraging consumers to “Enjoy their favourite treats as part of a balanced lifestyle and within your daily energy needs.” –C  anada offers seven Light soups containing 25% less calories than regular varieties and two Light varieties of V8 V-Fusion fruit & vegetable juice blends that offer vegetable nutrition, the taste of fruit, no artificial sweeteners, preservatives, colors or flavors and 25% less calories than the regular variety. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 33 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Heart Health Maintaining a healthy heart is important to consumers worldwide. According to the World Health Organization, more people die annually from cardiovascular disease than from any other cause. Poor diet and physical inactivity, resulting in excess weight and obesity, are the most common factors for heart disease. At Campbell, we are committed to promoting heart health through our products and the causes we support. – In Australia, the level of saturated fat was reduced across the entire Arnott’s Shapes range by an average of 51%, resulting in the removal of more than 670 tonnes of saturated fat from the Australian food supply in one year. • In Australia, all of the Country Ladle canned and microwave range (except Country Ladle Café Style) carries the Australian Heart Foundation Tick meeting the stringent nutrition criteria for energy, fat, saturated fat, trans fat and fiber in addition to sodium. This amounts to 31% of all soup sales. • 90% of Campbell’s soups meet the Australian Heart Foundation Tick criteria for sodium (300mg/100g) alone. 100% of our Ready-to-Serve Soup SKUs meet this sodium criterion. – In Canada, approximately 60 products meet the nutrition criteria for the country’s Heart and Stroke Foundation’s Health Check™ program. In the U.S., Campbell offers more than 80 products that meet the American Heart Association’s heart-check criteria, which helps consumers easily identify heart-healthy foods. This includes: – 37 varieties of Campbell’s Healthy Request soups – 22 varieties of Pepperidge Farm whole grain breads – Low Sodium V8 juice – All V8 V-Fusion juices – Prego Heart Smart Italian sauces – Swanson canned poultry Our long-standing efforts to reduce the sodium in our products are further evidence of our commitment to heart health. Campbell’s sodium-reduction efforts began in the late 1960s when we first introduced Campbell’s low-sodium soups. Since then, we have made significant progress advancing our science, technology and formulation capabilities to deliver lower-sodium choices that are also great in taste. Today, Campbell offers a variety of great-tasting products at various sodium levels to suit people’s lifestyles and help them meet their dietary goals. This includes more than 300 products (excluding Pepperidge Farm cakes, cookies, croutons, crackers, stuffing, and pastries) at FDA healthy levels of sodium (480 mg or less per RACC) including nearly 60 varieties of Campbell’s soups and other Campbell products, such as our V8 V-Fusion juices, lower-sodium choices in our V8 100% vegetable juice line, Campbell’s SpaghettiOs pastas, Pepperidge Farm breads, and Prego Italian sauces. Since 2003, Campbell Canada has removed the equivalent of more than 46 million teaspoons of salt from over 100 products across its soup brands, such as Campbell’s Condensed, Chunky and Gardennay brands. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 34 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Our FY2012 efforts include: – The launch of Swanson Unsalted Chicken and Beef Stocks in the U.S. –C  ampbell made a commitment to the Australian Government’s Food and Health Dialogue. As part of this commitment, Campbell will continue to gradually reduce sodium in Condensed soups, to align to the Food & Health Dialogue target of 300mg sodium per 100g, while still maintaining great taste. –T  he launch of Tiny Teddy Big Tedz, specially formulated to meet Australian State Government school canteen criteria, making it a better snacking choice for the school kids of Australia. Each single serve Big Tedz pack has less than 400kJ (96 calories), less than 2g of saturated fat and at least 1g dietary fiber. Consumer Trends in Health and Wellness Along with heightened awareness about nutrition and the importance of having a balanced diet, consumers are also interested in products that are natural, organic and gluten free. In response to consumer interest, Campbell proudly offers products made without artificial flavors, colors, or preservatives. These include a variety of soups, sauces, broths, stocks and beverages. Additionally, all Wolfgang Puck soups are organic and many are now also gluten free. Consumers around the world are interested in products that are made without artificial ingredients. Some of our global efforts in this area include: –C  ampbell Germany converted 26 products to “clean labels” through the removal of artificial colors and flavors, and replacing table salt with sea salt. This encompasses 40% of their net sales. –C  ampbell France launched a range of soups under the Liebig Recette Maison brand that are processed without colors or preservatives. – In Australia, Campbell’s Real Stock and Arnott’s Vita-Weat meet the Australian criteria for 100% natural. – In Australia, Arnott’s has removed artificial colors and flavors from all plain sweet biscuits and from Tiny Teddy (all varieties except Tiny Teddy Half Coat Milk Chocolate), Tic Toc and Hundreds & Thousands, which are favorites with children. – In Canada, our soups, vegetable beverages and crackers are made without artificial flavors or colors. Campbell Soup Company’s Nutrition Portal: Campbellnutrition.com Campbell’s Nutrition website was completely redesigned in 2012 to offer a robust consumer experience, complete with product information and advice on how to live a healthier life by incorporating Campbell products into that lifestyle. We are very proud of our redesign because it organizes content and communications in areas consistent with the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans: Weight Management, Heart Health, Vegetables & Fruits and Grains & Fiber. It is easy to navigate and offers a robust product search functionality that allows consumers to search products by general nutrition needs (e.g., fruits, vegetables & grains), beneficial nutrients (e.g., vitamin A, C, potassium) or dietary restrictions (e.g., fat, saturated fat, sodium), as well as by brand or product name. The new website provides users with science-based content, tips from nutrition experts, and downloadable resources like healthy eating plans and a food diary, to help them in pursuing a healthier lifestyle. All content was designed to be interactive, and consumers can share and Tweet the information they find helpful across all major social media platforms, as well as receive our monthly e-newsletter. We invite you to visit the website and explore for yourself. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 35 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Communicating Health and Wellness Campbell is committed to providing our consumers with the nutrition information, resources and tools they need through integrated communications across brand and corporate platforms, including advertising, digital destinations and corporate partnerships. This ensures our consumers have access to this information regardless of how they engage with our company. Here are a couple of examples of our FY2012 best practices in nutrition communication. Kid Balance: Health and Wellness Curriculum The Labels for Education program, along with industry experts including Life Time Fitness, and with the help of our Campbell nutritionists, has created 10 different standards-based modules that provide a holistic approach to health and wellness through nutrition and physical activity education. Each module teaches children how to lead a more physically healthy and balanced life. The Kid Balance curriculum is a program appropriate for children 6–11 years of age and is available to participating Labels for Education schools. Product Innovation Continuously striving to develop new food products that meet or exceed expectations for being great-tasting, affordable and nutritious Campbell understands the need to innovate continuously and develop new products that meet or exceed the expectations of our consumers. We strive not only to develop new products but also enhance the quality of existing products. Our manufacturing processes are designed to maintain nutritional value and preserve the quality of our wholesome ingredients. As part of our new strategic plan launched in 2011, we are devoting significantly greater resources to disruptive innovation that will expand our product and packaging platforms to reach new consumers. Our Definition of Innovation – The creation or adoption of new products, services, systems or processes; – That results in sustainable competitive advantage, or eliminates competitive disadvantage; and – Enhances the value of the Company. Our Principles of Innovation 1. E  very employee in every role is expected to have an innovation mindset to improve our products, services, systems and processes. 2. We set aspirational objectives, aligned with our Mission and strategies, to drive our innovation agenda. 3. We identify, prioritize and resource the innovation initiatives that are most likely to ensure we reach our desired destinations. 4. We ensure that all innovation initiatives adhere to disciplined principles and processes. Using Nutrition Science to Enhance Food Nutrition Research Campbell has a long history of conducting and supporting research focused on advancing better nutrition, food preparation and dietary patterns. Using a multidisciplinary approach of nutrition, food, sensory, culinary and packaging science, we offer consumers healthier choices that meet their uncompromising taste expectations. Our Research and Development department continually monitors trends to improve our products to better meet the needs of our consumers. Our goal is to help consumers reduce negative components in their diets, close nutrition gaps, maintain healthy weight and protect heart health, while emphasizing vegetable and grain nutrition. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 36 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Technology We do this in several ways, including deploying cutting-edge technologies and working with external partners, such as suppliers and universities, on research and the latest innovation. In fact, Campbell has increased its focus on innovation sourcing through the sponsorship of multiple Innovation Fairs at our locations around the world. These fairs are demonstration exhibits targeted toward specific categories or objectives and source ideas from employees as well as external suppliers and vendors. Ideas for Innovation Our online innovation platform Ideas for Innovation allows our consumers, customers, suppliers, contractors, inventors and friends to share ideas with us. Through this web portal, people submit ideas for consideration by our Research and Development and Marketing personnel, who are constantly looking to improve our products, packaging and production methods. A Commitment to Innovation In 2012, as part of an effort to further increase the rate of innovation across our baking and snacking portfolio, Campbell opened a new 34,000-square-foot innovation center at our Pepperidge Farm headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut. This will not only strengthen our commitment to innovation but also give our exemplary innovators the necessary resources to execute that commitment. FOCUS FORWARD We plan to enhance significantly our investment in innovation capabilities to deliver even more great-tasting healthy options to our consumers, while tracking and reporting our innovation progress. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 37 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction Listening to our consumers and providing them with information they want and need Campbell actively seeks and values consumer feedback, both the positive and the negative. Last year, nearly 400,000 consumers in the U.S. and Canada contacted Campbell to ask questions, express concerns or praise our products. A majority of these conversations occurred through our toll-free phone number, although some consumers also sent us letters and engaged with us through our websites and social media. Our dedicated Consumer Affairs team is charged with receiving, tracking and responding to all consumer feedback. This includes continuously engaging with individuals who use social media outlets to comment on our products. Through an ongoing analysis of consumer comments, we are able to improve our products, packaging, production processes and level of service. FISCAL YEAR 2012 Consumer Contact Primary Categories Inquiry: 52% Praise: 6% Complaint: 42% Tracking Consumer Feedback In addition to unsolicited feedback from consumers, we also proactively conduct frequent surveys and other research to gauge consumer satisfaction and improve our understanding of our consumers’ expectations. We constantly challenge ourselves to find new and innovative ways to meet or exceed these expectations. One of the best ways to find out whether our consumers are satisfied has been simply to ask them. Consumer satisfaction is the key mers-contacts to consumer loyalty and retention. Consumers participate in a short, post-call survey and provide us with useful information that is then used to create process and service improvements. Our consumers literally mean the world to our Consumer Affairs team. Providing Information Our Consumers Want Campbell continually develops and tests new programs to provide consumers with useful information on meal ideas, health and wellness, and other tips. For example, each day our Meal-Mail program delivers nearly 500,000 convenient, great-tasting meal ideas and recipes electronically to busy Americans. On the Campbell Kitchen website, consumers can also download recipe ideas that have been tested and approved by our Campbell’s Kitchen team, often with the assistance of our Campbell chefs and nutritionists. Nourishment extends beyond information and providing our consumers with choices. To that end, we actively engage consumers in programs designed to help them live better and longer lives. We understand, for example, that it can be a challenge to manage dietary needs for individuals who are allergic to certain foods. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 38 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Partnership with the Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network To increase awareness and provide additional education for families affected by food allergies, Campbell has partnered with the Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network (FAAN) to offer a free six-month trial membership to any family dealing with allergies. By helping consumers participate in FAAN, we seek to assist those with allergies to understand their dietary options and obtain the information they need to minimize health risks. For consumers who prefer gluten free products, we have created a website that contains important information on regulating such a diet, as well as a list of products that are gluten free. Food Safety and Quality Providing safe and wholesome products, earning the trust of our consumers and continuously improving our safety and quality systems Over the course of generations, Campbell brands have earned the trust of our customers and consumers by delivering safe and wholesome products. We are committed to identifying and using the best available monitoring and prevention technologies. Our food safety and quality control systems meet the highest standards in the industry and we work continuously to improve those systems. Particularly at a time when public concern over the safety of the food supply is intensifying, we know that maintaining consumers’ long-standing confidence in our products is critical. Trust is earned with each product we make, and we pride ourselves on our excellent quality standards and policies, outstanding process control capabilities and strong record of regulatory compliance. Our exacting requirements are applied not only to our facilities, but also to our contract manufacturers and suppliers globally. The Food Safety Modernization Act, signed into law in January 2011, is changing the landscape of food safety regulation and will require manufacturers and suppliers to hold themselves to the strictest standards of safety and quality. Campbell is in an excellent position to comply with the new law’s food safety requirements. We expect that the law will bolster our already strong supply chain management program. Managing Food Safety Campbell has a great heritage of leadership in food safety. Food safety requires the utmost attention and care to the growing, handling, preparation and storage of food so as to avoid any possibility of food-borne illnesses. At Campbell, food safety involves a broad collection of departments and teams that work with one another and with external partners to manage risks and protect our consumers, our customers, our brands and our Company. Our first and foremost priority is to assure that our foods are safe and wholesome. Working Together… Campbell food safety professionals bring together a variety of scientific disciplines, such as microbiology, thermal processing, analytical chemistry and forensic analysis. Campbell experts actively support and lead the Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) and other highly respected technical, trade and scientific organizations in the work of advancing food safety. …Using Technology… Campbell employs several layers of technology to keep our food products safe — from optical sorters to magnetic scanning and metal detectors to eliminate foreign objects. To make certain that what’s on the label is what’s in the package, Campbell helped develop a “vision” system to help ensure that the labels placed on every can or package are correct, can after can. Another emerging area is cutting-edge X-ray technology that not only can detect metal, glass and other dense foreign objects, but can also identify package or filling defects. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 39 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS …and Committing to Continuous Improvement in Food Safety We also understand that our products — and our reputation — are only as good as the ingredients that come from our suppliers. Campbell has developed a comprehensive program designed to assure the safety of ingredients and packaging materials throughout the supply chain, and involving collaboration with suppliers, packaging companies and co-manufacturers. Our suppliers’ quality controls must be as good as ours, and we work intensively with them to validate their processes and work with them on continual improvement. Ingredient Sourcing and Traceability We purchase our ingredients from carefully screened suppliers around the world, each of whom must comply with the strict requirements for safety and quality set forth in the Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual. These requirements were developed through many years of experience and knowledge and are based on best practices in the industry. We ensure that our requirements are met through comprehensive and careful auditing of suppliers’ systems and manufacturing locations. Additionally, we monitor our suppliers on an ongoing basis and conduct periodic audits of our suppliers as well as onsite inspections to ensure continuing compliance. We require that our suppliers know where their ingredients come from, and have exacting control and monitoring programs in place to ensure that safety and quality standards are maintained. With hundreds of suppliers located around the world, we maintain oversight and visibility into the systems and practices of our suppliers. Vendors must also meet stringent requirements, using preventative control systems such as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), a systematic, preventive approach to controlling food hazards. We use HACCP in our own manufacturing facilities as well. Vendors and co-manufacturers are also subject to rigorous and regular audits by Campbell’s Global Procurement and Supply Base Quality teams to ensure continued compliance with our standards. We verify the safety of the ingredients and finished products using analytical tests, microbiological assays and investigations of packaging integrity — a holistic approach that makes Campbell a leader in food safety Product Manufacturing Campbell operates 30 manufacturing plants in 10 countries with the support of more than 1,600 individual suppliers and more than 70 co-packers. Our facilities produce more than five billion packages of 10,000 distinct soup, sauce, baked snack, bakery and beverage products. Throughout the manufacturing process, our quality teams monitor, identify and address potential issues that could create a quality or safety risk. In collaboration with our suppliers, other food manufacturers and customers, Campbell has committed to the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). We require all of our manufacturing facilities to be certified to GFSIrecognized standards. Allergens We control for a variety of food allergens, including: – Fin fish – Shellfish – Peanuts – Tree nuts – Eggs – Dairy protein (dairy in Australia) – Soy protein – Wheat – Sesame seeds We maintain strict internal controls to safeguard against cross-contamination during production, including a data system to maintain label ingredient statement and claims accuracy. We have also pioneered the use of advanced coding and scanning technologies that help verify individual packages for labeling accuracy, allergen control and product traceability. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 40 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Incident Management We maintain strict and consistent controls throughout our manufacturing processes and are prepared to act swiftly and effectively if there is ever a problem with any of our products. If we suspect that the safety of a Campbell product has been compromised, Campbell’s Corporate Crisis Management Team initiates a recall process to remove the product from store warehouses and shelves, and alerts consumers immediately. Working through protocols established by government agencies around the world, we can provide regular updates on the scope and status of any product recall. We also have 24-hour support available to our retail trade customers and consumers to address any questions and concerns. Following any recall, we conduct a thorough root-cause analysis to identify and implement corrective actions. The implementation of such a rigorous process has led to improvements in our tracking and manufacturing controls, with only two recalls affecting three products in 2012. Genetically Modified (GM) Ingredients Campbell is keenly aware of ongoing concerns among consumers and regulators over genetically modified ingredients of food products in some of the markets where we sell products. For each of these markets, we employ rigorous practices to comply with local laws and regulations to guard against commingling of ingredients and maintain the integrity of our ingredient stream. Australia In Australia, we’re doing as much as is technically possible to ensure our products do not contain genetically modified organisms. Our policy is to use non-genetically engineered (GE) ingredients. We audit existing and new ingredient suppliers on an ongoing basis and have added a provision in their contracts stipulating our requirement for non-GE ingredients. Europe In Europe, we are committed to ensuring that our products always meet the preferences and demands of our consumers. As a result, we work to avoid the use of ingredients that are genetically modified or derived from genetically modified raw materials. That is why we currently only use ingredients from conventional sources across our portfolio of foods. Advancing Social Impact with Consumers Promoting healthy lifestyles, the prevention of chronic disease and access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food At Campbell, we stand strong in our belief that supporting strategic partnerships will allow us to make a more powerful impact on the lives of our consumers. Although there are many societal needs that deserve addressing today, we know that we are uniquely positioned to make the biggest impact in making healthy and nutritious foods accessible and affordable, targeting the hunger crisis and childhood obesity in the U.S., bringing positive opportunities to youth, and promoting heart health among women. By keeping our efforts focused, we can measure our impacts much more accurately. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 41 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Campbell’s Healthy Communities Program We recognize that childhood obesity is a major health problem in the U.S. Campbell has long been focused on health in our workplace and healthy options in our product portfolio. In assessing the needs of our communities and our unique strengths as a company, we set a destination goal to help improve the health of young people in our communities by reducing childhood obesity and hunger by 50% by 2020. In 2011, we formally launched this program in our longtime home of Camden, New Jersey, by committing $10 million, spread over 10 years, to support our goal. We also hired a Director Healthy Communities to drive our efforts in Camden and in other North American Campbell communities. Labels for Education The Labels for Education (LFE) program, which provides educational supplies for the redemption of eligible product labels, has awarded more than $118 million in equipment and supplies to thousands of schools across the U.S. and Canada since its inception in 1973. The program is registered in more than 60,000 schools, with approximately 30,000 active participants. In FY2012, the program continued its relationships with other manufacturers such as Pop Secret products, Post cereals, Emerald nuts, BIC stationery products, Glad food storage and Dannon kids yogurts, increasing the number of items eligible for distribution in the program from 1,500 to more than 2,500. E-Labels for Education The new e-labels initiative allows shoppers at supermarkets like Kroger, SuperValu, Safeway, Wakefern, Price Chopper and Giant Eagle to register their frequent shopper cards and designate a beneficiary school. Each time they purchase an item from an eligible manufacturer, the labels automatically get banked to the chosen school’s account, making clipping labels easier than ever. This new process allows youth and families to tap into their extended networks to support local schools and increase the number of opportunities for deserving schools to receive educational equipment they need. In the first full year of the program, 37,000 schools received e-labels from more than 259,000 registered shopper cards. Stamp Out Hunger For the past 20 years, Campbell has partnered with the National Association of Letter Carriers and Feeding America on Stamp Out Hunger, the nation’s largest single-day food drive. Residents from across the country are invited to leave bags of nonperishable food items outside their mailboxes, which are then collected by the nation’s 210,000 letter carriers and delivered to local food banks. In FY2012, the food drive generated 70.5 million pounds of food, bringing the total collected since the drive’s inception to 1.2 billion pounds. Visit http://www.facebook.com/StampOutHunger to learn more. Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative The Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) was launched in 2006 by the Council of Better Business Bureaus and 10 (now 17) food manufacturers. The goal of the Initiative is to shift the mix of advertising primarily directed to children to encourage healthier dietary choices and healthy lifestyles. The Initiative uses nutrition standards to govern what products are advertised to children. Campbell is a charter participant in the CFBAI. Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation The Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation is a national, multiyear effort designed to help reduce obesity, especially childhood obesity, by 2015. It focuses on three critical areas: the marketplace, the workplace and schools. Campbell is a founding member of the group, which includes more than 160 members, including retailers, food and beverage manufacturers, restaurants and other organizations. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 42 02 / NOURISHING OUR CONSUMERS Together Counts Together Counts is a nationwide program created by the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation to inspire active and healthy living. The principle behind the program is energy balance, which means balancing the calories people consume with the calories they burn. Families can log onto the Together Counts website and “Take the Pledge” to schedule at least two meals and two activities together every week. Campbell and Pepperidge Farm further promote the Together Counts program through our Facebook page and website. National Salt Reduction Initiative As a leader in sodium reduction, Campbell supports the National Salt Reduction Initiative (NSRI), an effort coordinated by the New York City Department of Health to encourage Americans to reduce their salt intake by 20% by 2015. Campbell has committed its SpaghettiOs pastas to the program; Pepperidge Farm breads and rolls, among certain other Campbell products, already meet NSRI 2012 targets. Child Obesity 180 Denise Morrison, Campbell Soup Company President and CEO, is a member of Child Obesity 180 (CO180). CO180 brings together a wide range of stakeholders from all sectors to provide a politically neutral point of engagement, create connections among leaders and organizations, and utilize the best available evidence to power up a portfolio of key initiatives to deliver accelerated, amplified impact to improve the health of the nation’s children. Key components of the CO180 approach include multisector collaboration, capacity building, large-scale initiatives and process and outcome measures. Facts Up Front Nutrition Labeling Initiative Facts Up Front brings important information from the Nutrition Facts Panel, in a simple and easy-to-use format, to the front of food and beverage packages Campbell helped lead this voluntary initiative aligned with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) guidelines and regulations. Through Facts Up Front, participating food and beverage companies place icons on the front of their products that display calories, saturated fat, sodium and sugar per serving. Facts Up Front icons have been placed on more than 275 Campbell products since 2011 and will continue to be expanded to additional products. A similar initiative is also underway in Australia for front of pack labeling for energy, total fat, saturated fat, sugar and sodium. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 43 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Nourishing Our Neighbors Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 44 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Overview Honoring our long-standing commitment to the communities where we live and work At Campbell, we are committed to making a measurable difference in the communities in which we live and work. We describe our community initiatives, quite aptly, as Nourishing Our Neighbors. Our efforts focus on areas in which we are uniquely capable of making the biggest impact by leveraging our core competencies to drive meaningful change. Destination Goals Our 2020 destination goals are instrumental in informing our work in the community: –M  easurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing hunger and childhood obesity by 50%. – Make a positive impact on the lives of 100 million youth through our volunteer, community and signature programs. Primary Focus Core competencies: As a food company, Campbell is uniquely positioned to target hunger relief and childhood obesity. By focusing on our core competencies, we can institute change both through community programming and our brands. Each year, we partner with the National Association of Letter Carriers on Stamp Out Hunger, the largest single-day food drive in the U.S., collecting more than 70 million pounds of food in one day from generous Americans across the country. Focused diligence: We know we don’t have all the answers. Like with any other community strategy, finding all the right partners and the right approach takes time. By setting our destination goal and starting in Camden, New Jersey, where Campbell is headquartered, we are learning what it will really take to reduce hunger and childhood obesity by 50% in 10 years. By focusing on one community, we are efficiently building the foundation of a program that can be adapted to other Campbell communities in the future with the potential of impacting thousands of youth across the country. Innovation: We realize that writing regular checks and providing willing volunteers is not enough to answer our planet’s most pressing societal needs. We must develop innovative solutions. Campbell employees developed Just Peachy, a shelf-stable peach salsa which utilizes excess peaches which are nutritionally sound, but not suitable for sale. The salsa saves one local farmers cooperative some of its $80,000 in annual dumping fees and creates a sustainable revenue stream for the Food Bank of South Jersey. One hundred percent of the proceeds generated from the sale of Just Peachy support the food bank and its nine hunger relief programs. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 45 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Supporting Volunteerism Providing enthusiastic and passionate employee volunteers to local nonprofit organizations to make positive changes in our hometown communities We consider our collaboration with nonprofit agencies as true partnerships that go beyond grants and in-kind support. Each year, enthusiastic and dedicated employees across the globe provide more than 22,000 hours of volunteer service to those in need in their local communities. From starting a food pantry to collecting gifts for the holidays, the impact of Campbell volunteers is felt across all regions where Campbell has operations. The Role of Employee Engagement Team volunteer events are a great way to engage our employees across departments. While these events happen year-round, more than 2,600 employees across the country make a special effort to participate in Make a Difference Week, Campbell’s annual week of volunteer service. In FY2012, Campbell employees worked with more than 25 agencies, donating nearly 4,000 service hours at 90 events across various Campbell and Pepperidge Farm communities. National Make a Difference Day, which Campbell has participated in for the past 22 years, grew to Make a Difference Week in 2007, because Campbell employees were looking for more turnkey opportunities to volunteer during the workday. Participation in the week has doubled each year since its expansion. In FY2012, employees, including Campbell CEO Denise Morrison and her leadership team, served lunch and led physical activity programming for more than 160 Camden youth, gleaned 5,000 pounds of apples for donation at local farms and resurfaced a youth baseball field among other projects primarily focused on building healthy communities. In Norwalk, Connecticut, more than 250 Pepperidge Farm employees spent a day renovating the new warehouse space of Christian Community Action, Norwalk’s largest food pantry. Employees painted the interior and exterior of the warehouse, cleaned, stocked newly constructed shelves with food and built bench seating. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 46 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Dollars for Doers Encouraging employee volunteerism and recognizing volunteer service Campbell employees are encouraged to volunteer during the workday, as well as on their own time. Our Dollars for Doers program recognizes and further supports these efforts by providing grant funding to community nonprofits, based on the service hours of employees. These hours are tracked in our Nourishing Our Neighbors portal, an online tool that captures volunteer hours, service projects, community events and more. In FY2012, Campbell employees throughout the U.S. and Canada volunteered more than 22,300 hours at more than 312 organizations. According to values put forth by the Independent Sector, a leadership forum for charities, foundations and corporate giving programs committed to advancing the common good, the estimated worth of Campbell employees’ service time in FY2012 was more than $480,000. Employee volunteerism is supported financially through the Dollars for Doers program. For every 25 hours volunteered, eligible nonprofit organizations receive a $500 grant. In FY2012, 209 Dollars for Doers grants were distributed totaling $247,000 in support of individual and team volunteer efforts of employees and retirees across 18 locations in the U.S. Volunteering with Strategic Focus Focusing on making the biggest possible measurable impact in our designated goal areas We recognize that to make long-lasting, sustainable change in areas such as hunger relief, childhood obesity and positive impacts to youth, financial support alone will not suffice. To complement our financial support, Campbell volunteers consistently utilize their passion, skills and talents to leverage Campbell’s core competencies as a food company to drive impactful change with key community partners. Norwalk: Kids Summer Backpack Program In the summer of 2012, employees at Pepperidge Farm headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, continued the city’s first-ever Kids Summer Backpack Program in collaboration with United Way and the Connecticut Food Bank. Throughout this initiative, 177 children who qualify for free and reduced-cost meals during the school year received backpacks full of food each week during the summer months. More than 2,000 backpacks have been distributed to date in the second year of this three-year program. Everett: Meals for Seniors Our employees work together to combat hunger in their local communities. In Everett, Washington, a group of plant employees delivered meals twice a week to needy seniors in their local community through Meals on Wheels with Senior Services of Snohomish County. Camden: Salvaging Fresh Produce At our World Headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, employees visit local farms to glean fresh produce, not perfect for sale, but ripe for donation. In an average visit to a farm, employees salvage approximately 5,000 pounds of desirable produce such as apples, sweet potatoes, collard greens and more. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 47 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Campbell’s Commitment: Feeding America In most areas where Campbell has a facility, there is a steady volunteer partnership with the local Feeding America food bank. Employees assist with projects ranging from sorting food and packing kids packs and senior boxes, to building storage capability and assisting with capacity building through board service. Campbell’s South Plainfield, New Jersey, spice plant closed its facility for an entire day so employees could participate in an event at the Community Food Bank of New Jersey. In FY2012, nearly 5,000 hours were volunteered for Feeding America food banks and their member agencies. Impacting Local Youth The Hispanic Network de Campbell created the Volunteers Engaging Neighbors program with St. Anthony of Padua School in Camden, New Jersey, designed to help Spanish-speaking families and children adjust to the American school system through tutoring, English as a second language classes, and financial literacy education. In Napoleon, Ohio, volunteers help local schoolchildren with reading skills as part of a mentoring program. In Everett, Washington, employees volunteer with the local Boys & Girls Club in organizing recreational activity for the youth. Campbell People: Deb Garwood’s Story For Deb Garwood, volunteering for the Ronald McDonald House of Southern New Jersey means more than just contributing to a cause she believes in. Deb’s relationship with the Ronald McDonald House began in 2004 in Wilmington, Delaware, where the organization provided a “home away from home” for Deb’s family during her son’s cancer treatment. Upon returning to work later that year, Deb reached out to the Ronald McDonald House with a determination to give back to the organization and help other families facing the same issues she did. When Deb’s team in Consumer Affairs heard her heartfelt story, they decided to make her initiative a group effort and expressed an eagerness to participate. Ever since, Deb has personally volunteered and led the Campbell team in a variety of activities such as preparing meals to adopting families over the holidays. “In addition to benefiting the community and families in need, it also gives our team the opportunity to learn more about each other,” she says. Her most rewarding Ronald McDonald House volunteering experience was the House’s annual fundraiser, the Plane Pull, an event in which teams of volunteers are charged with moving a Boeing 737 in the shortest time. The event symbolized the different pieces of her life — her coworkers, family and friends — pulling together to reach a common goal. Through the efforts of Deb and her colleagues, the Ronald McDonald House received $6,000 in Dollars for Doers grants based on their service time in FY2012. Deb associates strongly with Campbell’s commitment to the community and corporate social responsibility. “It’s a beautiful thing when your personal mission and your employer’s goals can fit together,” she says. FOCUS FORWARD Extend community programming at World Headquarters in Camden to global locations. We have seen great success with community initiatives in Camden. The next step will be to tailor and extend them to our global locations to make them more automated and sustainable. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 48 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Giving Providing support to local communities through monetary and in-kind donations Campbell provides financial support to organizations serving our local communities through a range of programs including: – The Campbell Soup Foundation and the Arnott’s Foundation • Dollars for Doers • Matching Gifts to Education – Employee giving campaigns – Tax incentive programs – Disaster relief campaigns FISCAL YEAR 2012 Global Giving In-Kind: $32,125,609* Cause Marketing: $3,128,500 Employee Giving: $1,193,644 Foundation: $1,761,765 Corporate Donations: $2,416,789 Total: $40,626,307** *Product donation decrease in FY2012 is primarily due to a reduction in customer reimbursements through the reclamation process **Includes cash, foundation, employee giving, cause marketing and in-kind Foundation The Campbell Soup Foundation The Campbell Soup Foundation is the primary philanthropic arm of the Campbell Soup Company in the U.S. communities where we operate, providing financial support to institutions working on the ground to positively impact local community residents, especially children. Particular emphasis is placed on Campbell’s hometown and birthplace, Camden, New Jersey, consistently cited as one of the poorest and most dangerous cities in America. Campbell works with more than 100 local nonprofit organizations in the greater Southern New Jersey and Philadelphia communities to erase this grim reputation and work to meet the needs of Camden residents. The Campbell Soup Foundation provided more than $1.5 million in grants to partner organizations in FY2012 with nearly $1 million dedicated to agencies serving the Camden community. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 49 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Our primary focus is on supporting organizations working to build healthy communities and working to create positive impacts on youth. The Foundation’s signature initiative is its Summer Program, which has provided 8,000 Camden youth annually with constructive summer activities for the past 38 years. The Summer Program focuses on academics, recreation, arts and culture and job training activities. Our partners include: Boys & Girls Club of Camden County Works with youth through its Healthy Habits project to manage and maintain a vegetable and herb garden while learning about healthy eating. Camden City Garden Club Provides employment and job training in the horticultural field to Camden youth ages 14-24. Girl Scouts of Camden County Provides a week-long summer camp experience for Camden girls including swimming, archery, outdoor cooking and other activities. Legacy Youth Tennis and Education Develops life skills through tennis instruction. Rails to Trails Conservancy Teaches Camden youth about bicycling and encourages them to become ambassadors and users of Camden’s “trail” network. The Campbell Soup Foundation, while primarily focused on our hometown of Camden, also provides grants to organizations serving more than 20 communities where we have operations. In FY2012, 119 grants were awarded in support of Campbell communities. Examples include: Good Sports (OH and CT) Provides brand new sports equipment to elementary schools in under-served neighborhoods. Christian Community Action (CT) Supported the renovation of a new warehouse facility to house Norwalk’s largest feeding program In addition to direct grant giving, the Campbell Soup Foundation also manages and funds several employee charitable programs including Dollars for Doers, Matching Gifts to Education and United Way employee giving campaigns. The Dollars for Doers program supports and recognizes employee volunteer efforts and distributed 209 grants in FY2012 totaling $247,000, a record for the program. The Matching Gifts to Education program matches gifts made to institutions of higher education, granting approximately $130,000 annually. In FY2012, the Campbell Soup Foundation provided more than $592,000 in matching grants to employee giving campaigns at 16 Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations in the U.S. Arnott’s Foundation The employee-funded Arnott’s Foundation was founded in 2004 with the distinct focus on creating positive environments that allow Australian families to build, maintain and enjoy a better quality of life. The main beneficiary of the Arnott’s Foundation is Camp Quality, which works to support the families of children diagnosed with cancer each year. In FY2012, the Arnott’s Foundation provided AU $237,000 to Camp Quality, which funded the Family Camp Program benefitting 700 Australian families. Employee Giving Campbell employees financially support the work of nonprofits in their local community through their annual United Way employee giving campaign. Campbell is the largest giver to the United Way in many of the communities where we operate. In FY2012, 16 Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations hosted giving campaigns, with employees’ contributions totaling $1.17 million. Coupled with a match from the Campbell Soup Foundation, United Way organizations across the country received a total of $1.76 million for the purpose of bringing vital social services to the residents of our local communities. In Australia, employee donations totaling AU $237,000 in FY2012 funded the Arnott’s Foundation whose primary beneficiary is Camp Quality. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 50 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Across all Campbell locations, other employee giving efforts support a variety of employee-led and company-led charitable initiatives, totaling more than $200,000 in donations in FY2012 to organizations such as the American Cancer Society, Feeding America, Prostate Cancer Foundation and more. NRTC Neighborhood Revitalization Tax Credit Program (NRTC) Beyond investing in social service agencies, Campbell works with community development centers in Camden on citywide revitalization efforts. Through the Neighborhood Revitalization Tax Credit Program, Campbell has funded neighborhood plans in Camden, New Jersey, since 2008. In FY2012, Campbell provided $700,000 in support of two neighborhood plans in the city: –C entral Camden: $620,000 in support of the Haddon Avenue facade improvement program and urban agricultural demo farm in Parkside; and –N orth Camden: $80,000 in support of expanded recreation activities at Northgate Park and ongoing housing redevelopment in North Camden. Neighborhood EAST CAMDEN Revitalization Tax Credit $396,156 Program Funding in • Cramer Hill CDC Camden, NJ NORTH CAMDEN FY2008–FY2012 $1,153,504 • Respond, Inc NORTH EAST • Camden Lutheran Housing • Hopeworks ’N Camden • Save Our Waterfront • Y of Burlington and Camden Counties CENTRAL CENTRAL CAMDEN $2,031,619 • Parkside Business and Community in Partnership SOUTH • Cooper University Hospital Foundation • St. Joseph’s Carpenter Society • Habitat for Humanity SOUTH CAMDEN $1,132,000 • Heart of Camden These investments in FY2012 bring the total invested through the NRTC program since 2008 to $4.7 million in support of Camden neighborhood plans and citywide revitalization efforts. neighbors-revitalization Disaster Relief In FY2013, Hurricane Sandy made landfall on New Jersey’s coastline, just 60 miles from Campbell’s hometown of Camden, New Jersey. Campbell responded to the superstorm with a $50,000 contribution to the American Red Cross in support of emergency aid and an additional $100,000 to the NJ Governor’s Relief Fund to support long-term recovery efforts. Product donations totaling more than $80,000 were made to American Red Cross shelters and Feeding America food banks in the affected regions. Campbell employees in Camden also designated more than $100,000 in United Way contributions to a longterm recovery fund set up in partnership with the American Red Cross. In FY2011, a trio of disasters hit the Asia-Pacific region, including flooding in Queensland, Australia; an earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand; and an earthquake and tsunami in Japan. A series of devastating tornadoes also hit the U.S. heartland. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 51 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Campbell responded to each of these disasters with product and cash donations as well as overwhelming support from Campbell employees worldwide. –C ampbell Japan provided JPY 1,000,000 to the Red Cross and JPY 8 million worth of product to Food Bank Japan and directly to earthquake victims. Our employees served hot meals directly to those in affected regions in the days after the disaster. –F ollowing the Queensland flooding, Campbell Arnott’s provided AU $100,000 to the Queensland Premier Flood Appeal and pallets of product to Foodbank Australia. – In response to the Christchurch earthquake, Campbell Arnott’s provided AU $90,000 worth of product to the Salvation Army. Globally, Campbell employees donated $60,000 to the Asia-Pacific disasters, which was matched dollar-for-dollar by Campbell and the Campbell Soup Foundation, to local Red Cross organizations in the affected areas, and the American Red Cross, Shelter Box, Doctors Without Borders and Save the Children in the U.S. In the U.S., Campbell donated more than 136,000 pounds of Select Harvest soup to those affected by the disaster following the tornadoes that hit Missouri, Tennessee, Alabama and Georgia. Achieving Lasting Social Impact Making a measurable impact in the areas of hunger relief, childhood obesity and positive impacts to youth At Campbell, we know that in order to make a lasting impact toward hunger relief and childhood obesity, we need to embrace our core competencies, execute with focused diligence and take an innovative approach to finding real world solutions. Product Donations We know we cannot solve the hunger issue on our own. Therefore, we work closely with national organizations such as Feeding America. In FY2012, Campbell donated more than $32 million worth of product in support of the efforts of 25,000 charitable organizations throughout the U.S. Support was primarily of Feeding America food banks and their member agencies. Additionally, more product was distributed through ongoing product reclamation efforts. Campbell Arnott’s contributed $1.8 million worth of product to Foodbank Australia in 2012, totaling approximately 1.7 million units of biscuits, soup, stock and juice. In addition, Campbell Japan contributed JPY $4.8 million worth of product to Second Harvest Japan. Just Peachy In FY2012, the Food Bank of South Jersey, a Feeding America food bank, was struggling to meet the increased demand for their services from more than 171,000 food insecure residents in Southern NJ. Meanwhile, Eastern Pro Pak Farmers Cooperative was dumping 800,000 pounds of nutritionally sound, but undersized and slightly blemished peaches annually, at a cost of $80,000. From that, a peach of an idea, Just Peachy salsa, was born. A team of Campbell employees developed the recipe and donated the manufacturing expertise and facility, Eastern Pro Pak provided the peaches and ten Campbell suppliers donated packaging and ingredients. The result was 42,000 jars of Just Peachy salsa which were sold in 25 retail outlets across Southern NJ, creating a sustainable revenue stream for the food bank. One hundred percent of the proceeds generated supported the Food Bank of South Jersey and its nine hunger relief programs. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 52 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Campbell and Food Banks Canada continued their comprehensive multiyear partnership to support hunger relief across Canada through the donation of one million pounds of nutritious food, charitable funds, educational resources and capacity-building programs. Through FY2012, more than 350,000 cans of Nourish, a nutrient-dense, “meal in a can,” developed by Campbell Canada employees for direct donation, have been donated throughout Canada, the Canadian North and internationally to Haitian refugees living in the Dominican Republic. In addition, a purchase program through Food Banks Canada, the nation’s largest food collection and distribution agency, allows Canadian food banks to purchase the product at a minimal charitable rate. In total in FY2012, Campbell donated more than $32 million worth of product to organizations that distributed it to those in need across the globe. Stamp Out Hunger For the past 20 years, Campbell has partnered with the National Association of Letter Carriers and Feeding America on Stamp Out Hunger, the nation’s largest single-day food drive. Residents from across the country are invited to leave bags of nonperishable food items outside their mailboxes, which are then collected by the nation’s 210,000 letter carriers and delivered to local food banks. Campbell works to promote household awareness through the distribution of direct mail postcards, donation bags and an exhaustive social media and public relations campaign. Campbell also kicks off the drive each yearby donating one million pounds of food to the effort. In FY2012, the food drive generated 70.5 million pounds of food, bringing the total collected since the drive’s inception to 1.2 billion pounds. This also marked the ninth consecutive year donation totals have topped 70 million pounds. Fill the Food Banks In FY2012, Campbell Canada partnered for a second year with Shaw Communications’ Fill the Food Banks national campaign. The goal of the program was to raise hunger awareness, donate food and raise funds for registered food banks before the start of the winter season to meet the needs of the nearly 900,000 Canadians that go to bed hungry each night. Consumers were asked to participate in fundraising events and get involved online, where Campbell Canada matched You Tube views with donations as part of their one million pound annual commitment to Food Banks Canada. Results included CDN $635,000 in funds and 1.25 million pounds of food collected in addition to hunger awareness generated through 300,000 YouTube views and 18.5 million media impressions. Help Hunger Disappear Now in its fifth year, Campbell Canada’s Help Hunger Disappear program encourages Canadians to get involved and make donations to their local food banks. This annual spring hunger campaign is timed with National Hunger Awareness Day to drive contributions when they are needed most. In partnership with key retail partners, the program has evolved to include an in-store display of the word HUNGER built out of Campbell’s soup cans from which shoppers are encouraged to remove a can until HUNGER disappears. In addition, more than CDN $100,000 in cash contributions and CDN $78,000 in food donations were contributed by participating shoppers throughout the campaign. Campbell contributed CDN $75,000 to the effort. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 53 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Let’s Can Hunger Campbell is a strategic partner with Enactus (formerly Students in Free Enterprise), a nonprofit organization that unites a global community of student, academic and business leaders committed to using the power of entrepreneurial action to transform lives and enable real human progress. In FY2012, collegiate members of SIFE teamed with Campbell for a fourth year on an initiative called Let’s Can Hunger, a series of competitions in which participating teams developed creative solutions for urgent and lasting hunger relief and building awareness about the hunger issue. In the 2011-2012 academic year, the challenge included participation from 173 teams spanning three countries. These teams exceeded the cumulative goal of collecting 750,000 pounds of food by more than doubling it in FY2012 and benefiting 355 food banks and pantries. The overall winner for the U.S., Northwest Arkansas Community College in Bentonville, AR, coordinated with the Northwest Arkansas Food Bank and other organizations to create a cohesive hunger awareness media campaign, executed 14 food drive events with more than 85,000 pounds of food collected and hosted a series of Cooking Matters classes for children and senior citizens to provide nutrition, cooking and budgeting information. Since the program’s inception, more than 361 million people have been affected by hunger awareness outreach as a result of the effort of more than 9,600 students around the world. Campbell Better Meals Community Kitchen Fund In 2009, Campbell Canada launched the Campbell Better Meals Community Kitchen Fund program to support local food banks across Canada in the development or expansion of a Community Kitchen. The program helps provide food bank clients with the nutrition education and cooking resources they need to make better meals. Over the years, the Campbell Better Meals Community Kitchen Fund provided grants to food banks across Canada. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 54 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Healthy Communities Focusing on our commitment to reducing childhood obesity and hunger through our signature strategic initiative We recognize that childhood obesity is a major health problem in the U.S. Today, more than 30% of our children are overweight or obese, which can lead to future health problems and associated medical and societal costs. Since its inception, Campbell has focused on health in our workplace and healthy options in our product portfolio. Campbell Healthy Camden In assessing the needs of our communities and our unique strengths as a company, we set a destination goal to help improve the health of young people in our communities by reducing childhood obesity and hunger by 50% by 2020. In 2011, we formally launched our Campbell Healthy Communities program in our home of Camden, New Jersey. We announced a commitment of $10 million over 10 years in support of our goal and hired a Director of Healthy Communities to drive our efforts in Camden and other North American Campbell communities. Our initial efforts are focused at five pilot sites in Camden, a city of 78,000 residents, 23,000 children, one full-size grocery store, 160 bodegas and significantly higher levels of childhood obesity and hunger than the national average. Our strategy focuses on four areas: 1. Access to nutritious and fresh foods; 2. Access to safe places to play, exercise and walk; 3. Nutrition education — prenatal to adult; and 4. Building public will within the community to advance real solutions. As a food company with a healthy portfolio of products, we are uniquely positioned to participate in the creation of an accessible and equitable food system in our community. We are doing this by constantly leveraging our expertise, integrating nutrition education throughout our program strategies and engaging the community within all aspects of our work. Despite our expertise and resources, overall success will require a collective impact approach. We have assembled a group of representatives from different sectors that express a long-term commitment to our common agenda for solving the obesity and hunger issues facing our community, including: – The Y of Burlington and Camden Counties Food Bank of South Jersey Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers The Food Trust Camden Children’s Garden Greensgrow Farms Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission The Reinvestment Fund Center for Hunger Free Communities US Soccer Foundation Our goal is to serve as a catalyst by identifying opportunities for long-term systemic change in Camden by inviting participation from other institutional donors, as well as ownership by community partners, throughout the city. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 55 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS Some of the current elements of this program include: Promoting the introduction and uptake of healthy food choices in 25 corner stores throughout Camden; Providing child, family and adult cooking classes to teach menu planning, smart shopping, basic cooking skills and food safety; Implementing the Coordinated Approach to Child Health (“C.A.T.C.H.”) “train the trainer” model to institute 30 minutes of daily physical activity four days a week during the school day; Implementing the Pregnancy, Parenting Partners program to promote prenatal/well child visits focused on nutrition education; Promoting organized urban gardening on vacant, city-owned lots to increase access to healthy produce; and Expanding availability of seasonal produce at reasonable prices produced by local farmers, while accepting WIC, SNAP and senior coupons via mobile markets. While the program has just completed its first year, the collective work is having impacts across Camden. Highlights from the first year include: Provided 6.5 million minutes of physical activity to 1,400 Camden youth; Decreased number of injuries and behavior incidents in participating schools; Created 28 new sites for healthy food access in Camden; Provided more than 12,700 residents access to healthy, affordable foods in their neighborhoods; Serviced 850 Camden residents through mobile farmer’s markets; Provided 25,260 minutes of nutrition education to children in Camden; Provided cooking classes to 391 children and their families where 73% of participants continue to put their new knowledge into practice at home; and Leveraged an additional $1 million in funds invested into Camden as a result of the Healthy Communities program and its partners. In 2013, we expect to continue to advance the program in Camden, while building modules transferable to other Campbell communities. We also plan to have baseline BMI and food security outcome measures complete for Camden in 2013. Campbell Healthy Norwalk (Project L.E.A.N.) In Norwalk, Connecticut, hometown of Pepperidge Farm, childhood obesity approximates 40%, which exceeds the national rate of 30%, and yet, until recently, no program to address this crisis existed. Pepperidge Farm invited a diverse group of community stakeholders to join us in developing a new approach to this challenge. These stakeholders, including Pepperidge Farm, the Norwalk Hospital, the Norwalk Health Department and Jefferson Elementary School, formed an alliance that was a first for the city. Each partner brought a unique set of skills and resources that resulted in very effective and productive team approach to attacking this critical social issue. In a matter of four months, the team designed and implemented the Learning with Energy from Activity and Nutrition (L.E.A.N.) project. Project L.E.A.N. is a three-year pilot program designed to teach a targeted group of elementary students at Jefferson School the importance of good nutrition and regular physical activity. The program is designed for second graders who will be tracked for three consecutive years. Some of the current elements of this program include: –C lassroom education and exercise led by a dietician from Norwalk Hospital to promote good nutrition, healthy eating behaviors and physical activity; –A before-school “Breakfast Boot Camp” to provide students with 45 minutes of guided physical activity followed by a healthy breakfast; and –P arent engagement sessions, which are scheduled throughout the school year, to drive parent engagement and investment in Project L.E.A.N. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 56 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS In order to measure the success of the program, preandpost data is collected at the beginning and end of the school year, including BMI measures. Specifically, participating students are asked to complete a preandpost questionnaire designed to assess their knowledge, attitudes and behaviors toward healthy eating and being physically active. Two years into the program, the results are very encouraging. There has been consistent improvement in the test students’ knowledge, attitudes and behaviors toward eating healthy foods and being active. Parental feedback continues to be extremely supportive, absentee rate for the class is down and BMI results reveal an increase in the percentage of students with a “healthy” BMI. FOCUS FORWARD Broaden our Campbell’s Healthy Camden Program to focus on a citywide food system, while also becoming a key player and convener of city and state officials, nonprofit organizations and others advocating for a food system plan to make nutritious, high-quality food accessible to everyone in Camden. Positive Impacts to Youth Increasing the availability and success of positive activities for local youth Integral to Campbell’s goal of impacting the lives of 100 million youth over 10 years is a breadth of programming aimed at improving education, health and well-being. This programming is managed by the Campbell Soup Foundation and includes consumer initiatives and beyond. Summer Program In 1975, the Campbell Soup Foundation created the Summer Program, an initiative to support safe, constructive summertime activities for underserved Camden youth. The Foundation has distributed more than $17 million in grants over 38 years to nonprofit organizations that offer summer activities in the areas of arts and culture, education, career exploration and recreation, servicing approximately 543,000 youth since the Summer Program’s inception. The Foundation annually contributes approximately $385,000 to 18 organizations during the Summer Program. Team Extreme Pepperidge Farm continues to partner with the NBA and star players such as Dwayne Wade, Tony Parker and Al Horford to engage youth across the country in fun, active play. To participate, youth simply have to join Team Extreme online, play outside and log their hours for a chance to win great prizes. The Team Extreme Website Play Center is the hub where kids can go to learn about a variety of active games to play outside. Team Extreme currently has more than 88,000 active members who have logged and tracked 537,000 hours of playtime in FY2012. Labels for Education The Labels for Education program, which provides educational supplies for the redemption of eligible product labels, has awarded more than $118 million in equipment and supplies to thousands of schools across the U.S. and Canada since its inception in 1973. The program is registered in more than 60,000 schools, with approximately 30,000 active participants. In FY2012, the program continued its relationships with other manufacturers such as Pop Secret products, Post cereals, Emerald nuts, BIC stationery products, Glad food storage and Dannon kids yogurts, increasing the number of items eligible for distribution in the program from 1,500 to more than 2,500. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 57 03 / NOURISHING OUR NEIGHBORS E-Labels for Education The new e-labels initiative allows shoppers at supermarkets like Kroger, SuperValu, Safeway, Wakefern, Price Chopper and Giant Eagle to register their frequent shopper cards and designate a beneficiary school. Each time they purchase an item from an eligible manufacturer, the labels automatically get banked to the chosen school’s account, making clipping labels easier than ever. This new process allows youth and families to tap into their extended networks to support local schools and increase the number of opportunities for deserving schools to receive educational equipment they need. In FY2012, 37,000 schools received e-labels from more than 259,000 registered shopper cards. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 58 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Nourishing Our Employees Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 59 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Overview Creating a work environment based on trust that encourages innovation, rewards results and embodies our values At Campbell, we know that our long-term success depends on our ability to maximize shareowner value. We also know that to do this, we must create a work environment based on trust that encourages innovation, rewards results and embodies our values. Past Year’s Highlights – Launched Virtual Interviewing 1 – Honored by the National Business Group on Health as one of the Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles Inspire 6 2 – Provided $1.2 million in tuition assistance Trust worldwide Produce Create Our Leadership Model Extraordinary Direction Results Campbell’s culture will continue to be shaped by our Leadership Model, which outlines essential Our behaviors every Campbell employee is expected to know and demonstrate. “Inspire trust” anchors Leadership this model because we believe trust is at the core Model 5 3 of everything we do. From respecting each other to taking responsibility for one’s own actions, trust Execute Drive is a crucial component of our culture. with Organization 4 As we move forward, we are focusing on creating Excellence Alignment a high-performance culture that embodies Our Build Values of Character, Competence and Teamwork. Organization Vitality Our Values Character Competence Teamwork Inspiring trust Building a learning Working together and organization with diverse operating as “One Team Acting with integrity perspectives Plus” with an enterpriseTaking personal wide mindset responsibility and driving Developing new capabilities to drive growth and our future with optimism innovation Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 60 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Our Commitment to the Campbell Culture Campbell’s commitment to nourishing the culture of our Company is embodied in The Way We Work, which focuses on our desire to build a safe, diverse, inclusive, engaged and socially responsible workplace that delivers business results with integrity. We want The Way We Work to be more than a slogan for our employees. To start off, each employee must set at least one individual objective that furthers our collective efforts to build and maintain such a workplace during the annual Performance Management process. The Way We Work Building a safe, diverse, inclusive, engaged and socially responsible workplace that delivers business results with integrity While we are continually looking for ways to leverage Campbell’s world-class engagement to drive sustainable business results, we believe employees feel most valued when they are: – Recognized and celebrated for their contributions – Well-informed and aligned with how their work connects to the Company’s overall goals and plans – Encouraged to bring their uniqueness to work each day – Engaged in an ongoing dialogue that encourages the sharing and challenging of ideas The Campbell’s Foodservice U.S. Retail Perimeter team earned the 2012 Dorrance Award, Campbell’s highest honor Celebrating, Informing & Engaging Employees Employees want to know that what they do matters — that their work adds value and furthers our Company’s mission. Here’s a sampling of our programs in place, all designed to ensure Campbell employees are engaged and celebrated. Recognition for Driving Business Performance Campbell prides itself on celebrating employees throughout the year in many formal and informal ways. Our premier recognition event is the Extraordinary Performance Awards (EPA). During this annual ceremony, individual employees and teams are recognized for results that directly support our business strategies, Leadership Model and Values. The highlight of the ceremony is always the presentation of the Dr. John T. Dorrance Award, which recognizes outstanding business results and breakthrough thinking. This award, established in 1994, is bestowed upon a business team and honors exemplary performance in the marketplace. This award is the highest honor at Campbell’s annual Extraordinary Performance Awards. Though the signature event is held in Camden, New Jersey, employees come from all parts of the world to be recognized and to congratulate their colleagues. Yossi Murdefi, Director — Research and Development and Quality Assurance, accepted the Leading with Integrity Award from Gareth Edgecombe, President of Asia Pacific Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 61 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Many business units and functions, such as our sales company and Asia Pacific region, hold similar events. To incorporate local “flavor,” Asia Pacific includes a unique Leading with Integrity Award that honors Campbell Arnott’s leaders who consistently exemplify integrity, character, competence and teamwork. Celebrating the Contributions of Others An online recognition program allows employees to thank one another for making a difference. Make a Difference (MAD) award recipients receive a gift card and a certificate to display in their work areas. In 2012, over 2,541 MAD awards were granted. Competition to Spur Innovation 2012 Pepperidge Farm Innovation Fair winners The annual Pepperidge Farm Innovation Fair is an opportunity for employees to submit their best and brightest ideas for new products. Based around a belief that great ideas can come from anywhere, employees from all areas of the company are encouraged to develop concepts that have the potential to be commercialized and continue to drive business growth. Generous cash prizes are awarded to winning ideas, especially those that make it to market, such as the tasty seasonal Pepperidge Farm Pumpkin Swirl bread. At the most recent fair, employees were challenged to come up with new concepts for the snack category. Entries flooded in from around the world, including ideas from teams in Australia and Malaysia. Hundreds of people attend the Fair to view the fantastic ideas, taste samples and vote for their favorite. Meaningful and Timely Company News Campbell recognizes that constant communication is critical to employee engagement and empowerment. We make it a point to connect employees at all levels of the organization to what’s going on inside and outside the Company. From business results to employee volunteer efforts and events, Campbell employees receive meaningful information through a variety of vehicles, including our online publication — Campbell Today — and quarterly Employee Forums that give employees the opportunity to hear directly from our CEO and other senior leaders about company strategies and financial performance. At the local level, employees rely on updates from their managers during team meetings and shift huddles. This cascade of information helps ensure employees know what’s happening, how it impacts them, what they need to do and how their work fits into the larger picture. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 62 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Extraordinary Workplace Creating a workplace that nourishes employees’ unique goals and aspirations for their health, finances, life and career Campbell strives to create a workplace that treats people with respect, gives them the tools and resources to progress in their careers, provides competitive compensation, and offers access to benefits and programs that help them maintain and enhance their overall health — physically, mentally and financially. We recognize that it’s all connected. And we know that in order to help employees be at their best, we need to deliver employee-centric programs that are meaningful and support them in achieving their own unique goals. We take a holistic approach to wellness that encompasses physical health, mental well-being and financial security now and in the future. Wellness Wheel Your Health We strive to make it easy for employees to nourish their health by providing integrated and targeted initiatives. For example, employees can visit our Your on-site Health Station Tour for a biometric screening and receive on-the-spot Health health coaching. Employees can then use that to complete our Online Health Assessment, which also connects them to relevant resources to help manage their unique health risks and take advantage of relevant Campbell health and wellness programs. This is an initiative by our voluntary Medical Decision Your Your Support™ program, which provides free, independent and expert advice on a Life Wellness Finances broad array of medical topics. Your Finances Our 401(k) plan allows U.S. employees to save for retirement through automatic payroll contributions, while earning a Company match. Your Competitive Compensation Future Campbell offers competitive pay that is market-based and performancedriven. As part of our annual Performance Management process, employees are evaluated and rewarded both on what they do (the results they create) and how they do it (demonstration of Campbell’s leadership model behaviors). Your Future employees-wellness We encourage employees to continually focus on health and financial goals. We promote available resources throughout the year, utilizing our benefits newsletter, online resources and digital signage displayed throughout the workplace. Most recently, we piloted a well-received Financial Education Workshop series aimed at helping U.S. employees understand their personal finances and how to better prepare for retirement. Ninety-three percent of program participants agreed that the workshop increased their financial planning knowledge. Your Life To assist employees with balancing their work and personal commitments, Campbell offers a number of resources, along with Flexible Work Arrangements. For example, Your Life Resources provides 24-hour support and counseling for U.S. employees looking for help with things such as parenting, legal issues and self-improvement. Stress management resources also are provided through multiple channels, including Your Life Resources, online coaching modules and Medical Decision Support™ personalized kits mailed to employees’ homes. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 63 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Flexibility at Work Rebecca Bagin, Vice President of Human Resources, doesn’t just help administer our Flexibility policy. As an employee, she was able to take advantage of a compressed work week to pursue a master’s degree in Organization Dynamics at the University of Pennsylvania, a personal goal that we are proud to have helped her reach. Rebecca Bagin Vice President of Human Resources A Culture of Health We believe that employee involvement in our health and wellness programs is driven by the inherent value and relevance of the programs. We work to promote personal wellness and create a culture of health built on a foundation of education, strong benefits design, leadership support at all levels (from the C-suite to line management) and employee involvement on an individual and group basis. We use a variety of incentives and recognition, along with the competitiveness of our sites, to help engage employees in healthy behaviors. Some examples include: Identifying Health Risks We provide numerous opportunities for employees to earn gift cards by WHAT OUR EMPLOYEES taking active roles in their preventive healthcare, e.g., completing a Health  SAY ABOUT... Assessment, taking action based on those results and having the highest site Medical Decision Support™ participation rate. “The information they sent to me was Making Informed Decisions invaluable... just simple changes such as Access to independent, expert, personalized and confidential information a different sleeping position, exercises is available through Consumers Medical Resources via our Medical Decision done every day, just lifestyle changes in Support™ (MDS™) program. Employees can also earn a $200 gift card for general have really made a tremendous taking the time to get informed prior to making treatment decisions for some difference...” elective surgeries. Recognizing and Celebrating Health Success Our Healthy Lifestyle award recognizes employees for practicing healthy behaviors and positively influencing others. Overall winners receive a cash prize, a gift basket of healthy Campbell products, and recognition at a quarterly Employee Forum. Talent Management & Development Campbell believes that employees are more engaged and perform better when they know how their work relates to the bigger picture and understand what resources are available to help them develop. This year, Campbell launched a new global talent management system. This online system allows employees to enter personal objectives, view feedback and insights from their manager, and create and track an individual development plan based on their own unique career aspirations and skills. The system also provides leaders with real-time data that helps inform key talent decisions around compensation, succession, global mobility and development investments. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 64 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Building a Learning Organization We recognize that development is a long-term commitment with great rewards and, therefore, develop our talent through diverse experiences, feedback, coaching, and learning programs. To do this, we organize our development efforts around four areas: All Employees Offerings focused on increasing personal effectiveness skills are available to all employees. Courses include presentation skill-building and how to effectively create an individual development plan. Managers Offerings designed to enhance manager quality are available, with topics including change management, managing performance and coaching. Leadership Offerings focused on enhancing company leadership capability are available Campbell University offers our to select leadership groups with courses like STARS, which provides a diverse global workforce the ability to logical, consistent, iterative process for analyzing and addressing significant learn and grow in a variety of ways, problems and opportunities. including: Functional – Classroom-based courses These offerings are designed to increase employees’ knowledge and skills – Webinars within a specialized function, such as marketing or finance. – Podcasts Enhancing Manager Quality – Self-paced e-learning options Managers play a pivotal role in employee engagement and overall In 2012, Campbell provided $1.2 million performance and are in a position to “make or break” the employee’s worldwide in tuition assistance to help relationship with Campbell each and every day. Campbell believes it is eligible employees complete courses at essential that they have the skills and resources necessary to do their accredited schools. jobs well. To that end, over the last several years, Campbell has focused on building manager capability in key areas, including selecting talent, coaching and managing performance. This helps create a common language throughout the organization, and also ensures a common employee experience no matter where someone is located. Our newest offering — The Campbell Way for Managing new manager program — is a mix of classroom and virtual learning. This six-month course is designed to clarify the expectations of a Campbell manager, allow new managers to practice effective people management skills, and create a “network” of new managers who can help each other after the program ends. FOCUS FORWARD Our focus on Manager Quality helps ensure managers not only complete training but are also putting those new skills, processes and approaches to work within their teams. Doing so builds engagement, productivity and a better overall working environment. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 65 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Diversity & Inclusion Striving to create an inclusive environment, rich in diverse people, talent and ideas to fuel our growth and create a high performance culture driven by engaged employees We define diversity as “the similarities and unique differences of individuals in the workplace, marketplace and community” and inclusion as “an extraordinary place to be, where every voice is heard, you can be who you aspire to be and our differences make a difference.” We understand that establishing an inclusive global culture is critical to the sustainability and success of our business and to win in a rapidly evolving global marketplace, we must cultivate and embrace a diverse employee population. Our culture is represented by our commitment to The Way We Work. This guiding principal helps ensure that we are an employer and business partner of choice for our customers, consumers, communities and shareowners. Our community of diverse cultures, ideas and voices attracts a talented and engaged workforce, sustains alignment and affinity with consumers, and fosters innovative solutions. Strategic Focus Our Diversity & Inclusion strategy supports our intention to integrate what we know about changing global demographics into all aspects of managing our business. Today, women make up 45% of Campbell’s workforce and people of color make up 35%. While employee representation (including retention and development), is a critical area of focus within our strategy, we believe that the culture of our organization is a key driver in creating and reinforcing a dynamically diverse and inclusive environment. Campbell’s efforts are driven by a robust communications and engagement strategy and further enhanced by partnership, counsel and consultancy across our business. The Asian Network of Campbell (ANC) wins the Business Resource Affinity Networks (BRANs) Diversity Champion Award at the 2012 Extraordinary Performance Awards Our BRANs or Business Resources Affinity Networks are another powerful driver of our efforts. These organizations are employee-led, company supported volunteer organizations, which help us focus outward and connect to an increasingly diverse consumer base. They also help us focus inward by providing opportunities for our employees to impact our business in innovative and creative ways. Campbell supports BRANs because they improve the performance and retention of their members and connect Campbell to consumers, both of which ultimately deliver sustainable business results. We currently have eight BRANs, with each sponsored by a member of our CEO’s Corporate Leadership Team. • The Campbell Administrative Professionals Network (CAPs) strives to build organizational vitality and promote excellence by fostering an environment of trust to leverage the CAPs profession, improve communication, teamwork, professional development and mentoring to The Campbell African American Network (CAAN), featuring Rosalyn Brock, the Chairman of the NAACP attract and retain top level professionals in the field. National Board of Directors on The Importance of Influence Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 66 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES • The Asian Network of Campbell (ANC) is dedicated to helping Campbell meet the needs of consumers and stakeholders better than our competition by leveraging the diversity of its Asian community. • Campbell’s Bridge Network is focused on building an adaptive workplace which fosters trusted cross-functional and generational partnerships as a means to develop talent, fuel innovation and make Campbell the place to be! • The Campbell African American Network (CAAN) is focused on positively impacting our Company’s business results through employee engagement and retention strategies. • The Hispanic Network de Campbell (HNdeC) strives to build organizational Women of Campbell (WOC) International Women’s Day vitality and promote excellence by fostering an environment that event Unleash Your Power acknowledges and leverages the talents, perspectives and leadership of Hispanic employees. • The MAIN (Maxton American Indian Network) is working to build organizational vitality and promote excellence by fostering an environment that acknowledges and leverages the talents, perspectives and leadership of American Indian employees. • The vision of Campbell’s OPEN (Our Pride Employee Network) is to be the catalyst for cultural change and LGBT inclusion, transforming Campbell into the employer and brand of LGBT choice. Their mission is to connect Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender employees and their allies. • The Women of Campbell’s Network (WOC) strives to enable all women of Campbell to achieve and demonstrate their full potential so that Campbell can achieve sustainably good performance. Their legacy is to create an environment of growth, advancement and successful attraction and Members of Our Pride Employee Network (OPEN) accept the WorkLife Matters Top Companies for LGBT retention of female talent. Equality Award on behalf of Campbell Soup Supplier Diversity To operate most effectively in today’s diverse marketplace, we must strive for diversity not only among our employees and consumers, but also in our supply base. Our U.S. supplier diversity mission is to grant diverse suppliers equal access to potential business opportunities in an effort to strengthen our supply base, reflect the markets we serve and promote innovation. Diverse supply chain relationships strengthen our competitive position while contributing to our market share, total shareholder return, and to the quality of life in the communities where we live and work. Simply stated, there is no other way for us to create and effectively market consumer food products in an increasingly multicultural world. We firmly believe that diverse suppliers have a positive impact on our business, consumers and community. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 67 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES U.S. Supplier Diversity Program As our organization continues to be challenged by changing demographics, the supplier diversity program provides a tremendous opportunity to maximize the power of diversity and inclusion to drive superior business results and sustainable competitive advantage. Campbell realizes supplier diversity and business results are inseparable. Our diversity program mission is to foster a rich pool of qualified diverse suppliers that will add value to our business and help us achieve our longterm sustainable growth. Since the program’s inaugural year in FY2006, we have significantly increased our annual spend with womenand minority-owned businesses. In FY2012 Campbell exceeded its supplier diversity goal of $130MM by 2009 – 2012 delivering over $142MM in diverse spend, which is a significant increase over Spending with the previous year’s spend of $128.5MM. Two new diverse suppliers were Diverse Suppliers added in the Indirect category alone. ($ millions) The supplier diversity program focused on four strategic areas: 1. Creation of meaningful category strategies inclusive of supplier diversity 140 142 as a key component; 128.5 119 2. Implementing “Supplier Relationship Management” with key diverse suppliers to help grow their businesses, while better leveraging our spend; 3. Increasing diversity spend in non-discretionary areas; and 4. Growing Direct and Indirect diversity spend to benchmark levels. A key accomplishment during FY2012 was the design and implementation of ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 a new Supplier Diversity Dashboard. This dashboard with automated datafeeds provides a real-time and ready tracker of our diverse spend cube. In FY2012, the Supplier Diversity Team was recognized with an Extraordinary Performance Award. This internal recognition given to the ‘best of best’ projects and teams around the globe, signifies our commitment to supplier diversity and its importance to the success of our business FOCUS FORWARD Our FY2013 goal is to deliver a Tier 1 diverse spend of $145MM. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 68 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Safety Creating a safe environment by eliminating workplace risks and rewarding safe performance Aspiring to Achieve Injury Rates of Zero We know that our journey toward an injury-free workplace requires a commitment from leadership of all levels. Campbell’s Global Safety Leadership Team was created in 2003 to develop and implement a Global Safety Strategic Plan. Our strong safety organization establishes direction and provides leadership in executing our Safety Plan. This plan aims to reduce injuries across all areas of our Company and to deliver world-class safety results. Our Safety Plan includes: – Development and implementation of global safety standards, including technology and online tools that help communicate safety measures clearly and consistently to our global workforce –S  afety training for all of our 11,400 supply chain employees outside of our World Headquarters location, with more than 4,500 of them also receiving OSHA #501 advanced training on ergonomics, preventing slips and falls, and other topics – Annual regional safety conferences to share best practices and develop safety teams – Annual three-day audits of all locations, focusing on programs, conditions and behaviors – Safety recognition at Global Leadership Team meetings and through our Extraordinary Performance Awards We know that to ensure safety in the workplace, our employees must be fully engaged and trained in appropriate safety procedures. Safety systems are embedded into plant operations through employee engagement initiatives such as our Daily Direction Setting process and our Extraordinary Employee Performance Work Systems. Each region within the Campbell organization conducts an annual health and safety conference to build awareness and strengthen the ties between operational safety and workplace wellness. Total Lost-Time Injury Rate Recordable Rate of Injury A lost-time injury is a work-related injury or illness This rate measures significant work-related injuries that results in missed or restricted days of work. and illnesses that result in days away from work, medical care (other than first-aid), or restricted work activity. Food Industry Total Lost-Time Food Industry Recordable Injury Rate Benchmark: 3.5 Rate of Injury Benchmark: 5.6 2.76 2.65 2.64 2.39 .42 .33 .36 .32 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 Benchmark is from Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. 2011 results, published in 2012. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 69 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Results Campbell’s workplace safety performance has exceeded food industry benchmarks for the past four years. For example, the industry averages 3.5 lost-time incidents for every 200,000 hours worked. Our rate is significantly lower. Over the past 10 years, our lost-time incident rate has improved more than 90% from 2.39 to .32. The sustained safety results reflect a culture shift within the Campbell organization toward an injury-free workplace. The Campbell Soup Company occupational injury and illness frequency rate per 200,000 hours for 2012 was 2.39. Campbell experienced no fatalities in FY2012. Recognizing Achievements Beyond tracking and improving injuries and illnesses, we believe it is also important to recognize our employees when they reach important safety milestones. Campbell has implemented the Safety Flag Program to recognize key safety milestones at our locations. This program honors Campbell facilities where safety systems have kept employees safe from lost-time injuries on the job for at least one year or one million work hours. Today, 17 of Campbell’s 30 sites proudly fly the Safety Flag, many with gold Campbell “C”s added for reaching additional million-hour milestones. Additionally, Campbell’s Global Safety Excellence Award recognizes up to three Campbell facilities each year for their ongoing efforts to instill a concern for workplace safety into their cultures. Plants are evaluated based on a number of criteria, including: Demonstrated safety results Sustained safety systems Achieving continued injury reduction Safety leadership Integration of safety systems Employee ownership of safety efforts Winning plants are recognized each year in June, which is marked nationwide as National Safety Month. Past winners include the Pepperidge Farm plant in Willard, Ohio, and the Campbell plant in Maxton, North Carolina FOCUS FORWARD The injury-free journey takes continuous improvement and diligence. Looking to the future, we will strengthen our ability to identify and share best practices and continue to advance the integration of safety and health management practices. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 70 04 / NOURISHING OUR EMPLOYEES Nourishing Our Planet Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 71 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Overview Deepening our commitment to environmental stewardship through strategies focused on reducing the resources we use in the production of our products Campbell’s commitment to sustainability has evolved over more than 140 years into a set of business strategies and goals that will help us reduce our environmental footprint, as well as manage compliance, cost and efficiency. This strategy has kept us focused on providing sustainable solutions — for our business as well as our stakeholders — especially in the areas of sustainable packaging, agriculture, plant operations, logistics and transportation. We take a precautionary approach to the environment by seeking to apply processes or practices with less environmental impact when possible. To integrate these environmental programs throughout our global business operations and ensure they have the biggest impact possible, we have established long-term destination goals and performance targets in six key areas: – Energy – Carbon intensity – Water conservation – Waste management – Sustainable packaging – Sustainable agriculture Goals 2020 Environmental Sustainability Destination Goals Primary –C  ut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half (water and greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions/tonne product produced)* Supporting Reduce energy use by 35%, and source 40% of the electricity used from renewable or alternative energy sources Recycle 95% of waste generated globally Eliminate 100 million pounds of packaging from Campbell products Deliver 100% of global packaging from sustainable materials (renewable, recyclable or from recycled content) Reduce water use per lb. of ingredient by 20% Reduce nitrogen applied per lb. of ingredient by 10% Reduce GHGs per lb. of ingredient by 20% *Relative reduction goals for energy use, water use and waste recycling in our operations are based on a baseline year of FY2008 performance. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 72 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET More than 8.72 8,960,585 4.4 cubic meters of water used mmbtu billion gallons used globally of water saved per tonne since 2008 of food produced 3.29 More than 4.18% mmbtu used 83,000 less GHG per tonne tonnes GHG emitted of food reduced per tonne produced in 2012 of food produced (2012 vs. 2011) 85% 0.015 18.6MM waste recycled tonnes of waste capital investment globally disposed per in environmental tonne of food compliance and produced sustainability in 2012 $ WATER USE WATER USE (CUBIC METER)/ ENERGY USE (GROSS 000 GAL.) TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED (MMBTU) > 4.4 BILLION GALLONS SAVED SINCE 2008 FY 2008 7,829,355 FY 2008 10.33 FY 2008 10,239,864 FY 2009 7,050,749 FY 2009 9.35 FY 2009 10,276,947 FY 2010 6,891,498 FY 2010 9.06 FY 2010 10,154,522 FY 2011 6,671,102 FY 2011 8.72 FY 2011 9,835,859 FY 2012 6,271,102 FY 2012 8.72 FY 2012 8,960,585 ENERGY USE (MMBTU)/ GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) GHG EMISSIONS (TONNE CO2) TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED EMISSIONS (MMTCO2) MORE THAN 83,000 PER TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED TONNES GHG REDUCED IN 2012 FY 2008 3.57 FY 2008 899,537 FY 2008 0.313 FY 2009 3.60 FY 2009 879,084 FY 2009 0.308 FY 2010 3.53 FY 2010 850,376 FY 2010 0.295 FY 2011 3.40 FY 2011 831,706 FY 2011 0.287 FY 2012 3.29 FY 2012 748,407 FY 2012 0.275 SOLID WASTE RECYCLED WASTE DISPOSED (TONNES)/ CAPITAL INVESTMENT IN (%) TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY ($ MILLIONS) FY 2008 * 64.0 FY 2008 0.020 FY 2008 12.30 FY 2009 84.5 FY 2009 0.019 FY 2009 15.10 FY 2010 83.1 FY 2010 0.022 FY 2010 15.70 FY 2011 80.2 FY 2011 0.019 FY 2011 23.30 FY 2012 85.4 FY 2012 0.015 FY 2012 18.60 *US data only. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 73 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Managing and Promoting Environmental Excellence Oversight We understand that to continue to advance in our sustainability practices and to meet our goals, we must have a sound environmental management system (EMS) in place. Over the past four years, we have worked diligently at strengthening an EMS that applies to our manufacturing facilities and integrates environmental programs through our business operations worldwide. At the core of an effective EMS is strong governance and oversight. Campbell’s Board and CEO have chartered the Sustainability Leadership Team to lead the company’s sustainability efforts and climate policy. This team (comprised of senior executives in charge of Environment, Supply Chain, Procurement, Manufacturing, Agriculture, Packaging and Logistics) drives climate change strategy for the Company globally and was instrumental in establishing Campbell’s 2020 Sustainability Goals, with each plant creating its own strategic operating plan to contribute to the overall goals. Annual presentations on the company’s progress and status regarding climate change are made to the Audit Committee and Board of Directors. The environmental programs presentation includes progress on energy use and GHG emissions, energy conservation projects, water use, wastewater treatment and solid waste recycling and their resulting effects on climate change. Measurement The other key component of our EMS is the environmental performance software system, which was designed to ensure regulatory and corporate requirements are met. Campbell’s Environmental Management & Metrics System is used to collect and organize environmental documents (e.g., corporate policies, permits and reports) and activities (e.g., monitoring, measurement and reporting) to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements and management system standards. The EMS is also able to identify, track and report on key environmental parameters. Auditing We audit our manufacturing facilities on a rolling schedule to verify compliance with environmental laws and company policies. These audits are based on the International Audit Protocol Consortium (IAPC) and any corrective actions generated are tracked within the environmental management system to ensure a timely reconciliation. Enlistment and Engagement More Campbell is also an active member of several groups globally who share goals of advancing sustainable innovation in business operations, supply chain and products. Internal experts from different disciplines participate in focus groups and committees focused on finding sustainable solutions in engineering, packaging, sustainable agriculture and life cycle assessment (LCA). We are also a member of the Sustainability Consortium, which regularly brings together independent scientists, researchers, and engineers from businesses, NGOs, government and leading academic research institutions around the world to build a scientific foundation that drives innovation to improve consumer product sustainability. In 2012, Campbell employees participated in Earth Day activities at several facilities, which provided an opportunity for them to learn more about sustainability efforts across the company. In fact, Earth Day fairs and other activities were held at several locations, including our World Headquarters in Camden, New Jersey. These fairs have evolved as useful educational opportunities for our employees, helping them learn how Campbell and its vendors are reducing their carbon footprint and how they can also make a difference, both at work and at home. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 74 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Resource Stewardship Managing our environmental resources through strategies and focus areas that produce measurable results As a global food manufacturer that relies on high-quality agricultural ingredients and products for our consumers, we are aware of our impact on the environment, as well as the potential risks to the food system posed by climate change. Our employees are committed to continuing our long-standing efforts to reduce the amount of energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and water use in our operations. Teams at our plants implement strategies to reduce energy and water use in our manufacturing process. In the past four years, Campbell has completed a number of initiatives that have helped move toward our 2020 goal to cut our environmental footprint in half. These initiatives range from installing solar panels at several locations to the integration of motion detectors and energy-efficient lighting. Some specific initiatives are highlighted below. Green Building Design We have a commitment to utilize the U.S. Green Building Council LEED standards when constructing any significant new buildings. The Employee Center at Campbell’s World Headquarters in Camden, New Jersey, was designed from the ground up and was awarded the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver Certification by the U.S. Green Building Council in June 2011. The new Innovation Center at the Pepperidge Farm headquarters campus in Norwalk, CT opened September 2012. This $30 million investment is designed as an environmentally friendly, LEEDSilver certified green building and employs a variety of energy efficient, water conservation and daylight harvesting techniques, while using recycled building materials in the construction. Climate Strategy Campbell’s climate strategy is integrated with our overall sustainable business strategy. Specific aspects include: – Sustainable agriculture – Procurement – Supplier engagement – Performance reporting In the short term, this strategy has resulted in specific capital improvements in operations, sustainability scorecard surveys in dialogue with suppliers, and tracking and reporting of performance across the Campbell plant network and to senior management. Addressing Scope 3 Emissions In 2011 we worked with the school of Supply Chain Management at MIT to assess the embedded (Scope 3) carbon impacts of five strategic ingredients, including beef, chicken, tomatoes, flour and oils. This exercise identified several new high-impact areas for us to investigate and potentially consider in future supplier arrangements. We also began quantifying the carbon impacts of our corporate business travel. Some of the most significant sustainability decisions that have been driven by our climate strategy include capital investments in energy and water conservation projects, as well as our partnership program to develop and construct renewable energy projects. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 75 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET 2012 Resource Management Highlights Campbell’s Advanced Battery Technology Team slashed the average number of forklift batteries charged at our North American thermal plants from more than 1,000 per day to 83, and the number of batteries kept on hand from 1,000 to 600. They improved battery life by more than 25%, while achieving annual cost savings of $1.7 million in FY2011. Campbell’s V8 Packaging Team eliminated the use of a cardboard insert inside the trays of 1.89L V8 and V8 Splash products. This resulted in the elimination of approximately 900,000 cardboard sleeves, resulting in a yearly savings of approximately $230,000. Campbell’s Energy Network Team led several initiatives that reduced water, fuels and electricity needed to make our products. Since 2005, the team reduced water use by approximately 20% and energy use by 21% per tonne of food produced. Over the past year, Campbell’s reduced its water use by 400 million gallons, while water use per tonne of product remained flat. Additionally, energy use per tonne of product was reduced by 5%. Cost of energy per case of product produced was reduced by more than 20%. These projects are providing annual savings ranging from $2.5 million to $5 million. These teams have been recognized at Campbell’s Extraordinary Performance Awards ceremonies — the Company’s premier team recognition event. Nurturing Renewable Energy To reach our 2020 destination goal of reducing GHG emissions by 50% per tonne of product produced, we projected that Campbell needed to receive 40% of its electricity from renewable or GHG-free sources. With the installation and completion of our renewable energy systems, totaling 33,000 solar panels, 8% of Campbell’s global electric power is being sourced by renewable energy. In FY2012, our operational systems included: A 60-acre, 10-megawatt (MW) solar panel project constructed adjacent to the Napoleon, Ohio, manufacturing facility This system was constructed by BNB Renewable Energy, and a power purchase agreement is in place, committing Campbell to buy 100% of the electricity generated by the system for the next 20 years. The system became operational in December 2011 and consists of over 24,000 solar panels mounted on mechanisms that track the sun each day from east to west, and efficiently positions each panel at the optimum angle to generate the most electricity. It is estimated that the system will generate approximately 15% of the electricity needed to run the Napoleon operations, the largest soup-manufacturing plant in the world. A 12-acre, 2-MW solar panel project under construction on our Sacramento, California, property This system began generating electricity in 2012. This system consists of approximately 8,000 solar panels mounted on a similar geo-tracker mechanism and is expected to generate approximately 10% of the electricity needed for the operation of the property. A 250-kilowatt (kW) system installed at our facility in Puurs, Belgium This system will provide approximately 8% of the electricity needed to run the plant’s operations. A 100-kW system placed into operation at our facility in Paris, Texas This system was constructed on top of a canopy over the ingredient truck storage area. It consists of over 400 solar panels and began generating solar energy in August 2011. Currently, Campbell has a working agreement with a development company for installing additional solar panel systems at five locations (Camden NJ, Maxton NC, Bloomfield CT, Toronto Canada and Willard OH), providing an additional 4% renewable electricity, wind turbines at Paris and Willard, providing 5% additional renewable electricity, plus seven digester/generators which will provide an additional 15% renewable electricity. At the completion of these systems, projected by the end of FY15, Campbell will source 32% of its global electricity with renewable electricity. These figures reflect Campbell as the host facility for these renewable energy systems. Campbell will purchase all generated electricity from these systems, however, all associated renewable energy credits will be sold by the development company as a mechanism for funding the projects. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 76 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Investing in Improved Compliance and Sustainability Performance Compliance and We are investing in a variety of new projects that advance environmental Sustainability Investments sustainability and will help us reduce the current environmental footprint of ($ in millions) our operations. These specific projects have improved the efficiency of our facilities and reduced our need for electricity, fuels and water. 23.3 We strive to comply with environmental laws and regulations while reducing 18.6 our impact on the environment in our local communities by employing multiple resources, including water treatment systems, wastewater treatment 15.1 15.7 systems and air emission controls. Each year, we invest significant capital to maintain and improve these operations. Since 2009, sustainability investments across Campbell’s plant network have yielded savings of more than $42.9 million. Waste Management FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 We apply a consistent approach to managing the waste generated in our offices and plant operations and employ a hierarchical decision-making process for reducing, reusing and recycling our operations to minimize the impact our production has on the environment, while reducing total costs. Strategic initiatives are implemented to reduce these various waste streams. We leverage the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Food Waste Recovery Hierarchy to prioritize our food waste reduction efforts. Campbell actively participates on the Leadership Committee of a new three-year initiative launched by the Grocery Manufacturers Association and Food Marketing Institute to help the industry reduce levels of food waste. Efforts such as reducing the amount of food manufacturing waste and reusing waste product as either an animal feed or compost have reduced the amount of waste we send to local landfills. Material Use and Recycling Closed-loop options and beneficial reuse principles guide our processes when it comes to recycling materials. We continue to expand our comprehensive recycling programs as we strive to achieve our worldwide 95% recycle rate goal. Current programs to recycle food waste, corrugated paper, steel drums, office paper, plastic, fluorescent tubes, batteries, wood pallets and scrap metal are being evaluated to ensure maximum efficiency. Part of this effort included the diversion of off-specification product from local landfills to a facility that can remove the container to reuse the food material as animal feed ingredients. In FY2012, Campbell generated 281,693 metric tonnes of solid waste from our worldwide operations, of this, 240,695 metric tonnes were recycled and 40,998 were disposed of in local landfills or utilized as fuel for resource recovery facilities. Hazardous waste comprises <0.06% of total waste generated. Campbell’s worldwide recycle rate for FY2012 was 85%. Global Asset Recovery The Campbell Asset Recovery Team works globally to find beneficial reuse or recycling options for some of the food-processing and electronic equipment we no longer use or need. We maintain an on-line marketplace and data-tracking tools to help facilitate this program. In FY2012, Campbell recycled or reused close to 1.4 million pounds of used equipment and generated nearly $962,000 in revenue from the sale of used equipment. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 77 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Water Resource Mapping Assessing our global water use and looking for ways to maximize water efficiencies Water is an integral component in the production of all food and beverages. At Campbell, we use water in many of our products, as well as for cleaning, cooking, and vegetable transport within our plants. Maintaining a clean and sustainable supply of water is essential both to the future of our Company and the future of our communities. Complex Use All of our manufacturing plants have implemented water conservation measures and have established systems to ensure that water used in our operations is appropriately cleaned and treated before it is returned to the environment. Our water use is complex and affects every aspect of our production and distribution process. For example, we use water: – To wash ingredients – To cool finished products – To satisfy our steam requirements – To clean and sanitize our operations – As an ingredient in our products All Campbell operations provide wastewater treatment through the use of either a Company-owned treatment system or through treatment prior to discharge to a municipal-owned treatment facility. We apply a stewardship philosophy when it comes to water, by advancing conservation across our enterprise and committing to returning clean and appropriately treated water to our local communities. Water conservation goals are included in business-level operational scorecards. As water demand increases to sustain environmental and human needs, Campbell is continually looking for sustainable solutions to maximize its water efficiencies. Site-by-Site Water Scarcity Mapping In 2011, Campbell performed a site-by-site mapping of water usage and cross-referenced the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to include nearand long-term water scarcity. The WBCSD created the Global Water Tool to help companies map their facilities’ water intake, recycled water and wastewater extraction procedures. The tool, using close to 30 external datasets from various research and creditable sources, analyzes our plant data (geospatial and water records) against the external datasets to provide us with fundamental information on water dependency, water purification/treatment and water risk on a country level, as well as water supply and water scarcity per country, and local watershed levels. While we currently account for gross water use metrics, we have not fully accounted for our very strong water recycling and stewardship practices in the following table. In coming years, we will strive to strengthen the full gross-net water management data. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 78 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Annual Renewable Water Supply Per Person (m3/person/year) Facility Location Operation Type (1995) (2025) Aiken, South Carolina Bakery Bekasi, Indonesia Bakery Bloomfield, Connecticut Bakery Camden, New Jersey Administrative Davis, California Tomato processing Denver, Pennsylvania Bakery Dixon, California Tomato processing Downers Grove, Illinois Bakery Downingtown, Pennsylvania Bakery East Brunswick, New Jersey Bakery Everett, Washington Food Service, Soup Huntingwood, Australia Bakery Kristianstadt, Sweden Soup, Sauce, Beverage Lakeland, Florida Bakery LePontet, France Soup, Sauce, Beverage Luebeck, Germany Soup, Sauce, Beverage Marleston, Australia Bakery Maxton, North Carolina Soup, Sauce, Beverage Milwaukee, Wisconsin Spice, ingredients Napoleon, Ohio Soup, Sauce, Beverage Norwalk, Connecticut Administrative Paris, Texas Thermal, Soup — Sauce Puurs, Belgium Soup, Sauce, Beverage Richmond, Utah Bakery Sacramento, California Soup, Sauce, Beverage Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia Soup, Sauce, Beverage Shepparton, Australia Soup, Sauce, Beverage South Plainfield, New Jersey Soup, Sauce, Beverage Stockton, California Tomato processing Toronto, Canada Thermal, Soup Villagrán, Mexico Tomato processing Virginia, Australia Bakery No Data No Data Willard, Ohio Bakery •Extreme Scarcity (< 500 m /p/y) 3 •Scarcity (500-1,000 m /p/y) 3 •Stress (1,000-1,700 m /p/y) 3 •Sufficient (1,700-4,000 m /p/y) 3 •Abundant (> 4,000 m /p/y) 3 m3/p/y = cubic meters per person per year Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 79 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Sustainability Scorecard Tracking our sustainability performance to drive continuous improvement and business value In order to better manage our performance and drive continuous improvement in sustainability, we began tracking our progress in comprehensive energy, climate and carbon footprint performance metrics. In 2009, we began filing our metrics within the framework of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Campbell’s latest submission can be reviewed in detail at the Carbon Disclosure Project website. Our scores have steadily improved, and we continue to compile sustainability data, including energy use, water use and solid waste generation and disposal for our worldwide operations. Our Sustainability Scorecard compares the metrics in these categories over the past four fiscal years. During 2012, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to review our data collection and reporting processes under the AICPA consulting standards and provide us with observations and recommendations for improvement. It is our intention to continue to work towards obtaining external assurance over our CSR report in the future. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 80 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Sustainability Scorecard Total Energy Use — All Worldwide Operations — Combined Fuel Use and FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Electricity (mmbtu) Global Facilities 10,239,864 10,276,947 10,154,522 9,835,859 8,960,585 North American Facilities 8,807,642 8,840,005 8,701,209 8,382,038 7,080,271 International Facilities 1,432,222 1,436,942 1,453,313 1,453,821 1,880,314 Greenhouse Gas Emissions — All Worldwide FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Operations (metric tonnes CO2) Total Company Emissions 899,537 879,084 850,376 831,706 748,407 Campbell USA 718,065 694,064 668,462 656,906 584,455 International 181,472 185,020 181,914 174,800 163,952 Direct Emissions (Scope 1) 499,149 492,144 468,292 459,117 381,322 Campbell USA 415,001 408,227 387,238 378,215 310,306 International 84,148 83,917 81,054 80,902 71,016 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 400,388 386,940 382,084 372,589 367,084 Campbell USA 303,064 285,837 281,224 278,691 274,148 International 97,324 101,103 100,860 93,898 92,936 Scope 3 Emissions (MTCO2) (air & rail travel) 7,466 11,343 Greenhouse Gas Emissions — All Worldwide Operations (tonnes CO2 per metric tonne FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 product produced) Global Facilities 0.313 0.308 0.295 0.287 0.275 Campbell USA 0.319 0.318 0.302 0.295 0.278 International 0.292 0.276 0.274 0.261 0.266 Global Water Use (cubic meters — M3) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Global Facilities 29,637,240 26,689,905 26,087,077 25,252,790 23,738,708 Water Use pe Tonne of Food Produced 10.33 9.35 9.06 8.72 8.72 Solid Waste Generation and Recycling FY2008* FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Total Solid Waste Generated (tonnes) 144,660 352,139 383,385 301,445 281,693 Material Recycled (tonnes) 94,059 297,502 318,683 241,647 240,695 Material Disposed (tonnes) 50,601 54,637 64,702 59,798 40,998 Global Recycle Rate % 64 84.5 83.1 80.2 85.0 *U.S. only Note: Hazardous waste comprises <0.06% of total waste generated. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 81 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Sustainable Packaging Innovating to drive continuous improvement in our sustainable packaging footprint Campbell’s global packaging development organization is committed to continuously improving our sustainable packaging footprint. Our packaging professionals are engaged in both short-term improvements and long-term packaging innovation that will reduce the environmental impact of our packaging. To support these efforts, we have established a global packaging sustainability program with publicly stated goals and established guidelines and principles. Integration into the development Our Packaging of our packaging is executed on a continuous Principles basis. Design with a sustainability mindset to deliver safe, consumer-preferred packaging while minimizing our We have also developed training for our packaging designers soenvironmentalthat they understand impact. our expectations and direction. This enables them to make structured decisions whenever a packaging change is contemplated. Create economic value by linking sustainability with source reduction, material selection and Our Packaging Principles supply-chain efficiencies. Design with a sustainability mindset to deliver safe, consumer-preferred Partner externally with suppliers, customers and Protect packagingindustry while minimizing our environmental groups to strengthen impact. our program and influence direction. Create economic value by linking sustainability with source reduction, Reduce Protect and supply-chain efficiencies. material selection Implement packaging that delivers the safest, Recycle Partner externally with suppliers, highest-quality food, whilecustomers and industry and groups to ensuring consumer strengthen brand protection.and influence direction. our program Renew Protect Reduce Continuously seek packaging material and Implement packaging that delivers the safest, highest-quality food, while processes that utilize fewer resources while Partner ensuring consumer maintainingand brand product protection. quality and supply-chain Reduceefficiency. Continuously seek packaging material and processes that utilize fewer Recycle resourcesUtilize while recyclable maintaining productcontent & recycled qualitypackaging and supply-chain efficiency. Recyclematerials when possible. Utilize recyclable Renew & recycled content packaging materials when possible. Renew Utilize renewable sources of packaging materials when safe and effective. Utilize renewable sources of packaging materials when safe and effective. Partner Partner Work withWork with suppliers suppliers to promote to promote clean production clean production technologies and best technologies and best manufacturing processes. manufacturing processes. planet-packaging-principles Sustainable Packaging Goals 100 million pounds of 100% of our global 100% of our packaging packaging eliminated packaging made from supply base proactively by 2020 through: sustainable materials, engaged in developing – Material selection including: sustainable alternatives – Renewable materials that are: – Material reduction – Recyclable materials – Economically feasible – Recycled content – Grounded in science and technology – Sustainable end-of-life scenarios Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 82 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET FY2012 Material Reduction Highlights – Total packaging materials saved was 2,416,553 pounds V8 glass bottle to PET in Australia eliminated 140,000 pounds of material (Partial year results, 2013 projection is a 7,040,000 pound reduction) Lightweight of metal can ends in Mexico reduced 3,300 pounds of steel Beverage bottle redesign in US eliminated 1,887,399 pounds of PET Alternative Packaging –P  epperidge Farm used more than 4 million, 100%-post-consumer-recycled shipping cases in its Denver and Downingtown, Pennsylvania, bakeries. – Arnott’s redesigned Cruskits pack saved more than 10,000 pounds of paper and 45,000 pounds of corrugate. Audits –P  epperidge Farm’s Denver PA bakery entered into an agreement with a third party to measure and maximize landfill diversion and recycling of waste products. Cross-Sector Collaborations –C  ampbell is a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition and the Sustainability Consortium, organizations that are dedicated to developing and promoting global design standards for the sustainable improvement of consumer products. – Campbell attained a packaging score of 96 on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Innovation –W  e continue to work with our key suppliers on strategic technologies focused on producing sustainability breakthroughs in the area of packaging. Many of these innovations were showcased at our Sustainability Packaging Fair held at Campbell World Headquarters in April 2011. Pepperidge Farm continued to invest capital in the new package format for Goldfish bread products that reduces plastic usage by 65%. Annual Packaging Packaging Challenges Weight Reductions A topic that continues to receive increased attention is the use of a (thousands of pounds) material called bisphenol A (BPA). BPA is widely used in the lining of metal food containers to prevent corrosion and help maintain the food’s safety, 12,851 quality and flavor. Campbell — with our suppliers — has been researching 10,434 alternatives to BPA that perform as well as existing packaging. 9,319 We believe that the current can packaging technology used in our products is one of the safest food package options in the world. However, we have 4,618 been studying the issue and recognize that there has been a debate over the use of BPA. For more than 140 years, we’ve earned consumers’ trust — and we intend to 2009 2010 2011 2012 keep it. We have already started using packaging lined with a BPA alternative in some of our soups, and we are working to phase out the use of BPA in can linings in the rest of our canned products. planet-packaging-reductions Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 83 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Sustainable Agriculture Collaborating with farmers and applying comprehensive agricultural science to strengthen our agricultural programs Stakeholder-driven priorities for Sustainable Agriculture Programs In 2012 Campbell launched its Agriculture Sustainability Programs, building on decades of investment in agriculture research and partnerships with farmers. As part of the launch process, a series of stakeholder interviews was conducted by Dr. Daniel Sonke, Campbell’s Manager of Agriculture Sustainability Programs. Approximately 50 interviews were conducted, including Campbell employees in North America and internationally. Interviews were also conducted with farmers and representatives of agriculture suppliers, retail and food service companies who purchase from Campbell and nongovernmental organizations that have an interest in the environmental and social aspects of farming. Interviewees were asked a host of questions regarding their perception of Campbell, sustainability, target audiences for the Agriculture Sustainability Programs, priority focus areas related to environmental and social impacts of farming, and supply chain areas in which to focus beyond tomatoes. The results of the stakeholder interviews were compiled and utilized in strategic planning in 2012. As a result, in 2012 a strategic plan was developed for Campbell Agriculture Sustainability focusing on tomatoes and other vegetables important to Campbell. Because processing tomato production is where Campbell has its closest relationship with farmers, this makes it the chief focus for the first years. While other crops are important to the company, our stakeholders overwhelmingly suggested we focus on the vegetable crops important to both our iconic and our innovative product categories. Tomatoes: An Iconic and Mainstay Campbell Crop Campbell Soup Company began as a preserve company in 1869 and canned tomatoes from the very beginning. The first soup made by the company (in 1895) was tomato soup. Today, we use tomatoes in a wide range of soups, sauces and beverages, and have a close relationship with tomato farmers. Thus, tomatoes have been a primary focus of the company’s long-running sustainable agriculture efforts. In 1947, Campbell opened its tomato processing operations in California. At least one tomato farming family has been selling to the company ever since that first season. All of the contract farms that sell tomatoes directly to Campbell are family owned and 22% are minority-owned. Most of them are thirdor fourth-generation farmers and many have been Campbell’s preferred suppliers for more than one generation. Today, California’s tomato farmers have their own membership-based cooperative bargaining agreement, which negotiates an industry price with Campbell and other processors. Since the 1950s, the processing tomatoes in California have been harvested by machine, unlike fresh market tomatoes. Processing tomatoes are vine-ripened and harvested at peak red ripeness. The majority of tomatoes used by Campbell are grown in the productive Central Valley farming region of California and processed at Campbell-owned plants. This region is highly diverse, with over 300 crops grown, and renowned for its high-quality production. For this reason, the region produces 95% of U.S. processing tomatoes. As much as possible, tomatoes are sourced from farms located close to the plants to minimize transportation distance and time and the associated fuel use. In 2012, the average distance from field to plant was 37 miles. Campbell’s agriculture team continues to look for ways to reduce this distance even more Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 84 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Agriculture Sustainability Priorities The following priority subject areas for Campbell Agriculture Sustainability Programs were identified as important to stakeholders and the company: Water use efficient irrigation to conserve water resources Greenhouse gasses focusing on efficient nitrogen use, since in tomato production nitrogen fertilizer is the largest source of greenhouse gasses Fertilizer use besides producing greenhouse gasses, fertilizer can move into surface and groundwater resources if not utilized efficiently Soil quality enhancing soil organic matter benefits crop production, enhances water infiltration, and reduces soil nutrient loss Pesticides use of preventative practices first, using pesticides only optimally and as a last resort In these 5 categories, we will pursue benchmarking with quantitative metrics where possible and track progress over time. Specific reduction goals were established in the strategic plan. The 2020 goals are to: Reduce water use per lb. of ingredient by 20% Reduce nitrogen applied per lb. of ingredient by 10% Reduce GHGs per lb. of ingredient by 20% Real World Knowledge In 2012, Campbell agriculture staff worked with tomato farmers to establish baseline data for Campbell Agriculture Sustainability priority areas. Beginning with the 2012 harvest, data is being benchmarked related to the five priority areas. As nearly 700 fields are contracted for the season, the data collection effort is involved but yields high quality data once complete. As the saying goes, you can’t manage what you don’t measure. This is true on two levels by collecting the data, Campbell can identify opportunities for improvement across geography, identify early adopters and farmer innovators; but also, by showing an individual farmer how their average compares with the statewide average, they can be encouraged to find opportunities to improve on their farm. Efficient Irrigation Drip irrigation is one of the most effective ways to reduce the amount of water used per pound of tomato production. Campbell encourages its growers to utilize this technology where it is cost-effective to do so (to install drip irrigation requires hundreds to over $1000 per acre). In 2008, approximately 20% of the acres producing tomatoes for the company utilized drip irrigation. In 2012, this had increased to approximately 38%. The developing Campbell Agriculture Sustainability Program is also investigating opportunities to promote the continued adoption of water conservation practices both in tomato farming and processing. In 2012, one of the Campbell tomato processing facilities was able to reduce water use by 10% over the previous season, per ton of tomatoes processed. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Campbell helped pioneer the use of IPM in the California processing tomato industry. Award-winning research and outreach to growers in the 1990s resulted in a significant reduction in pesticide applications. In addition, by California state law, all farmers must utilize licensed Pest Control Advisers trained in IPM to identify the need for pesticides prior to their application. In 2012, Campbell continued to add more disease-resistant tomato varieties to our agriculture program with the goal of reducing or eliminating pesticide use due to new plant diseases. Sustainable Agriculture Research In 2012, the Campbell Research and Development and Campbell Agriculture teams partnered on a project to correlate water conservation in tomato irrigation with improved tomato quality. The project is meant to take University of California research and refine it for implementation on farm. The Campbell Agriculture team also partnered with University of California researchers to look at a form of furrow irrigation that would utilize less water. The project also analyzed greenhouse gas production from fields using different irrigation and fertilizer rates. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 85 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Water Reclamation and Wildlife Habitat The Campbell tomato processing plant in rural Dixon, California, utilizes agricultural land to treat rinse water coming from the plant during tomato season. The water is applied to pasture land as irrigation, allowing it to be filtered by the pasture prior to returning to groundwater or evaporating. The pasture is then used for cattle and hay production. In 2011, Campbell made a commitment to enhance the property’s benefits to wildlife. In 2012, the management of the property was changed such that it reduced the need to cut hay during waterfowl nesting season, reducing the risk of destroying nests. Twenty owl boxes were also established on the property to provide natural pest management and biodiversity. In coming years Campbell will work with its property managers to further enhance the property’s ability to support wildlife while still supporting the primary task of water reclamation. A Special Water Quality Enhancement Project In 2008, the Ohio EPA and Campbell signed an agreement. In lieu of costly infrastructure changes or a fine, Campbell would invest $50,000 per year for 10 years in nitrate management projects on farms upstream of Campbell’s Napoleon, Ohio plant. The plant is located along the Maumee River approximately 45 miles upstream from where it empties into Lake Erie. Occasional spikes of nitrates in the river from non-point sources such as farms are a problem for the Lake, which can suffer eutrophication as a result. The non-profit Conservation Action Project of Ohio works with farmers to invest the dollars in restoring on-farm wetlands, cover cropping and a technology called “controlled drainage” to reduce movement of fertilizer into drainage systems. As of 2011 the project had estimated that over 65 tons of nitrogen had been prevented from entering the Maumee River and Lake Erie. Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation Managing the sourcing of our products from farm to fork, including procurement and distribution Campbell Logistics: Engaged Supply Chain, Efficient Procurement and Distribution System Campbell’s global supply chain organization is responsible for all aspects of our production from farm to fork, including procurement, engineering, manufacturing, quality assurance and distribution. Our supply chain organization works across Campbell locations and manufacturing facilities around the world. These employees work in close collaboration with our suppliers, research and development teams, and trade partners to optimize the supply chain from beginning to end. We understand and appreciate the complexity and diversity of our supply chain, and to continually make progress our initiatives focus on safety, quality, ethical and responsible sourcing, total delivered cost (TDC) and environmental sustainability, as well as customer service. Supply Chain Initiatives: Educate, Engage, Impact Campbell continues to further develop projects that reduce our environmental impact while promoting safe, healthy, nutritious products. At Campbell, our commitment to Nourishing Our Planet begins with actively engaging the supply chain. By partnering with suppliers, we strive to minimize our footprint from the delivery of ingredients to our facilities to distribution of highquality, finished products to our consumers. Our manufacturing facilities continue to produce over 90% of all Campbell-labeled products. To optimize our supply chain, we continually utilize initiatives designed towards education, engaging, and impacting our suppliers to adapt with the challenges of an ever-changing global environment. In order to achieve this goal, we applied the same stringent standards we place on ourselves to our vendors while maintaining and sourcing the high-quality ingredients that our customers and consumers have come to expect. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 86 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Highlights Fiscal 2012 Highlights Listed below are select FY2012 projects that were executed to further reduce natural resources required to deliver our finished product and align with our ethical sourcing policy: – Lightweighting of plastic containers reduced resin usage by 1.9MM pounds, and generated $1.6MM savings – Optimized juice concentration solids (Brix) generated $0.25MM savings and reduced water usage – Improved transportation through pasta tote package optimization generated $0.1MM savings and reduced fuel consumption – A packaging change from steel drums to returnable Goodpack bins for apple juice concentrate generated an estimated $0.1MM savings – Sourcing of cage-free eggs – Sourcing of Fair Trade Certified cocoa liquor and segregated RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) Certified Sustainable Palm Oil for certain products in the international portfolio. Suppliers Building a Robust Supplier Base As a consumer goods company, one of our primary objectives is to provide safe, quality products that exceed our customers’ and consumers’ expectations. We realize that our suppliers and other business partners play a critical role in helping us execute this mission and our commitment to sustainability in an ethical and responsible manner. For Campbell, it is of utmost importance that they share our objectives. CSR/Sustainability Supplier Requirements Because corporate social responsibility is an integral mission at Campbell, we also require our suppliers to follow rigorous CSR and sustainability standards. Campbell’s Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual identifies the expectations and requirements of all firms that are, and aspire to be, a Campbell supplier. The requirements detailed in the manual are designed to help our current and potential brokers, co-packers, re-packers, special packers, suppliers, warehouses and licensees to meet these objectives. We consider adherence and performance to these expectations as essential factors when entering into or extending existing business relationships. These requirements include: – Legal, Health and Safety, and Environment – Employment Standards – Anti-Corruption – Animal Welfare – Compliance Employment Standards are of particular concern to Campbell, with prescriptive requirements for the following areas: – Minimum Employment Age – Voluntary Labor – Wages and Benefits – Working Hours and Rest – Discrimination – Freedom of Association – Fair Treatment Building upon the success of FY2011, we focused on the following key areas in FY2012: Collaborating with suppliers on animal welfare Campbell is committed to the humane treatment of animals and believes that ethical sourcing is an important part of our vision for sustainable supply. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 87 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET After benchmarking with industry peers and partnering with key suppliers, Campbell developed its own animal welfare policy. To ensure adherence to this policy and its effectiveness, Campbell implemented it as part of its Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual in FY2012. To further expand on our animal welfare policy and address emerging issues, we also issued additional guidance in FY2012. In this context, Campbell is working towards the elimination of gestation crates in our pork supply chain. Campbell will continue to favor suppliers that raise hogs in gestation crate-free environments. Increasing focus on sustainability through strategic-supplier partnerships One formal way in which we closely collaborate with strategic suppliers on sustainability issues is through our Strategic Supplier Relationship Management program. Through this program, we have enhanced and expanded regular communications and idea exchange with select strategic suppliers. The results of our efforts have delivered valuable information that has prepared Campbell for current and emerging issues relevant to CSR. We, in turn, are able to mitigate the risk and costs associated with unforeseen trends as well as improve business process and the supply chain, as it relates to sustainability. Typical topics addressed through ongoing, formal and informal communication with strategic suppliers include: – Sustainability best practice sharing – Sustainability idea generation – Sustainability practice implementation – Sustainability program tracking and corrective action-taking – Industry and market trend review Developing supplier sustainability-KPIs In order to measure the effectiveness of a supplier’s sustainability program, Campbell began work on developing an improved ‘sustainability scorecard’ with its strategic suppliers. This scorecard is intended to rate the quality of the vendor’s supply chain sustainability efforts, potentially identifying supply chain inefficiencies and opportunities, and also serve as a competitive differentiator. This work also leverages the progress from our partnership with the school of Supply Chain Management at MIT in FY2011. In FY2012, Campbell began measuring select areas of Scope 3 (indirect) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. While the process for measuring indirect emissions can be difficult, partnering with various suppliers has helped streamline our system. In FY2012 Campbell implemented a new system, the ‘Concur Travel CO2 Emissions Tracker’. With this, Campbell can now verify and calculate the carbon footprint of every mile traveled by employees through air and rail, using our electronic travel booking program. Engaging with the supply-base and third-parties Campbell engages with other suppliers beyond the strategic supply base (these being labeled as ‘leverage’ suppliers), through a variety of ‘methods’ and on a variety of topics, such as: – Senior management discussions (method example) – Policy input solicitation (topic example) – Readiness assessment surveys (topic example) – Other external and internal surveys (method example) In addition, we plan key events throughout the year, such as ‘Earth Day’, to invite suppliers to present their sustainability programs to all Campbell employees. Such initiatives allow suppliers to showcase new sustainable practices, and also provide employees with a holistic view of the Campbell supply chain. We also partner with industry peers and non-government organizations (NGOs) that align with our vision of sustainable supply. Together, we share common interests to protect our brand, deliver uncompromising value to our customers, and produce quality products for our consumers while reducing our impact on the environment. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 88 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Implementation of Supplier Standards Campbell has established a variety of elements to assure effective implementation of its standards for suppliers. We began our global supplier management program by first setting requirements for our supply base that apply equally to both foreign and domestic suppliers. We anchored our program with a Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual (SBREM), first published in 1988, that outlines the food safety and quality expectations of Campbell Soup Company. This document is currently posted on Campbell’s external website and is updated on an annual basis. The on-site audit itself is derived directly from the SBREM and comprised of (26) key sections with 195 questions to be completed by a Campbell certified auditor. All direct material suppliers are subject to our performance management process that includes continuous monitoring of the risk they may present to our business which includes re-auditing at appropriate frequency. Audits have been conducted at over 90% of our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities in 55 countries over the past three years. We have completed more than 2,400 vendor audits against our audit standards that include CSR and sustainability requirements. In addition to our internal auditors, we have also initiated third-party audits to keep accountability and performance high. Campbell plants and contract manufacturers are now required to obtain Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI)–recognized Food Safety and Quality systems certifications by an independent third party. Campbell North America manufacturing plants were certified in 2009, while our international and core contract manufacturer plants were certified in 2010. In addition, Campbell also assures effective implementation of standards through our Supplier Sustainability Scorecarding efforts. At the end of 2011, Campbell outlined its supplier expectations and performance in accordance with California’s new Human Trafficking and Slavery in the Supply Chain law. Managing Noncompliance We hold our employees and leadership to the highest ethical and compliance standards. Our suppliers are no different. To that end, Campbell has implemented stringent policies and procedures for managing noncompliance among suppliers. We have processes, documentation tools and software systems established for reporting individual incoming ingredient and direct food contact packaging nonconformance, engaging the supplier in corrective action plans and timing, and documenting closure of the report. Ongoing nonconformance trends are monitored and, when warranted, further improvement planning is established to address supplier or material category performance issues. Based on possible regulatory actions, nonconformance risk or frequency of occurrence, suppliers are subjected to a Campbell Audit focusing on the specific issues that may result in corrective action requirements and/or disqualification as a supplier. Deep processes are also in place to link consumer product complaints to specific ingredients or packaging materials. This information is further used to take corrective action with specific suppliers and/or drive supplier development programs. As defined by policies, Campbell and/or third-party, food safety and quality audits are conducted to assess the compliance to system requirements and the effectiveness of these systems. Supply Chain Challenges As a food and beverage company, we are often challenged with campaigns by nongovernmental organizations and others concerned about the safety and quality of our products. We work closely with suppliers, industry and professional associations, academic institutions and other outside experts to identify new and emerging issues in chemical, food safety and packaging technologies to ensure that our ingredients and packaging materials conform to the most rigorous scientific and technical standards. Palm Oil Food companies may be challenged for their sourcing of sustainable palm oil by NGOs. Palm oil is used in products like cookies and crackers, and the concern is that the industry is harming fragile ecosystems by expanding industrialized palm oil plantations. As a food company, Campbell recognizes the connection between the long-term vitality of our business and the imperative to advance environmental sustainability. We take this commitment very seriously. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 89 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Our palm oil suppliers are members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) — composed of palm growers, palm oil users, retail food chains and nongovernmental organizations — an association created to promote the development and use of sustainable palm oil through cooperation within the supply chain and open dialogue with its stakeholders. Campbell’s global businesses are striving to convert to certified sustainable sources of palm oil by 2015. Transportation We continue gradually to make progress in reducing energy use and greenhouse gas emissions through our complex transportation fleet and logistics systems. We understand that transportation of raw materials, ingredients and finished products from farm to factory to stores presents multiple opportunities to create efficiencies. A majority of our transportation is contractual, and therefore impacts our Scope 3, or embedded, carbon impact. Our goals for reducing our carbon footprint include reductions of our Scope 3 emissions through supply chain efficiencies. Because most of our transportation is provided through contracted carriers, reducing our carbon footprint requires cross-sector collaboration, cooperation on new approaches and the commitment of our shipping partners. We are also aware of the debate and trends in seeking alternative transportation fuels including those that may be derived with lower environmental impact. Our goal to reduce our environmental footprint extends through our supply network and to achieve this, we will collaborate with our customers and suppliers on those strategies. Our goal is to raise awareness and promote adoption of more energy efficient methods, inputs and fuels within our suppliers and across our transportation network. In 2013, we will continue to educate our suppliers and internal supply chain while working with our business partners to continuously optimize through multiple joint programs including: – Increasing use of heavy payload equipment; – Promoting the shift to alternative or lower environmental impact fuels; – Converting higher percentage of loads to intermodal versus over-the-road; – Reducing idle time in our facilities or at our customers; –E  nsuring that all of our carriers are “SmartWay” certified; with the goal of ensuring that the remainder of our partners are qualified by 2013 ; and – Incorporating sustainability initiatives into our carrier sourcing criteria. In 2012, we continued to focus on increasing intermodal transportation. Intermodal freight shipping has become the numberone segment of all rail shipments. Each train can take up to 500 trucks off the highways and, on average, railways are more than three times more fuel efficient than trucks. Intermodal Values FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 TOTAL Loads 15,907 10,541 10,595 37,043 Fuel Saved (Gallons) 1,525,615 1,519,270 1,445,960 4,490,845 CO2 Reduction* (metric) 13,563 13,506 12,855 39,924 Heavy Payload Moves Values FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 TOTAL Loads 3,299 3,165 5,073 11,537 Truck Reductions 402 403 598 1,403 Miles Reduced 341,695 346,364 521,429 1,209,732 Fuel Saved (Gallons) 56,949 57,727 86,905 201,622 CO2 Reduction* (metric) 506 513 773 1,792 * CO2 Reduction calculation is from http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html#results Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 90 05 / NOURISHING OUR PLANET Nearly one billion gallons of fuel per year could be saved if only 10% of the freight that currently moves by truck were moved by rail. In addition, shifting freight from trucks to rail helps reduce highway congestion. Our 2012 achievements include: – We removed more than 11,000 trucks from the road and reduced CO2 emissions by over 13,000 tonnes. –A  joint collaboration team developed and deployed a tool across Campbell’s four U.S. thermal sites that leverages our planning system and automatically designs weight-optimized trucks for shipment, resulting in: • More than 400 trucks per year being taken off the road, yielding a reduction of 50,000 gallons of diesel consumption and a reduction of over one million pounds of carbon emissions; • Freight savings of more than $1 million per year; and • Significantly reduced administrative effort in the management of interplant deployment. – We have increased our lightweight equipment usage on existing lanes. This gives us the ability to move more products on each load. – More than 590 trucks have been taken off the road, yielding a reduction in 87,000 gallons of diesel consumption. – Freight savings of more than $500,000 per year. Inspections, Compliance and Investment Our Environmental Sustainability Policy clearly outlines the expectation that all our plants and facilities around the world be operated in accordance with environmental laws and our own high-performance expectations. Our Napoleon, Ohio, facility, for example, continues to work with the Conservation Action Project (CAP) in Northwest Ohio to reduce runoff from agricultural land and reduce nitrate-nitrogen in the Maumee River. We have made a total of $225,000 in donations over the past four years to CAP as part of our 10-year commitment to this project. While we strive for perfect compliance every day, we also plan to be transparent in the areas that need improvement. The following table outlines the regulatory enforcement activities that occurred during fiscal year 2012. Fiscal Year 2012 Regulatory Enforcement Activities Location Description Fine Corrective Action Denver Air emission (VOC) control $5,900 Operator training provided. equipment improperly configured Additional alarms provided for during baking process oxidizer operational issues. East Brunswick Failure to submit various reports in $10,000 Corporate procedures developed accordance with permit requirements for response to oxidizer malfunctions. Evaluation underway to avoid future effects of electrical power interruptions. Sacramento Self-reported to Sacramento $420 The emission control equipment Metropolitan Air Quality District was properly tuned and the a greater than 30 ppm NOx emission source emission test completed testing event to ensure compliance. Total Fines FY2012 $16,320 FOCUS FORWARD In the coming months, we plan to develop and implement a series of initiatives to further engage our supply chain and increase our outreach to suppliers, internal stakeholders, and customers. These projects include supplier diversity training for employees, ethical sourcing education for buyers and developing supplier sustainability profiles that align with scorecard ratings. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 91 06 / RESOURCES About This Report This is Campbell Soup Company’s 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. In this report, we strive to provide our stakeholders with a balanced view of our CSR and sustainability strategy and performance in our worldwide operations during fiscal year 2012 (ended July 31, 2012). This report includes an update to key programs and performance metrics. Our previous report was published in May 2012. Significant policy or program advances and recognition occurring after FY2012 may also be included. We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, along with the GRI Food Processing Sector Supplement. We have self-declared this CSR Report to a GRI Application Level of “B” based on the GRI Application Level Grid. A GRI Content Index is provided here. This Campbell CSR Report addresses our operations on a global basis. Unless otherwise stated, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to all Company-owned locations worldwide, and to all employees of Campbell Soup Company. This report does not include Bolthouse Farms as this acquisition did not occur until fiscal year 2013. The metrics and goals in this report are established and measured by the Campbell business units and corporate functions that are responsible for achieving them. This is done in consultation with internal and, in some cases, external stakeholders, as well as by reference to external benchmarks and leadership practices. Our goal is to deliver a useful and accurate picture of our performance. Data collection in a multinational manufacturing company is complex, and there are meaningful challenges to compiling consistent performance metrics across numerous plant and facility sites in multiple countries. While this report includes globally consistent metrics in most areas, we continue to work on improving the standardization of our measurement systems and building baselines in other areas, such as agriculture. Performance metrics cover Campbell owned and operated facilities. Environmental metrics are reported using widely accepted parameters and units. We use the Carbon Disclosure Project Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate our GHG emissions. Nutrition metrics are fully described with footnotes and references. Financial data is presented in U.S. dollars. Campbell management uses a system of internal controls, including a process of verification by internal subject-matter experts, to ensure that this report fairly represents our CSR and environmental sustainability activities and results. The full version of this report can be downloaded from the Reports & Data section of this website. A printed highlights brochure is also available by request. Additional information about Campbell operations and financial performance is available in our 2012 Annual Report and Form 10-K, which are both available on our corporate website. We expect and welcome feedback from interested stakeholders. Contact Niki Kelley, Manager-CSR Program Office, One Campbell Place, MS43, Camden, NJ 08103. You may also contact us via our dedicated CSR Feedback Email Address: csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 92 06 / RESOURCES GRI Index (including Food Processing Sector Supplement) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a framework of internationally accepted guidelines and principles for companies and organizations to report on corporate responsibility and sustainability performance. For more information about GRI, go to www.globalreporting.org. Full Partial Not Reported Standard Disclosures, Part I: Profile Disclosures Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO Statement • CEO Letter 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities • 10-K 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization • Corporate Profile and Impact 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services • Corporate Profile and Impact 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, • Corporate Profile and Impact operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters • Corporate Profile and Impact 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of • Corporate Profile and Impact countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant • Locations and Facilities Map to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form • 10-K 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and • Corporate Profile and Impact types of customers/beneficiaries) • 10-K 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization • Corporate Profile and Impact • 10-K 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, • 10-K structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period • Recognition 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided • About This Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) • About This Report 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) • About This Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents • About This Report 3.5 Process for defining report content • Materiality Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased • About This Report facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report • About This Report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope) continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 93 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part I: Profile Disclosures Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, • About This Report outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including • About This Report assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided None last year in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, None last year boundary or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report • GRI Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance • About This Report for the report 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under •C orporate Governance the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as and Ethics setting strategy or organizational oversight • 10-K 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an • 10-K executive officer 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the •C orporate Governance number of members of the highest governance body that are and Ethics independent and/or nonexecutive members • 10-K 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide • 2012 Proxy recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest •C SR and Sustainability governance body, senior managers and executives (including Governance departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance • 2012 Proxy (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts • 2012 Proxy of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of •C SR and Sustainability the members of the highest governance body for guiding the Governance organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of • Winning With Integrity conduct and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the •C SR and Sustainability organization’s identification and management of economic, Governance environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 94 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part I: Profile Disclosures Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own • 2012 Proxy Statement performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or •N  ourishing Our Planet principle is addressed by the organization Overview 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, • Winning With Integrity principles or other initiatives which the organization subscribes to or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or • Stakeholder Engagement national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: – Has positions in governance bodies; – Participates in projects or committees; – Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or – Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization • Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to • Stakeholder Engagement engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of • Stakeholder Engagement engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder • Stakeholder Engagement engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key • Materiality Analysis topics and concerns, including through its reporting Standard Disclosures, Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Information Cross-Reference/ G3 DMA Description Reported Direct Answer DMA SC Sourcing •S  upply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual DMA EC Economic • Annual Report DMA EN Environmental •N  ourishing Our Planet Overview DMA LA Labor • Winning With Integrity DMA HR Human Rights •N  ourishing Our Employees Overview • Winning With Integrity DMA SO Social •N  ourishing Our Neighbors Overview •N  ourishing Our Consumers Overview • Winning With Integrity. DMA PR Product Responsibility •N  ourishing Our Consumers Overview • Food Safety and Quality DMA AW Disclosure on Management Approach AW Not applicable — Campbell does not breed animals continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 95 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Sourcing Across All Aspects of Sourcing FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with •S upply Chain, Logistics company’s sourcing policy and Transportation FP2 Percentage of purchased volume that is verified as being in •S upply Chain, Logistics accordance with credible, internationally recognized, responsible and Transportation production standards, broken down by standard Economic Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, • Performance Scorecard operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other • 10-K community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the • Resource Stewardship organization’s activities due to climate change • CDP Report EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations • Campbell Careers • 10-K EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government • 10-K Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local This information is not tracked minimum wage at significant locations of operation or reported. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers • Supplier Diversity at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired This information is not tracked from the local community at significant locations of operation or reported. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services • Giving provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, • Nourishing Our Neighbors including the extent of impacts Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume • Sustainability Scorecard • Sustainable Packaging EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials • Sustainability Scorecard • Sustainable Packaging Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source • Resource Stewardship • Sustainable Packaging EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source • Resource Stewardship • Sustainability Scorecard continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 96 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements • Resource Stewardship • Sustainability Scorecard EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy–based • Resource Stewardship products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions • Resource Stewardship achieved • Sustainable Packaging •S upply Chain, Logisitcs and Transportation Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source • Water Resource Mapping EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water • Resource Stewardship • Water Resource Mapping No water sources significantly affected by withdrawal EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused • Sustainability Scorecard Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, No Campbell operations in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected protected areas areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services No Campbell operations in on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value protected areas outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored • Resource Stewardship • Sustainable Agriculture EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on • Sustainable Agriculture biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list Not currently tracked or species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of reported extinction risk Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight • Resource Stewardship • Sustainability Scorecard EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight • Resource Stewardship • Sustainability Scorecard EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions • Resource Stewardship achieved • Sustainable Packaging •S upply Chain, Logisitcs and Transportation EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not currently reported EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not currently reported continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 97 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination • Water Resource Mapping EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method • Resource Stewardship • Sustainability Scorecard EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills • Resource Stewardship EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed No waste transported, imported, hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and exported or treated waste VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN25 Density, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water Not tracked or reported bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, • Resource Stewardship and extent of impact mitigation • Sustainable Packaging • Sustainable Agriculture EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Not reported reclaimed by category Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary • Inspections, Compliance sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations and Investment Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other • Inspections, Compliance goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and and Investment transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type • Inspections, Compliance and Investment •C  ompliance and Sustainability Investments Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and • Locations and Facilities Map region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and Not reported region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to • Campbell Careers temporary or part-time employees, by major operations • Extraordinary Workplace Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 37% continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 98 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, No minimum notice periods for including whether it is specified in collective agreements significant operational changes are specified in our collective bargaining agreements; however, our practice is to give as much notice as is practical under the circumstances. FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/ None or lockouts, by country Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint • Safety management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and • Safety number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs • Extraordinary Workplace in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Not reported unions Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee FT Hourly — 125 hours category FT Salaried — 50 hours LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the • Extraordinary Workplace continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career • Extraordinary Workplace development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per • Diversity and Inclusion category according to gender, age group, minority group membership •C orporate Governance and other indicators of diversity and Ethics LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported Social: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements Not reported that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have •S upply Chain, Logistics undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken and Transportation HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures • Winning With Integrity concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination, and actions taken Not Reported continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 99 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of • 10-K association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child No operations identified labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced No operations identified or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Not tracked or reported or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous None people, and actions taken Social: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices •N ourishing Our Neighbors that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, Overview including entering, operating and exiting Healthy and Affordable Food FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices •N ourishing Our Neighbors — (in-kind contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge transfer, Entire Section partnerships and product development) that promote healthy •A dvancing Social Impact lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, with Consumers nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks • Winning With Integrity related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption • Winning With Integrity policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption • Winning With Integrity Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development • Public Policy Engagement and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, • Public Policy Engagement politicians and related institutions by country continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 100 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Anti-competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust Not reported and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary Material items are reported in sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations the 10-K. Social: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and • Food Safety and Quality services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant •E nsuring Consumer products and services categories subject to such procedures Satisfaction PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and • Food Safety and Quality voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and •E nsuring Consumer services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes Satisfaction FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an • Food Safety and Quality independent third party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product •H ealthy and Nutritious category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and Products sugars FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product •H ealthy and Nutritious category sold, that contain increased fiber, vitamins, minerals, Products phytochemicals or functional food additives Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, • Food Safety and Quality and percentage of significant products and services subject to such •A dvancing Social Impact information requirements with Consumers FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about •C ommunicating Health ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirement and Wellness PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and • Food Safety and Quality voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys •E nsuring Consumer measuring customer satisfaction Satisfaction Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes •G lobal Guidelines for related to marketing communications, including advertising, Responsible Advertising to promotion and sponsorship Children •C ommitment Concerning Advertising to Children (U.S.) PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and This information is not reported, voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including but the National Advertising advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcome Division reports many advertising disputes. continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 101 06 / RESOURCES Standard Disclosures, Part III: Performance Indicators Profile Information Cross-Reference/ Disclosure Description Reported Direct Answer Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Not reported customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and Material items are reported in regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services the 10-K. Animal Welfare Breeding and Genetics FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species None and breed type Animal Husbandry FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical Not applicable alterations and the use of anesthetic FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species None and breed type, per housing type FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, hormone and/ Not applicable or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type Transportation, Handling and Slaughter FP13 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with laws and regulations, Not applicable and adherence to voluntary standards related to transportation, handling and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 102 06 / RESOURCES UN Global Compact Index The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Campbell Soup Company committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2009. Below is an index of our reporting against the UN Global Compact principles within the content of this 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Principle Number Description Report Section/Links 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights •H  uman Rights Principles • Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation • Winning With Integrity 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses • Human Rights Principles • Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation • Stakeholder Engagement 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to •H  uman Rights Principles collective bargaining • Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Winning With Integrity 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor •H  uman Rights Principles • Winning With Integrity • Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation 5 Support effective abolition of child labor •H  uman Rights Principles • Winning With Integrity • Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation •H  uman Rights Principles • Winning With Integrity • Supply Chain, Logistics and Transportation • Nourishing Our Employees • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Nourishing Our Planet 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Resource Stewardship 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally • Resource Stewardship friendly technologies 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery •C  orporate Governance and Ethics • Winning With Integrity Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 103 06 / RESOURCES Independent Review Letter by Business for Social Responsibility Campbell Soup Company requested BSR to conduct an independent review of its Corporate Social Responsibility Report covering activities and performance in 2011. We highlight areas of strengths and challenges, and in the process provide suggestions for ways that Campbell Soup can enhance its future reporting. It should be noted that our review neither verifies nor expresses an opinion on the accuracy or timeliness of information provided in this report. Strengths and Achievements Clear presentation of efforts to enhance the nutrition and health profile of its product portfolio Health and nutrition are critical issues for any food company, and the 2012 report increases the depth of coverage on how Campbell is adjusting its products to make them healthier and the impact that is having on its financial results. In addition, it explains how its products assist in the fulfillment of nutritional requirements for vegetables and fruits and whole grains, and impact heart health and weight control. And finally, the report provides detail on the development of new products and the modification of existing ones in order to make them healthier, and data on the revenue increases for such products over time. We hope that future reports build on this foundation by showing the company’s progress in enhancing the nutritional profile of Campbell’s products and the establishment of measurable timebound targets against which to assess performance. It would also be useful if a clear narrative were provided around the overall objectives of Campbell’s nutrition program and how individual product modifications fit into this framework. Commitment to establishing performance metrics for its key community initiatives Campbell has adopted two impressive goals related to its community initiatives: reduce childhood obesity and hunger by 50% by 2020 and make a positive impact on 100 million youth through its community outreach efforts. This year’s report notes that it will establish outcome measures related to food security and obesity by the end of 2012. We believe that this is a critical step in the evolution of Campbell’s community programs, and we expect that next year’s report will provide greater detail about these performance metrics and how they are being implemented. More extensive coverage of environmental initiatives and performance This year’s report provides more in-depth discussion of a number of critical environmental issues, including green building, renewable energy, water resource mapping and sustainable agriculture. Noteworthy is the focus on water resources, and particularly the analysis of water usage and the calculation of that usage on water scarcity in the areas surrounding many of Campbell’s facilities. Measuring and reporting water scarcity is a leadership practice in the food and beverage industry, and we hope that the analysis will be expanded in future reports to give a full picture of the impact on water resources of Campbell’s facilities and its agricultural operations, which form the foundation of Campbell’s business. Greater detail on public policy activities Although covered to a degree in previous CSR reports, this year’s edition provides more detail on the kinds of issues that Campbell engages on in the public policy arena and the positions it supports. Many stakeholders are interested in the role that companies play in influencing public policy, and the transparency shown by Campbell should allow for a greater understanding of its activities in this area. Challenges and Opportunities Balance discussion of successes and challenges As in our review of last year’s report, we recommend that Campbell provide a fuller account of the challenges that it faces across product formulation (health & wellness), environmental, social and community issues. One key characteristic of highly regarded CSR reports is the open recognition of challenges across the spectrum of CSR issues, and we believe that Campbell’s report needs to acknowledge such challenges and provide a thorough discussion of them. For example, the decision in 2011 to increase the amount of sodium in its soup products is clearly a challenge to the general trend evidenced in this report of Campbell taking steps to enhance the health profile of its product portfolio; stakeholders would benefit from a discussion of this decision and any implications it might have for future product adjustments. Calling out challenges also serves as an opportunity Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 104 06 / RESOURCES to create a call to action that seeks the participation of others to address issues that are multidimensional in nature, such as the goal of receiving 40% of electricity from renewable or GHG-free sources by 2020. Provide more thorough explanation of data The Performance Scorecard is a useful way of presenting Campbell’s social and environmental data, but there are no targets against which success is being measured. In addition, the report is lacking analysis that provides perspective and context to the data. For example, both energy use and water consumption declined from 2008 to 2011, but there is no way for the reader to know why this happened and what, if any, links this has to Campbell’s CSR activities. We recommend that such analysis occur in the specific sections where the issues are discussed in more detail. Clearly identify the most material issues The report provides a thorough description of the materiality process that Campbell conducts each year to ensure that it is focused on the right social and environmental issues. But while it identifies these issues, it fails to clearly define what they mean to Campbell and how they were derived. For example, advertising and labeling are classified as among the most material issues facing Campbell, and yet they are barely discussed in the report. Greater clarity in the materiality process is important because it underlies the content of the report as well as the company’s overall CSR strategy. Stakeholders would benefit from knowing more about how the material issues were chosen, including what trade-offs, if any, were made in the process of evaluating the various business and stakeholder criteria used in their prioritization. Share how stakeholder input is being incorporated We applaud Campbell for looking externally for input on its activities and stated focus for active engagement; however, it isn’t clear from the report how this input is influencing or being incorporated into its decisions or activities. As noted in our letter last year, it would be useful to have a discussion of the stakeholder’s perspectives and how these are being used to assess market positioning, product developments and enterprise risk. Summary Campbell’s 2012 report builds on previous editions by expanding the coverage of a number of critical issues and establishing important commitments relating to its supply chain and community initiatives. To realize its full potential as an engagement and communication tool for both internal and external stakeholders, however, the report’s content needs to be sharply focused on those social and environmental challenges that are most material to Campbell, and greater context and clarity provided regarding Campbell’s objectives and vision — against which annual progress can be evaluated. This will, in turn, lead to a shorter and more impactful report that will serve Campbell well in an age of increasing stakeholder expectations and hyper-transparency. Eric Olson Senior Vice President Advisory Services BSR March 16, 2012 Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 105 06 / RESOURCES Feedback Thank you for reading our 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. We invite you to help us improve our performance by providing ideas for advancing our CSR activities and increasing the transparency of our reporting efforts. In an effort to better engage with our stakeholders, we invite you go to this section of the CSR Report website and to take a brief survey. Please send any additional comments to csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. While we are unable to respond to all inquiries, please be assured that all feedback will be thoughtfully considered. Campbell Soup Company 2013 Performance Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 106
