Corporate Corporate Sustainability 2012 ReportReport Sustainability 2012 PTT Public PTT Public Company Company LimitedLimited นวันวัตกรรม ตกรรม สร้สร้างอนาคต างอนาคต INNOVATION INNOVATION CREATES CREATES THE THE NEXT NEXT Contents 002 President and CEO Statement 004 Our Business 016 Report Introduction 020 Sustainable Governance 046 Our Priorities • Supply Chain Management • Product Stewardship • Climate Change • People • Operational Excellence • Capital Project Management • Corporate Citizenship 111 Performance Summary 127 Awards and Recognition 129 GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP 135 Assurance Statement As the world faces greater challenges, yet with resource limitation, the promotion of energy efficiency, innovation creation, and technological breakthroughs are viable tools to keep our world in balance – meaning business growth hand in hand with better lives, economies, and surroundings. That is why PTT Group constantly seeks better solutions while pursuing ways to incorporate Thai wisdom with academia so as to create new knowledge. All these to drive Thailand for better and more secure tomorrow. 02 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Mr. Pailin Chuchottaworn President & CEO 03 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited CEO Statement The energy business has become more challenging over years. Securing energy supply from increasing limited sources to meet demand for energy needed to support population and economic growth is more competitive than ever. In addition, climate change issues are becoming more severe. In response to these challenges, PTT has set a strategic vision to become a Technologically Advanced and Green National Oil Company (TAGNOC). It is a strategy to drive business through advancement in innovation and technology that are designed to minimize environmental impacts. TAGNOC represents PTT’s vision to strategically transform from a resource-based company into a knowledge-based company. To this end, PTT has crafted the Technology Roadmap to drive innovation and the Green Roadmap to guide the entire organization covering products, processes as well as public awareness. PTT has rolled out clear targets and developed work plan to reduce greenhouse gas emission and environmental impacts. Sustainability Management Framework is an integral part of our organization management. PTT is committed to operate with transparency and respect to the rule of law. PTT has joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiated and urged companies within PTT Group to participate as well. UNGC membership demonstrates our commitment to apply international standard to promote human and labor rights and environmental protection as well as to defend against corruption. As the only Thai company that is a member of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in the industrial partner level, PTT played an important role in supporting the 21st WEF on East Asia which was held in Thailand. More than 600 government and business leaders participated in the forum. At the forum, PTT proposed energy principles for sustainable development including energy security, robust energy systems, social responsibility and knowledge dissemination. Working with the Ministry of Energy, PTT has set up the Energy Academy to promote in depth knowledge on energy issues to both public and private sector which is important for steering the country development in long term. PTT understands the importance of creating shared value between business and society, thus aims to develop the Rayong Science Academy (RASA) into a leading science educational institution as well as promoting the Rayong Institute of Science and Technology (RAIST) into a world-class research university. The goal of these efforts is to develop Thai students’ competency as well as expanding the country’s knowledge base in order to achieve sustainable development. Our efforts and commitments have successfully propelled PTT into the 95th ranked company of the Fortune Global 500. PTT has also been selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI 2012/2013), a result that was achieved ahead of our targeted date. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all who has helped and supported PTT on our path to become the Thai Premier Multinational Energy Company and promise that PTT remains resolute in our commitment to become a 100-year organization and a strong support for Thailand in the coming years. 04 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Our Business PTT Public Company Limited or PTT was incorporated on October 1, 2001 through the privatization of the Petroleum Authority of Thailand where the organization was transferred to the state-owned enterprise including business, rights, debts, obligations, assets and employees under the State-Owned Enterprise Capital Act, B.E 2542 (1999). The company was first registered with 20,000 million Baht initial capitals and was debuted in the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) on December 6, 2001. PTT’s major shareholder remains the Ministry of Finance while its status remains a state-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Energy’s supervision. The head office is situated at 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok. As of December 31, 2012, PTT boasted a total of 4,227 employees including secondments, of whom 2,851 were male and the remaining 1,376 were female working in the operations worldwide. PTT is a national oil company whose business consists of, firstly, PTT-operated business; namely, (1) natural gas business which refers to procurement and distribution of natural gas, natural gas separation plants, natural gas pipeline system and natural gas for vehicles; (2) oil business including retailing, commercial marketing, procurement and distribution of petroleum, oil depot management and operation, foreign investment and investment in subsidiaries and joint-venture firms; and (3) international trading business which covers trading of crude oil and condensate, refined oil and petrochemical and overseas procurement and transportation; and, secondly, PTT-investment business through other companies within the group in (1) exploration and production business; (2) petrochemical business; (3) refinery business; and (4) foreign investment business. 05 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Lampang 19 Chiang Mai 13 Phrae 7 Udon Thani 8 Phitsanulok 8 Nakhon Sawan 11 Khon Kaen 33 Ubon Ratchathani 9 Ayutthaya 180 Saraburi 31 Pathum Thani 35 Kanchanaburi 23 Ratchaburi 22 Chon Buri 357 Rayong 553 Number of PTT’s employees by area in Thailand Bangkok 2,761 4,202 Samut Sakhon 8 Surat Thani 23 Total Phuket 15 Nakhon Si Thammarat 50 Krabi 2 Songkhla 34 Number of PTT’s employees by area overseas Total 25 Dubai 2 Laos 1 Singapore 9 China 1 Vietnam 1 Philippines 6 Cambodia 3 Malaysia 2 06 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Business Principles Sustainable business PTT’s vision is to become a Thai Premier Multinational Energy Aspirations Company. The firm has dedicatedly committed to the stakeholders where priority is the interests of the public and the country. PTT aspires to become a BIG company with PTT’s duty is to establish energy security for the country through a variety of business units that are extremely exploring, producing, researching and distributing activities. competitive, to be a company with sustainable At the other front, PTT constantly encourages and reminds the public growth and investments throughout the LONG of their rights and duties to consume and conserve natural resources integrated value chain in order to create in a balancing manner for today’s wellbeing and tomorrow’s future. added values, and lastly to be a company By committing to the core value “SPIRIT”, the management, with STRONG and outstanding operations employees and companies within the PTT Group are bound to and financial performances. To fulfill PTT’s commitment in creating a common path and direction to reach aspiration, PTT has defined three goals of the common goal. success in which the progress is summarized as follows. PTT pursues the business on the basis of the sustainable growth strategy through balancing of High Performance Organization (HPO) which involves technology development, innovation and knowledge management in work process, production, sales of products and services. This is balanced with Corporate Governance (CG), PTT pursues this goal on the basis of the business Code of Conduct where action taken must be transparent, fair, trackable and compliant with all the laws and regulations. Lastly, the balance takes into account the responsibility to the environment community development through Care, Share and Respect (CSR), as well as creation shared vales (CSV). 07 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited BIG Strategic Objectives Goal: To become one of the world’s top 100 companies with the highest revenue in Fortune’s Global 500 by 2020. PTT defines core strategic objectives in Today (2012): PTT is currently ranked No. 95 among the world’s order to support the 3 goals comprising: largest 500 companies (based on the 2011 performance), up from No. 128th in 2011, with sale revenues of 2,428,165 million Baht, • Cost-cutting and profit-enhancing or a jump by 529,483 million Baht or 27.9 percent from 2010. strategy which has been translated into Performance: Best-in Class; and Synergy: Deeper and Broader Collaboration. LONG Goal: To be listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) • Sustainable growth and added value by 2013 creation strategy which has been translated into Growth: Sustainability and Today (2012): PTT, having successfully assessed by the SAM Innovation and Stakeholder Excellence: Corporate Sustainability Assessment that covered economic, Multi-stakeholder Balance. social and environmental factors, is currently ranked among the top 10 percent companies or one of the fifteen companies out The goals and strategic objectives are of 125 firms to become Dow Jones Sustainability World Index’s deployed into short-term and long-term 2012/2013 member (DJSI World) in the oil and gas producer sector strategic plans, business plans and operation before the targeted goal. plans at corporate and business unit levels. STRONG Goal: To achieve the Top Quartile Performance with 20 percent Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) by 2020 Today (2012): PTT Group’s average ROIC rate is currently 11 percent. However, to achieve the goal, PTT plans to improve the efficiency in each operation area; namely, project investment management, operation system, marketing and sales, business development, corporate strategy and investment, corporate finance, human resource and organizational management, stakeholder Major events in 2012 management, social responsibility and R&D and management • PTT and NECTEC joined hands to conduct research and development of technology. project on solar energy. STRONG • PTT and Thai Airways International Public Company Limited signed a memorandum of understanding to develop bio-jet fuel. LONG • PTT introduced the Amazon Bio Cup, a cup made of bio-plastic material, in the coffee chain store Café Amazon for the first time. BIG • PTT established the Learning Institute for B ase People to promote a learning process of Resource Base Gr een vocational knowledge based on community experiences to allow communities to resolve Knowledge Base problems on their own in order to encourage a stronger self-development process. BIG LONG STRONG 08 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Strategic Direction Today, the energy business is increasingly challenging due to much greater demands for energy, rising population and dynamic economic development worldwide while energy is and remains a scarce resource coupled with rise of global warming issue. All of these does affect PTT’s ability to sustain long-term value creation. Therefore, to provide Thailand with energy security in the coming years, PTT needs to acquire the reserve use of knowledge to innovate technologies and new sources of energy to reduce the dependence on natural resources while seek opportunities to expand investments in an environmental-friendly energy business. In 2012, PTT rolled out TAGNOC (Technologically Advanced and Green National Company) as the core strategic direction. Technologically Advanced and Green National Oil Company TAGNOC consists of the following: TA (Technologically Advanced) The business will be conducted on the basis of own knowledge or own technology development. PTT has defined the technology roadmap to develop technology in 7 major fields that incorporate 2 common platform technologies related to both upstream and downstream businesses. G (Green) Investment in environmental-friendly energy and petrochemical businesses where priority is focused at Creating Shared Value (CSV) to the society and the business. The concept has led to PTT’s Green Roadmap covering three areas as follows: • Development of Green Products such as the second generation of biofuel, environmental-friendly plastic and chemical products and biodegradable materials • Development of Green Process to increase energy efficiency and to reduce greenhouse gas • Promoting Green People/Public Awareness in which PTT has initiated various activities as a green role model such as reforestation of another 1 million rai of trees: the 84 Tambon on a Sufficient Path Project, the Green Globe Institute, the Sustainable Energy Foundation, etc. NOC (National Oil Company) PTT sustainably provides Thailand with energy security. In addition, PTT has defined business directions and strategies to take the entire organization onto the TAGNOC path as follows: • Group-wide directions and strategies in technology roadmap, green roadmap and organizational health index with collaborative taskforce to support the implementation. • Business unit specific directions and strategies for Upstream Petroleum & Gas Business Group and Downstream Petroleum Business Group. 09 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Business Units Upstream Petroleum & Gas Business Group Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Goal: To increase production to 900,000 barrels of crude oil equivalent per day within 2020 with proved reserves/ production (R/P Ratio) greater than 10 years and a higher Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) than the average of the oil and gas exploration and production business. Today (2012): PTT is currently investing through PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP) who currently explores and produces petroleum in 44 projects located in 12 countries with production capacity of 313,969 barrels of crude oil equivalent per day and 901 million barrels of crude oil equivalent reserves. To achieve the goal, PTTEP has defined key action plans as follows: • To expedite the exploration and production and an assessment process for drilling and exploration work in Thailand, Myanmar, Australia, Algeria, Indonesia and others through projects such as the Zawtika and the Floating Liquefied Natural Gas (FLNG) projects. • To expand the investment in the North American continent by focusing at liquefied petroleum gas projects such as shale gas and shale oil. • To seek strategic partners to expand investments in various regions around the world. 10 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Coal Goal: To achieve 70 million tons of production capacity (based on control ratio) within 2020 by increasing production capacity in existing resources and searching for new opportunities. Indonesia Today (2012): PTT is currently investing Myanmar Cambodia through PTT International Company Limited Australia South Africa where it has invested in a coal mining Madagascar business in Indonesia through PTT Mining Mozambique Limited (PTTML). Through PTTML, the shareholding ratio in Sakari Resources Limited (SAR) has been increased which contributes to increases of coal production PT. FBP (W. Kalimantan) PT. MAR from 5 million tons to 10 million tons (Pontianak) and coal reserves from 680 million tons to PT. KPI 1,400 million tons. Exports are now being (E. Kalimantan) made to Japan, Hong Kong, South Korea, India and Taiwan. PT. Az-Zhara (C. Kalimantan) In addition, PTT is currently investing in a coal mining project in Madagascar through PT. MAR (Banyuasin) PTT Asia Pacific Mining Proprietary Limited (PTTAPM). The project is currently under an investment feasibility study while the Plantation coal mine is expected to boast 330 million tons of reserves. At the other front, a joint Goal: To be a competitive palm plantation in Indonesia. venture was set up to study coal reserves Today (2012): PTT is currently investing through PTT Green potential in Brunei and Cambodia while Energy Company Limited (PTTGE) which has a control over new investment opportunities are constantly 196,258 hectares (PTTGE’s investment ratio only) of which being analyzed in target countries such as 23,337 hectares have already been developed. PTTGE now owns Indonesia, Australia, Myanmar, etc. 2 crude palm oil (CPO) mills that boast a production capacity of 45 tons per hour and 30 tons per hour, respectively. In addition, PTTGE has collaborated with local communities through an initiation of social responsibility activity/project. It has also introduced the zero waste management system to effectively manage the community’s environment. 11 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Natural Gas Power Goal: To be one of Asia’s Top 3 gas Goal: To expand investment in the power players with 1 trillion Baht revenues business with a production capacity of within 2020. 6,000 MW within 2022 and the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) and the reliable Today (2012): PTT is currently supplying, supply rates in the First Quartile. transporting, and distributing natural gas and products derived from gas-separation Today (2012): PTT is currently investing plants as well as retailing gas for vehicles through Independent Power (Thailand) and investing in other related businesses. Company Limited (ITP) and PT Utility PTT is sourcing natural gas from both Company Limited (PTTUP) with production domestic and overseas sources, in total capacity of 1,038 MW and plans to contributes to over 969 cubic feet of expand investments in Thailand and liquefied natural gas imported per day which overseas with an intention to invest more are being distributed through transmission in renewable power. pipeline stretching over 3,714 kilometers. Six gas separation units that produce more than 6.4 million tons of production per year. 12 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Downstream Petroleum Business Group Petrochemicals Goal: To operate integrated petrochemical businesses of PTT Group with Top Quartile Performances in Asia Pacific, the Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) above 14 percent and the revenue growth rate exceeding 5.5 percent per annum within 2020. At present (2012): PTT is actively investing in the petrochemical business through 9 companies including PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited (PTTGC), HMC Polymers Company Limited (HMC), PTT Phenol Company Limited (PPCL), PTT Asahi Chemical Company Limited (PTTAC), PTT Polymer Logistics Company Limited (PTTPL), PTT Polymer Marketing Company Limited (PTTPM), PTT Tank Terminal Company Limited (PTT TANK), PTT Maintenance and Engineering Company Limited (PTTME), and PTT MCC Biochem Company Limited (PTTMCC). This is to add values to locally-produced natural gas as well as products derived from PTT Group refineries. This bold action is also a mean to enhance the development of Thailand’s petrochemical industry in order to substitute imported petrochemical products as well as to support other major industries heavily relying on petrochemical products as their raw materials. PTT has already expanded the investment in an environmentally-friendly petrochemical business which is a project to study and develop biodegradable Polybutylene Succinate (PBS) plastic pellets derived from farm products. In addition, PTT MCC Biochem Company Limited in collaboration with the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand (IEAT) has jointly developed the PTT Eco Industrial Park (PTT ECO-IP) within the Asia Industrial Estate for sustainable co-habitation between the industry, the community, the society and the environment. Moreover, the joint venture has launched the Phase 2 project in which bio-plastic bags would be used to separate organic waste which would then be transformed to produce organic fertilizer at Koh Samed to minimize waste and rehabilitate the environment at the Khao Leam Ya Mu Ko Samet National Park. PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited has been certified as a carbon footprint label holder by Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO) for the high-density Polyethylene (HDPE) currently retailed under the InnoPlus Trademark. PTT also continues to develop the PTT Group Operational Excellence Project to apply an excellent system management to maximize operation efficiency and resource exploitation. 13 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Refining Goal: To operate refinery businesses of PTT Group with Top Quartile Performances in Asia Pacific, the Return on Invested Capital RPC (ROIC) above 14 percent and the revenue growth rate exceeding 5.5 percent per annum within 2020. Today (2012): PTT has invested in 4 companies; namely, Total Thai Oil Public Company Limited (TOP); IRPC Public Company Capacity 1,239 KBD Limited (IRPC); Star Petroleum Refining Company Limited (SPRC) and Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited (BCP) to secure fuel oil for the country and reduce imports. The total refinery capacity is 1,040,000 barrels a day or 84 percent of the country’s total refinery capacity. Based on PTT’s shareholding ratio in all refineries, the company has a total refinery production of 436,000 280 kbd* 23% barrels a day or 35 percent of Thailand’s total refinery capacity. 275 kbd 22% 215 kbd 17% 155 kbd 13% In addition, refineries under PTT Group are seeking to expand 120 kbd 10% 177 kbd 14% investment in related businesses to enhance their competitiveness RPC 17 kbd** 1% through investment in the petrochemical industry, the lube base oil industry, the power business, the solvent business, and the Remark: renewable energy business such as ethanol and biodiesel derived * Refinery capacity and condensate splitter capacity from oil-based crops. Also, more investments are being made ** Stop operating since February 7, 2012 in an environmentally-friendly business such in the case of Source: PTT Group Downstream Business as of 2012 Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited which recently launched Thailand Refinery Capacity 2012 the Bangchak Green Station Prototype, also marks Thailand’s first green service station, and investment in the Phase 1 solar energy power plant with capacity to generate 44 MW of power. Refining business is also part of PTT Group Operational Excellence Project that strives to apply the excellent system management to maximize operation efficiency and resource exploitation. 14 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Oil Goal: To become a Regional Top Brand and the Most Admired Brand as Brand Carrier of PTT; with the second largest market share following only that of a national oil company in countries where PTT invests by 2020. Today (2012): PTT is operating a business through the distribution of quality petroleum products such as refined products, liquefied petroleum gas, lubricants, and other products through various commercial markets, foreign markets and retail markets via sophisticated and full-scaled service stations which meet the needs Zero of consumer varieties. PTT plays a role in pushing and supporting the government’s policy on renewable energy where Waste it has been a frontrunner to distribute biofuel in the form of gasohol and biodiesel. In collaboration with PTT Research and Technology Institute, PTT is developing the second generation of biofuel. This year also marks the launch of environmentally-friendly lubricants, Others aviation biofuels and Zero Waste prototype project at PTT service stations. Thailand’s oil market Share PTT’s oil business continues to strongly command 2012 No. 1 market share in Thailand. This accounts for 38.2 percent market share or a total sale of 16,982 million liters of refined products (including those sold by PTT Retail Management Company Limited: PTTRM). Similarly, it holds No. 1 market share in the lubricants market of 38.9 percent with a total sale of 143 million (Incl. PTTRM 2.8%) 38.2% liters. 9.6% 12.0% 7.8% 9.9% Others 22.5% 15 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited International Trading Goal: To be a multinational trading house of petroleum, petrochemicals and other products with a revenue reaching 100 billion US$ within 2020, in which the 10 percent of the revenue will come from other commodities and a net profit margin of 0.5 percent. Today (2012): PTT is currently conducting an integrated international trade business under a strategic framework to secure Thailand energy supply, expand the business base to every region worldwide, and produce new products aside from petroleum and petrochemical products. The company currently boasts a total sale volume of 72,338 million liters (or approximately 1,243 million barrels of crude oil equivalent) while simultaneously providing international logistics as well as market analysis and price risk management services to support PTT as Thailand’s leading company in the world economic stage. Energy security PTT through the Gas Business Unit is sourcing natural gas from domestic and overseas sources via the natural gas transmission pipeline system. During the same time, the firm imports Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) to fulfill increasing demands for natural gas in the power, industrial and transportation sectors. In 2012, PTT managed to secure 4,560 million cubic feet of natural gas a day, a 9 percent increase from 2011. Of the total, the ratio of domestic to imported natural gas was 79:21. Natural Gas Supply (MMSCFD) 5,000 4,550 4,560 4,046 4,058 4,153 4,175 4,000 3,569 3,575 21% 21% 22% 3,000 79% 22% 79% 78% 78% 2,000 1,000 Domestic Supply Imported Supply 0 Demand 2009 2010 2011 2012 Natural Gas Demand and Supply 16 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Report Introduction Approach The Corporate Sustainability Report is prepared to align with the same consolidation as used in financial report with a period of reporting between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012. The purpose of this Report is to provide reliable and quality information regarding policy, management approach and performance in economic, environmental and social dimensions. For comprehensive financial information of PTT, please refer to the financial report. Additional information regarding the governance and performance of the Board of Directors are provided in the Annual Report. PTT has published its Corporate Sustainability Report annually since 2008. The Report is developed in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainable Reporting Guidelines Version 3 which aims to disclose PTT’s responses to challenges and stakeholder expectations and interests including local communities, non-governmental organizations, shareholders, investors, customers, partners, suppliers, contractors, employees, government officers, the press, and the academics. In addition, to capture the issues that matter most for oil and gas sector, the 2012 Report has been leveraged to comply with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Oil and Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) Generation 3.1. PTT has declared a GRI Application Level A+. PTT has become a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) that promotes compliance with 10 international principles which include, human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As a result, communication on progress has been disclosed in this Report. 17 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Stakeholder Materiality Inclusiveness Materiality assessment is performed PTT identifies stakeholders at both corporate in accordance with methodologies as and business unit levels. It has determined prescribed in GRI Reporting Framework channels and mechanisms to respond and to ensure complete reflection of PTT’s maintain relationships with them at various significant economic, environment and levels. This includes recommendations social impacts in the short-term and from investors, image survey, review of long-term or decisions of stakeholders. relationship with stakeholders, website This Report therefore intends to focus at visitors and etc. Details of PTT’s stakeholder challenges and issues not only closely engagement and results are provided related to PTT but also relevant to the under the section Roles of Stakeholders. nature of PTT’s business and material to stakeholders. PTT values and incorporates readers’ opinions in report development. For PTT assesses the materiality of the contents example, it was recommended that awards encompassing the PTT’s strategy and activity, of success to be consolidated in one concerns directly expressed by stakeholders, report preferably in the Annual Report, and social expectations, international standards or contents to be separately published in Thai voluntary or mandatory obligation. By assessing and English versions to minimize printing. the materiality this year, PTT found no essential change from its prior report. 18 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Content Selection PTT implemented a detailed process for content selection incorporating combination of internal and external factors, consisting of: Step 1: Identify and understand the topic materials of stakeholders through engagement process. Step 2: Identify topic materials for business strategies through an internal process such as risk assessment. Step 3: Consolidate the topics in the matrix and assess each topic on the basis of their economic, environmental and social impacts and weighting based on their sustainability agenda. The evaluation also takes into account the basic expectations and global trend such as World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Vision 2050; or international sustainability index such as RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA), research information, analysts’ viewpoints and publications by the public institutions and the public sector. Step 4: Select contents from topics earning the highest ranking in terms of importance and those with lower rankings but containing significant weight for sustainability reason. The rest of the topics will be disclosed on the company’s website or presented through other channels. Step 5: PTT Group Sustainability Committee (GSC) reviews and approves the materiality assessment, and content selection to ensure the contents are comprehensive and balanced (in both narrative and quantitative aspects) and that major contents relating to the company are covered. The GSC Committee will also recommend the Report’s theme. Issue Identification Material Issues Content Selection 1 2011 Material Issues Economic Dimension NARRATIVE > QUANTITATIVE External Contexts • Energy Security 2 Internal Contexts • Supply Chain Management • Capital Project Management 3 Environmental Dimension • Environmental Stewardship GSC • Climate Change 4 • Product Stewardship Impact Social Dimension 5 • Health and Safety • Corporate Citizenship • People Likelihood PTT View Stakeholder View Process for defining report content World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) WBCSD currently boasts 190 leading companies in 22 industrial sectors from 36 countries worldwide. PTT has been WBCSD’s member since 2005 having its President & CEO as a council member and its Executive Vice President as Chairman of the GSC who also acts as a liaison delegate. PTT has regularly engaged in information exchange and implementation of WBCSD’s practices to develop PTT Group’s sustainable development. 19 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Scope Scope of reporting is determined by level of management control over PTT’s affiliates. The scope covers only businesses in Thailand that PTT operates itself; namely, natural gas business unit, oil business unit and international trade business unit; and that PTT investment business; namely, PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP). The scope however excludes joint-venture companies, co-venture companies, other related companies, partners and contractors unless otherwise stated that it is under PTT’s direct management or that the operation essentially affects PTT. However, PTT encourages companies within the group to apply international practices when preparing a report as already stated in the PTT Group sustainability management framework. At the same time, it intends to expand the scope of reporting to correspond with financial statements and to include additional companies within the group. This Report therefore will cover PTT’s sustainability policy and management guidelines as well as operation effectiveness in operation areas directly supervised by PTT and PTTEP. For comprehensive information of PTTEP’s sustainability, please refer to PTTEP Sustainability Report 2012 prepared under GRI 3.1 OGSS framework as well. Reliability PTT Group Sustainability Committee reviews and approves information disclosure. In addition, PTT engaged third party to review accuracy, transparency and credibility of the Report for the second consecutive year. Assurance statement is provided on Page 135, moreover, PTT intends to continue the review annually. Clarity and Accessibility This Report is prepared to allow all stakeholders to gain access to appropriate information that they can use to make an informed decision. As a result, technical terms are used only when necessary. The Report is available both in Thai and English with GRI Content Index at the end of the Report for quick and easy reference. The Report is published in a hard copy and CD and is posted on website which has been revamped and re-launched since January 2012. (All Reports Including this Report can be downloaded from www.pttplc.com). Enquiries and Additional Information: PTT Group Sustainability Management Project PTT Public Company Limited 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900, Thailand Tel. 66 (0) 2537 1636 www.pttplc.com 20 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Sustainable Governance Governance PTT is a state-owned enterprise under the supervision of government agencies as designated by relevant laws. It is also a public company under the supervision of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Capital Market Supervisory Board of Directors (CMSB) and the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). PTT, therefore, is governed by three levels including the shareholders, Board of Directors and the Management. Relationship in each governance level has been elaborated in the company’s Articles of Association and regulations. 21 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited • Shareholder Meeting PTT Shareholders • Audit Report • Annual Report • Financial Report Shareholders: • Financial Returns • Annual Corporate Performance Shareholder Level Review • Appointment of Directors and Performance Auditor Review & PTT Board of External • Compensation of Directors and Compensation Auditor General Auditor Directors Auditor of • Directors • President & CEO Remuneration Nominating Committee Committee • Board Composition PTT Board and Specific • Independent Directors Committees: Corporate • Quarterly Corporate Performance CG/ Audit Internal Auditor Review CSR Governance Committee Committee • Financial Report • Appointment of CEO & SEVPs • Risks Mgmt. • Internal Control • CEO Compensation • Corporate Compensation Policy Board Level President Management Level & CEO CEO & Senior Office of President & Office of Independent Dept. under Executives: Corp. Secretary Corporate Audit the Audit Committee • Timely Individual Performance Supervision Review • Succession Plan EVP, Corp. • Appointment of EVPs and below Communication & CSR • Compensation of Subordinates COO, COO, SEVP, SEVP, HR Upstream Downstream Corporate & Org. CFO Strategy Excellence Financial Accountability EVP, EVP, Board & CEO Performance Corporate Performance HR Finance and CEO Leadership Review Board Composition & Independence EVP, EVP, Corporate Governance & Corporate Organization Accounting Excellence Social Responsibility 22 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Board of Directors The Board of Directors consists of members who are knowledgeable, having right expertise, and experiences proven favorable to the company’s business. Members of Board of Directors are professionals who are willing to dedicate their time to perform duties. Members of the Board of Directors are appointed by shareholders. The committee is responsible for steering PTT’s operation direction, appointing management team to run PTT’s business, establishing a specific committee to handle a specific issue and appointing the company’s auditor as well as the Corporate Secretary to provide legal advices that require the Board of Directors acknowledgment and compliance, and may also manage the meetings and keep the company’s important documents. For the purpose of accountability and transparency, PTT requires that the chairman cannot hold an executive position in the company. This has been PTT’s practice since it was first registered in the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) in 2001. As PTT is a state-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Energy, the chairman is elected from one of the directors and usually is an executive from the Ministry. However, the chairman’s performance is independent from the Ministry. PTT restricts the number of the Board of Directors’ members to be no less than 5 but not exceeding 15 with equal treatment to both genders. At least half of all existing directors shall be independent directors who must be entirely impartial from the control of both the management and major shareholders. Independent directors must not be involved in or have any interest in the management’s decision. At present, the PTT Board of Directors consists of 15 members, one of whom is female, with 10 independent directors who have been nominated by the Nomination Committee. Each director is an expert in a particular field with years of experiences as senior executive in major organizations from various professional fields considered necessary for PTT’s balanced management. For example, directors are knowledgeable in energy and petroleum sector, law and jurisprudence, as well as accounting and finance. Curriculum vitae and details of directorship of all directors are in Annual Information Registration Statement (Form 56-1), Annual Report (Form 56-2), and PTT’s website. 23 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Board of Directors’ meeting dates and agendas are set in advance throughout the year. The Board of Directors meeting is an agenda-based meeting with a purpose to verify, monitor, and review the company’s policies. In 2012, the Board of Directors convened 15 times, of which 12 were scheduled meetings and the remaining 3 were special meetings. In addition, 1 independent director meeting was held with no executive present at the meeting. PTT Board of Directors represents the shareholders. Therefore, the Board of Directors is responsible for determining the company’s major business directions as well as making important decisions for the company. The Board of Directors steers and supervises management’s performance, manages risks, and sets remunerations. Most importantly, members of the Board of Directors must demonstrate leadership and high ethical standards. To ensure that the Board of Directors’ performance is efficient and effective, 4 sub-committees have been organized, all of which consist of non-executive members, to carefully screen work issues under the Corporate Governance Principles. The 4 sub-committees consist of: 1) Audit Committee whose duties are to review legal compliance, internal control, financial reports, connected transactions, and inter-party transactions to maximize the company’s interests. In 2012, the Audit Committee convened 16 times, submitted report to the Board of Directors and held a meeting with external auditors and accounting departments to review financial statements on a quarterly basis. 2) Nomination Committee whose duty is to recruit and nominate candidates as directors, President & CEO. The Nomination Committee convened twice in 2012. 3) Remuneration Committee whose major responsibility is to review remunerations of the Board of Directors, President & CEO and the senior executives. In 2012, the Remuneration Committee convened twice. 4) Corporate Governance Committee which is responsible for proposing corporate governance practices, reviewing corporate governance approaches and principles to be in line with the 24 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited international practices, and monitoring corporate social Management responsibility activities to ensure that they fully, equally, and effectively respond to the needs of all stakeholders under the The Management is responsible for Corporate Governance and the Code of Business Ethics. In managing the company’s business and 2012, the Committee convened 4 times. daily activities as entrusted by the Board of Directors. President & CEO is the top PTT focuses on auditing and balancing the Board of Directors power executive who has the power and duties to to ensure that corporate governance is effectively and fairly carried manage PTT under the guidance of Board out. Each year, an evaluation to assess whether or not director’s of Directors. The President & CEO must also performances are in line with PTT’s Corporate Governance is strictly manage the company in accordance conducted. The assessment is conducted on the entire committee with work plan or budget already approved (evaluation of the entire Board of Directors or the entire subby the Board of Directors with integrity committee) and on individual director (both self-evaluation and peer and accountability for the best interests of evaluation) to review performance, problems, and obstacles during the company and the shareholders. The the past year as well as to improve the operation. Results of the President & CEO manage the company evaluation are disclosed in Annual Registration Statement (Form 56through the PTT Management Committee 1) and Annual Report (Form 56-2). (PTTMC), which appoints a sub-committee to appropriately handle and manage The Board of Directors is evaluated by independent assessor internal affairs with maximum efficiency and through Ministry of Finance’s Office of the State Enterprise Policy effectiveness. In 2012, the PTT Innovation Office (SEPO) on an annual basis, and also through the Thai Promotion Committee was appointed, Institute of Directors (IOD) once every two years. Board of Directors making a total number of committees to rise continues to receive the outstanding State-owned Enterprise Award to 15. by Ministry of Finance. Likewise, PTT has been bestowed the Board of Directors of the Year Award from the Thai Institute of Directors PTTMC convenes weekly and the meeting regularly that PTT receives the prestigious Board of Directors of the date and agendas are set well in advance Year-Hall of Fame Award. throughout the year. The Management meetings are agenda-based. The meetings The Remuneration Committee reviews annual remunerations are used for reviewing, revising, and monitoring of Board of Directors’ members that appropriately reflect the operation performances on the basis of level of responsibilities and the company’s financial status while pre-determined indicators. Executives are making sure that the remunerations remain competitive with other tasked to set directions and encourage companies in the same industry. The remuneration is in a form their supervisees in their respective line of of bonus that reflects the company’s performance or net profit. authority to perform under a common goal, Annual remuneration is submitted for approval by the Board of which their performance in cascading the Directors and shareholders, respectively. The Board of Directors’ company common goal is used as basis for remuneration packages are subject to approval at the Annual determining factor for remunerations. General Meeting’s (AGM) for shareholders. In 2012, PTTMC convened 40 times. 25 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited The Remuneration Committee reviews the President & CEO’s performance based on the 2 factors. The first factor is the company’s performance in a relevant fiscal year (70 percent weight) which is based on an acquired performance score resulted from an appraisal of state enterprises quality in 6 domains. The second factor is the management capability and leadership quality (30 percent weight), which include the ability to steer the company to achieve the goal, to increase the company’s efficiency and capacity in the long run, to set vision that will enhance a long-term corporate value, and to turn the company into a recognized organization and a prestigious example of Thailand’s leading corporation. The management’s remunerations will be in line with policies and criteria set by the Board of Directors which will be closely linked with PTT’s performance as determined by the Ministry of Finance’s Performance Agreement (PA) that covers economic, social, and environmental aspects. President & CEO as well as executives of all levels jointly determine Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) each year as a guideline to direct PTT’s business. The KPIs will also be used to evaluate performance of the President & CEO and executives of all levels. Decisions on salary increase and annual bonus for executives and employees are made by Board of Directors based on the annual performance success in relation to the KPIs, as this will constantly encourage employees to remain committed to their tasks under the Corporate Governance Principles. PTT at the World Economic Forum on East Asia 2012 The 21st World Economic Forum (WEF) on East Asia was hosted by Thailand between May 30 and June 1, 2012, under the theme “Shaping the Region’s Future through Connectivity”. The forum allowed leaders in East Asia to share ideas on regional economic, social, and energy issues with world-class private entities who have already invested in or are expressing interest to invest in Asia. The WEF is the world’s renowned economic meeting that is closely followed by the leaders around the world. The Bangkok meeting was attended by more than 630 participants including government, opinion leaders, and senior executives who gathered to express their opinions openly. Dr. Pailin Chuchottaworn, PTT’s President & CEO, shared his vision at the private industry session and the public session in which he co-chaired. His session focused on the possible cooperation and direction in the energy market expected to be seen in 2015 under the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC). Dr. Pailin underlined the energy security issue under the concept of New Energy Architecture, which is a concept of energy structure that consists of 3 major components: (1) equitable energy access for every sector since energy is a major factor that drives the economy; (2) environment concern which is a global issue; and (3) adequate and sustainable energy supply. Dr. Pailin stated that the region’s view towards energy must be changed to focus more on effective energy use. ASEAN countries are suggested to let energy price freely float according to market mechanisms to reduce energy consumption, since currently prices do not reflect the real cost of energy. One hopeful conclusion is the energy collaboration within AEC which will not only help increase energy security but should also allow each country to invest less in domestic energy projects. At the WEF, all 10 ASEAN countries share a common view and willingness to collaborate more on the energy issue, which is considered a true milestone, since the cooperation, which was once a national level, has now been upgraded into a strong regional commitment. Although the curtain has already been closed for Thailand’s WEF, PTT continues to move towards the goal to become Thailand’s leading multinational energy company who is well aware of a possible co-habilitation between the business, the Thai public, and the green environment; and sustainable growth on the basis of technological development and knowledge reliance. 26 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Integrating sustainability PTT employs both top-down and bottom-up approaches in the preparation of the strategic and business plans. The PTTMC and senior executives within the PTT Group companies review and determine PTT Group’s business directions for the next 5 years at the Top Executive Thinking Session (TTS) to duly reflect economic conditions, energy situations, and changing business circumstances. The TTS meets 4 times during April and June. Then, the Strategy and Corporate Planning Department communicates TTS’s ideas with various business and supporting units for them to formulate their own strategic plans. The business directions are presented at PTT Group’s Strategic Thinking Session (STS) which is attended by the management, at the executive vice president level and higher, who will mobilize their ideas for PTT’s business directions and long-term strategies. Major strategic directions from the STS will be proposed to the Board of Directors for approval. If there is any additional suggestion, the unit who is the strategy owner will review it and use it as a framework to formulate a state-owned enterprise plan and budget later. When formulating a strategic direction, it is important that all executives and employees are clear in the “End-Way-Mean” model. “End” refers to strategic objective. “Way” refers to strategic initiatives that will help achieving the strategic objective. Finally, “Mean” refer to a critical success factor that allows strategy/ procedure to be implemented effectively. 27 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Management for Excellence From 2002, PTT has implemented criteria of the Thailand Quality Award (TQA) for performance appraisal. The TQA’s concept is based on the Malcolm Baldridge National Quality Award (MBNQA), the management system that is widely recognized by as many as 38 countries around the world as measurable criteria for quality. As a state enterprise under the Ministry of Finance’s supervision, PTT is also subject to the State Enterprise Performance Appraisal (SEPA). Under the “PTT Way,” PTT strives to be strong in 3 areas: operating system, management system, and people system. PTT manages the 3 pillars using the TQA’s concept which covers corporate management for excellence in both process and outcomes. PTT continues to improve related systems starting from the department level to the main business units, including PTT’s gas, oil, and international trading business units. In 2012, PTT was awarded the Thailand Quality Class Award (TQC) for the second consecutive year from the Thailand PTT sepa/tqa roadmap Quality Award Office. PTT WAY TQA 2018 PTT achieve At the same time, the Sub-Committee TQA 2017 TQC Improvement Supervising State Enterprise Performance Appraisal (SubPAC) has set a goal for 2016 TQC Improvement Grade-A state enterprises to pass a process TQC 2015 PTT achieve TQC appraisal (Categories 1-6) with at least 2014 Writing ptt application report 2014 Set up PTT TQA Platform 350 scores by 2013. Consequently, PTT 2017 ofi plan has set the goal to achieve 335 scores in 2013 Writing ptt application report ofi plan 2013 Set up PTT TQA Platform 2012. This reflects the fact that PTT is a 2012 Writing ptt application report 2012 GBU, OBU, TBU achieved TQC company with systematic management, ofi plan 2011 GBU, OBU, TBU achieved TQC TQC efficiency in transforming concepts into real 2011 Writing ptt application report ofi plan actions and processing the evaluation and 2010 Writing ptt application report ofi plan 2010 TQA : PTT GTM TQC : TOP TQC : BCP improvement mechanisms based on fact2009 TQC : PTT GTM based information to achieve management excellence in all aspects in order to 2008 TQC : PTT GTM, Thai Lube Base achieve the target. The Appraisal results 2007 TQA Achievement in PTT GTM are not available in time for inclusion in this 2006 TQA Achievement in PTT GSP, Sustainability Report. However, PTT is keen Implement TQA Criteria in GTM to disclose the results in the next report. 2005 TQC : PTT GSP, Implement AR = Application Report TQA Criteria GTM GBU = Gas Business Unit GSP = Gas Separation Plant, Rayong 2004 TQC Achievement in PTT GTM = Gas Transmission Pipeline GSP & Thai Olefins (TOC) OBU = Oil Business Unit OTQA = Office of Thailand Quality Award 2002 TBU = International Trading Business Unit 2003 Implement TQA criteria in PTT GSP TOC = Thai Olefins Public Company Limited TQA = Thailand Quality Award TQC = Thailand Quality Class 28 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT focuses on improving the quality of the corporate management processes in order to become a High Performance Organization. Each business process has been configured to achieve world class management standard as well as to be in compliant with the TQA criteria. To this end, PTT has set a goal for the entire organization to win the TQC Award in 2015 and the TQA Award in 2018. In 2012, PTT increased the effectiveness of the monitoring process by using fact-based system to benchmark the results and targets with peers in the industry. The benchmarking process is adopted to further the innovation of PTT’s management process. PTT also strives to be an organization of innovation, therefore, the PTT Innovation Promotion Committee and the PTT Innovation Working Committee have been established. PTT organized activities to promote and recognize innovations; for example, innovations were exhibited via the PTT We Can Corner and the PTT Innovation Award was established. As a result, PTT has regularly been named the outstanding state-owned enterprise. Recently, PTT won the HM the King National Innovation Award for the Electromagnetic Induction Device on the National Innovation Day 2012 organized by the National Innovation Agency. “PTT Electromagnetic Induction” – PTT Innovation In 2012, the PTT Electromagnetic Induction was award first prize from the National Innovation Agency, the Ministry of Science and Technology for Best Innovation of the year. In 2013, the innovation also won ‘SEPO Innovation Award’ given by State Enterprise Policy Office (SEPO), and for best engineering and industry innovation given by the National Research Council of Thailand. Additionally, PTT Electromagnetic Induction will represent Thailand in the 41st International Exhibition of Inventions in Geneva which will take place between 10-14 April 2013. A major problem in the production and transportation of crude oil is the crude oil that contains a high amount of large hydrocarbon molecules. The compositions of hydrocarbon molecules in crude oil are specific to the geology such as crude oil from onshore Thailand and Africa. When the temperature of crude oil drops below a certain level, these molecules are deposited into wax. Wax deposits present problems in production and transportation because the wax can accumulate in production wells and pipeline or, in the case of Sirikit production, in the locomotives used to transport crude oil from Phitsanulok to refineries in Bangkok and Sriracha. A team of researchers from PTT Research and Technology Institute has developed a tool to resolve the issue using the principle of electromagnetic induction. The electromagnetic induction is used to heat the metal’s surface by generating Eddy current within the metal. The solution views metal not as the problem (from high heat loss though the surface) but as an opportunity to use metal properties to address the problem of the crude oil wax. PTT Electromagnetic Induction has been designed in accordance with health and safety standards. The device is convenient for use and portable in itself. Therefore it helps to reduce cleaning time of locomotives used for transporting crude oil and a procedure which require energy from steam and could lead to potential contamination from wax into environment. It can be said that the electromagnetic induction is truly an innovation that is friendly to the environment and communities. PTT Electromagnetic Induction can be leveraged for use with crude oil transmission pipeline, wells, other production assets worldwide with similar type of crude oil. At the moment, this innovation is undergoing a process for technology license registration both in Thailand and overseas. 29 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Approach to Sustainability PTT is the first Thai company to be assessed as Member 2012/2013 of the Dow Jones Sustainability Work Index (DJSI Index) in the Oil and Gas Producers (OIX) sector. PTT passed the sustainability evaluation by the Sustainability Asset Management (SAM) before the targeted aspiration previously set by the company. This achievement is a proof that PTT has a sustainable business conduct and performance. PTT can also maintain a balance between being a High Performance Organization through knowledge-based management and technology development, and being committed in energy innovation for environmental purpose and social accountability under the Corporate Governance. PTT continues to pursue the business for mutual developments and intends to maintain the prestigious DJSI member status. Based on the past evaluation, there are areas that PTT can improve on. Moreover, PTT urges other companies within the group to also be assessed by the SAM to learn how they perform in comparison to their industrial peers. The process is beneficial to the risk management and is considered to be a golden opportunity to make businesses under On April 25, 2012, the PTT Group PTT Group to be more sustainable. Sustainability Management Project organized a workshop at the headquarter The 2012 work program focuses on improving work system and office under the topic of “Driving Change and Creating Value thru Reporting.” management that will lead PTT to become a sustainable organization The event received participations from through an engagement process. Related departments are advised various departments whose duty is to and persuaded to be part of the process and to approve target and gather information based on economic, social and environmental indicators as development guidelines in the same direction. In addition, the company practiced internationally to gain better is strengthened to better respond to the current situations and to be understanding of the reporting process ready to confront future challenges. The President & CEO has already in order to constantly improve the process. The workshop also set a stage for approved the project along with a specific line of command known as external party to share best practices the PTT Group Sustainability Management Project, with the Executive and recommendations that allowed information to be disclosed accurately, Vice President of the Organization Effectiveness acting as the project with transparency and credibility. About director, which directly governed by the PTT Group Sustainability 30 employees from related departments Committee (GSC). PTT Group Sustainability Management Project and representatives from companies in the PTT Group attended the event. monitors progress, assesses performance and reports results to GSC in the meeting held at least on a quarterly basis. GSC then periodically reports progress, problems and obstacles to the PTTMC. The PTT Group Sustainability Management Project is a core driving force, working with Subject Matter Experts (SME) to improve the formulation of operation plan to ensure that it corresponds with sustainable strategy and the international practice. The Business Units Sustainability Committee (BUSC) is responsible for governing sustainable operations at business unit level for the entire company to pursue the common and shared success. 30 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited To celebrate the 20th Anniversary of the United On July 24, 2012, the PTT Group Sustainability Nations Conference on Environment and Management Project organized a seminar to share Development (UNCDE) which has been widely information relating to the Rio+20 Meeting. known as the Earth Summit, the United Nations The meeting, which was held under the topic of organized the United Nations Conference on “What’s next for corporate sustainability?” was Sustainable Development (UNCSD), known shortly conducted to prepare PTT for the concept of as the Rio+20 Meeting in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. It sustainable development and the impact towards is expected that results of this meeting will give an PTT Group’s operation. The guest speaker impact on how country will be developed as well as was Ms. Linden Edgell, Partner and Global how the world is going to manage the environment Sustainability Program Director who represented in a wider scale, the same way the Earth Summit the Environmental Resources Management Group, did to the world 20 years ago. Inc. (ERM), a company that was invited to attend the Rio+20 Meeting. The seminar was also attended by members of the PTT Group Sustainability Committee (GSC), the PTT Group CSR Committee, the PTT Group Corporate Social Responsibility and Communications Committee in Rayong, and employees from PTT Group companies. In total, approximately 60 participants attended the seminar. PTT Group CSR Policy and Framework has been implemented since 2008. The policy and framework was reviewed to ensure constant updates in the sustainability domain to keep up with the international practice. The review reflects changing business landscapes and provides an opportunity for PTT to prepare for and respond to challenges while marching towards success in a strategic manner. This update covers standards, practices and assessment criteria relating to the energy industry such as the ones implemented by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Oil and Gas Sector Supplement, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI), and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD): Vision 2050. The final outcome after the update is the PTT Group Sustainability Management Framework. tional Govern anisa anc Org e SSHE Operations Risk Management Human Management Organization People Rights of Change & Capabilities Capital Protect Reporting Safety, Project Sustainability and Health and Management evolve engage Management Reputation Environment Stakeholder Engagement Fair Product Operating Performance lead operate Reliability & Asset Stewardship Management Practices Integrity Partner Supply Strategy Corporate & Operations Chain Leadership Citizenship Management Value Management of Chain Contractors Management & Suppliers PTT Group Sustainability PTT Group Operational Excellence Management Framework (OpEx) 31 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited To reinforce and connect PTT Group’s operation with the sustainability strategy, the GSC continues to monitor and learn from international practice. All potentials and strengths of the operations are connected and weakness and unclear work processes are improved. In 2012, a workshop was conducted to update the strategies, the shortterm and long-term roadmaps as well as the PTT Group Sustainability Policy In addition, PTT is currently running the PTT Group Operational so that they not only better reflected the Excellence (OpEx) Project whose main objective is to drive change but also leverage from the original operation performances of companies under the PTT Group to five-year roadmap (2009-2013). The update pursue the Top Quartile Performance. The project is driven by will also provide information to support the the OpEx Committee which consists of representatives from 10 preparation of PTT Group’s annual state companies to craft the Operational Excellence Management System enterprise plan. The brainstorming session (OEMS) handbook that contains 12 OEMS Framework elements. at the workshop came up with important The sustainability management that is in line with the PTT Group conclusions that will be transformed into PTT Sustainability Management Framework has been added as one Group’s Sustainability Vision Management of the OEMS Framework elements. On September 18, 2012, and the Sustainability Strategy and Roadmap executives from 8 companies: PTT Public Company Limited, PTT 2013-2020. In addition, engagement Exploration and Production Public Company Limited, PTT Global sessions with relevant departments were Chemical Company Limited, Thai Oil Public Company Limited, IRPC carried out to review ideas so that the Public Company Limited, PTT Phenol Company Limited, PTT Utility roadmap can be constructively implemented Company Limited, and PTT Energy Solutions Company Limited, and that the company can actually achieve signed the OEMS to pledge that they, too, will turn this into an actual the sustainability goal. This will be submitted implementation. to the PTTMC for further approval and implementation. PTT has developed a report to disclose the economic, social, and environmental performances based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) practice since 2008. On September 14, 2012, the PTT Group Sustainability Management Project organized a workshop entitled “Paving the way to more and better sustainability reporting” at PTT’s headquarter. The workshop was held to inform objectives, processes, duties and responsibilities as well as work plan for report makers to prepare a report in a systematic manner and to ensure that the report will continue to be developed with support and understanding from appropriate personnel. Representatives from PTT Global Chemical Company Limited, PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited, and Thai Oil Public Company Limited shared their best practices regarding the reporting of each companies. 55 participants from the PTT GSC, representatives from PTT, and the subsidiaries attended the event. 32 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited To monitor PTT Group’s progress in turning the CSR Policy and Framework into actions in targeted areas, PTT has in place the PTT Group CSR Framework Verification Program to periodically review performance. The program can be divided into 2 phases as follows: • Self-assessment of CSR Framework is carried out on an annual basis. The PTT Group Sustainability Management Project sends out a survey questionnaire to a designated area for a self-assessment. This has been done first in 2010 and later in 2012. Results from the 2012 survey will be reported to the GSC’s Q1 Meeting in 2013. • External assurance of CSR Framework is carried out every 3 years. An external team conducts a field visit to review the project’s operation based on PTT Group CSR Framework’s 10 elements. The first field visit took place in 2011, therefore, no activity was undertaken in 2012. In 2013, PTT is reviewed the CSR Framework Verification Program to ensure that it is in line with the PTT Group Sustainability Management Framework for universal and across-the-Board of Directors implementation group-wide. ion Govern anisat anc Org e Human Rights People • CSR Process Reporting and Safety, Health and Manual for Reputation Stakeholder Engagement Environment Corporate, Gas Product Stewardship Fair Operating Practices • Management & Oil BUs Supply Corporate Engagement • CSR Process • Corporate Chain Management Citizenship and BUs Implementation Guidelines Communication in Rayong • Third Party • Certified for • Pilot CSR • Stakeholdder Assurance • Leverage well conducting • PTT Group CSR Framework Dialogue of CSR established a sustainable Framework and Implementation • Self Verification Framework work processes business in the Implementation • CSR Report of CSR • First DJSI for better international Guide inline with GRI Framework Application outcomes arena economy 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 social ecology DEfine enhance review better Outcomes certified PTT CSR PTT Group PTT Group PTT Corporate PTT Corporate Report CSR Report CSR Report Sustainability Sustainability sustainable 2008 2009 2010 Report 2011 Report 2012 business C B A A+ Approach to Sustainability 33 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Risk and Crisis Risk management is an integral component of all processes in all Management PTT business operations. Every year PTT develops the Corporate Risk Profile encompassing strategic risk, business risk, operational Risk Management risk and financial risk. These risks can potentially affect PTT’s performances, employees, customers, suppliers, reputation, the PTT is committed to the Enterprise Risk public, and the environment. In addition, PTT also takes event risk Management Policy. Under the policy, that may occur during the year into consideration. PTT requires the the Risk Management and Internal Risk Management Report to be submitted to the Audit Committee Control Committee (RMCC) is directly on a quarterly basis. The committee reviews the risk management in charge of the effective management system to assess whether it is intact in order to ensure effective of risks. Specialized committees have operation while leaving room for suggestions and recommendations. been appointed to oversee specific At the same time, the Office of Corporate Audit performs audit and internal areas of work for effective and assesses the efficiency of risk management procedures including systematic implementation. Corporate provisions of recommendations to improve the risk management Risk Management Department is work to the Audit Committee and the Board of Director. responsible for managing the risks within an acceptable level. In addition, PTT’s 2012 Risk Management Handbook elaborates operation framework and risk management procedures that are corresponding with criteria of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), ERM, and ISO 31000 Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines, all of which are international standards for relevant parties to understand the risk management principles and to apply them soundly. 34 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited board of directors Audit committee corporate level Ptt management committee (Pttmc) Risk Management and Internal Control Committee (rmcc) corporate risk management department Other committees for specific issues business unit level Corporate Research & Upstream Gas Down stream Oil P&R Trading HR Finance Planning Technology Uac gbmc dac obmc prmc trmc hrc fac cpc rtmc Climate Supply CSR QSHE Credit Change Sustainability Internal audit scmc CSR qshe credit ccc gsc Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs) Vice Presidents (VPs) functional level Division Managers/Employees Investment Financial Insurance Trading SSHE CSR Portfolio Credit Policy Insurance Price Risk Security, Safety, Corporate Social Management & Division/Financial & Asset Management & Health and Responsibility Corporate Business Risk Management Management International Market Environment Department Development Department Department Analysis Department Department Department Enterprise Risk Management Framework PTT’s risk management framework is interlinked with the entire PTT’s risk management extends to a create strategic planning process. A risk management plan has been an opportunity and add values to the formulated and implemented to reduce negative impacts. In business arising from the same risk factors addition, risk management is monitored and reported. Each year, whereby risks are managed through the an annual corporate risk profile is analyzed from potential target Portfolio View of Risk method. The method value during the next 5 years as well as risk factors of major projects combines both qualitative and quantitative or roadmaps that may prevent each business unit from achieving risk analysis to identify and assess potential the operation goal. Additionally, the world’s economic trends and risk that could occur and affect corporate Thailand’s economic situations that may affect PTT’s performance goals while ensuring that the company can are analyzed. Impacts to each year’s net profit, environmental achieve both shortterm and long-term tendencies and climate change, expectations of stakeholders, targets. This risk factor management will and opinions from the Board of Directors meeting and the Audit be carried out in tandem with the use of Committee are also considered. Risk owners from all units are appropriate measures to reduce external required to develop a corporate risk management plan and report a threat and to create value from opportunity. risk management plan to the RMCC. 35 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Due to PTT’s continuous efforts in 2012, PTT managed to do all the risk management work as stipulated in the corporate risk profile that covered both risk and business opportunity from economic, social, and environmental uncertainties. Details of the risk factors are further described in our 2012 Annual Report. However, material information that may affect our intention to fulfill the sustainability goal is as follows: Corporate image and public expectation risk PTT conducts a corporate reputation survey each year to learn demands, satisfaction levels, and attitudes of all stakeholders. Survey results during the past years signal that PTT has an image as entity that is committed to do everything for Thailand and the people. It also has an image as a national oil company with capability to be in a front line to drive Thailand in all major areas in a sustainable manner. PTT therefore identifies public expectation as corporate risk that is subject to risk management procedures and effective mitigation. In addition, based on PTT’s action under the sustainability roadmap, investors and stakeholders continue to remain convinced in PTT’s position as a corporation that maintains sustainable growth as PTT is now listed as Member 2012/2013 in the DJSI World Index. The achievement allows PTT to compare the operation with other firms in the same business that benefit PTT’s future risk management and corporate development. 36 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Risk from environmental and social regulations As environmental and social related laws and regulations become increasingly more stringent, PTT is making sure that the company is ready to cope with legislative changes that could increase the operation costs or delay of the projects. As a result, PTT requires that risk management is conducted in this area where related agencies monitor and review possible impacts to the operation which resulted from changes of environmental and social laws and regulations. In addition, relevant departments are required to keep a closed contact with the authorities to stay updated and to be able to produce measures and plans in a timely manner. In addition, media relations focusing on community participation should be constantly maintained. Risk and opportunity from climate change Although Thailand is not subjected to the legally binding greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction under the Kyoto Protocol; however, due to the increasing concerns over climate change all over the world, new measures, rules and regulations relating to global warming mitigation have been introduced in the country. PTT is aware of the issue and has defined proactive measures to manage the climate change risk by implementing business strategic plan that reflects the increasing concerns related to climate change. The Climate Change Steering Committee (CCC) has been set up under the supervision of the PTTMC to systemize and maximize the way PTT Group pursues the climate change management. In addition, climate change risk assessment has been carried out to assess regulatory risk and physical risk resulted from the climate change, the results of which will be used for further management purpose. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) PTT is committed to securing energy for Thailand and protecting interest and maintaining trust, security, and safety of every stakeholder. PTT Group has developed the Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) based on the BS 25999 international standard framework. This covers protection, response, accommodating, and rehabilitation. Actions will take place in 3 phases: (1) Prevent/prepare phase, (2) Response/resume phase, (3) Recovery/ restore phase. The Security, Safety, Health and Environment (SSHE) Department, the Corporate Communications Department, the CSR Department, and the Corporate Risk Management Department are core parties responsible for the BCMS under the supervision of the RMCC and the QSHE Committee. 37 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited It is a challenge to run a business that can continue to achieve the goal years after years. More often than not, there are unexpected events, natural disasters, and all kinds of threat that could prevent the business from continuing or simply disrupt the operation and thereby harm both properties and lives while simultaneously sending extensive impact to stakeholders. Without the ability to restore the business to normal operations, the corporation may not survive. As a result, PTT feels that it is important to create coordinated corporate management strategies that include preventive measures, preparedness, and promotion of awareness and responsibility in accordance with the BCP. PTT has formulated preparedness plan to prepare and respond to safety issues and emergency. The plan is broken down into 4 levels depending on engagement with external bodies. To elaborate, it is an event that PTT cannot respond on its own and needs to seek help from local, provincial or national external agency, the emergency will be upgraded to Level 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Responsible person is determined to authorize appropriate management power to each emergency level to ensure effective solutions and to efficiently respond to both public and private agencies and neighboring communities. PTT truly believes that by creating the protection and by having proper devices to help managing the operation for the purpose of business continuity at a time of crisis, the firm will be able to continue winning confidence from stakeholders while creating superior competitive edge at the same time. • PTT attains the highest scores of 100 percent in risk and crisis management criteria from the Sustainability Asset Management (SAM) 2012’s evaluation that covered economic, social and environmental aspects. • PTT Risk Model has been updated to assess risk in the stress test survey in order to evaluate financial impacts to PTT and other companies within the group amidst financial volatility. • PTT manages to pass the BCMS Surveillance Audit (BCMS-HO Network) assessed by the ISO Accreditation Institute on the basis of the TIS 22301 business continuity management standard without any deficiencies. • PTT continues to enhance capacity building for the human resources where in 2012, 28 PTT personnels passed and now become the Business Continuity Certified Planner. This accounts for more than 25 percent of all business continuity certified planners in Thailand. หาไม่เจอ 38 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Fair Operating Practice Code of Business Ethics In 2012, the Corporate Governance Committee approved an update of PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Governance and Code of Ethics Handbook (CG Handbook). This marked the third time that the CG Handbook has been revised after it was amended the first time in 2005 and the second time in 2009. Last year’s update was conducted to ensure that the handbook is synchronized and incorporate the recommendations and opinions made by the Thai Institute of Directors’ (IOD) Corporate Governance Assessment Report, the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET)’s corporate governance principles for listed companies, the State Enterprise Policy Office (SEPO)’s corporate assessment under the Performance Agreement and the Thailand Quality Award criteria, international indicators, and the Code of Conduct under the Thai Constitution. The goal is to make the CG Handbook fully comprehensive so that it can become a standard and a recognized practice in which directors, executives and all employees will comply after signing and acknowledging it. The new CG Handbook is also available on PTT’s intranet and website. PTT’s Code of Business Ethics extends to cover legal compliance and respect to international principles of human rights as well as topics such as political support, interests and conflict of interest, confidentiality and use of insider information, treating customers and consumers, treating business competitors, procurement and treating suppliers, community and social responsibility, treating employees, internal control and auditing, giving or receiving gifts or other benefits, SHE, intellectual property, use of computer systems, and protection of whistleblowers. PTT has required the Code of Business Ethics to be one of PTT employee’s competencies. It is used in an annual employee performance evaluation to urge everyone to be competent and to comply with the Code. All new staff will be informed of this subject matter during orientation. Refresher course is given to current staff to keep their understanding intact. The goal is to make sure that all employees are fully aware of corporate governance. In addition, PTT is currently developing the CG E-Learning Program as a means to create awareness and understanding among employees that will also extend to a process to measure the system’s effectiveness. PTT has periodically organized activities to communicate and promote CG awareness in various forms such as internal magazine, mobile activity, and town hall meeting with the President and CEO. In addition, employee’s understanding of the CG principles and the Code of Business Ethics are regularly evaluated to enhance a communications process and to allow employees to effectively implement the Code of Ethics with their work. 3.27 4.0 3.5 3.93 3.0 2.5 1.75 1.78 1.77 2.0 1.21 1.41 1.20 1.5 1.0 0.56 0.61 0.31 Executive (Level 13 18) 0.5 0.08 Middle Management (Level 10 12) Senior (Level 8 9) 0.0 Employee (Level 7 and below) 2010 2011 2012 Number of hours of Code of Business Ethics training per employee per year broken down by employee level 39 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Anti-Corruption The CSA will be conducted once a year as a basis to improve and sharpen PTT’s Integrity and transparency are the essence of PTT’s business internal control system as well as to adapt operation. PTT has formulated the Transparency and Anti-fraud the control self-assessment questionnaire to Management Policy within the company. This refers to a transparent meet the needs of each department, reduce audit and internal control process. Organization structure also complexity, make it easier to understand formulated on the basis of the good corporate governance followed and be more accurate. In 2012, new by communication activities that will establish recognition and questions regarding corporate governance practice. In addition, PTT has conducted anti-corruption awareness. assessment were added to the questionnaire Human resources are managed in a transparent manner where for clarifying purpose. corporate value and corporate culture of being a smart employee with integrity is constantly promoted. Since 2010, PTT has been one of the first 27 companies expressing their intention PTT has provided a channel where employee can file a grievance to be part of the Private Sector Collective and has also established a response process that is fair and quick Action Coalition against Corruption with a hope that employees will use the channel to monitor company (CAC), a national project supported by operation on the basis of Corporate Governance and the Code of the government and the National Counter Business Ethics. Employees can ask questions in case of doubt or Corruption Office (NCC). The coalition if there is any question about business ethics. Employees can file has organized several anti-corruption a complaint if encountering inappropriate or unethical behavior or campaigns, the latest of which was on simply ask question at the Office of the President and Corporate October 17, 2012 where a seminar entitled Secretary, the Office of Corporate Audit, the Human Resources or “Practices regarding the certification their direct supervisor. PTT is keen to listen to all complaints with process to become member of the Private transparency, care and fairness to every party. In addition, an Sector Collective Action Coalition against appropriate timeframe will be catered for investigation purpose. Corruption” was held by the Thai Institute Whistleblower’s confidentiality will be kept and prevented from being of Directors (IOD) who was the CAC’s reprisal during and after the investigation. In 2012, no complaint Secretariat. The seminar explained the entire was made regarding corporate governance. However, department certification process and it also distributed of internal audit and other related departments are currently a self-assessment survey to companies reviewing the corruption risk management process as well as the signing and thereby committing to become whistleblowing policy for a better and more effective coverage. the CAC’s members. PTT is currently working on the certification process to In addition, PTT is conducting the control self-assessment acquire status approval from the CAC in questionnaires (CSA) based on the internal control and assessment the future. of internal control result guidelines determined by the State Audit Commission. This is to evaluate PTT’s own internal control system In 2012, PTT found no material issue with on the basis of 5 factors of internal control that includes integrity regards to anti-competitive behavior, and ethics. The 5 factors are Control Environment, Risk Assessment, anti-trust, monopoly, discrimination and Control Activities, Information and Communications, and Monitoring. corruption. In addition, there was no fine or non-monetary penalty resulted from violation of the relevant laws as as well as violation of the Code of Ethics. 40 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Human rights The Board of Directors, executives and all employees are to respect different rules, customs, traditions and cultures in countries where PTT has investment or operates in. In addition, they must commit to the international principles of human rights. PTT personnel must not support businesses that violate human rights where compliance shall be exercised on the basis of PTT’s Code of Ethics and compliance to the international principles of human rights and the PTT Group CSR Policy and Framework that has human rights as one of the components for voluntary compliance. PTT also actively supports the international principles of human rights by joining the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on March 1, 2012 and is currently urging companies within the group to do so as to signal that PTT Group will implement the principles of human rights and labor rights, environmental conservation and anti-corruption at the international level as business operation approach. Furthermore, PTT is promoting and supporting basic human rights on a practical level. PTT supports the government’s policy such as compliance with the National Human Rights Plan No. 2 (2009-2013) which consists of 4 strategies, 14 sub-strategies, and 43 tactics which was approved and announced by the Cabinet on October 20, 2009. The government requires relevant authorities to transform the policy into action plans and to organize activities to underline actions thereunder. PTT has implemented these strategies and tactics in several areas including building personnel’s capacity in human rights, promoting a sound exercise of power by the authorities, woman executives, surveillance of human rights violation, promotion of news and information consumption, enhancing capacity of network organizations to promote and protect human rights, etc. 41 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Building personnel’s capacity in human rights PTT respects for human rights under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The company respects labor rights under legal principles and supports government’s policy where all principles and rules regarding human rights are applied as a basis to manage human resources in a sustainable manner and to develop the working system for transparency, fairness, equality and recognition by employees all over the company. Information on human rights has also been incorporated into PTT’s employee manual. In 2012, to increase understanding and to promote the application of human rights, PTT initiated one-day training to the HR Department’s personnels, who are the first group of employees to be exposed to such training. The training focused on establishing an understanding of major requirements when managing human resources on the basis of international principles and sustainable HR development. During the training, participants shared their experiences in labor relations management, labor laws, and how to handle labor disputes on the basis of labor rights. The event aimed to provide HR personnel with knowledge of HR management principle and to drive the human rights and labor rights compliance policy to PTT employees in other departments. In 2012, 84 HR personnel out of a total of 135 attended the Harmonizing by Human Rights training course. Details are as follows. (person) 30 24 20 18 17 11 10 6 4 2 2 Male 0 Female Executive Middle Senior Employee (Level 13 18) Management (Level 8 9) (Level 7 and below) (Level 10 12) Number of human rights trainees classified by employee level and gender (Training Hours) 7.0 6.9 6.7 7 6.3 6.1 6.1 6.0 6.0 6 5 4 3 2 1 Male Female 0 Executive Middle Senior Employee (Level 13 18) Management (Level 8 9) (Level 7 and below) (Level 10 12) Number of average training hours in human rights per employee per year classified by employee level and gender 42 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Promoting a sound exercise of power by the authorities In 2012, PTT organized training for employees who are responsible for security matter on the appropriate way to examine people and properties in order to maintain security without violating human rights. Security chiefs, security officers and operation-level staff participated in the training which was organized under the “Khun_Khem_Kheng” (ethics, strictness and strength) campaign at 11 PTT offices including: PTT’s headquarter, Phrakanong Oil Terminal, Bangchak Petroleum Oil Depot, Khao Boya Gas Terminal, Surat Thani Petroleum Terminal, Rayong Gas Separation Plant, PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited (Refinery and I-1), Thai Lube Base Public Company Limited, PTT Tank Terminal Company Limited and Energy Complex Company Limited. In all, 252 participants attended the training. Female Executives PTT’s sustainable HR management policy and guideline was designed on the basis of the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework of Business and Human Rights 2011 and the OCED Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The guideline is used to plan and monitor HR management for fair and equitable treatment to employees at all levels. This is in line with Section 15 of the Labor Protection Act, B.E. 2540 (1997) which states that “employer shall treat both male and female employees equally unless otherwise prohibited by nature of work.” It is also in accordance with Article 30, paragraph two, of the Constitution of Thailand which declares that “Men and women are equal.” Therefore, PTT is an employer with equal opportunity unless limited by nature of work or unless there is other fair and legitimate reason that contributes to PTT’s status as a corporate governance company in the management and that significantly affects PTT staff’s commitment to the company. (person) 1,000 800 714 600 400 259 200 532 213 Middle Management (Level 10 12) 0 182 46 Executive (Level 13 18) Number of Number all executives of female (persons) executives (persons) Female executives 43 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Surveillance of human rights violation/ PTT also feels that disseminating human Promotion of news and information rights information to a wider audience is an important task. The Employee Relations PTT has systematically established a grievance mechanism where Management has distributed human rights there is a grievance channel and a process to fairly supervise the leaflets to employees and customers at grievance filing. Priority is given to confidentiality and respect for various PTT premises. The leaflets also human rights principles. Grievance process focuses on promoting contain other information such as rights an understanding between employees and between employees of the alleged criminal offender, the and the corporation. A committee is established to examine and fundamental state policy, children’s rights, make a decision on a case-by-case basis; a representative of the women’s rights, citizen’s rights, political HR Department appears as a member of the committee. Employees rights, community rights, rights of ethnic may officially file grievance to the HR Department of each business minority, rights of the disabled, migrant unit. They may also make their complaint at the Employee Relations labor’s rights, and labor rights. Management, the HR Department, and the Labor Relations Grievance System in the company’s intranet which was launched Enhancing capacity of on July 1, 2012 or through the Joint Consultant Committee in several network organizations local areas. In 2012, 2 employees filed their grievances through the to promote and protect Labor Relations Grievance System which the Employee Relations human rights Management have already resolved the problems before notifying concerned parties through such grievance system as well as by PTT is urging human rights compliance e-mail. among the investors, suppliers and contractors. The sustainability practice PTT Public Company Limited State Enterprise Union is an of PTT’s suppliers also contains a topic independent agency with a major role to engage in the examination of human rights. In other words, when and ruling process as well as to resolve grievance that has large considering to investment or engagement impacts to employees through the committee which consists of with suppliers or contractors, human rights representatives from the management and the union itself. The compliance and compliance to Thailand’s committee, which meets monthly, has the responsibility to provide labor laws will be major factors taken into opinions on enhancing the company’s operation efficiency, to consideration by PTT. update work regulations for the benefit of the company and staff, seek compromise and reduce corporate conflicts, provide advices PTT is supporting International Labor based on staff’s grievances and improve terms of employment. Organization. International labor practices In 2012, one grievance was filed to the PTT Public Company Limited are applied to supervise and take care State Enterprise Union through the committee. The grievance, of rights and liberty of PTT’s employees. which concerned a request to amend the staff’s title based on his This includes, for example, employee education certificate, was duly resolved. gathering at a labor union, disclosure and consumption of news and information of changes in business and corporation in advance, freedom of expression, etc. 44 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Responsibilities towards Senior executives will communicate PTT’s stakeholders vision, missions and values to all groups of stakeholders through a pre-determined PTT is well aware that stakeholders play a significant role in channel frequently. Communication is made determining the company’s business direction. PTT emphasizes through several channels; for example, an the importance of engaging all stakeholders, both internal and executive can communicate with employees external, to promote sound engagement when required. PTT informally after an information brief. Official classifies the stakeholders into 6 groups and as set in the company communication can be made via surveys mission to respond to the needs and expectations of each group and questionnaires given to employees and of stakeholders in a balanced manner. Past actions and results of stakeholders which are conducted annually. a satisfaction survey of various groups of stakeholders show that Results and analysis will be presented to the PTT’s stakeholders engage with the company on a meaningful PTTMC to improve both the means and basis. the channels. One of the examples is when the PTTMC approve the sharing of vision, PTT requires the senior executives to effectively communicate missions and values through a social vision, missions, and values and to transform them into actual network such as Facebook that would allow implementation through leadership and strategic planning. The stakeholders to get access and learn PTTMC discusses with the Board of Directors to determine business PTT’s vision, missions and values in an directions and guidelines. Each department then will formulate user-friendly way. the strategic plan for the purpose of integration, flexibility, and good response to all stakeholders based on PTT’s missions on a Since 2008, PTT has included engagement balanced manner. and participation of stakeholders as one of the CSR Framework’s elements. Related departments are required to comply therewith while stakeholders themselves are periodically reviewed to ensure sound and effective engagement. The procedures can be summarized as follows. Identify internal Prioritize Analyze Develop and Monitor, gather Respond to and external the identified stakeholders, implement and analyze stakeholders stakeholders stakeholders their needs, engagement engagement accurately, and develop expectations strategy results fast and inventory to focus continuously in engagement issues they are interested in 45 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Mission to respond to needs/expectations of stakeholders and examples of engagement channels of various groups of stakeholders Stakeholders Missions to respond to Examples of stakeholder’s engagement Engagement Progress concerns/expectations Country means To provide long-term • Through the negotiation of SEPA indicators More details can be found public agency, policy energy security by early in the year to respond to the public under the Sustainable maker, the press supplying quality and sector’s need as one of Thailand state Business topic in this (national/regional), standaradized energy in an enterprises in the energy sector having Report. opinion leader and adequate amount and with Finance Ministry as a major shareholder and private company. a fair price to support the Ministry of Energy as an oversight. economic growth. Society/ To be a good corporate • Activity such as public hearing. More details can be found Community citizen, running a business • All kinds of media. under the Corporate means community, while managing environmental • Electronic media such as website, Facebook. Citizenship topic in this the general public, impacts based on international • Print media such as press release. Report. youth and education standards and engaging in • Video. institution. improving wellbeing to the • Other media such as mobile exhibition. society and community. Shareholder To conduct a commercial • Activities for shareholders/debenture holders, More details can be found means shareholder, business that yields institutional investors such as the AGM to under the Shareholders investor, entity and attractive returns and report performance and to answer questions; topic in 2012 Annual Report institution investing in expansion of business for The Executives Meet Investors event to meet the stock exchange. shareholders during the annual company visit. continuous and sustainable • Print media such as Annual Report, Financial growth. Statements, the Sustainability Report, quarterly newsletter for shareholders and quarterly financial statements. Customer means To build customer • Direct contact such as meeting, visiting, More details can be industrial client and satisfaction and relations training, customer seminar attended by senior found under the Products consumer. by offering quality executives. Stewardship topic in this products and services of • IT-based contact such as phone call, fax, Report. international standards at a website, electronic media and the Customers fair price. Relations Center. • Customer satisfaction survey. Business Partner To jointly run a business • The Annual Supplier Seminar to present More details can be found means supplier, on a fair basis with desirable work patterns set by corporate under the Supply Chain deliverer and intention to create trust and values under a joint business policy for Management topic in this business partners. collaboration to enhance effective work collaboration. Report. long-term business • Set the value as one of the criteria for the potential and efficiency. selection of suppliers and for awarding the most outstanding gas station. Employee means To support employee’s ability • Meeting, seminar, training and activities. More details can be found executive, employee to handle work as professional; • Print media such as books, manuals, internal under the People topic in and worker. to provide confidence in journals. this Report. better work/life quality for • Electronic media such as What’s News. employees compared to • Video. other leading companies • Linking corporate value with the HR to reinforce employee’s management system to change employee’s commitment to the company. work patterns. 46 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Our Priorities Supply Chain Management PTT and its subsidiaries operate a comprehensive petroleum and petrochemical business along an entire supply chain of the petroleum business. This includes exploration and production of crude oil, managing crude oil tankers, operating refineries, petrochemical plants, petroleum terminals and transmission pipelines, service station network as well as conducting international trading. The values of its purchasing and procurement have already exceeded 100 billion Baht involving an extensive network of suppliers. Thus, it is extremely important for PTT to invest the effort in the subject of supply chain management and to allow its suppliers to sustainably grow with PTT on the basis of the PTT Suppliers Sustainable Code of Conduct. 47 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT has set the procurement structure with clear roles and responsibilities into two categories: procurement of hydrocarbon products required for production process and procurement of non-hydrocarbon. In 2012, there were 5,139 suppliers with recorded procurement values exceeding ten billion Baht. PTT’s procurement activity is diversified to each business unit. PTT is committed to the principles of integrity, transparency, fairness and accountability when managing and conducting business with suppliers. To ensure that the business can continue on a sustainable basis, PTT has laid down a foundation for suppliers through the PTT Suppliers Sustainable Code of Conduct whose contents and scopes are in sync with relevant rules, regulations, and laws. The Code of Conduct sets standard for PTT’s suppliers to conduct their businesses on the basis of the Code of Business Ethics with respect to human rights, employees’ health and safety, and the environmental. To manage supply chain risks including human rights risk, the company has required that risks are evaluated based on PTT’s risk management handbook. Executives from relevant agencies must manage the risk to an acceptable level. In addition, the Risk Management and Internal Control Committee will supervise and offer opinions regarding the effectiveness of their risk control. More details on risk management are presented in PTT’s 2012 Annual Report. Supply Chain Management is a system that links an entire network of suppliers, manufacturers and distributors to administer their delivery of products or services to customers. Data on raw materials, products and services, capital and delivery activities are populated into the system to facilitate coordination within the supply chain network. Under the principle of information integration and linkage, Supply Chain Management system is used to ensure that the delivery is effective, punctual and responsive to customer needs, which drive down delivery costs and increase the system’s efficiency. 48 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Hydrocarbon Procurement PTT complies with the Quality, Safety, Health and Environment Policy to control, prevent and reduce risks, and to preserve In order to deliver premium products to its customer, PTT focuses ecology and biodiversity. on the quality of finished oil products, LPG, and biofuel it procures from suppliers. PTT strives to deliver its products in a timely, For land transportation, PTT prefers oil to be transported through transmission accurate, transparent, and environmentally sound manner. The pipelines of both Thai Petroleum Pipeline company also supports adding value to its products throughout the (Thappline) and Fuel Pipeline Transmission PTT Group supply chain. (FPT) to reduce environmental impact from transport truck’s engine combustion and minimize accident. This policy has resulted PTT’s policy is to conduct business in a fair, sustainable, and in reducing more than 3,000 trucks to pass accountable manner as well as provide good governance in its through Bangkok and its vicinity per month. dealing with the community, society and environment. This policy For maritime shipments, PTT has created is also applied to PTT’s dealing with suppliers. Stipulations on the PTT Group Ship Vetting Standard to vet environmental and social sustainability are included in all PTT’s vessels not qualified for shipping transport short-term and long-term contracts with refineries and biofuel or which are at higher risk of being involved in accident. In addition, PTT has suppliers. PTT Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factor formed an alliance with refineries and is one of the criteria for assessing the minimum quantity or quality of major oil suppliers to help relieve marine the vendor in both new and existing contracts. Quality, economics, accidents. PTT has also become a member of the Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) to community, health and safety, and environmental risks are evaluated receive assistance and to lessen marine in accordance with supply chain management strategy. environmental impact in an event of oil spills. This is one of the guidelines under PTT supply chain management strategy regarding social and environmental risk. 49 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Supplier Selection, Audit and PTT’s code of conduct. All procurements with PTT’s suppliers Evaluation during the selection emphasize product and delivery safety as well as good governance process, of the supplier. PTT gives the potential suppliers the PTT conduct supply co-ordination meeting with the refineries opportunity to demonstrate their reliability monthly and face-to-face customer satisfaction survey feedback to and ability to response to PTT’s needs. address issues concerning the delivery of oil products and to find Supplier evaluations are based on the common solution to solve the problems. In some cases involving principles of PTT’s business security as well economic, environmental, and social risks, PTT will conduct an as the supply chain management strategy onsite audit with the supplier to find the root cause of the problem, for the procurement of finished oil products, determine the path forward, and evaluate the response. LPG, and biofuel. In 2011, PTT conducted a four onsite audits with its Tier 1 suppliers, In 2008, PTT started an evaluation program for its biofuel (Ethanol/ most of whom were companies under PTT B100) suppliers which are generally small companies. Assessment Group with highvolumes and values of questionnaire is used for preliminary evaluation of the supplier and transactions. The four were Thai Oil Public an onsite audit is conducted as a follow-up to determine product Company Limited, PTT Global Chemical quality as well as environmental and safety performance. Public Company Limited, Star Petroleum For refinery suppliers, monthly supply co-ordination committee Refining Company Limited, and Energy meeting is conducted instead of a formal assessment. However, Absolute Public Company Limited. The starting in 2013, PTT will hand out assessment questionnaires to onsite audits were conducted to jointly these suppliers. identify economic risk from oil loss, to formulate corrective action plans, and to conduct post-corrective action plan evaluations. The onsite audit helped reduce damage from oil loss by no less than 70 Supplier Number of Remarks percent. Assessment Supplier Assessed PTT has put in place the supplier audit and 2012 20 Assessed the delivery of Biofuel evaluation system to manage sustainability (Ethanol/B100) of suppliers. Four of the 24 suppliers were not assessed risk in its supply chain. The system takes because there were no business into consideration quality, volume and transactions. delivery of goods and services as well as 2013 Target 30 Additional assessment is expected due minimum requirements according to the to anticipated transaction with Ubon labor and environmental laws and quality Ethanol. Percentage of Tier 1 100% Thai Oil has formulated a corrective management systems such as ISO 9001, supplier assessed action plan regarding oil loss while ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 as well as and corrective action weight-bridge calibration was carried plan out with biofuel suppliers. 50 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Performance Indicators PTT commits to enhance supplier’s operation capacity so that they are in sync with PTT’s business operation policy and direction for sustainable development and growth of both parties. As a result, PTT has introduced a work plan that will enforce the greenhouse gas emission, evaluation of product carbon footprint and control and reduction of volatile organic compound at workplace. In addition, zero logistics transportation accident will also be enforced with refinery suppliers and third party logistics within 2013 before being subsequently extended to other suppliers. PTT also plans to educate and encourage all biofuel suppliers to be accredited by the ISO 9001 quality management assurance system. Value optimized through PRISM PTT has introduced an initiative project that added value of no less than 120 PTT has introduced measures to called “Group Integrated Supply million US$ would be generated from constantly examine and assess Chain Management and Optimization” six workstream under PRISM in 2012. suppliers in the finished oil products, (GISMO) with refineries under PTT LPG and biofuel procurement supply Group (Bangchak Petroleum Plc., PRISM collaboration includes, among chain process. This refers to when Thai Oil Plc., PTT Global Chemical a few, a creation of value under the the product is being delivered at Plc., and IRPC Plc.). The object is to Petroleum Product Management supplier’s refinery or factory in every increase competitiveness and create Workstream. Following an informationdelivery mode where PTT employees synergy within the petroleum supply sharing forum, technology and will examine volume of the product, chain where information of facility use innovation regarding IRPC’s bio its quality, safety and its social and is shared among one another to reduce hydrogenation diesel (BHD) was environmental impact. Should any error capital investment and to generate further enhanced after the information or defect is found, supplier refinery or higher benefit for the PTT Group. The of utilization rate was shared by the factory will be immediately informed to GISMO initiative boasts five major Diesel Hydrotreating Unit (DHT). As seek a solution and the event will be projects; namely, Petrochemicals a result, PRISM combined what had recorded as non-performance before and Refining Integrated Supply Chain been lively discussed at the forum with relevant refinery/factory is officially Management (PRISM), Group Logistics the PTT R&D Center’s project on green notified to avoid repeated mistake.A Management (GLM), Supply Chain diesel before successfully giving birth case in point is when unusual volume Optimization (SCO), Indochina++ and to the BHD, a product resulted from oil was transmitted through Thai Oil’s Multinational Trading House (MTH). the refinery of palm oil together with Thappline to PTT. PTT coordinated with diesel in the DHT unit and of which the Thai Oil to look for a possible cause. The PRISM project is a result of utilization rate was increased in order to A joint working committee was set up collaboration between the PTT refinery turn the product into value-added and between PTT and Thai Oil to resolve group and its petrochemical business. environmental-friendly diesel. IRPC has the problem. In the end, an error This reflects the creation of value and already patented the BHD production regarding the transmitted oil volume synergy for the PTT Group which has process with the DHT unit as part of was found and instead of measuring oil been going on since 2007 under the PTT’s goal to be the technology-based in a tank as practiced by Thai Oil, an name of the Oil Integrated Supply company. oil-measuring device was introduced Chain Management project where instead. This device was constantly the collaboration has been expanded monitored and PTT and Thai Oil into PRISM since 2011. During its first subsequently joined year, as much as 72 million US$ added hands to regularly check value was created. It was expected the measuring device on a scheduled date. 51 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Non-Hydrocarbon Procurement At present, the PTT suppliers sustainable code of conduct has been enforced with suppliers whose contract value is worth 2 million Baht or higher. The code of conduct is also enforced with suppliers whose work have environmental and safety impact. During the past year, there were 574 projects with contract value exceeding 2 million Baht, of which 242 suppliers (42 percent) signed PTT’s code of conduct. In an effort to increase participation, PTT also distributed the PTT suppliers sustainable code of conduct to its supplier relationship management seminar attended by PTT’s major suppliers where 111 suppliers signed and pledged their compliance to the Code. As a result, during the past year, a total of 353 suppliers had committed to the PTT suppliers sustainable code of conduct. PTT has a plan to solicit more signatures from suppliers. A handbook of the PTT suppliers sustainable code of conduct was drafted to allow suppliers to understand an actual practice as well. In 2012, PTT organized three suppliers relationship management seminars to encourage information sharing between PTT and its suppliers. The seminars also aim to enhance supplier’s performances, business continuity and social responsibility so that they, too, are ready to support PTT’s operation. Supplier Selection The PTT approved vendor list has been created to select potential In addition, to manage risk incurred from suppliers to engage in transactions with PTT in a systematic and product delivery, PTT has stipulated fair manner. In 2012, PTT required suppliers whose names were conditions in the Terms of Reference in the list to answer pre-qualification questionnaire (PQ) in order to ensure that supplier’s operation is to evaluate their potentials in various aspects. Product suppliers conducted in compliance with relevant are evaluated in six areas; namely, business potential, production, legislations; and that suppliers comply stock and product quality, transportation, industrial standard, safety, with executed contracts especially those health and environmental standards, and service standard. Service involving risk as in the case of health suppliers are assessed for their business potential, readiness to and environmental safety. In 2012, PTT provide such service, industrial standard and service provision. initiated a pilot project to assess risk levels of contractor’s work, designed to select potential contractors. Suppliers whose scores are lower than a required level will be disqualified. During the past year, no suppliers or contractors had been found to violate Thailand’s labor laws. 52 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Year PTT Supplier selection process 2012 Registration was opened to list suppliers providing 24 groups of work out of the total 280 groups of work, or 8.6 percent. 177 suppliers going through evaluation after answering the questionnaires were eventually registered. All suppliers must pass both commercial and technic appraisals and all PTT suppliers were to sign the PTT suppliers sustainable code of conduct. 2013 Supplier’s work groups whose work may have high business impact and risk to PTT will be analyzed for information which will be a basis for supplier selection as soon as registration is opened. In addition, the PTT suppliers sustainable code of conduct audit will be carried out. PTT Gas Separation Plant in Rayong province scheduled a turnaround, a high-risk task involving a large number of contractors. In addition to a usual examination of contractor’s performance (e.g. issuance of work permit and conducting safety audit), GSP added extra activities to promote SSHE awareness during the turnaround. GSP advised contractors from each company to promote the SSHE project in their firms through activities such as a tool box talk, a daily meeting with the company’s SSHE staff to review its SSHE operation, SSHE areas that need to be improved, and SSHE best practice for participating contractors to learn and enhance their SSHE capacity. GSP evaluated contractor’s SSHE performance and issue certificates to contractors who achieved SSHE standard as an incentive for them to pay attention to the SSHE activity. PTT also allowed its security officers to constantly check and provide operational advice at all time. As a result, no major accident was recorded at the turnaround during the past 2-3 years. 53 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Local Procurement Since PTT operates in various areas throughout the country, the definition of local, therefore, shall refer to Thailand. PTT feels that local procurement is extremely important and this has reflected this belief in its requirement that procurement from Thai suppliers and businesses are recommended and encouraged as part of PTT’s procurement policy. Based on the company’s procurement records, during the past five years PTT has procured more than 90 percent of its products locally. This not only generates capital flows within the Thai economy but also promotes procurement from areas where PTT operates. Local procurement policy helps generate incomes and promote job opportunities in communities where PTT operates as well. If one is to look at this issue from the business point of view, when the cost of products or services are considered on the basis of the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), local suppliers will have more advantages when it comes to issues such as transportation cost and ease of contact and service. PTT urges its suppliers to take care of communities and to procure locally as this helps reduce the product cost as well. % 3,500 94 93 95 95 96 3,326 100 3,000 90 3,000 2,543 2,607 2,737 80 2,500 70 2,000 60 50 1,500 40 1,000 30 500 20 Number of Local Vendor 10 Percentage of Local Perchasing in Comparison 0-0 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Locally-based Supplier Million Baht 35,000 32,697 32,097 30,000 29,092 26,844 26,143 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 Local Purchasing Value (Million Baht) 0FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 F2011 FY2012 Local Purchasing Value (Million Baht) 54 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Product Stewardship Product Safety Realizing the importance of safety of its products and services, PTT has set research and development and procurement of safe and environmental-friendly products as part of the PTT’s Quality, Safety, Security, Health and Environment Policy while allowing related business units to manage their safety. PTT has come up with a list of products and services and an assessment of health and safety impacts starting from development of product concept to raw material evaluation as well as risk management of major process through life-cycle stages of relevant products and services. Details are as follows. Safety assessment Oil Natural Gas International Trading Products and services • Gas station • Natural gas separation • Product trading • Petroleum terminal plant • Transport service • Finished oil products • Natural gas pipeline • Price risk management • Lubricants • Natural gas for vehicles • LNG Development of product concept O O Not relevant Research and development O Not relevant Not relevant Certification O O Not relevant Manufacturing and production O O Not relevant Marketing and promotion O O Not relevant Storage distribution and supply O O O Use and service O O Not relevant Disposal, reuse or recycling Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant In 2012, PTT started the PTT Group Logistics Zero Accident Project to improve safety standards of product transportation and distribution to its customers and consumers. The project aims to assess and analyze causes of accident, prevent accident from happening, provide a safety management system, and promote safety culture within the PTT Group’s raw material and product logistics to employees and related stakeholders. As a result of our focus on products and services safety, in 2012, PTT found no legal violation in any of our operations. There were no practice of non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning PTT’s products or services which resulted in fines. PTT’s marketing activities were within the laws, standards, and voluntary codes of ethics. In addition, no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of personal data were claimed. 55 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Safety Information of Products and Services All PTT products and services including logistics fleet, are required to have appropriate safety information and signage that are in compliance with laws, regulations, and international standards. Moreover, PTT provides additional information relating to a particular product and service that helps customers make an informed decision. PTT does not misrepresent our product and services or attempt to influence vulnerable audiences in any of our marketing. Every advertisement media are approved by the TV and radio advertisement examination board. Additionally, PTT regularly conducts customer seminar and customer visits to provide customer with better understanding in PTT’s products and services as well as listen to customers concerns and comments. Information of products and services Oil Natural Gas International Trading The sourcing of components of the product or service O O O Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact O O O Safe use of the product or service O O O Disposal of the product and environmental social impact O O Not relevant The Natural Gas Business Unit has assessed health and safety impacts through a product’s life cycle on the basis of the Hazard and Operability Studies (HAZOP).The assessment starts from the design process and includes comprehensive risk assessment of all activities. All PTT’s natural gas pipelines are designed according to the ANSI B31.8 International Safety Standard, the production and delivery process on the basis of the TIS/OSHA 18001 Standard, and pipeline maintenance system on the basis of the ANSI B31.8 Standard. As a result, PTT’s natural gas pipelines have high record of reliability and safety for both our operators and surrounding communities. PTT invites our customers to share experiences and express opinions on natural gas safety and usage through various activities such as “Power Plant Knowledge Sharing” seminar. Safety training is provided for new customer prior to initial use. Our industrial customers are offered In-Plant Service safety training. All natural gas products are accompanied with the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) which contains components information, potential danger, product usage, handling, storage, and disposal as well as handling procedure in case of emergency. Customers can obtain quality information of all PTT’s natural gas products by requesting for the Certificate of Analysis (COA) from the natural gas separation plant’s Customer Service Center (CSC). Safety and warning signs are placed throughout the pipeline and on every truck. Gas components information are displayed on the block valves level on PTT’s website which is updated every five minutes and can be accessed anytime. 56 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Environmentally Friendly Products and Alternative Energy Invent and Develop Striving to respond to customer’s demand for safe and Environmentally friendly products. environmentally friendly products, PTT is inventing and developing more green products. Innovative production is a part of PTT’s Green GREEN Growth Roadmap strategy. The Roadmap reflects PTT’s strategy for environmentally friendly operation guideline which addresses PRODUCTS environmental issues through three dimensions of product, process, and social awareness. PTT Group has more green products coming down the production line with plans for market launch in the future. An example of a green product is our bio-degradable placetic such as the Amazon Bio Cup, a bio-based plastic. The Amazon Bio Cup is a result of collaborative innovation efforts within the PTT Group; the cup is made with Polybutylene Succinate (PBS) plastic which is naturally degradable. In addition, innovative ink used on the cup has far less odor than traditional ink and can be returned to nature without damage to the soil and the environment. 57 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Regarding social awareness, PTT plans to push for an accreditation of the product’s environmental friendliness through the PTT Group green label mechanism carried out on the basis of the international standards and guidelines to promote effective social awareness of PTT’s environmentally friendly service. More drtail on social process and awareness can be found in the next chapters in this report. PTT is Thailand’s first distributor of low-sulfur diesel and lead-free benzene. It continues to develop our products for the sake of environment and for a better wellbeing of Thai people. It has come up with a long-term plan to expand its biofuel offering which is in line with other energy policies such as the renewable and alternative energy development plan in response with Thailand’s increasing demands for biofuel. In addition, PTT has distributed PTT Blue Innovation products since 2010. This refers to eight high-quality fuel products made from premium technology which is PTT’s exclusive formula that materializes ultimate combustion, increases engine acceleration rates, allows cars to fully function while reducing engine wear-out. The eight PTT Blue Innovation products are PTT Blue Diesel, PTT Blue Diesel B5, PTT Blue Gasoline 95, PTT Blue Gasoline 91, PTT Blue Gasohol 95, PTT Blue Gasohol 91, PTT Blue E20 and PTT Blue E85. In 2012, PTT bought 183 million liters of ethanol and 191 million liters of biodiesel (B100) from domestic producers to produce Gasohol, E20, E85 and diesel mixed with biodiesel to promote the use of biodiesel in the country’s transportation sector. The purchase of ethanol and biodiesel are in line with the Ministry of Energy’s Department of Energy Business policy on the nature of quality of biodiesel. Biofuel in Thailand Sales amount (million liters) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Fuel Sale 13,953 15,038 15,741 15,890 Bio-Gasoline (Gasohol) 1,376 1,404 1,569 1,662 Bio-Diesel (B2-B5) 5,742 6,163 6,161 6,381 PTT has a target to increase a number of gas stations providing E20 biofuel as part of an attempt to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and decrease fossil fuel dependency. To that end, PTT has increased the number of gas stations offering E20 biofuel by more than 50 percent to as many as 690 stations nationwide in the end of 2012. PTT is also committing to develop an alternative energy business which is considered a brand-new business to strengthen Thailand’s energy security in the long-run as well as to promote Thailand as a regional bio-hub. This effort will also help Thailand prepare for changes which will take place after the country becomes part of the Asean Economic Community (AEC). At present, PTT is operating in the alternative energy business. It’s also generating electricity from solar cells, wind and biogas through joint ventures and power plant investments. PTT aims to generate a total of 300 megawatts of electricity from the alternative energy business by 2020. 58 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Customer Relations Customer Relationship Management PTT does not only pay attention to product and service safety, but also concerned with customer satisfaction in terms of product quality, fair pricing, and responsibility in every product and service it offer. As a result, each business unit conducts its own customer relationship management to respond to the wide ranging needs of different groups of customers. Each business unit has appointed a committee to respond to customer’s needs, to build a good relationship as well as to manage customer relations in conjunction with PTT’s vision and missions. This starts from identifying targeted customer group, surveying customer’s satisfactions, and managing customer’s feedback and complaint in order to produce products and services that are beyond customer’s expectation. Guideline, timeframe, and responsible department for each process have been clearly and constructively identified. Customer relationship management is a major responsibility of all PTT’s business units. Each business unit is expected to systematically build customer’s relationship. PTT Group provides a guideline for customer relationship building which are varied according to different groups of customers. PTT maintains a customer database and an after-sale service is offered with speed and convenience. A visit to each group of customers is regularly made. Customer seminars are regularly held and checkup of technical equipment is periodically offered to customers. In addition customers may contact PTT directly or through an IT-based channel or through a satisfaction survey conducted by a third party. These activities are held in different timelines for PTT to be able to adjust its operation to respond to current and most up-to-date customer’s need. In 2012, as part of an effort to facilitate airline customer payment, PTT piloted a project with PCAir to make payments for jet-fuel filling service via the the Payment Card (P-Card). In addition, PTT offered free internet through the PTT Free Wi-Fi by TOT Project to the public. To respond to the sophisticated and urban lifestyle, PTT also opened the first PTT Life Station for its PTT gas station, Ror Or 1 Welfare Branch on Vibhavadi Rangsit Road. 59 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT’s commitment to develop products and services that respond to consumer’s need on a continued basis has resulted in various awards for outstanding products and services from various organizations and institutions, which include the Trusted Brand award and the Thailand’s Most Admired Brand. These rewards Gas Business Unit has set up the Customer Service Center (CSC) as a main channel for reflect the customer and consumer trust and confidence in PTT. a two-way communication with customers and for maintaining a good relationship Customer’s Satisfaction with them. The CSC is also used to record major statistics and data to improve both the relationship and satisfaction since it PTT has placed customer’s satisfaction as one of its corporate is a system that customers can contact indicators since 2001. This indicator has been communicated to conveniently through internet. The CSC the Oil Unit the Gas Unit, and the International Trading Unit. contains information such as GSP, profile, customer data base, plant information, An annual customer’s satisfaction survey is conducted for each reports of problems and situation for product business unit by a third party using a standardized method that increase/decrease, customer’s feedbacks, covers an entire data collecting process where both quantitative marketing situation analysis, and the Certificate of Analysis (COA). Customer and qualitative information is comprehensively and transparently can request password from the CSC in collected. Results of the satisfaction survey of both customers order to exclusively access that particular and consumers are submitted to the Board of each business unit. customer information. This is to ensure that information will not be disclosed improperly Recommendations from the survey, if any, will be analyzed and and also corresponding to PTT’s corporate used as a basis to improve and formulate an annual operation plan governance and the Code of Business in order to adjust PTT’s products and services that will correspond Ethics. to the need of each customer group. In 2012, the overall satisfaction level was 90.7 percent, which was higher than the previous year and the target. 2012 Results of satisfaction’s survey of customers and consumers Oil Business Unit Natural Gas Business Unit International Trading Business Unit Customers Consumers Customers Customers Satisfaction level 91.9% 87.0% 92.8% 91.0% Target 89.0% 89.0% 89.0% 89.0% 60 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Customer Feedback Process PTT’s Ordering and Customer Relations Center Department acts as a service center to provide information and to receive suggestions and recommendations regarding PTT products and services from customers. In addition, it is responsible for developing a work system that will support the receiving of purchasing orders and customer feedbacks with a main purpose to satisfy PTT customers. The Department receives recommendations or feedbacks from customs of all business units through the Customer Relations Center (CRC) which is a tool for collecting information and monitoring solutions resulted from various customer feedbacks. If the Department can resolve any customers’ issues, it will do so immediately. However, issues related to specific business unit will be forwarded to responsible unit for follow-up. Initial response to customer must be made within one day and customers are asked if they are satisfied with the proposed solution three days after the case is closed. At present, PTT continues to use social media, such as Facebook “PTT News” as a channel to communicate and receive feedback via internet in response to changing lifestyle of customers and consumers. This social media also acts as a channel to inform interesting information such as oil prices, related news, and other marketing promotions to the public while simultaneously receiving information from customers and consumers to improve PTT’s operation. Communication and Complaint Channels Telephone Call Center 1365 or 0-2537-2000 PTT Website www.pttplc.com Ordering and Customer Relation Center (ORC) orc@pttplc.com Corporate Communications Department corporate@pttplc.com Office of President and Corporate Secretary corporatesecretary@pttplc.com Investor Relations Department ir@pttplc.com PTT Intranet Employee Webboard 61 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Climate Change Climate Change Management Climate change is an environmental issue receiving global attention. PTT understands the importance of issues surrounding climate change and intends to set an example in climate change management. Accordingly, PTT established Climate Change Steering Committee (CCC) to systematize PTT Group’s climate change management for maximum efficiency. Established in 2008 under the supervision of PTT’s Management Committee, the CCC formulates policies and strategies, sets goals, monitors results related to the climate change and encourages cooperation among local and international parties on the issue. The CCC is chaired by Senior Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy, with Executive Vice Presidents from three departments as its vice chairman with 13 Vice Presidents and employees as members. In addition, Senior Vice Presidents of the Gas Business Unit, Petrochemicals and Refining Business Unit, Oil Business Unit, and International Trading Business Unit serve as committee’s advisors. Management Strategy To mitigate impact from increasing emissions and concentration of the greenhouse gas (GHG), PTT actively practices its carbon strategy. In 2012, PTT created the Green Roadmap which helps that company focuses more of its investments into environmentally-friendly businesses as well as placing priority in creating mutual values between society and business. To date, PTT has taken the following actions to address climate change: • Emhance energy efficiency to reduce GHG emissions and PTT’s operating costs. Set up the PTT Group Energy Management System to encourage energy savings, promote efficient energy use and reduce carbon intensity. • Conduct research and development in alternative energy and environmentally-friendly products which include, biodiesel, gasohol, bioplastic, and other renewable energy. • Conduct research and development in carbon capture and storage (CCS) and carbon capture and utilization (CCU). • Develop carbon offset project through various mechanisms designed to promote sustainable development. Improve PTT Group GHG inventory to meet the international standards. • Collaborate with the public and private sectors to promote related policies such as energy conservation, alternative and renewable energy development, and climate change. Attended the Doha Climate Change Conference (COP 18/CMP8) under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Supported the establishment of guideline and mechanisms to manage Thailand’s GHG emissions in both public and private sectors to mitigate risks from climate change and lead Thailand into a low-carbon society. 62 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Risks and Opportunities from Climate Change The PTT Group Energy Management PTT has a risk management program in place to address risks System was set up in 2012 to manage the arising from climate change. As part of the program climate change company’s energy activities in an effective and integrated manner. The company has been identified as one of the corporate risks in the Corporate created an energy conservation master risk profile. The assessment analyzes both risks and opportunities plan and operation framework with an aim from climate change considering different scenarios including to optimize PTT’s energy usage, create awareness for energy conservation and changes in regulation and reporting requirements related to GHG prepare PTT Group for an effective and changes in consumers’ behaviors and market demand and, natural sustainable energy management. To that end, PTT has set a target to reduce its disasters which is considered a long-term risk for PTT. In addition, energy intensity by 1.9 percent annually PTT has taken reputation risk into consideration. PTT actively tracks during 2013-2017 based on business-asusual scenario. and manages these risks and risk mitigation on a monthly basis. As a result, the financial impacts from these risks are kept at a relatively low level. Based on a physical risk evaluation, it is found that the possibility is quite low for changes of average temperature and rainfalls to affect PTT’s properties while the rise of sea level will have no effect to PTT’s assets in this decade. Information released by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) indicates that global average sea level rose 3.1 ± 0.7 millimeters a year between 1993 and 2003. PTT is managing climate change risks by: • Producing, procuring and distributing natural gas which is one of the main products that will help with transition to a low-carbon society • Improving PTT Group’s GHG Inventory to meet the international practice standard. Integrating data from all business units, companies, departments and corporate and operation areas. Invite an independent third party to audit the GHG inventory to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of related processes as to meet PTT Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting standards and to promote business transparency. 63 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited • Seeking opportunity to invest in research and development of A carbon tax is a policy tool for government alternative and renewable energy as well as environmentalto address climate change by imposing a friendly products in order to reduce the GHG emissions and cost on business, generating revenues for promote operational excellence for sustainable growth on the the state as well as encouraging people to basis of technology and innovation. become more aware of environmental issues. • Utilizing carbon dioxide by distributing it to producers of liquid Although, Thailand has no measures to carbon dioxide and dry ice. Conducting a research in reducing introduce a carbon tax in the near future global warming by using Spirulina, to capture carbon and turn PTT is expanding its offering of low-GHG biomass resulted from this carbon capture into biogas; breeding products such as natural gas, gasohol E10, algae for fuel extraction at a natural gas separation plant E20 and E85, and diesel containing compound as the plant has enough carbon dioxide for biodiesel and biojet. By moving ahead of propagation. Using carbon dioxide in a cooling system for the possible change in regulation, the financial cultivation of cool climate plants such as tulip, lily, and impact on the company should be minimized strawberry. if carbon tax is introduced in the future. 64 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Target PTT is committed to reduce GHG emissions both in Scope 1 and Scope 2 from its operations. Increasing energy efficiency, changing fuel types, generating power from co-generation power plant, and utilizing waste heat are a few of measures PTT introduced to reduce GHG emissions. In addition, PTT aims to reduce GHG emissions from Scope 3 activities by offering low-carbon products. PTT’s long-term goal is to reduce GHG emissions by 15 percent by 2020 against the business as usual projection. The target has been designed to be in line with the shared vision of the global community and international scientific research to prevent the global average temperature increase to below 2 degrees Celsius. In 2012, PTT conducted a comprehensive review of its GHG emission management. Based on the results of the study, the CCC introduced carbon intensity index to measure the organization’s effectiveness in reducing GHG emission. PTT conducted a pilot project to determine the ratio of GHG emission per unit of product or ton of carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent (tCO2e/BOE). The short-term target will be based on the average carbon intensity in the past. Long-term targets will be set to support carbon intensity index reduction in order to reflect the organization’s GHG management efforts. Additional analysis of GHG emission will be conducted to determine appropriate indicators used to set PTT Group’s carbon intensity goal. GHG Emission Reduction Short-term plans 2012 2015 Target Progress Challenges Target GHG emission reduction activities such as 300,000* tCO2e 300,000* tCO2e PTT plans to 300,000 tCO2e increasing energy efficiency conduct a pilot project showing Offering low-carbon products 888,000 tCO2 950,000 tCO2 a ratio of emission 1,022,000 tCO2 such as Biofuel per product unit Conducting carbon dioxide absorption 1,500,000 tCO2 1,500,000 tCO2 1,500,000 tCO2 activity such as reforestation *PTT Group’s Scope of operation 65 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GHG Emission Accounting With regards to GHG emissions reduction, PTT had developed the PTT Group GHG In an effort to effectively manage the GHG, PTT has established Project Standard based on ISO-14064-2. Greenhouse Gas Accounting to track company inventory since The Standard is integrated with PTT’s GHG 2006. In 2012, the company improved the tools and standards emission inventory and is used to assess and used for its inventory using the results from PTT Group GHG analyze GHG reduction efforts in accordance Pre-verification conducted in 2011 and additional requirements from with international standards. GRI OGSS 3.1. Business areas and companies within PTT Group are required to conduct GHG emission inventory using both the equity share approach (applicable for domestic companies in which PTT holds more than 20 percent shares) and the operational control approach (applicable for domestic companies in which PTT is a major shareholder or joint venture partner as governed by PTT Group SSHE Governance Policy). In 2012, 29 equity share companies and 25 operation control companies have adopted the Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting Standard using this new methods and tools. PTT’s 2012 GHG emissions inventory was verified by the third-party auditor. 35 29 30 23 24 25 21 20 15 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Year Number of Companies Adopting Greenhouse Gas Accounting 66 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) and Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) In 2012, organizations under PTT Group’s operational control directly released GHG emission from the following activities: stationary and mobile fuel combustion, carbon dioxide separation, release of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), fugitive emission, vented emission, flare burning, and process emission. In total, the emissions were of 29.3 million tCO2e inclusive of separation and combustion activities. Scope 2 indirect emissions are the release of GHG from consumption of purchased energy such as electricity, heat and stream in PTT’s business operations. In 2012, indirect emission from PTT was 1.58 million tCO2e. From the product liability standpoint, PTT requires its products’ carbon footprint to be continually assessed. PTT uses Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization’s (TGO) principles of carbon footprint of product to evaluate the carbon footprint of its products. GHG release is computed as kilogram carbon dioxide equivalent per product’s life-cycle. In 2012, this verification was extended to cover fuels both benzene and diesel. Results of the verification enable PTT to better manage its GHG emissions in each stage of the product’s life-cycle. Carbon footprints for benzene and diesel products are being verified by an external party and will be certified by TGO. PTT plans to extend this carbon footprint verification to more products in 2013. 28% scope 1 ghg emissions (million 55% tco2eq) 1% CO2 separation 8.200, 28% 2% Process and vented emission 0.379, 1% Fugitive emission 0.613, 2% Flare 3.780, 13% Mobile fuel combustion 0.225, 1% 13% Stationary combustion 16.150, 55% 1% Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) 67 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Verification PTT has won several awards that recognize the company’s effort to manage climate In 2011, PTT Group Greenhouse Gas Pre-verification project change. The Ministry of Energy awarded engaged an external auditor to review PTT Group GHG emissions PTT the Outstanding Energy Personality Award for manager of controlled factory inventory against PTT Group Greenhouse Gas Accounting and for outstanding performances in energy Reporting standard and ISO-14064-1. The review was conducted to conservation and development of alternative energy. The STI Thailand Award 2012 get the inventory ready for accreditation by an external agency on Green Innovation from the National in 2013. In 2012, PTT applied lessons learned from the project to Science Technology and Innovation Policy Office (STI) recognized PTT for its innovation improve criteria and calculating tools as well as to communicate management excellence as well as highlyand train relevant persons to increase their understanding of this recognized research and innovations issue. Examples of improvements include, updating an emission that are commercially viable and support environmental and community-friendly factor and adding GHG emissions from the wastewater treatment business. system in the emission inventory. These efforts were taken to ensure that PTT Group’s GHG emissions inventory is accredited by the third party as planned. Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) Scope 3 emissions include indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by the PTT but related to the PTT’s activity. PTT views managing Scope 3 emission as an extension of business responsibility and as an opportunity to take part in the innovation of GHG management. As a result, in 2012, PTT extended its GHG emissions inventory to include the consumption of PTT’s products, transportation of raw materials and products, as well as employees travel activities. Recognizing that most of Thailand’s GHG emissions come from fuel combustion, PTT estimated that GHG emitted as a result of consumer using PTT’s product is 121 million tCO2e. PTT actively promotes and expands the preparation of GHG emission inventory and product carbon footprint to enhance its competitiveness in the international market and to inform consumers of PTT products’ impact on the climate. 68 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Anticipating technological changes that will emerge to address climate change challenges, PTT feels that consumer products should be able to accommodate both today’s and tomorrow’s technologies. As a result, in 2012, PTT made on attempt to get all of its gasoline-engine lubricants to meet API SN standard. In addition, to respond to customer’s needs both in terms of quality and product variety which ranges from gasoline to gasohol E20 and E85, CNG and LPG; PTT has developed lubricants that can keep car engine cleaner, enhance engine performance, increase engine’s life, increase the ability to tolerate heat, as well as protect the turbo charger. PTT is also expanding its product offering by giving consumers more choices in lubricant’s viscosity. PTT has launched a zero-waste pilot project in its service stations to reduce the release of carbon dioxide resulted from effective waste management. PTT also builds a zero-waste operation and learning center at service stations to encourage Thai society to consume energy with better awareness. In addition, solar energy is being used in its Café Amazon chain coffee shops. PTT plans to expand the project to more gas stations; reflecting its deep commitment for the industry, the community and the society to walk ahead hand-in-hand in a path to the future in a collaborative and sustainable manner. Water Management Water is essential for business and livelihood including consumption PTT Group senior executives sit as member for agricultural and industry use. Changes in the climate have of the Thailand Business Council for affected the amount of water in the environment and making water Sustainable Development (TBCSD), resources more volatile. Realizing the importance of efficient water a cooperation network initiated by the Thai private sector to promote sustainability. management, PTT declares water management as one of its COO of the Downstream Business Group, business level risks and establishes the PTT Group Water who currently chairs the TBCSD’s Water Management Team consisting of water and utilities management Security Sub-committee, has signed a memorandum of understanding with experts. The team is tasked to monitor, evaluate and report water Department of Groundwater Resources to situations in the eastern part of Thailand which experienced provide clean water to villages suffering from a severe water shortage in 2005 and where PTT’s major production water shortage. The objective is to provide groundwater to these communities for them assets are located. The team assesses and anticipates the need for to have adequate access to clean water and water in industrial estates during the next 10 years for effective to improve their wellbeing. The project also water management. A risk management plan is also put in place to reflects responsibility of the industrial sector address possible draughts. These short-term and long-term to assist communities at the time of difficulty which should also tighten a relationship operation plans are submitted to the management of companies between each other. within the group and the Risk Management & Internal Control Committee on a quarterly basis. 69 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Group’s production zone with significant water consumption is PTT is conducting a feasibility study to located in the Eastern part (Chonburi and Rayong provinces) of manage water resources through the use of Thailand. In 2012, the PTT Group Water Management Team joined eco-industrial system which involves reusing the Rayong Province’s eastern water management committee. of treated wastewater as a future means to The committee consists of representatives from the public and manage water within the PTT Group. private sectors and East Water Co., Ltd. who monitor and evaluate water situations before announcing measures to reduce risks Aside from managing water for companies and mitigate impacts in a timely manner. Major water reservoirs in within PTT Group, PTT also set up a publicthe area are closely monitored, and measures are issued to manage private working committee and a coordination water before the draught to ensure that water was available for center for water management to integrate use in the long run. The committee also looked for alternative water sustainable water management and reservoirs to increase water resources destined for industrial development efforts. The committee is made production which included building new water reserves and setting up of representatives from Royal Irrigation up a desalination unit to maintain PTT Group’s production security, Department and industries in Rayong and reducing impact from shortage of water or draught, and avoiding Chonburi Provinces which include companies a water conflict between the industry and the communities. within PTT Group. The committee’s major task is to effectively manage water in these The PTT Group Water Management Team created a strategy under two industrial provinces by taking into the 3R principles (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) and an effluent water consideration water needs inclusive of all management plan, and facilitated best practice sharing of water parties, including the industry and agricultural management within the group. The team is responsible for sectors and the communities. The committee monitoring and encouraging water management projects of is also entrusted to search for potential water the public sector in Rayong and Chon Buri Provinces based on resources within and outside the area, and to the 3R principles as follows: assure water security in respond to constantly • Changing the water cooling system in its power plant from increasing needs of water in the area. an open to a closed system to reduce water consumption • Introducing the blow-down tank to reduce water consumed in the cooling process before releasing to wastewater treatment; PTT has started calculating water consumed by its production units on and using blow-down water for irrigation the basis of eco-efficiency indicators. • Implementing Reverse Osmosis Intermediated project to reuse Water footprint study has also been initiated water for cooling purpose using internationally-recognized WBSCD • Reusing condensate in steam production water tool to record water consumption of its production units. • Reusing wastewater from of the natural gas separation plant’s dehydration process at Gas Separation Plant (GSP) Unit 5 as make up water in the Acid Gas Removal Unit (AGRU) which enables the plant to reduce the volume of makeup water by 17,500 cubic meters per year. 70 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited New Technology to Reduce Water Footprint As a whole, due to nature of operation, the gas separation represents the business with the highest consumption. In 2012, the consumption was 0.037 million cubic meter per million barrel of Water Footprint oil equivalent (BOE), most of which is used up in the water cooling PTT relies upon several water sources to run its businesses and process at the GSP Unit 1. However those of PTTEP. To elaborate, surface water is used in pipeline the cooling process for the other business while sea water is used in the petroleum exploration and GSP Units have been switched to production as well as pipeline businesses. Groundwater is also the Fin Fan Cooling system resulting consumed in the petroleum exploration and production, pipeline in a decrease in water consumption operation, and oil terminal business. Additionally, tap water is used when compared to the level of water everywhere by every PTT business. In 2012, statistics of PTT water consumed by GSP Unit 1. consumption based on manufactured products shows that consumption of water per product continued to decrease in 2011 and 2010. Million cubic meters per million barrel of crude oil equivalent Million cubic meters 140.00 0.250 0.217 120.00 66.17 0.191 0.200 100.00 0.160 80.00 67.58 0.150 60.00 72.36 0.100 40.00 Total consumption (Million cubic meters) 0.050 Total consumption per product 20.00 (Million cubic meters per million barrel of 0 0 crude oil equivalent) 2010 2011 2012 Total Water Consumption 71 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited People PTT commits to continue to enhance the capacity of its human capital to allow them to grow with the organization, to cultivate skills in the work they do and to nurture capacity and initiatives in order to create new innovations. Human capital is, after all, an important mechanism to transform PTT’s vision, missions and business strategies into a success. In an annual strategic and risk management plan, PTT strives to strengthen its workforce while emphasizing rigorous selection process to create a potential pool of human capital that is ready to take on the challenge of technological progress in line with PTT’s TAGNOC and sustainability management strategy. PTT’s strategic goals for human capital are: Sufficient leader pool PTT analyzes nature of work in positions required by the business. to support business growth Management’s leadership skills are developed to suit both current and future requirements and results are regularly monitored. In addition, a succession plan is conducted for every strategic position. Sufficient talent pool to achieve PTT selects a potential pool of talent to enhance their skills and nurture them as business direction future executives through the career management mechanism where results are regularly monitored. Highly capable workforce PTT focuses on building capacity of people to support business growth in nine major functions as indicated in the 2012 Strategic Thinking Session (STS) which includes: Capital Project Management, Operation Excellence, Business Development, Marketing and Sales, Stakeholder Management, Corporate Finance, HR/OE , R&D/Technology, and Corporate Strategy. Highly engaged workforce PTT conducts annual survey to assess its workforce engagement. Survey results are incorporated in the company’s 3-5 year plan. Activities to increase workforce engagement include promoting leadership practice and improving the HR system and process in which remuneration and performance management systems are adjusted to meet people’s needs based on both performance and years of work. In addition, an induction program has been refreshed so new staffs can learn corporate culture and practices. It also opens up a channel to manage employee expectation as well as to communicate HR message across the entire workforce. Highly capable HR team This involves building up HR personnel’s capacity in order to provide effective and effective service delivery and comprehensive services. 72 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited In 2012, PTT launched an important project to improve its HR service in response to corporate strategic directions. The project includes improving employee welfare where flexible benefits are PTT’s interview process is based on the introduced to meet different expectations. PTT recruits its workforce STAR (Situation, Action and Result) evaluation principle which has been developed and based on their knowledge and skills regardless of sex, nationality implemented for more than 10 years and is and religion. PTT is in compliance with the 2012 Recruitment Law recognized worldwide by, for example, on hiring person with disability. The project also extends to support the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). The process includes a list of questions and assist the disabled in various aspects such as promoting a TV that ask an interviewee to explain his or her program where the host is a person with disability, providing human behavior in various situations which helps rights training to HR personnel whose work is to directly deal with PTT to assess the applicant’s experience the rest of PTT employees before expanding to the entire workforce, and potential. The applicant’s answers to the questions will be analyzed and compared and setting up PTT’s intranet-based grievance filing channel. with the applicant’s profile, which makes this process remarkably different from a normal interview since open-ended Recruitment interview questions cannot effectively reflect the applicant’s situation-based behavior. PTT has a recruitment plan to seek out and select potential applicants to fill business needs. In accordance with PTT’s policy, the company provides equal opportunity to qualified candidates regardless of race, religion, class, gender, age, education level, domicile, and education. The company intends to build a diverse group of employees who can respond to different needs of PTT’s customers and variety of PTT’s business both in Thailand and abroad through a systematic recruitment process. Between January and October 2012, PTT recruited 336 new employees of whom 206 were men and 130 were women. This accounted for 82 percent of PTT’s target to hire a total of 410 personnel to respond to corporate need. PTT is collaborating with the Ministry of Education’s Office of the Vocational Education to provide technical competency training to selected students from vocational colleges nationwide since 2007. In 2012, 40 graduated vocational students were selected by the Ministry of Education across the country to join the training program. Training subjects include topics on natural gas and petrochemical businesses as well as English skills training. The training takes 2.5 months and is held at PTT’s business premises. As a result, 90 percent of students who participated in the training join PTT workforce. 73 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Reward PTT’s benefits and salaries are highly competitive with other leading organizations in Thailand. The company conducts a study to compare its remuneration packages with other leading domestic and international organizations annually. PTT also pursues a reward strategy and policy that incentivize its staff both in monetary and non-monetary forms. Compensation adjustment is closely linked to an individual’s work performances and reflects no discrimination. 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 46 50% 49 53 40% 30% 20% 10% Male 0 47 51 54 Female Top Management NonManagement Management Compensation ratio based on gender PTT introduced a variable bonus remuneration program to its middle and senior executives. Evaluation is based on the individual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) on a given year. In addition, rewards and compliments are extended to induce PTT people to strive for excellent performances. This includes, for example, the Knowledge Management Award, the Research and Technology Achievement Award, the SPIRIT Award, the Quality, Security, Safety, Health and Environment (QSHE) Award, the Line Manager to be HR Manager Award and the Outstanding Employee Award. These accolades are to honor PTT dedicated people and underline the value of their contributions. Welfare and other fringe benefits offered by PTT are never lower than what the labor law requires. In many cases, PTT’s benefits are higher than the legal requirement and are designed to suit and cover all staff’s age range. In addition, health and other welfare is extended to staff’s family members; namely, spouses, children and parents, which, among others, includes healthcare to family members and tuition assistance for children. Welfare and Benefits Employees About-to-retire employees Retirees Flexible benefits to answer to Preparing them for future Organizing an orientation session for retirees different needs of employees retirement through; for example, to provide knowledge such as health whose ages are varied. training on the laws governing maintenance, financial planning and senior citizens, the inheritance management, welfare and benefits and tax Welfare and benefits for family law and healthcare for senior payments members citizens. Voluntary redundancy program to offer alternative to staff facing, health problem to retire from the corporation 74 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Retainment Caring PTT people PTT’s strategy is to retain people by developing, promoting and supporting employees. HR management and development system PTT provides a medical plan that focuses on preventive care and education. PTT will be used to effectively develop and retain employee who are encourages healthy behaviors in three ways: capable helping the organization to achieve its goal. by providing two annual health check-ups annually, through regularly held information PTT’s HR management and corporate development system sessions where medical knowledge of AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, other diseases, combines the concept of managing a knowledge-based and nutrition information is provided organization and the design of various IT-based systems to meet for preventive and protective purposes, the needs to supervise workforce. Examples of IT systems and by organizing health-promotion activities such as the PTT Health Day at the head introduced in the HR management include SAP, (Systems, office and all its operating oil terminals. Applications and Products) which houses employee database, and COACH Application, which maintains employee work records, In 2013, PTT plans to expand its awareness and preventive campaigns by extending its details of employee capacity derived from work analysis, the mobile medical unit service areas to every success profile and KPIs information for assessing employee terminal and surrounding communities, performance throughout organization. as well as giving information to promote better understanding of diseases. Printed materials describing protective Performance Management measures will be distributed to PTT staff and neighboring communities. In addition, Performance management is cascaded down to deploy targets PTT has collaborated with Dhipaya Insurance Public Company Limited and that link corporate, business unit, and individual levels together International SOS to provide information to align with PTT’s vision, missions and strategy. The process is employees stationed in foreign countries conducted using the COACH Application. In the first quarter, on how to take care of their health and to provide access to 24-hour emergency a half-year performance of every employee is reviewed and assistance through the internet where an annual performance is assessed in the fourth quarter. employees can get health and safety risk In 2012, PTT encouraged supervisors to enhance employee’s information and contact the emergency center for assistance. capacity while simultaneously set an annual target for each employee’sperformance to urge employees to achieve this pre-determined goal. 75 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Career Model Learning Organization Career model is a tool for a systematic HR development which At the beginning, PTT implemented consists of career path, career advancement and success profile; Knowledge Management (KM) with its expressed through four dimensions of competency, knowledge, the Gas Separation Plant (GSP). From this first step, knowledge management has experience and personal attribute. Employees are able to clearly been expanded to various parts within see their path in the organization corresponding to business growth, the organization with a view to transform which will be a benefit for employee self-development. Scholarships PTT into a learning organization while in various fields that correspond to PTT’s business direction and simultaneously pursuing quality management. At present, all departments and operation answer to an individual’s career goal are offered. Interested staff units are actively managing their knowledge may have a chance to continue their studies in leading schools by focusing at knowledge continuity, abroad. The scholarship program has an important goal to turn added value resulting from knowledge application as well as promoting creativity employees who graduate from the PTT scholarship program to for new innovations to improve work become its valuable asset and to enhance the organization’s process, and design a product or create capacity. At present, PTT is sponsoring 56 students in educational a decision-making process that influences team-working. In addition, a share point institutions worldwide. system has been put on the intranet to support knowledge management where Capacity Building employees can search for information and where static information can be stored and retrieved for users to access To ensure that PTT people are ready to support PTT’s business, updated information on a self-service the company offers core program training roadmap to all levels of basis. A webmaster verifies information staffs from junior to senior executives. In addition, the COACH on the system while KM facilitator organizes regular meetings to improve Application helps staff identify which capacity they need to develop and encourage team-working and quality in order to formulate the Individual Development Plan (IDP) that knowledge sharing. corresponds to their success profile. The idea behind this is that employees should have a chance to grow through various forms of learning which ranges from training to coaching and on-the-job training that focus at self-learning and development. PTT encourages the application of new skills and knowledge derived from the training on the principle of 10/20/70 which is closely linked to the implementation of the career and competency management system. By means, an employee will get 10 percent knowledge and skills from a formal learning process, another 20 percent from the supervisor’s coaching, mentoring and feedbacks, and the remaining 70 percent will come from project assignment or on-the-job-training (OJT) as well as the sharing of new knowledge and skills with others through the measurable knowledge-sharing process. 76 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Management Development Program 4 mdp 4 Who: SEPV. EVP (Level 15 17) Harvard/ stanford/ lbs/ Strategic Leader columbia/ insead/ sasin/ iod ccl Management Development Program 3 tlca mdp 3 Who: VP (Level 13 14) company management business operational Leader program: cpm harvard in-house Management Development Program 2 program mdp 2 Who: Manager (Level 10 12) people Leader mdp 1 Management Development Program 1 Who: Supervisor (Level 8 9) Supervisor/senior pdp Perfermer Development Program Who: Operator (Level 7 down) junior business development program leadership development program (Business management) (people management) Business & Management Skills Leadership Skills self, team and wisdom** ** Consists of Orientation Interpersonal Skills PTT History/ Spirit/ QSHE/ Business/ Personality/ PTT Embassador/ etc. and Personal Attributes PTT Training Roadmap (Core Program) Capacity building Employees Executives Retiring employees Official and unofficial Owned business school; Knowledge transfer from development programs school of finance, generation to generation; school of trading for example, retiring employees Learning system aside may coach, teach or train young from classroom learning PTT Leadership and Learning employees style such as through workshop Institute for PTT Group or project presentation Executives to enhance professional development of Knowledge application senior-level employees in real life 77 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited New staff orientation program Pre-retirement training “The training allows me to become friends “The training teaches me to manage my time. with colleagues from several departments In other words, it tells me how to prioritize my to-do list. which should be useful in the future. What’s really The training also talks about asset management and important for the training is that it makes everyone financial planning for retirement. We also did qigong and become one as we share the same goal of yoga which I assume is suitable for people of my age. driving the company to be Thai Premier We were told to be careful on what we eat as we should Multinational energy company.” eat less carbohydrate, fat, and meat.” Ms. Ek-orn Mrs. Ratchanee Suriya Ratanasilapinrahat Employee No 250254 Employee No. 540356 Position: Title: Auditor General Administration Reporting line: Officer Strategy & Audit Quality Reporting line: Development Department Senior Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy Persons Hours 1,600 1,432 90 1,400 80 82.95 1,200 67.47 70 58.32 57.37 1,000 45.74 60 57.84 800 43.90 679 623 40 600 33.12 431 30 400 262 20 Male (Person) 106 183 Female (Person) 200 44 10 Male (Hour) 0 0 Female (Hour) Executive Middle Senior Employee (Level 13 18) Management (Level 8 9) (Level 7 and below) (Level 10 12) Average hours of training 78 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT’s turnover rate in 2012 was 4.07 percent, which was increased by 3.14 percent from 2011. By means, 66 percent (114 employees) retired; 28.5 percent resigned and 13.4 percent opted for voluntary redundancy. 500 387 357 400 Type of 300 241 turnover 172 200 130 129 100 0 2010 2011 2012 Retire (At the Age of 60) 49.42% Early Retire (Before the age of 60) 16.86% Fatality 4.65% Turnover Resign 28.49% New Employees Layoff 0.58% Turnover vs New Employees Type of Turnover Respecting labor rights PTT has a policy and guideline to manage its human capital on a sustainable basis that complies with the principles of human and labor rights under the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework for Business and Human Rights 2011 as well as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The policy and guideline are used to plan and monitor HR management for equity and fair treatment to all employees, in accordance with Section 15 of the Thai Labor Protection Act, 1998. PTT also highlights the effects of employee’s commitment to the organization. PTT understands the importance of work-life balance thus promotes the work-life balance: health, safety, and environmental management. PTT incorporates this concept and idea in a due diligence when considering merger and acquisition. The company’s context and culture should be in line with PTT’s policy especially on issues that need to meet international standards. 79 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Employee engagement Diversity PTT’s employee relations management is based on the State As PTT’s HR management policy supports Enterprise Labor Relations Act, B.E. 2543 (2000). Its employee and promotes PTT’s sustainability through union, the State Enterprise Employees Union of PTT Public Company the respect of labor and human rights, Limited, is an independent agency that has an important role PTT benefits from the diversity of its staff in auditing and resolving confidential and classified grievances from both cultural perspective and variety through the Joint Consultant Committee (JCC). The JCC’s tasks are of their capacities. This diversity has led to to provide opinions regarding efficiency enhancement, review work lively sharing of viewpoints and knowledge regulations proven useful to employees and the organization among staff within the team which promotes especially on issues that have impact to minimum standard of state creativity proven useful to both PTT and enterprise employment, find solutions to employee’s grievances, the society in general. PTT is also an employer and improve employment conditions as well as resolve corporate with equal opportunity that offers an equal conflict and promote compromise. The JCC meets on a monthly opportunity to everyone regardless of their basis and consists of an equal number of representatives from race, religion, gender, age, and disability the management and the PTT employee union. The President status. Besides, PTT strives to recruit people and CEO serves as the chairman for the group’s 19 members, from various professions that are in line in which the meeting is held on a monthly basis. In addition, with PTT’s value chain for its local and PTT supports employee’s participation in the union where in 2012, overseas operations. As soon as a person 56.61 percent of all PTT employees were union members. joins PTT, the HR process supports Of this, 592 were women and 1,801 were men, making total career growth by helping with career union members to reach 2,393 from PTT’s total staff of 4,227. management, performance evaluation and thedetermination of remunerations and other benefits on an equity basis. 80 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Complaints and Grievances PTT’s employees can file complaint and grievance through several channels. There is a supervision process that will take and manage complaint classified as confidential. Documents and information are properly kept. For any complaint or grievance, the goal is to establish the right understanding between employee and employee or between employee and the organization. PTT’s employee union is responsible for maintaining the minimum standard of employment in state enterprise. In addition, a grievance resolution committee is established on a case-by-case basis, with HR department representative sitting as one of its members. Complaints and grievances filed through various channels in 2012 Channels Complaints Grievances Total Total resolved Total Total resolved State Enterprise Employee Union 90 72 6 4 JCC 3 1 Employee grievance system 2 2 81 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Operational Excellence SSHE Commitment Reducing environmental Security, Safety, Health and Environment (SSHE) footprint and enhancing PTT’s SSHE operation to become one of the world’s top Strategy quartile SSHE performers. It is expected that in the next 20 years, stakeholders and the public sector will be increasingly interested in the costs of production, raw material, and services. It is also highly anticipated that the government will stop providing financial subsidies to raw materials (such as fossil fuel and water). This cost issue will also be a result of policies to manage social and environmental impacts where the public sector may demand more compensation from industry for environmental impacts. An analysis of what happened in the past has confirmed that the cost of managing environmental impact will double every 14 years. The impacts will be especially fallen into 11 major industrial sectors which include upstream activities. Between 2002 and 2010, the cost has already climbed from 566 billion US$ to 854 billion US$. The figure confirms that this could affect the sustainability of an operation soon. PTT has defined the Security, Safety, Health and Environment (SSHE) strategy to respond to environmental challenges. The strategy consists of a clear commitment to reduce environmental footprint and to enhance PTT’s SSHE operation to become one of the world’s top quartile SSHE performers. The strategy will focus on reinforcing the SSHE management system, improving its operation, applying innovations, and implementing projects to help realizing the goal. 2012 Operation was reviewed against PTT The area-based environmental due diligence Group SSHE Management Standards prior acquisition or divestment, which assesses in order to formulate a plan to improve hydrocarbon contamination in soil and the operations of the Oil Terminal Business, underground water. The assessment was service stations, PTT Research conducted in pilot operation areas at the and Technology Institute, PTT Head Office, Udon Thani Oil Terminal, the Pak Panang Oil Rayong Gas Separation Plant, Terminal, and the Phrakhanong Oil Terminal. and Oil Business Unit. In addition, a corporate standard is set to determine procedures and conditions to assess soil and underground water of assets that PTT will invest or divest. 82 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited 2013 Future step security safety health environment To propose PTT Group SSHE Management Standards by joining hands with companies Security, Safety, in the ASEAN Oil and Gas Health and Environment Management Standard (ASCOPE) (SSHE) to review and upgrade the standards to the international par. SSHE strategy implementation PTT Group Quality, Safety, Health and Environment (QSHE) Policy is deployed into implementation through a top-down management approach. This means the SSHE management start at corporate level before being passed down for implementation in business units and companies within the PTT Group. PTT has set up the PTT Group QSHE Policy Committee and the PTT QSHE Committee in which QSHE executives from operation and other related departments sitting as members. The committees have roles to govern and review the effectiveness of policy, strategies, targets, and key performance indicators implementation in business units and PTT Group’s companies. A meeting is held on a quarterly basis with SSHE Department acting as its secretary. In 2012, the meeting convened six times. Environmental management certification (ISO 14001) From 1997 when PTT’s first operation site was accredited ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 following by TIS/OHSAS 18001 accreditation in 2000, PTT has set the number of target sites whose environmental, safety, and health management system is to be accredited each year. From 2007 to 2012, 100% of these target sites have been accredited on a continued basis. percentage of ISO/TIS 9001 (40 target sites) certified sites ISO/TIS 14001 (30 target sites) by 3rd party TIS 18001/OHSAS 18001 (41 target sites) 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 83 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Environment training and knowledge sharing In addition, each department performs on-the-job training for employees for Training is an important way to reinforce knowledge and the right practice and performance as understanding as well as to promote environmental awareness required by the department to prevent and among PTT’s employees and contractors. Two types of training control safety and environmental impacts. have been organized. Public relations to promote environmental issues were organized through various • Basic training where environment is part of the security, safety, activities such as, the SSHE Forum for PTT health, and environment components that PTT employees must Group companies to share environmental learn and understand. SSHE topics have been incorporated practices, a requirement that a department into a basic training program depending on nature of work head and higher being chairman of and level of employee’s responsibility. For example, a meeting must conduct a QSHE Talk • All new staff must attend the QSHE Awareness workshop prior to the start of each meeting, in their orientation as well as the SSHE1 program as the SSHE Lessons Learned newsletter required by the law. which are circulated via email as well as • Operation employees or those in related departments must environmental articles in an internal attend the Basic Security, Safety, Health and Environment journal and environmental-focused for Operators training. information boards. • Manager or equivalent must attend the SSHE program designed for supervisor and an investigation program of Operational causes of incident. Eco-Efficiency • Responsibility-based and policy-based training Operation strategy Training needs of each position are analyzed. The SSHE training will be formulated each year by the Corporate SSHE Department PTT Group has set up a long-term SSHE and the QSHE Business Unit or Area. In 2012, important trainings target to achieve the corporation’s such as Introduction and Internal Auditor to ISO 14001: 2004; sustainability goal for PTT to become ISO 50001 (Energy Management System) Implementation socio-eco efficient. To achieve this, Course, Greenhouse Gas Internal Auditor, Volatile Organic PTT Group has set up the PTT Group Compounds Emission Inventory, soil and underground water Environmental Target Setting Standard environmental laws and Oil Spill Response and Preparedness: to provide framework and basis for IMO Level II were conducted. environmental target setting for PTT Group’s business units and companies, as well as details of evaluation techniques for better and clearer short-term and long-term actions to reach the goal. 84 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Performance Indicators Targets Indicators Setting the Targets Zero injury • Loss Time Injury TRIR TROIF Zero fatality Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2013 2020 2013 2020 Zero spill and Fatality (via LTA), Employee 0.4 0.33 0.8 NA Total Recordable Injury Contractor 0.86 0.43 NA NA Rate (TRIR), Total Recordable Occupational • Lost Time Accident (LTA = 0 every year) Injury Frequency Rate • In 2013: 0.3 times per 1 million km TROIF transport • Major accident from product transport • Amount and volume of spill of • Declining every year starting from oil and chemical substances 2014 in operational areas • Process safety • Zero unplanned shutdown Reduced ecological • Volume of sulfur oxide (Sox), • Zero increase of absolute emission footprint through nitrogen oxide (NOx) and growth rate in 2020 life-cycle volatile organic compounds (VOCs) being released • Number of green products • Increasing number of green products • Volume of hazardous • Absolute annual reduction target waste-to-landfill up to zero in 2020 Top quartile • GHG emission/energy • Improve Group Energy intensity 1.9% performance in 2020 consumption annually until 2017 (rolling) What Next Triethylene Glycol (TEG) Wastewater Reduction, project Rayong Gas Separation Plant • Process safety target will rolled out in 2014. The Rayong Gas Separation Plant has treated wastewater • 2014 water consumption will be contaminated with Triethylene Glycol (TEC) from its production rolled out in 2013. process and therefore is able to reduce volume of hazardous waste-to-landfill by 120 cubic meters a week. 85 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Energy Efficiency Project at Rayong Gas Separation Plant PTT Group continues to improve energy efficiency through various projects. In 2012, the Rayong Gas Separation Plant initiated energy efficient improvement activities such as terminating fans use and reducing electricity consumption at the wastewater management system and the lighting system at the plant’s hazardous zone. PTT is also constantly improving the environmental aspect of its main office with an aim to raise the building’s energy efficiency. A case in point is when a chiller has recently been changed at PTT’s head office, which allows the tower block to save approximately 680 MWh energy. In 2013, PTT plans to conduct an energy-saving project at the sixth Gas Separation Plant where the CO2 Membrane technology will be applied and used with Amine Absorber. The project is expected to reduce approximately 74,000 MWh energy or approximately 40,069 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG). PTTEP meanwhile will conduct the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project at Sao Sathian area in Sukhothai Province where gas from the well which is normally burnt down will be captured for utilization which helps the overall energy efficiency. This will also help reduce approximately 30,000 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. Key Recognitions • The Surat Thani Petroleum Terminal • The Best Factory Waste Management has been awarded the outstanding Practice under the 3R Principles workplace for safety and workplace 2012 Award and the Zero environment at the national level for the Waste-to-Landfill Achievement 16 consecutive years. Award 2012 from Department of • The Songkhla Petroleum Terminal Industrial Works. received the best EIA Monitoring Award • 11 Oil and petroleum terminals 2011 after winning this award at least received plaques of honor for 3 times. The Surat Thani Petroleum achieving the criteria of the Terminal, the Phuket Oil Terminal, zero work accident campaign. the Pak Panang Oil Terminal, the Sriracha Oil Terminal and the Khao Boya Gas Terminal each also received the outstanding award. 86 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited SSHE (Personnel and Process) Key Figures Personnel safety performance 0 Zero fatality Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) of employees and contractors of the Khanom Gas Separation Plant, the LPG terminal, oil terminal, 65.33% Reduction in Total Recordable Injury petroleum terminal and aviation depot is zero. Rate (TRIR) of PTTEP employees 67.74% Reduction in Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of PTTEP employees Person per Person per 200,000 hours 200,000 hours 1 1 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.51 0.342 0.4 0.4 0.17 0.19 0.15 0.13 0.2 0.06 0.054 0.072 0.2 0.06 0.16 0.12 PTT Employee PTT Employee 0 Contractor 0 Contractor 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Lost Workday Case (PTT) Total Recordable Injuries Rate (PTT) Person per Person per 200,000 hours 200,000 hours 1 1 0.75 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.56 0.36 0.28 0.26 0.28 0.186 0.4 0.4 0.112 0.09 0.034 0.06 0.2 0.02 0.2 PTT Employee PTT Employee 0 Contractor Contractor 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Lost Workday Case (PTTEP) Total Recordable Injuries Rate (PTTEP) 87 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Process safety performance • No one shall be subject to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile – security guards PTT is undergoing an improvement of its accident reporting have no right to arrest anyone except system to also cover process safety incidents. The report will be if offenders committing wrongdoing done online via a website. and being caught red-handed within PTT’s premises. PTT has a plan to communicate definition and data collection • Anyone who is charged with a penal and reporting guidelines within 2013 and aims to be able to offence has the right to be presumed report process safety incident by 2014. innocent until proven guilty in a public trial. Security practice In 2012, PTT conducted the security Under the PTT Group QSHE policy and SSHE management drills in tandem with an emergency drills standards, PTT has formulated the Security Practice Management in various operation areas. During the Guideline, which consists of security standards, risk assessment past year, the drills were conducted guideline, and corporate safety assessment program to set at the Rayong Gas Separation Plant, a framework as well as supervision and operation directions to Pipeline Operations Division, every area companies within the group. of Oil Terminals, LPG Terminals, and Petroleum Terminals throughout In addition, human rights principles under the Universal the country. In 2013, PTT is developing Declaration of Human Rights have been communicated through a corporate-based operation guideline a training program known as “Mr. Strong” in which 252 participants on human rights for implementation by from the Phrakanong Oil Terminal, the Bangchak Petroleum PTT and PTT Group. Terminal, the Surat Thani Petroleum Terminal, the Khao Boya Gas Terminal and the Rayong Gas Separation Plant attended. The training contents included: • The universal rights of liberty and security – everyone has the rights to live in freedom and safety. Security guard therefore is an honorable profession since the job protects human rights of everybody. • No one shall be subject to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment – security guard has no right to use violence against other people even they are alleged offenders. 88 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Energy consumption performance “Energy efficiency not only reduces our production costs but also minimizes Total energy consumption has essentially increased due largely environmental impact due to lower to an addition of the NGV business into the scope of reporting. GHS emissions. The energy efficiency At present, PTT is updating its previous data to correspond with project therefore yields benefit in two dimensions. Even if financial returns the 2012 figure and for reporting purpose in the following year. of an energy efficiency project are low, However, the volume of energy consumption per product has but if its benefit to the environment indeed declined compared to what happened in 2010, due to is high, PTT will choose to invest various projects in place to promote direct and indirect energyin that project. This is because PTT’s saving campaigns. investment decision does not exclusively depend on a financial return, we also take social and environmental benefits Energy intensity into consideration.” (GJ per barrel of crude oil Total consumption equivalent) Dr. Pailin Chuchottaworn, (GJ) 63,865,705 64,661,793 President & CEO 90,000,000 0.40 80,000,000 49,909,611 0.35 70,000,000 0.30 60,000,000 0.25 50,000,000 0.20 40,000,000 30,000,000 0.18 0.15 Key Figures 0.16 20,000,000 0.14 0.10 0Zero hazardous waste-to-landfill 10,000,000 00.05 -0 by 2020 2010 2011 2012 1.42% Total energy consumption Energy intensity Of total direct energy consumption compared Energy Consumption of PTT and PTTEP to 2011 89 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GHG emission performance GHG emission Greenhouse Gas Intensity (million ton (million ton of carbon of carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel PTT’s and PTTEP’s GHG emissions dioxide equivalent ) of crude oil equivalent) materially increased in 2012 due to the 18 0.06 15.76 Gas Separation Plant, Unit#6, had been 16 0.05 in operation all year long. Besides, PTTEP 14 12.92 15.38 started producing from its Bongkot 12 12.63 0.04 production base. However, the GHG 10 9.49 0.037 0.035 0.03 9.30 0.030 intensity tended to decline, which signals 8a better and more efficient operation. 60.02 40.01 20-0 0.19 0.29 0.39 2010 2011 2012 Amount of GHG emission Total Amount of GHG emission Scope 1 Environmental Amount of GHG emission Scope 2 Amount of GHG emission Comparing to production Unit and Safety Performance Highlights Greenhouse Gas Emission of PTT and PTTEP PTT commits to continuous improvement of its environmental and safety performances with targets being set for major issues related to the business’s main risks. Million cubic meter per million cubic meter barrel of crude oil Liter equivalent 2.00 0.060 0.051 Water consumption clearly 1.50 0.050 falls due to the water-saving 0.039 0.037 0.040 campaign and the recycling of 1.00 0.030 treated wastewater. 1.46 1.56 1.68 0.020 0.50 0.010 0.00 0 2010 2011 2012 Total consumption (million cubic meter) Water intensity (million cubic per million barrel of crude oil equivalent) Volume of total water consumption (Rayong Gas Separation Plant) 90 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited 21,211.00 Liter Numbers of spills 25,000.00 14 Volume and number of 12 15,000.00 12 10 hydrocarbon spills have 9 8 continued to decline. 10,000.00 5 6 292.00 140.75 5,000.00 4 2 0 0 2010 2011 2012 Total consumption (cubic meter) Water intensity (cubic per barrel of crude oil equivalent) Hydrocarbon spill (PTTEP) Hazardous waste Ton (Ton) 7,000.00 1.80E-04 1.56E-04 1.45E-04 6,000.00 1.60E-04 Volume of hazardous waste treated 1.40E-04 by PTT has declined since the plant 5,000.00 1.20E-04 4,000.00 8.43E-05 1.00E-04 starts treating water previously dumped 3,000.00 8.00E-05 as hazardous waste at the wastewater 4,518.01 5,766.26 3,841.01 2,000.00 6.00E-05 treatment system within the plant instead. 4.00E-05 1,000.00 2.00E-05 0 0.00E+00 2010 2011 2012 Hazardous waste (Ton) Hazardous waste per product (Ton per barrel of crude oil equivalent) Volume of hazardous waste-to-landfill (Rayong Gas Separation Plant) Management of Contractor SSHE PTT has developed the Contractors SSHE Management system, which is based on its existing management system with an addition of SSHE criteria into the procurement process. The system’s important aspect that has been expanded from what existed before is a requirement that contractor must conduct a SSHE risk assessment prior to the hiring process. In addition, PTT also implements the SSHE screening process where contractor is required to submit work program in considering to identified SSHE risks. In addition, the SSHE criteria are added as one of the contractor selection criteria and conditions for each payment of the SSHE operation fee are made clearer to encourage contractors to complete their SSHE work accurately. In addition, the post-project SSHE evaluation process is tightened up for clearer and more stringer effects. 91 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Following the development of PTT’s Contractor SSHE management policy, recordable injury statistics at the three pilot areas of the Rayong Gas Separation Plan, the Sriracha Oil Terminal, and the PTT Headquarter where the system was introduced has become zero. • A Defensive Driving coursework had been organized between 2010 and 2012 for a total of 70 classes with 2,363 employees attended the training. • The definition of major accident for logistics trucks has been modified where impacts to community and environment and impacts to corporate image are added into the definition of loss of life and properties. • The Road Transportation Management Guideline has been formulated. This consists of • Checking logistics truck on a random basis. • Compiling stats and information and analyzing cause of accident of logistics trucks; investigating every case of serious car and logistics truck accident to find out the root cause behind the incident and to prevent repeated incidents. • Communicating and organizing training of PTT Group’s Road Transportation Management Guideline to inform and encourage safe practices by relevant parties. Logistics Zero Accident In 2012, PTT initiated the Logistics Zero Accident campaign with more than 50 transportation companies owing over 1,000 transportation trucks participating in the project. The campaign helped reduce accident rates of both cars and logistics trucks to the lowest level even compared to the statistics during the past three years. Financial loss from Financial loss from Transport Transport transportation accident transportation accident Distance Distance (Baht) per transport (Baht) per transport (Kilometer/Year) (Kilometer/Year) distance (Kilometer/Year) distance (Kilometer/Year) 160,000,000 40 146,000,000 0.20 144,000,000 0.18 140,000,000 35 142,000,000 0.16 120,000,000 30 0.14 140,000,000 100,000,000 25 0.12 138,000,000 80,000,000 20 0.10 136,000,000 60,000,000 15 0.08 134,000,000 0.06 40,000,000 10 132,000,000 0.04 20,000,000 5 130,000,000 0.02 0 0 128,000,000 0.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Transport Distance (Kilometer/Year) Transport Distance (Kilometer/Year) Numbers of transportation accident (Cases/Year) Financial loss from transportation accident (Baht) per transport distance (Kilometer/Year) Numbers of transportation accident Financial Loss from transportation accident per transport distance per transport distance In 2012 value of NGV vehicle accident has declined by 43% in comparison to 2010. 92 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited SSHE Contractor Auditing PTT underlines the importance of SSHE performance of its contractors and customers due largely to their enormous presence in PTT’s supply chain as their effectiveness could inevitably affect the business. To address this concern, PTT periodically audit SSHE performance of its contractors and customers. In 2012, the Quality, Safety, Health and Environment (QSHE) Department of PTT’s Oil Business Unit audited its suppliers’ and customers’ operations for possible impact to PTT’s products and services. The audits include, among others, an assessment of LPG tank and lubricant tank manufacturing factories, private LPG packing plants, and LPG service stations. Details of the audits are elaborated in the terms and conditions of relevant TOR that covers contractor’s quality and SSHE performance as well as related environmental laws. In 2012, more than 500 suppliers and customers were audited (covering 136 suppliers out of 150), all of whom successfully passed the TOR and were in compliance with SSHE legal requirements where no major deficiencies that could seriously jeopardize SSHE risk were found. The Oil Business Unit plans to audit all of its suppliers by 2013. 93 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Capital Project Management Managing Impacts on Communities Sustainable co-existence with the communities is the ultimate goal for PTT. Thus, we give the utmost care to address the possible community and environmental impacts from natural gas pipeline before, during, and after construction. PTT has introduced measures to reduce environmental impacts during construction, which include supervising contractors and subcontractors, from causing damages to the communities. PTT gives priority to the natural gas pipeline safety in every step of its operation starting from planning to design, construction, operation, and maintenance so that the communities within surrounding area can be assured of maximum safety. PTT pipelines are maintained according to international standards. Additionally, the system is insured for damages to the community and society caused by PTT’s operation. This culture of safety is reflected in our safety record. Over the past thirty years of pipeline operation in Thailand, PTT has no record of death or serious injuries associated with the system. Social, Environmental and Health Impact Assessment Social, environmental and health impact assessment is conducted In 2012, 42 projects were subject to the for every project under development. The assessment is carried environmental impact management. out by institutes or agencies that are registered with the Office of Of these, 3 are associated with improvement Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP). of production process of natural gas Results of the assessment are used as part of the Environmental separation plant and power plant, 37 are Impact Assessment (EIA) report which is submitted to ONEP for onshore natural gas pipeline projects, project approval process. Once the project is approved, preventive and 2 are offshore natural gas pipeline measures are put in place and monitoring reports conducted by projects. Offshore projects include a project Third-party are submitted to the ONEP and other relevant agencies to increase pressure in the pipeline and every six months throughout the entire project. The Corporate SSHE the offshore natural gas pipeline project Department is responsible for governing process to ensure that from Platong and Bongkot fields that is every project required to prepare an EIA report has produced a approximately 86 kilometers. Of all, 14 had report that fully meets ONEP’s requirements. The Corporate SSHE their EIA reports approved before 2012 Department is accountable for implementation and follow-up within while another 7 were given green-light in organization to ensure measures are being implemented by all PTT 2012. 15 additional projects are under the business units and report to the Office of Securities and Exchange engineering detailed design stage where Commission (SEC) annually. construction has not started. 94 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited The study of social, environmental and health impact assessment in PTT’s capital projects such as the fourth transmission pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi), which is the principal pipeline, has already been approved by an expert committee and the National Environmental Committee. The management and planning of natural gas pipeline projects are categorized into 3 stages of the Project life cycle. The first stage is before construction in which potential impacts upon the social context and environment are assessed prior to the project conduct. The second stage is during the construction phase of the project. During this stage public hearings are conducted and stakeholders’ opinions on the impacts of the projects are heard. The last stage is after construction is completed; here project evaluation is conducted for further suggestions and improvements. PTT is required to conduct an assessment on social, environmental and health impact in accordance with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Rules , procedures and guideline for the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report dated December 29, 2009 and other related legislations. The assessments are carried out by education institutions or companies certified by the ONEP with a minimum coverage distance of 500 meters. Management of Impacts on Communities Number of Projects All projects in 2012 42 projects Projects with social, environmental or health impact assessment (SIAs, EIAs, or HIAs) 42 projects Major capital projects including gas transmission pipeline 5 projects Public hearing More than twice per project area 95 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Public Consultation The onshore natural gas pipeline For natural gas pipeline project PTT is committed in engaging from Thai-Myanmar border to the all types of stakeholders through public consultation including BVW#1 project has never been community residents, local government agencies, and related classified as a project with serious environmental impacts according to private entities in the local area. The public consultation process is the Announcement of the Ministry of as follows: Natural Resources and Environment. Present the project’s preliminary information and propose However, since the project area potential alternative pipeline routes. is home to many races and Incorporate stakeholders’ feedback on preferred pipeline routes. nationalities, PTT decided to organize Present the best alternative option based on stakeholders’ more public hearings than required feedbacks, and present preliminary construction details by the law and engaged all groups of and initial measures to reduce environmental impacts. stakeholders regardless of sex and age. Facilities were provided and Explain construction procedures, construction schedule for each appropriate timing was chosen to project area, measures to reduce environmental impacts before allow as many people as possible to construction starts, also stage public hearing to listen to opinions participate in the process. Moreover, and concerns of stakeholders, receive feedbacks resulted from understanding of the subject and construction, and resolve initial conflicts to minimize potential attitude of the communities towards conflict between communities in the project area and PTT. the project were measured through Restore the area and follow-up with any complaints and questionnaire survey. In addition, PTT asked basic information of feedbacks resulted from the construction. questionnaire respondents to learn their age groups for the purpose of analyzing social-based information In addition, in 2012, several public hearings were held in various that could subsequently support projects including the onshore Nakhon Sawan pipeline project the project work. where focus group meetings of stakeholders affecting from the project were organized to listen to their opinions at Maha Rat District, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Province. The Nakhon Ratchasima pipeline project also organized public hearing with the concerned public and other stakeholders to conduct a public review of the project’s environmental and health impact assessment report at the Greenery Resort, Khao Yai. Finally, the fourth transmission pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi) staged focus group hearing with stakeholders affecting from the construction at Moo 1, Tambon Paka, Ban Na District, Nakhon Nayok Province. 96 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Use of Land and Property for the Natural Gas Pipeline Network System For any projects, PTT’s aim is to avoid permanent resettlement. Construction routes and positions are designed to minimize resettlement impact. In case where resettlement is necessary, PTT will provide information and come to term with the affected communities to get their acceptance before paying compensations for the damage incurred from the removal of houses and buildings as well as livelihood areas. Additionally, repair will be conducted to restore damage inflicted by the construction to the previous condition as much as possible. However, ownership in the land and property used for pipeline laying shall remain with the original owner who is subjected to certain conditions such as no building or structure construction and no planting of perennial tree. PTT complies with the Energy Industry Act from natural gas pipeline route selection which must be approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission; land compensation; and notification of land and property owner prior to pipeline construction. In addition, selection of pipeline route will consider the route with the least impact on communities and environment and mostly accepted by communities through various engagement processes including EIA and public consultation. Proactive Community Engagement The natural gas pipeline project is one of PTT’s projects aiming to strengthen energy security as well as to accommodate natural gas demand of the country. The project conducts community consultation through various channels such as focus group, individual meeting, public hearing in village and questionnaires to survey and evaluate the community’s need and satisfaction. In addition, other communications channels such as phone, website of the Office of the Permanent Secretary, Prime Minister’s Office, coordination center at the project site, and other information center at various agencies, are used for reaching various stakeholders and for receiving recommendations and advices through which the project’s progress will be constantly monitored. Community development projects in area where PTT has natural gas pipeline are categorized into 5 areas: Education this includes merit and need-based scholarships for students from local schools; donating computers and accessories as well as books to school library. Environment this refers to collaboration with communities and local leaders to plant trees in the project area; re-landscaping the community’s park area. Sports this covers donating exercising and sports equipment, building playground for exercising purpose. Art and culture this refers to participating and promoting the local community’s customs and culture. Economy and vocational this includes developing and enhancing local product, finding distribution channels for community products. PTT’s approval for a community development project in the natural gas pipeline area and other activities proposed by the community will be subject to the activity framework in these 5 areas mentioned above in order to ensure that all community development activities are in the same direction. Some of the projects are already approved, include promoting community products at PTT’s exhibition and finding distribution channel for community products and 97 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited selling complimentary products from different communities to increase sales and marketing opportunity. PTT also helps expand the market for areas that are short of a particular product by bringing one product from one area to another. In addition, an egg-for-waste project was organized to support the community’s economy at Tambon Nongsarai, Pak Chong District, Nakhon Ratchasima Province, located within the area of the onshore Nakhon Ratchasima natural pipeline project. At PTT’s KM Day event, a group of leather makers from Rayong Province, which is part of the fourth transmission pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi), sold their products there, together with a group that processed agricultural products from Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya Province which was part of the onshore Nakhon Sawan natural pipeline project, and a community that promoted vetiver grass to preserve the community’s drinking water resource from Tambon Nonsee, Kabin Buri District, Prachin Buri Province, under the fourth natural gas pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi). Community Grievance Mechanism During the construction, affected party can report any grievance to the grievance center at the project’s site office. Once a grievance is received, an officer will handle the case and will schedule the complainant to visit the problem area together. Officer will then record what is found or an incident witnessed together with an initial cause before identifying type of such grievance. The complainant is asked to review details in a grievance form which will be recorded and signed as evidence. If the grievance is identified as a general grievance, a preliminary cause will be investigated immediately after the complaint is filed. If no mutual agreement can be reached, PTT will submit the matter to the environmental impacts monitoring and supervising committee which consists of members from the government and community leaders who will manage the grievance and facilitate reconciliation for mutual settlement. Grievances are based on different contexts that varied from area to area, including interest groups, local politics, and local customs and culture. In 2012, the fourth transmission pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi) received 15 grievances, most of which were during the construction stage. This included grievance of damaged houses, loss of business opportunity, environmental impacts from dust and noise, and demand for compensation from the construction. Most grievances were made through phone calls. PTT has already coordinated with related parties and is currently resolving such grievances with them. 7 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Rayong Chon Buri Chachoengsao Nakhon Rayong Chon Buri Chachoengsao Nakhon Nayok Nayok Construction Processing / In process Compensation Closed Types of Grievances from fourth transmission Amounts of grievance of the fourth pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi) transmission pipeline project (Rayong-Kaeng Khoi) catagorized by status. 98 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Biodiversity Realizing the importance of biodiversity, PTT has included biodiversity as part of its QSHE policy where it is clearly indicated that ecological protection and maintenance of biodiversity is a must. At present, PTT is formulating its sustainable biodiversity conservation and protection strategy by collaborating with ONEP and Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The strategy will also cover public relations and campaigns to educate and raise awareness of the public over the priceless value and importance of biodiversity. This strategy will be integrated into PTT’s internal departments which will also be subject to the biodiversity management standard which currently being formulated and expected to be rolled out in 2013. The standard will consist of risk assessment guideline, identification of sensitive areas to the environmental impacts, selection of project area, impact assessment, and preparation of biodiversity action plan on the basis of conserving biodiversity. Biodiversity Management PTT’s biodiversity management is a project-based management approach where assessment of impacts to biodiversity is part of a study to prepare an EIA report, according to the laws of Thailand. Normally, biodiversity impact assessments are carried out by external experts which cover assessment of impacts as well as protective and preventive measures before construction starts, during the construction, and during the operation period with an awareness of the project’s possible impacts to biodiversity within the operation area. To study biodiversity, a survey of the diversity of flora and fauna in the project’s study area will be conducted and possible impacts resulted from the project construction to existing plants and wildlife will be assessed. In addition, the use of flora and fauna by communities in the project’s area will also be identified. All information will be put into the Geographical Information System (GIS). For example, PTT has conducted biodiversity in Thailand area within the 2-kilometer radius around the BVW01 as part of its EIA study of the natural gas pipeline project from ThaiBurmese border to the BVW#1 gas control station located at Ban I Tong, Tambon Pilok, Thong Pha Phum District, Kanchanaburi Province, which is situated within the Khao Chang Puak Natural Forest Reserves. 99 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited A study of forestry resources of exploration plots identified more than 74 perennial trees, 32 types of seasonal plants, 5 types of palm, 32 types of grass, and 8 groups of other plants. The Fisher biodiversity value in the area is 13.24, which is considered very high for flora biodiversity. According to the study of wild animal through direct and indirect surveys, 141 kinds of wild animals in 106 genus, 53 families and 21 classes which can be classified into 16 classes of mammal, 98 classes of birds and 18 classes of reptiles, and 9 types of amphibious animals were found. One species, Muntiacus feae, is classified as endangered wild animal, according to the Conservation and Protection of Wild Animals Act, while 3 are identified as endangered wild animals under the IUCN classification; namely, Indotestudo elongate, Manourai emys, and Hylobates lar. During the operation, the project needed to open up approximately 4 rai of land to lay down gas pipeline. Realizing the importance of possible impacts from construction to biodiversity in the project area, PTT introduced measures to protect and resolve environmental impacts such as minimizing areas where trees will be slashed, returning and allowing as many areas as possible to be restored to the previous condition, strictly preventing employees from hunting wild animals and coordinating with wild animal experts in case animal evacuation was required. PTT properly informed these prevention and impact-reduction measures, and listened to the public’s opinions throughout its EIA study procedures on the basis of ONEP’s guideline. Meanwhile, compliance with these preventive and resolving measures will be monitored, examined and reported to ONEP and other related agencies every six month, both during the construction period and the project operation period. PTT Project in Thailand’s conservation areas in 2012 Project area: Natural gas pipeline areas of approximately 50 kilometers in distance Project area in protected areas: Thong Pha Phum National Park, Kanchanaburi Province Activities in protected areas: Natural gas pipeline areas Restored project areas: Natural gas pipeline areas Operation activity: Monitoring the restoration of areas where gas pipeline has been laid. Restoration of forestry conditions in the National Forest Reserve area, Thong Pha Phum District and Sai Yok District. Corroborate with Thailand’s biodiversity resource management policy to study biodiversity in the forestry area of the western Thong Pha Phum project so that local communities may use information derived from the research to manage and benefit from their biodiversity in a sustainable manner. 100 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate citizenship PTT feels that taking care of the society, community and environment in every area where we run our business is an important task, which includes responding to social problems in an overall context both now and in the future, through social projects and various forms of activity management for the benefit of the public. Activities can be carried through community economic development as well as social and environmental development, where the Corporate Communications and Social Responsibility Unit is responsible for overseeing from formulating a policy to planning annual strategy, running projects with various business units, monitoring results, and reporting directly to President & CEO and the Corporate Governance Committee. In 2012, PTT continues to support social, community and environmental development projects in total worth more than 1,650 million baht of contribution, through 6 areas of social and community development projects as follows. Area 1: Education Goal: To encourage young adults to become knowledgeable in the field of science and energy, and to develop more rounded education curriculum. Results of major projects • Developed basic infrastructure for schools in need. In 2012, PTT built two-story eight-classroom buildings for Ban Sak Lookya School in Rayong Province and Ban Tha Muang School in Nakhon Si Thammarat Province. These are the 24th and the 25th school built by PTT. In addition, the 30th and 31st Thai Energy for Thailand (Palang Thai) Library were built for the Wat Sadej School in Lampang Province, the Wat Bangkoo Community School, and Nakhon Si Thammarat Province, respectively. PTT also donated books to libraries in 84 schools under the PTT Group network nationwide. • Developed schools with special emphasis on community’s input into school’s curriculum under the Thai Energy (Palang Thai) School Project. 5 public hearings were organized for communities to formulate a school development plan together with school officials in Rayong, Saraburi, and Songkhla provinces. • Gave over 2,000 scholarships to students in primary schools, secondary schools, and tertiary education institutions totaling 6.5 million baht. • Organized science, energy, and community learning camps for secondary school students and vocational students or equivalent. The learning camps include: “Petro Camp to Petro Champ.” The camp supports students who are interested petrochemical and provides scholarships for further education in the field. “Energy Learning Camp.” The camp was a part of the 4th PTT Youth Camp, organized under the theme of “Returning smile to community”, students applied energy-based knowledge to create energy efficient inventions that can be used in the community. The champion award for secondary school student level went to the “Emergency toilet” from the Sawan Anan Wittaya School. The winner at the senior high school level, Sansai Wittayakom School, submitted a project that produces biogas from community waste. For vocational students and equivalent, students from Buriram Technical College created a device to mechanically separate coffee lid from its bottle. “Young Financial Star Competition.” This competition was organized by PTT, the Stock Exchange of Thailand, the Thai Financial Planners Association and the Thai 101 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Securities Company Association. “PTT CSR Star Team.” For this, PTT brought young adults to learn first-hand community wellbeing and problems and let them propose a community development plan. The winner of this competition was the Green Packaging Team who proposed a project to turn sugarcane leftover into impressive value-added community products. Area 2: Community and society development Goal: To reinforce community strength by encouraging self-reliance and living in a self-efficiency manner. Results of major projects • Developed 24 self-sufficiency learning centers under the “Forest Conservation, Building People, 84 Tambons on a Sufficient Path” project in 4 regions nationwide. The project produced local innovations in 16 sub-districts. Among the innovations are biomass stove, pig-farm biogas system, and windmill to pump water. • Collaborating with network members such as the Village Foundation, Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, and NECTEC, to establish the “Learning Institute for Everyone” that offers programs at undergraduate and graduate levels. Area 3: Management of biodiversity Goal: To work with communities in all sectors to sustainably restore, conserve, and manage local biodiversity at various locations nationwide. Results of major projects • In 2012, PTT continued to work with forest-surveillance communities under the Reforestation Project to Celebrate HM the King’s 50th Anniversary in his Ascension to the Throne where the original one million rai of forests are closely monitored. The surveillance is done through various projects such as; the 12 courses training of voluntary forest firefighters with 1,460 participants; the training of voluntary forest guards which recorded 1,614 participants attending a total 12 programs; and the PTT forest youth guard project where 1,604 young adults were trained in 15 classes. In addition, PTT planted additional 800 million young plants in the Reforestation Project to celebrate HM the Queen’s 80th Birthday Anniversary in the 5,000 rai area in Nan Province. PTT also planted trees in deteriorated areas at Ban Buak Ya, Nan Province, for a total of 1,000 rai of land under the project initiated by HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn; and another 5,000 rai of land in Rayong Province under the Green Rayong Project. • The Green World Foundation organized a painting contest under the theme of environment and natural resource conservation. In 2012, 671 pieces of work were submitted to the contest, of which 81 won the awards presented in an award ceremony organized to publicize the work of the winners. • Working with the Sirinat Rachinee Learning Center of Mangrove Forest Biodiversity at Prachuap Khiri Khan Province, PTT promoted biodiversity learning. 39 children and 42,514 members of the local communities participated in the conservation of their own mangrove forests through the Young Guide Project where they took part in the center’s learning process on how to protect natural resources. • PTT is involved in a project to expand the use of vetiver grass for water and soil conservation in 14 locations around Thailand. 102 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Area 4: Development of urban environment Goal: To promote ways for industries and communities to co-exist. Results of major projects PTT, in collaboration with communities, industry peers, and ralated parties, around PTT operation sites, aims to improve people’s quality of life, environment, safety, and health. • Increased green space and public parks for the community (e.g. Green Rayong Project and the HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn Herb Garden). In addition, PTT is conducting a conceptual design to build protection strip in 5 pilot locations. • Tuned up 112,736 cars in the PTT Engine Tune-Up project, saving more than 8.2 million liters of fuel and 246.9 million baht of foreign exchange. The engine tune-up also reduced the release of 17,776 tons of CO2 into the atmosphere. • Educated 700 households in 7 areas nationwide on how to use cooking gas safely. • Offered basic healthcare, health check-up, and dental services through mobile medicate unit to 3,727 people in 25 communities in 17 provinces. Area 5: Development of networks to leverage the country’s fame Goal: To promote Thailand’s image and reputation in art, cultural, and sport, domains through collaboration with various agencies. Results of major projects • Organized the 27th PTT Art Contest under the theme of “Green Living: Saving the Earth” with Silpakorn University; Collaborated with Chiangmai University, Khon Kaen University, and Thaksin University, to organize the children’s live painting contest in various provinces; organized the Puja Drum Beating competition and a youth camp to preserve the traditional Puja drum-beating in Lampang provice. • Sponsored various professional and amateur sport events such as the ATP PTT Thailand Open, the WTA PTT Pattaya Open, the PTT Junior Championship tennis tournament, the PTT Golf Junior Open Champion, Thai chess competition, and PTT Rayong Football Club. 103 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Area 6: Cultivation of employee awareness Goal: To promote public service mindset from within the organization Results of major projects • Allocated time for employee to spend at least 4 hours per person per year to participate in benevolent projects through PTT’s Thai Energy for Public Mind Club or other social activities. In 2012, PTT employees dedicated 22,836 hours to public service. This accounted for 13,002 hours of public work done during office hours and 9,834 hours of public work committed outside office hours. • Created the “Restroom 20” Project by asking restroom users at PTT gas stations nationwide to donate 20 baht everytime they use the service, of which the money collected are used to support public infrastructure. In 2012, 1.7 million baht was donated through the project; the money was used to build restrooms for the Talingchan Child Development Center, the Wat Nong Bua School in Saraburi Province, and the Ban Khao Chee Child Development Center in Chon Buri Province. Area-level Projects Local communities in Rayong Province PTT understands the importance of being a good community member in the areas where we operate. In Rayong Province, considered to be the significant home base and extremely important production asset, PTT established the PTT Group CSR and Media Communications Committee in 2009. The committee has members including senior executives from 11 companies under PTT Group which operate in the Province. The committee is responsible for sustainability efforts in the province through CSR activities, communications, and QSHE work in a unified manner. PTT has set up social development targets in 3 main areas: enhancing quality of life, adding green space, and supporting education. Enhancing quality of life PTT is currently developing community business organizations in 63 targeted communities in 4 municipalities within 2 districts; namely, Mab Ta Phut Municipality and Tambon Mab Kha Pattana Municipality of Rayong District, and Tambon Banchang Municipality and Muang Banchang Municipality of Ban Chang District. PTT conducted surveys and community meetings to identify business potentials that would satisfy market’s demand in the area. The study listed food, snack and beverage producer, gardening and lawn care, and car rental as potential businesses to be developed. PTT is corroborating with communities to produce business models, write business plans, and supervise management direction to develop relevant communities into a community enterprise organization. In addition, PTT is promoting community wellbeing by opening 4 “sharing compassion” clinics in PTT’s business premises to offer free healthcare services to residents in adjacent communities to PTT’s compounds. In 2012, PTT’s clinics served 16,680 people. 104 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Adding green space PTT continued to add green areas in the Rayong province under the PTT Group’s Green Rayong Project. In 2012, PTT planted trees in a 5,000-rai area at the Chawa Cooperatives in Wang Chan District. PTT Group initiated the “1 Community 1 Company 1 Green Area” project among PTT Group companies, communities, and local public agencies, to develop and take care of the green areas. PTT carried out reforestation efforts in the 18-rai area of the Mab Chalude community and the 33-rai area of the Mab Ta Phut Municipality area. In addition, the HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn Herbal Garden continued to open for Rayong residents, where as many as 320,198 visitors came to the park. The park generated more than 19.1 million baht incomes from sales of local products to the local community during the past year. Supporting education PTT provides 42 secondary-school scholarships and sponsors the development of 18 schools in areas where it operates. In addition, the company organizes mobile exhibitions to provide petroleum, energy, and industry knowledge, which was visited by 5,850 students. The exhibition activity has now been expanded into the “Petro Camp to Petro Champion”, a petroleum-concentrated youth camp which has been organized for 6 consecutive years to promote children’s understanding and perception of the petrochemical industry. Moreover, PTT is currently sponsoring 24 students selected to continue the tertiary education. Under the Thai Energy School Project, PTT built a school, renovated the library, and donated study materies for Ban Sak Lookya School in Rayong Province. Under the name of the Association of Community Friend, PTT Group in conjunction with industrial businesses in Rayong Province, support community improvements in public health, education, and environmental areas. The Association has an ambitious goal to transform Rayong Province into an ecological-based industrial town. PTT Group is responsible for social, education, and public health projects where it provides medical professionals to hospitals in the area, support occupational and medical specialists through graduate schools, organizes mobile medical unit to provide health check-up and basic healthcare to various communities in the area, and trains the village public health volunteers. 105 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited National-level Projects The 84 Tambon on a Sufficient Path Project The success of the project which has been running for 5 years (2007 2011), now, in 87 sub-districts of 58 provinces all over Thailand has produced a number of truly significant outcomes. For example, the project helped to reduce household expenses and to increase villagers’ incomes, the project offered opportunity for individual development and created the self-sufficiency household volunteers. PTT continues to promote and assess the strength of communities under the project. In 2012, PTT leveraged knowledge gained a year earlier into 24 Learning Center of Self-Sufficiency in every region nationwide. The Centers teach and promote self-sufficiency knowledge to nearby sub-districts, networks, and the interested public for sustainable dissemination of knowledge. The mechanism which drives this project is the very concept of self-sufficiency initiated by HM the King. The project focuses on the engagement between PTT and the community that is enlarged to a network. At the education institution level, engagement occurs through knowledge-sharing forums and research carried out by local people in social studies and energy topics that aim to transform community-based innovation into long-term community sustainability. In addition, PTT has formulated a development plan which will become a framework for the village’s sustainable self-reliance during the next phase. Stages of operation KPI 8 KNOWLEDGE RELATED ACTIVITIES LEADING TO SUSTAINABLE SELF RELIANCE COMMUNITY ANALYSIS FUND MIND DEVELOPMENT SUFFICIENCY COMMUNAL ENERGY ECONOMY COMMUNAL SKILL KNOWLEDGE ENVIRONMENT & HYGIENE SCHOOL/TEACHER/PUPILS VILLAGE RESOURCES STATE OF OPERATION Conduct public forum to explain concept and system of the Learning Center of Self-Sufficiency Create a database system to collect data and integrate local knowledge for the Center Develop human capacity from student to “guru” who can spread the knowledge Designate the learning center as a learning hub for knowledge dissemination RESULT LEARNING CENTER / DATABASE SYSTEM / GURU / LOCAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT / EXPANDING 106 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Results of the Learning Center of Self-Sufficiency • Learning PTT has developed 233 learning hubs which offer a variety of knowledge and information depending on a context of each location. For example, one can learn how to make charcoal with a 200-litre oil tank, produce organic fertilizer, manage household income and expenditure account, run a hybrid farm, and create household tools. • Capacity-building PTT supported 363 role models who have expertise in self-sufficiency and are accepted by people from their communities to become a mentor who will transfer their knowledge to others. • Expanding knowledge enlisted 2,400 new self-sufficiency household volunteers and 1,500 young adults to promote the concept of self-sufficiency. • Improving information and the learning society PTT is joining hands with communities to conduct a self-analysis where information derived from the analysis is implemented and used in problem solving. Insights from the analysis has resulted is 84 researches conducted by the local communities. PTT also sponsors 12 scholarships for graduate and post-graduate students all over the country to write their theses under the topic of self-sufficiency philosophy. Learning Center of Self-Sufficiency of 84 Tambon on a Sufficient Path Project in 4 regions throughout the country North Amphoe Phrao, Chiang Mai Amphoe Soem Ngam, Lampang North East Amphoe Mueang, Nan Amphoe Mancha Khiri, Khon Kaen Amphoe Wang Chao, Tak Amphoe Kuchinarai, Kalasin Amphoe Mae On, Chiang Mai Amphoe Na Kae, Nakhon Phanom Amphoe Kiri Mat, Sukhothai Amphoe Phlapphla Chai, Buri Ram Amphoe Samrong Thap, Surin Amphoe Kham Muang, Kalasin South Central Amphoe Noen Kham, Chai Nat Amphoe Phato, Chumphon Amphoe Wihan Deang, Saraburi Amphoe Na Bon, Nakhon Si Thammarat Amphoe Phra Pradaeng, Samut Prakan Amphoe Srinagarindra, Phatthalung Amphoe Ko Chang, Trat Amphoe Chana, Songkhla Amphoe Chai Badan, Lop Buri Amphoe Phanom, Suratthani Amphoe Ban Na, Nakhon Nayok Amphoe Thalang, Phuket 107 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Under the strong community program of the 84 Tambon on a Sufficient Path Project, PTT promotes the communitybased energy development project to constructively build a model of an energy self-reliant community where community energy and technology is studied and developed in various forms that are suitable for natural resources and environment found in the area. In 2012, PTT worked with member networks and was successful in designing, testing and installing technology prototype which were used in 6 locations. These include a community-based hydro power generator installed in Tambon Maesao, Mae-Ai District, Chiang Mai Province, electric water-pumping turbine installed in Tambon Bangkhunsai, Ban Laem District, Phetchaburi Province, as well as in Tambon Thai Samakki, Wang Nam Khiao District, Nakhon Ratchasima Province. PTT supports energy technology learning hubs in 16 sub-districts. In 2012, an energy-based community enterprise in Tambon Khuhatai, Rattaphum District, Songkhla Province, successfully produced high-energy super-stove for the first time. Green Globe Institute PTT’s 1 million rai reforestation from Reforestation Project in Honour of HM the King on the occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the Accession to the Throne in 1999 has resulted in several related projects, one of those is the Green Globe Award project. With cooperation from experts in various fields, such as non-government organizations, conservationists, academics, writers and members of the press, the project helps to search, select, Mr. Naowarat Pongpaiboon Mr. Anand Panyarachun National Artist, Literature, 1993 Chairman of the Green Globe Award Participant in the Learning Center of Self-Sufficiency “Learning at the self-sufficiency learning center helps to “The Green Globe Award starts with a strong wish to provide raise people awareness of sufficiency. I have seen what is moral support to communities and people who quietly there and I do understand how living self-sufficiently can protect the forests and other natural assets for us without become so joyful. I see the hope and I see how the Thai fanfare. These individuals are the real practitioners whose society can survive. If we follow this self-sufficiency path, actions are hardly noticed and appreciated in today’s we will be able to stand on our feet solidly and sustainably. fast-paced society. As today’s environmental issue is no We will have something that we can leverage with the entire longer an issue of the government alone, everyone has to world, simply because we are a producer’s society, we are be involved in solving environmental problems for a better a maker’s society, and we are a doer’s society while society in the future.” the rest of the world has all become an inseparable part of the consuming society.” 108 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited and give awards to natural resource and environmental protection projects from all over the country in order to provide moral support, publicize and honor work which resulted from impressive dedication and commitment. In addition, these projects also ignite society-wide learning that helps strengthening public engagement process in natural resource and environmental conservation and restoration. In 2010, PTT further expanded the Green Globe Award project into the Green Globe Institute, operated by the Sustainable Energy Foundation. The institute is also responsible for R&D and knowledge management with an aim to publicize and expand the sustainable environmental development network. The Green Globe Institute has organized the Green Globe Award event every year with competitions in 7 categories such as community, individual, youth, writing, youth’s essay, and the press. Also, the five-year Sippanon Kedhudhat Sustainability Award founded in 2005 to honor communities who had received the Green Globe Award for at least 5 years. At present, the institute actively pursues natural resource and environmental conservation activities that lead to the development of an integrated network of knowledge-based innovation in ecological, management, and social and community dimensions, which can become a community model for the Thai society. Green Globe Institute encourages regular knowledge sharing by providing the Green Globe Network Forum held in Bangkok and the provinces, to open up a creative space for its awardees and related parties to share experiences and to discuss issues faced by the region for engagement-based solutions. The institute also organizes the Green World Friend activity to promote knowledge sharing and exchange for the learning purpose among wider audience. 109 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Results of the Green Globe Award Project The 14th Green Globe Award competition in 2012 under the theme of “Self-sufficiency: Sharing and connecting with soil, water and forest” contemplated on a total of 671 pieces of work submitted by the public and the invited ones by the committee. Of the 7 categories, 61 pieces were eventually awarded, of which 10 were given to communities, 5 to individuals, and 7 to youth groups. There were also 6 outstanding writing awards and 16 outstanding youth essays, including 8 complimentary awards in the same category. One excellent award went to the press, who were also given 2 other outstanding awards. Finally, 6 projects were given the Sippanon Kedhudhat Five Years of Sustainability Award. The success of the project in the past has been a big moral support in the individual level and underlines the individual’s role as a conservationist model. At the community and society levels, the award leads to the sharing of knowledge and experience while building a network of environmental conservation and integrated ecological management efforts. Finally, at the national level, the project helps extend PTT’s original intention when it planted 1 million rai of trees to honor HR the King, that “planting a forest yields more than just a tree.” To date, the Green Globe Institute has bestowed 493 Green Globe Awards to outstanding natural resource and environmental conservation projects from 106 communities, 92 individuals, and 72 youth groups. This Green World network has scattered in every region around the country and is a major force to take care of 1,637,925 rai of green forests as well as 49,837 rai of mangrove forests, which are the natural resources and ecological learning schools for communities. This network resulted in a powerful force that helps drive natural resource and environmental conservation efforts on the basis of sustainable development. Among our achievements are: Pongsa Chunam, Phato District, Chumphon Province, the 1st Green World Award recipient under the individual category, 1999 A new generation of civil servant, the person behind the concept of people living harmoniously with the forest, Pongsa focuses his conservation and forest protection efforts through the development of people and community. He emphasizes the resolving of forest encroachment problem and conflict between government officials and local residents in the Langsuan Watershed in a non-violence manner. Pongsa proposed an integrated solution covering economic, social, education, and natural resource management aspects. He also offered an opportunity for community to participate in the management, supervision, and exploitation of the forest where common rules relating land management, the issuance of community land title deeds, as well as farming, social, and legal management are established and respected on a fundamental belief that man can peacefully co-exist with the forest. The Salak Kok Conservation Group and Tour Club, Trat Province, the 12th Green World Award recipient under the community category, 2010 Situated on the 670 rai of land amidst the lush mangrove forest on Koh Chang Island, the Salak Kok community wanted to set up a conservation group and a club to offer guided tour that will provide ecological tourism to their visitors, based mainly on the community’s signature tranquility. The business is managed through a participatory process where residents in the community co-own this touring business, which in turn is managed by the community-based on cooperatives and equity models. Funds are mobilized to manage this ecological business as well as to conduct conservation and public-oriented activities. The result is that the community is not only able to preserve the abundance of natural resources in their backyard, but can also prevent their mangrove forests from being encroached and destroyed. Moreover, local fishermen can continue fishing in a traditional way and the tranquil living in the community is preserved. 110 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT founded the Sustainable Energy Foundation in 2009 in order to promote energy technology and R&D, energy management, alternative energy, energy conservation, natural resource, and environmental management, as well as to provide education opportunities to children while raising their awareness in social responsibility and integrity. In 2012, the Sustainable Energy Foundation was announced as charity organization No. 806. Aside from the Green Globe Institute, the Sustainable Energy Foundation also carries out 3 important tasks as follows: • Community Enterprise Institute Foundation (CEIF) which founded the Learning Institute for Everyone as an alternative tertiary education institute for communities. The institute offers an integrated learning process, research and community development, and is driving the concept of learning society and community self-reliance. It offers both undergraduate and graduate programs to more than 4,000 students today who are studying in 39 learning centers in 35 provinces. • Community energy project that aims to promote efficient use of energy, and resources and increase energy self-reliance both at the national and local levels. Together with Kasetsart University, the project has created a computation model to calculate mass balance and energy balance, as well as economic and finance models to analyst the project’s break-even point for community development activities in 3 projects; namely, the Kamsad Resort and Spa Hotel, the Chumporn Cabana Hotel, and the community learning center in the Nongyai Development Project under HM the King’s Initiative in Chumphon Province. In addition, it has collaborated with Prince Songkhla University to conduct an alternative energy project in a form of a community-based hydro power generator for the Koh Lon community in Phuket Province to enjoy its energy security. • Project to build teacher capacity, a training program to enhance teachers’ Thai language teaching skills, was held for 55 teachers working at the Border Patrol Police (BPP) schools who have since then successfully applied the techniques in schools on high mountains of Chiangrai, Phayao and Nan provinces. Future projects PTT believes that science, technology, and engineering skills are very important to the development of Thailand’s competitiveness and people’s capacity. As a result, it has initiated a project which establishes the PTT Group university and a science-oriented school in the eastern of Thailand. To that end, the Rayong Institute of Science and Technology (RAIST) has been established as a tertiary education institution that sees itself as a frontier research university, while the Rayong Science Academy (RASA) offers smaller classrooms as a senior high school that focuses on mathematics and science to build future’s scientists. Educational experts have been invited to join the management committee to supervise the institutions and formulate their policies and strategies. In 2012, PTT made the decision to once again plant another one million rai of forests while diligently maintaining its original one million rai of trees planted before to safeguard the abundance of soil, water, and forest, in order to reduce natural disaster impacts. The PTT Forestry Institute Project has been set up to maintain reforestation and conservation of forestry resources. 111 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Performance Summary Economics GRI Required Data Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PTT PTT PTT PTT PTT EC1 Sale Revenues Million Baht 2,000,816 1,586,174 1,898,682 2,428,126[1] 2,793,833 Operating Costs Million Baht 1,829,821 1,438,464 1,724,780 2,208,363[1] 2,561,317 Employee[2] Wages and Benefits[3] Million Baht 5,684 5,865 6,337 6,880 7,615 Dividend Payments for the Million Baht 22,592 24,074 29,167 37,111[1] 37,126 Performance of the Year Payments to Government Million Baht 9,923 11,329 12,669 4,328[4] 3,516[4] EC4 Tax Privileges from the Board Million Baht 3,294 0 2,086 10,691 7,386 of Investment, Thailand Remarks: [1] Revised [2] Scope of employees managed under PTT includes PTT’s employees, PTT’s secondment, and employees in subsidiaries under PTT financial management. The scope does not include chief executive officers and top executives. [3] Employee wage and benefit including total salary, bonuses, contributions to the provident funds, etc. (if applicable). [4] Tax base changed from 30 percent to 23 percent. Sale Revenues Million Baht Operating Costs 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,793,833 2,500,000 2,000,816 2,428,126 1,898,682 2,561,317 2,000,000 1,586,714 1,829,821 2,208,363 1,500,000 1,724,780 1,000,000 1,438,464 500,000 0 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Year 112 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited People GRI Required Data Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Employee[1] LA1 TOTAL EMPLOYEES Manpower 3,635 3,681 5,292 5,732 6,083 PTT 2,508 1,127 2,555 1,126 2,607 1,183 2,745 1,299 2,851 1,376 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 972 530 1,099 589 1,191 665 Permanent Employees[2] Manpower 3,635 3,681 5,292 5,732 6,083 PTT 2,508 1,127 2,555 1,126 2,607 1,183 2,745 1,299 2,851 1,376 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 972 530 1,099 589 1,191 665 LA13 Total Employees by Area Bangkok Total Manpower 2,425 2,446 4,011 4,370 4,618 PTT 1,415 1,010 1,438 1,008 1,451 1,058 1,524 1,158 1,550 1,212 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 972 530 1,099 589 1,191 665 Others[3] Total Manpower 1,210 1,235 1,281 1,362 1,465 PTT 1,093 117 1,117 118 1,156 125 1,221 141 1,301 164 PTTEP NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Total Employees by Level Executive Total Manpower 165 167 214 240 243 PTT (Level 13 18) 126 39 130 37 130 40 143 45 136 46 PTTEP (Level 17 up) NA NA NA NA 38 6 44 8 52 9 Middle Total Manpower 420 433 705 761 820 Management PTT (Level 10 12) 291 129 295 138 307 164 313 190 319 213 PTTEP (Level 14 16) NA NA NA NA 180 54 191 67 209 79 Senior Total Manpower 1,157 1,168 1,681 1,803 1,904 PTT (Level 8 9) 664 493 681 487 693 478 720 475 738 464 PTTEP (Level 12 13) NA NA NA NA 329 181 384 224 440 262 Employee Total Manpower 1,893 1,913 2,692 2,928 3,116 PTT (Level 7 and below) 1,427 466 1,449 464 1,477 501 1,569 589 1,658 653 PTTEP (Level 11 and below) NA NA NA NA 425 289 480 290 490 31 Employees by Age Over 50 Total Manpower 976 1,013 1,252 1,365 1,250 Years Old PTT 678 298 708 305 715 329 791 376 717 343 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 156 52 148 50 141 49 30 50 Total Manpower 1,908 1,921 2,983 3,252 3,358 Years Old PTT 1,246 662 1,270 651 1,311 648 1,428 712 1,440 729 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 649 375 710 402 753 436 Below 30 Total Manpower 751 747 1,057 1,115 1,475 Years Old PTT 584 167 577 170 581 206 526 211 694 304 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 167 103 241 137 297 180 LA2 TURNOVER Total Total Manpower 76 115 158 162 204 Turnover PTT 56 20 63 52 95 34 90 40 109 63 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 19 10 16 16 26 6 Turnover Rate PTT % 2.23 1.77 2.47 4.62 3.64 2.87 3.28 3.08 3.82 4.58 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 1.95 1.89 1.46 2.72 2.18 0.90 Turnover by Area Bangkok Total Manpower 62 95 138 137 166 PTT 44 18 45 50 78 31 68 37 76 58 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 19 10 16 16 26 6 PTT % 1.75 1.60 1.76 4.44 2.99 2.62 2.48 2.85 2.67 4.22 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 1.95 1.89 1.46 2.72 2.18 0.90 113 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GRI Required Data Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Others[3] Total Manpower 14 20 20 25 38 PTT 12 2 18 2 17 3 22 3 33 5 PTTEP NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR PTT % 0.48 0.18 0.70 0.18 0.65 0.25 0.80 0.23 1.16 0.36 PTTEP NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Turnover by Age Over 50 Total Manpower 54 77 99 103 120 Years Old PTT 41 13 46 31 67 22 65 25 79 32 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 7 3 10 3 8 1 PTT % 1.63 1.15 1.80 2.75 2.57 1.86 2.37 1.92 2.77 2.33 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 0.72 0.57 0.91 0.51 0.67 0.15 30 50 Total Manpower 9 27 33 36 40 Years Old PTT 5 4 13 14 10 7 12 11 11 14 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 11 5 4 9 11 4 PTT % 0.20 0.35 0.51 1.24 0.38 0.59 0.44 0.85 0.39 1.02 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 1.13 0.94 0.36 1.53 0.92 0.60 Below 30 Total Manpower 13 11 27 23 44 Years Old PTT 10 3 4 7 19 5 13 4 19 17 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 1 2 2 4 7 1 PTT % 0.40 0.27 0.16 0.62 0.73 0.42 0.47 0.31 0.67 1.24 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 0.10 0.38 0.18 0.68 0.59 0.15 NEW EMPLOYEES New Total Manpower 168 161 372 601 553 Employees PTT 122 46 110 51 149 92 230 157 217 140 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 79 52 142 72 114 82 New Hire PTT % 4.86 4.08 4.31 4.53 5.72 7.78 8.38 12.09 7.61 10.17 Rate PTTEP NA NA NA NA 8.13 9.81 12.92 12.22 9.57 12.33 New Employees by Area Bangkok Total Manpower 134 116 296 482 418 PTT 95 39 67 49 85 80 131 137 106 116 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 79 52 142 72 114 82 PTT % 3.79 3.46 2.62 4.35 3.26 6.76 4.77 10.55 3.72 8.43 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 8.13 9.81 12.92 12.22 9.57 12.33 Others[3] Total Manpower 34 45 76 119 135 PTT 27 7 43 2 64 12 99 20 111 24 PTTEP NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR PTT % 1.08 0.62 1.68 0.18 2.45 1.01 3.61 1.54 3.89 1.74 PTTEP NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR New Employee by Age Over 50 Total Manpower 1 3 2 7 1 Years Old PTT 1 0 3 0 2 0 2 2 0 0 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 0 0 2 1 1 0 PTT % 0.04 0 0.12 0 0.08 0 0.07 0.15 0 0 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 0 0 0.18 0.17 0.08 0 30 50 Total Manpower 12 5 64 138 121 Years Old PTT 8 4 4 1 10 8 15 23 15 16 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 22 24 66 34 52 38 PTT % 0.32 0.35 0.16 0.09 0.38 0.68 0.55 1.77 0.53 1.16 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 2.26 4.53 6.01 5.77 4.37 5.71 Below 30 Total Manpower 155 153 306 456 431 Years Old PTT 113 42 103 50 137 84 213 132 202 124 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 57 28 74 37 61 44 114 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GRI Required Data Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female PTT % 4.51 3.73 4.03 4.44 5.26 7.10 7.76 10.16 7.09 9.01 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 5.86 5.28 6.73 6.28 5.12 6.62 Parental Leave LA15 Number of Employee Total Manpower 1,127 1,126 1,183 1,299 1,376 Entitle for Parental PTT 0 1,127 0 1,126 0 1,183 0 1,299 0 1,376 Leave PTTEP NA NA NA NA 0 530 0 589 0 665 Number of Employee Total Manpower 27 25 41 63 50 Taken Parental PTT 0 27 0 25 0 13 0 21 0 21 Leave PTTEP NA NA NA NA 18 10 23 19 15 14 Number of Employee Total Manpower 27 25 41 63 48 Returned to Work PTT 0 27 0 25 0 13 0 21 0 19 after Parental Leave PTTEP NA NA NA NA 18 10 23 19 15 14 Return to Work Rate PTT % 0 100 0 100 0 100 0 100 0 90.48 PTTEP NA NA NA NA 100 100 100 100 100 100 Number of Employee Total Manpower 25 24 11 21 19 Returned to Work PTT 0 25 0 24 0 11 0 21 0 19 after Parental Leave PTTEP NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA who is still Employed for the Next 12 Months Retention Rate PTT % 0 92.59 0 96 0 84.62 0 100 0 90.48 PTTEP NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Employee Training LA10 Average Hours of PTT Hour per 22.07 19.87 38.26 32.72 33.27 21.68 46.73 38.5 55.16 67.92 Training per Year PTTEP Person NA NA NA NA 43.95 80.71 38.28 62.3 58.28 55.09 per Employee Remarks: [1] Restatement PTT is in the process of upgrading human resource database including revision of definitions and scope for employee data. [2] PTT and PTTEP do not have contract employees. [3] PTTEP defines “others” as operation overseas. However, this report encompasses only the businesses located in Thailand. Therefore, PTTEP’s oversea employees are not within the scope of this report. NA Not Available NR Not Relevant 115 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Safety PTT PTTEP PTT Building Terminal Research & Technology Institute Gas Separation Plant (GSP) Gas Transmission (GTM) NGV Service Stations Prakanong Office Rayong Office Oil Terminal Transportation Arthit North Bongkot North Bongkot South Songkla PSB Bangkok Office Head Office Gas Deposit Aviation Lubrication Bongkot PTTEP1 Andaman Nang Nuan Reporting Scope Year Retail S1 Arthit L22/43 Near Miss Employee & Contractor 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Report Employee & Contractor 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee & Contractor 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Occupational Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Illness Rate Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA • • • • NR • • • • • • • Frequency (OIFR) Employee 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • NA NA • • • NA Fatalities Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Employee 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Absentee Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Rate (AR) Contractor NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Employee 2011 Contractor Employee 2010 Contractor Lost Workday Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Case (LWC) Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA • • • • NR • • • • • • • Employee 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Lost Day Rate Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • (LDR) Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA • • • • NR • • • • • • • Employee 2011 Contractor 116 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited PTT PTTEP PTT Building Terminal Research & Technology Institute Gas Separation Plant (GSP) Gas Transmission (GTM) NGV Service Stations Prakanong Office Rayong Office Oil Terminal Transportation Arthit North Bongkot North Bongkot South Songkla PSB Bangkok Office Head Office Gas Deposit Aviation Lubrication Bongkot PTTEP1 Andaman Nang Nuan Reporting Scope Year Retail S1 Arthit L22/43 Employee 2010 Contractor Total Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Recordable Injuries Case Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA • • • • NR • • • • • • • Employee 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Total Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Recordable Injuries Rate Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA • • • • NR • • • • • • • (TRIR) Employee 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Lost Time Injury Employee 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • NR • • • • • • • Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • NR • • • • • • • Employee 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • • NR • • • • Employee 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Contractor • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • • • • • • NR NR • • • NR Remarks: NA Not Available (The data management system is being processed.) NR Not Relevant Absentee Rate (AR) and Lost Day Rate (LDR) from 2012 (besed on GRI 3.1) GRI 3.1, Oil and Gas Sector Supplement 117 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT PTTEP PTT PTTEP PTT PTTEP LA7 Lost Workday Case (LWC) Person Employees 2 2 2 3 12 3 Lost Workday Case (LWC) Person Contractors 6 5 3 3 13 2 Total Recordable Injuries Case Person Employees 2 10 6 12 7 8 Total Recordable Injuries Case Person Contractors 9 24 5 25 19 25 Total Recordable Injuries Rate (TRIR) Person/200,000 hours worked Employees 0.06 0.56 0.16 0.75 0.17 0.26 Total Recordable Injuries Rate (TRIR) Person/200,000 hours worked Contractors 0.51 0.36 0.12 0.28 0.19 0.28 Lost Day Rate (LDR) Lost days/200,000 hours worked Employees 4.52 2.08 Lost Day Rate (LDR) Lost days/200,000 hours worked Contractor 2.90 1.45 Absentee Rate (AR) Employees 2,529.58 1,585.98 Absentee Rate (AR) Contractors Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates (LTIFR) Person/200,000 hours worked Employees 0.06 0.11 0.05 0.19 0.15 0.06 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates (LTIFR) Person/200,000 hours worked Contractors 0.34 0.09 0.07 0.03 0.13 0.02 Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) Person/200,000 hours worked Employees 0 0 0 0.06 0.40 0.07 Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR) Contractors 0 0.02 0 0.03 0 0 Fatalities Person Employees 1 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities Person Contractors 2 1 0 0 0 0 Near Misses Case Employees &Contractors 601 211 590 97 418 85 Remarks: In 2012, recording and reporting requirements for contractors’ hours were expanded to increase the coverage. Working hours of contractors at service stations include only stations in which PTT own and operate (COCO). The information also excludes contractors who are not involved in the main business, such as convenient stores in the stations. Occupational safety and health reports such as TRIR, TROIR, LDR, and absentee rate, are not broken down to Thailand’s sub-regions level, since PTT’s reporting boundary only covers domestic operation. OHS data are also not broken down by gender as PTT equally values the safety of all its employees in accordance with code of ethics, as a result, the reporting are not broken down into categories mentioned earlier. TRIR, LTIFR, and OIFR data from 2010-2011 were modified based on GRI 3.1, Oil and Gas Sector Supplement. Normalization factor unit was changed to unit per 200,000 hours from the originally reported unit per 1,000,000 hours. TRIC, TRIR, OIFR, and LTIF data does not include accidents categorized at the first-aid level LWC data are tracked based on calendar day. Record begins the next day Restatement of PTTEP data in 2010 with regards to LWC, TRIC, TRIR, LTIFR, OIFR, and Near Misses. 118 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Environment PTT PTTEP PTT Building Terminal Research & Technology Institute Rayong Distribution Services Gas Separation Plant (GSP) Gas Transmission (GTM) Prakanong Office NGV Service Stations Head Office Office Gas Terminal Oil Terminal Lubrication Transportation Arthit North Bongkot North Bongkot South Aviation Retail Arthit PTTEP1 Reporting Scope Year S1 Direct GHG 2012 • • • NA • • • • • NA • NR • • NR • • • • 2011 • • • NA • • • • • NA • NR • • • • NR • • 2010 • • • NA • • • • • NA • NR • • • • NR • • Indirect GHG 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • NR NR NR NR • • 2011 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • NR NR NR NR • • 2010 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • NR NR NR NR • • Direct Energy Consumption 2012 • • • NA • • • • • NA • NR • • NA • • • • 2011 • • • NA • • • • • NA • NR • • • • NR • • 2010 • • • NA • • • • • NA • NR • • • • NR • • Electricity Purchased 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • NR NR NR NR • • 2011 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • NR NR NR NR • • 2010 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • NR NR NR NR • • Water Withdrawal 2012 • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA • NR • • • • 2011 • • • • • • NA NA NA NA NA NR NA • NA • NR • • 2010 • • • NA • • NA NA NA NA NA NR NA • NA • NR • • Effluent 2012 NR NR NR NR • NR • • • NA • NR NA NR NR NR NR NR NR 2011 NR NR NR NR • NR NA NA NA NA NA NR NA NR NR NR NR NR NR 2010 NR NR NR NR • NR NA NA NA NA NA NR NA NR NR NR NR NR NR Produced Water 2012 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • 2011 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • • • NR • • 2010 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • NA • NR NA • Waste 2012 • • • • • • • • • NA NA NR NA • NR • • • • 2011 • • • • • • • • • NA NA NR NA • • • NR • • 2010 • • NA NA • • • • • NA NA NR NA • NA • NR • • Oil Spills 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 2012 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • 2011 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • • • NR • • 2010 NR NR NR NR • NA NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NA NA NA NR NA • Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) 2012 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • 2011 NR NR NR NR • NA NR NR NR NR NR NR NR • • • NR • • 2010 NR NR NR NR • NA NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NA NA NA NR NA • Volatile Organic Compounds 2012 NR NR NR NR NA NR NA NA NA NA NA NR NR • NR • • • • (VOCs) 2011 NR NR NR NR NA NR • • NA NA NA NR NR • • • NR • • 2010 NR NR NR NR NA NR NA NA NA NA NA NR NR NA NA NA NR NA • Volume of Methane (CH4) 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • Emitted 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • Direct CH4 Emission 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • • • 2011 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • 2010 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • NR • • Remarks: NA Not Available (The data management system is being processed.) NR Not Relevant Absentee Rate (AR) and Lost Day Rate (LDR) from 2012 (besed on GRI 3.1) GRI 3.1, Oil and Gas Sector Supplement 119 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Water GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN8 Total Water Withdrawal Million m3 67.575 66.169 72.365 • Surface Water Million m3 0.004 0.018 0.009 • Seawater Million m3 0.812 0.808 1.512 • Once Through Cooling Water Million m3 64.664 63.137 68.215 • Water Supply Million m3 1.798 1.901 2.376 • Groundwater Million m3 0.297 0.305 0.252 Total salt/brackish water (Seawater + Once through cooling) Million m3 65.476 63.945 69.727 Water from all other sources (Surface Water + Groundwater) Million m3 0.301 0.323 0.261 EN10 Recycle and Reuse Water Percentage 0.067 0.059 0.039 of water withdrawal Million m3 0.045 0.039 0.029 EN8 Water intensity Million m3/mboe 0.217 0.191 0.160 Remarks: Total water withdrawal quantity in 2012 increased due to: » Increase sea water level due to the expansion of recording and reporting boundary to include the South Bongkot project which started commissioning its production and transmission of gas and condensate in March 2012; as well as the offshore gas transmission pipeline. » Once Through Cooling Water increased due to the maintenance of Sea water filter system at the Arthit project in early 2012 which increased the amount of sea water passing through the Once Through Cooling system. » Increse water supply due to the expansion of recording and reporting boundary to include oil terminal, gas terminal, aviation depot and lubricant operations. » 2010 and 2011 data on recycle & reuse water as percentage of water withdrawal were adjusted to be more accurate. 120 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Effluent GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN21 Total Water Discharge Million m3 0.216 0.427 0.832 OG5 Produced Water Million m3 4.444 6.254 5.560 Total volume and percentage of produced water • Treatment & discharge overboard Million m3 0 0 0 % 0 0 0 • Re-injected Million m3 4.444 6.254 5.560 % 100.000 100.000 100.000 • Others Million m3 0 0 0 % 0 0 0 Total volume of hydrocarbon discharged Million m3 no discharged produced water (Re-inject 100%) within produced water. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Ton 7.775 16.275 12.610 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Ton 1.022 1.989 1.318 Remarks: Total water discharge in 2012 increased due to: » Expansion of recording and reporting boundary to include oil terminal, gas terminal, aviation depot and lubricant operations. » Increased waste water treatment capacity at the Rayong Gas Separation Plant to support schedule maintenance activity. Produced water quantity in 2012 decreased because the Arthit North project shutdown its production in November 2011. Level of COD and BOD loading in 2012 decrease because the waste water system at the Rayong Gas Separation Plant operated at full capacity. COD and BOD level in water discharged from the plant in previous years were below legal limits. COD and BOD loadings per product volume were comparable to that of 2011. 121 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Waste GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN22 Waste Disposal Ton 8,285.68 11,110.97 7,618.37 Total Hazardous Waste Disposal Ton 7,782.58 10,380.80 5,860.70 • Landfill Ton 806.22 1,000.37 1,563.50 • Reuse Ton 55.05 56.17 72.41 • Recycle Ton 404.56 3,051.22 58.82 • Recover Ton 6,163.02 5,751.54 3,346.95 • Other Ton 353.73 521.51 819.03 Total Non-Hazardous Waste Disposal Ton 503.10 730.17 1,757.66 • Landfill Ton 229.49 516.25 700.25 • Reuse Ton 5.18 5.01 2.07 • Recycle Ton 107.90 208.45 798.45 • Recover Ton 0.00 0.00 0.00 • Other Ton 160.53 0.46 256.89 Waste from non-routine operation Ton NA NA NA (e.g. construction waste, spill clean up waste) OG7 Drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) Ton 16,796.00 16,999.00 31,946.00 Remarks: In 2012, Hazardous Waste Disposal decreased because the Rayong Gas Separation Plant was able to reduce the volume of Triethylene Glycol (TEG) waste water. The waste water is recirculated into waste water treatment system resulting in a decrease of approximately 120 cubic meter of TEG waste water discharged per week. Non-Hazardous Waste Disposal increased due to: » Expansion of recording and reporting boundary to include oil terminal, gas terminal, aviation depot and lubricant operations. » Changes of resin in neutralize plant at the Rayong Gas Separation Plant to support schedule maintenance activity. Waste from non-routine operation (e.g. construction waste, spill clean-up waste) data is not available because the reporting and recording system for the data is being modified. Drilling waste data (drill mud and cutting) was from the S1 project. System to collect drilling waste quantity from other projects are under-going maintenance and upgrade. Drilling waste quantity increased in 2012 due to increase activities at the S1 project. Quantities of recovery Hazardous Waste Disposal in 2011 and 2012 shifted because data from the S1 project were reported separately from the total Recover Hazardous Waste Disposal data. This change was made to be in compliance with GRI OG7 indicator. Quantities of Hazardous Waste Disposal in 2011 shifted due to the information improvement. Threshold of Hazardous Waste is not indicated as all operation sites must report the total quantity of hazardous waste disposed of. 122 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Spill GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN23 Spill From PTT Operational Boundary • Number of Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 17 12 12 • Volume of Hydrocarbon Spills m3 21.71 0.43 1.71 • Number of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 1 0 0 • Volume of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills m3 1.00E-06 0.00 0.00 From 3 party (Transportation) rd • Number of Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 0 2 8 • Volume of Hydrocarbon Spills m 3 0.00 11.71 63.90 • Number of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 0 0 0 • Volume of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills m 3 0.00 0.00 0.00 Significant Spill (Volume ≥ 100 barrel) From PTT Operational Boundary • Number of Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 0 0 0 • Volume of Hydrocarbon Spills m 3 0.00 0.00 0.00 • Number of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 0 0 0 • Volume of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills m 3 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 3rd party (Transportation) • Number of Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 2 3 1 • Volume of Hydrocarbon Spills m3 76.00 73.00 41.00 • Number of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills Number of Spills 0 0 0 • Volume of Non-Hydrocarbon Spills m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 Remarks: With regards to oil spill in 2012, PTT and PTTEP managed oil spills by using spill operating procedures to control the spills in the shortest time possible and to minimize the environmental impacts. For example, booms and scoops are used to minimize the oil spill effects. 123 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Emission GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN20 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Ton NA 12,466.68 15,264.42 VOCs intensity Ton/Million Barrel 58.15 161.64 Oil Equivalent Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Ton 2,294.80 9,375.54 10,600.77 NOx intensity Ton/Million Barrel 6.42 26.38 23.02 Oil Equivalent Sulphur Oxides (SOx) Ton 67.74 589.85 646.22 SOx intensity Ton/Million Barrel 0.19 1.69 1.40 Oil Equivalent Remarks: Emission increased in 2012 due to: » Expansion of recording and reporting boundary to include Great Bongkot South project which began production testing and transporting natural gas and condensate in March 2012. NOx and SOx emission levels are below legal limits. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) in 2011 were adjusted to be more accurate. 124 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GHG Emission GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN16 Total GHG emissions Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 9,494,971 12,924,125 15,764,713 GHG Scope 1 Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 9,303,076 12,631,967 15,378,674 GHG Scope 2 Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 191,895 292,158 386,039 GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT Group PTT Group PTT Group EN 16 GHG Intensity Oil and gas Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents/ NA NA 46,940 production Million Barrel Oil Equivalent GHG Intensity Refinery Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents/ NA NA 0.001406 Tonnes refinery throughput GHG Intensity Petrochemical Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents/ NA NA 0.5847 Tonnes petrochemical throughput GHG Scope 1 Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 22,638,896 25,275,008 29,331,784 PTT Operational Control GHG Scope 1 Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 14,920,603 18,368,841 20,989,312 PTT Equity Share GHG Scope 2 Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 1,156,640 937,023 1,582,794 PTT Operational Control GHG Scope 2 Metric tonnes CO2 equivalents 636,559 615,460 990,347 PTT Equity Share Remarks: The Organizational boundary of PTT based on Operational Control approach is complied with PTT Group SSHE Governance Policy. The Organizational boundary of PTT based on Equity Share approach includes every domestic companies that PTT directly owns more than 20% shares or indirectly own up to 100% share. The percentage of shareholding was at 31st December for each calendar year. PTT Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting Standard determined DeMinimis for the activities that have total GHG emission less than 5% of the company’s emission. In 2012, PTT has revised and improved GHG accounting system in order to make GHG intensity reportable. Increase in 2012’s GHG emission was due an addition of new assets/plants from subsidiaries, such as Greater Bongkot South from PTTEP, or PDH plant from HMC Polymer Co., Ltd., as well as emission from PTT-owned-dealer-operated and Joint Venture service stations. GHG intensity of Refinery and Petrochemical plants of IRPC is excluded from the reporting as it is currently revising the reallocation method. It is expected to be included in the next year’s publication. If significant data changes occur after publication, they will be updated in the next year’s publication. 125 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Direct Energy Consumption GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN3 Total Direct Energy Consumption GJ 49,555,573 62,976,254 62,080,594 MWh 13,765,437 17,493,404 17,244,609 GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT Group PTT Group PTT Group EN3 Total Direct Energy Consumption : GJ NA NA 290,426,015 PTT Operational Control Direct Energy intensity: Oil and Gas Production GJ/mboe NA NA 215,700 Direct Energy Intensity: Refinery GJ/tonnes NA NA 0.01871 throughput Direct Energy Intensity: Petrochemical GJ/tonnes NA NA 5.98 throughput Remarks: Fuel oil, recycled by-product, and coke are not used by PTT and PTTEP. In 2012, PTT successfully integrated energy reporting system with GHG reporting tools. Therefore, energy consumption reported in energy reporting system similar to GHG inventory is reportable. Direct energy consumption of 2010 and 2011 utilized different approach comparing to 2012. Therefore, PTT is undergoing the recalculation of past years’ data and is expecting to report in the next year’s publication. Intensity of Refinery and Petrochemical follows GHG intensity reporting. Energy intensity of Refinery and Petrochemical plants of IRPC is excluded from the reporting as it is currently revising the reallocation method. It is expected to be included in the next year’s publication If significant data changes occur after publication, they will be updated in the next year’s publication. Revising the direct energy consumption in 2010, to be more accurate. 126 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Indirect Energy Consumption GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN4 Total Indirect Energy Consumption GJ 354,038 889,451 2,581,199 MWh 98,344 247,070 717,000 Electricity Purchased GJ 354,038 889,451 2,581,199 MWh 98,344 247,070 717,000 GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT Group PTT Group PTT Group EN4 Total Indirect Energy Consumption : GJ NA NA 12,749,508 PTT Operational Control Remarks: Steam is not used by PTT and PTTEP In 2012, PTT successfully integrated energy reporting system with GHG reporting tools, so that from 2012, energy consumption reported in energy reporting system similar to GHG inventory is reportable. Significant increase of indirect energy consumption was due to PTT NGV business is included into the boundary. PTT is undergoing the recalculation of past years’ data and is expecting to report in the next year’s publication. If significant data changes occur after publication, they will be updated in the next year’s publication. PTT is developing a constructed system to gather all information of energy saving activities conducted under effective operational control. The first report is due within the next annual cycle. Methane (CH4) Emitted and CH4 Emission GRI Required Data Unit 2010 2011 2012 PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP PTT and PTTEP EN20 Volume of Methane Emitted (leakage, Ton of Methane NA 25,521.87 NA venting, and flaring) Cubic meters (m ) 3 NA NA 34,197,429.73 Direct CH4 Emissions (extracted from GHG) Ton NA 25,546.82 23,122.48 Remarks: In 2011, PTT began to account accidental release of methane by mathematical means and will continue to improve GHG inventory, monitoring, continuous reporting, as well as prevention measures. The volume of methane emitted includes leakage (fugitive), venting from CO2 separation process, and flaring. The direct CH4 emissions include those from aforementioned sources as well as direct CH4 emitted from combustion sources. In 2012, the reporting unit of Methane has been changed from ‘Ton of Methane’ to ‘Cubic Meter (m3)’ to follow GRI 3.1 127 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Awards and Recognition PTT Public Company Limited has been ranked by 44 institutions and bestowed 89 awards in 2012. Of which are 57 national awards from 32 institutions, and 32 international awards from 12 institutions. Major awards in sustainability are as follow. 3. Two State-Owned Enterprise 6. The Superbrands Thailand National Awards Awards 2012 Award 2011 • The Annual Excellent State-Owned at the Tribute Event, Trophy Presentation 1. The HM the King National Enterprise that PTT received for the Ceremony to Superbrands 2011. Innovation Award under the fourth consecutive year (2009-2012) given by Superbrands category Outstanding • The Innovation Award that PTT received Innovation in Economics for the third consecutive year 7. Certificate for Carbon (2010-2012) Footprint of Product given by the National Innovation Agency for PTT Electromagnetic Induction Project given by the Ministry of Finance for PTT lubricant: on the occasion of the 2012 National PTT Performa Super Innovation Day. 4. SET Awards 2012 Synthetic API-SN OW-30 • The Best Corporate Social Responsibility (liter-size and four-liter-size) 2. The HRH Princess Maha Award for the second consecutive year • The first in Asia, Product Carbon Chakri Sirindhorn Thailand (2011-2012) Footprint accreditation Corporate Excellence Awards given by the Stock Exchange of Thailand by the Thailand Greenhouse Gas 2011 (SET) and the Money and Banking Magazine Management Organization (Public Two Excellence Awards for Organization) • Leadership Excellence 5. The Hall of Fame 2010/2011 • Financial Management Excellence Board of the Year Award Three Runner-Ups Awards for The Hall of Fame Board of the Year • Innovation Excellence Announcement Project 2010/2011 which PTT • Human Resource Management has received for the second time (2009/2010 Excellence and 2010/2011) • Corporate Social Responsibility Excellence the award was collaboration between the Thai Institute of Directors, the Stock given by Thailand Management Exchange of Thailand (SET), the Board of Association in collaboration with Sasin Trade, the Federation of Thai Industries, the Graduate Institute of Business Thai Bankers Association, the Thai Listed Administration of Chulalongkorn University Companies Association and Federation of Thai Capital Market Organizations. 128 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited International Awards 1. Six Asian Excellence 3. The Asset’s Platinum Award 6. Seven Thailand’s Best Recognition Awards 2012 for All-Round Excellence Company Awards in the following categories; Making PTT Public Company Limited • Best CEO Award • Asia’s Best CEO Award; the platinum awardee for the third • Best CFO Award • Asia’s Best CFO Award; consecutive year (2010-2012). • Best Managed Company Award • Best Investor Relations Professional: given by the Asset Magazine • Best Corporate Governance Award Thailand Award; • Best Corporate Social Responsibility • Best Investor Relations Website/ 4. Listed on the Dow Jones Award Promotion Award; Sustainability World Index • Best Investor Relations Award • Best Investor Relations Companies: (DJSI World) among the • Most Committed to a Strong Dividend Thailand Award; and world’s top 10 percentile in Policy Award • Best Environmental Responsibility the Oil and Gas Producers Award (OIX) Sector based on given by FinanceAsia Magazine given by the Corporate Governance Asia economic, social and Magazine for the second consecutive environmental performance year (2011-2012) assessed by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 2. Corporate Governance Asia Recognition Awards 2012 5. Recognized in The Global • The Asian Corporate Director Green Ranking List 2011 Recognition Award 2012 PTT ranked the 16th among 37 • The Corporate Governance Asia companies in the Energy Sector and the Recognition Award 2012 384th among 500 companies worldwide given by the Corporate Governance Asia and being the one and only Thai Magazine company in this list. by the Newsweek Magazine. Further details of awards and recognitions are available in the 2012 Annual Report. 129 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment 1.1 CEO statement 3 Statement of Continuing Support 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3, 7 8 2. Organizational Profile Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 9 15 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 9 15 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 PTT is a State Enterprise which is listed in th Stock Exchange of Thailand. For more information, please visit our website: www.pttplc.com/TH/About/pages/ Background.aspx 2.7 Markets served 9 15 2.8 Scale of the company 4 2.9 Significant changes (size/structure/ownership) 9 15 during the reporting period 2.10 Awards 127 128 3. Report Parameters Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment 3.1 Reporting period 16 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 16 3.3 Reporting cycle 16 Corporate Sustainability reporting cycle is annually. To download the current and previous editions of our report, please visit our website: www.pttplc.com/th/Mediacenter/Pages/Sustainability-Report.aspx 3.4 Contact point 19 3.5 Process for defining report content 17 18 3.6 Boundary of the report 19 3.7 Limitations on the scope/boundary of the report 19 3.8 Basis for reporting on other partners 19 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 16 calculations 3.10 Re-statements 111 126 3.11 Significant changes (scope/boundary/measurement 19 method) from previous reporting periods 3.12 GRI content index 129 134 3.13 External assurance policy and practice 135 130 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment 4.1 Governance structure 21 1 10 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body 21 22 is also an executive officer 4.3 Number and gender of board members that are 22 For more information about our governance, independent and non-executive please visit our website: • Organization structure: www.pttplc.com/ th/About/Organization/Pages/OrganizationChart.aspx • Board of directors: www.pttplc.com/th/ About/Organization/Pages/PTT-committee. aspx • Executives: www.pttplc.com/th/About/ Organization/Pages/executive.aspx • Annual Report 2012: www.pttplc.com/th/ Media-Center/Pages/Annual-Report.aspx • CG Handbook page 23 ‘Composition, Qualification and Appointment of the Board’ 4.4 Mechanisms for providing recommendations 45 1 10 4.5 Linkage between compensation of seniors and 24 25 executives and company’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of • CG Handbook page 37 ‘Ethics for interest are avoided Stakeholdings and Conflicts of Interest’ • CG Handbook page 61 ‘PTT’s Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form’ 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, 22 and expertise of the highest governance body 4.8 Developed statements of mission or values, 6-7 codes of conduct and principles 4.9 Procedures overseeing organization’s identification 21, 26, and management of economic, environmental 29 and social performance 4.10 Evaluating highest governance effectiveness 24 25 4.11 Precautionary 33 36 7 4.12 Principles or external initiatives on economic, 33, 82 1 10 environmental and social aspects 4.13 Memberships in associations and national/ 3, 18 PTT is a member in various associations international advocacy organizations and national/international sustainability organizations such as TBCSD, WBCSD, CSR Club, CSR-DIW Network, PTIT, and ASCOPE. 4.14COMM Stakeholder groups 45 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 44 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 45 4.17COMM Stakeholders’ topics and concerns 45 5. Disclosures on Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach Economic 9 15, 1, 4, 6, 7 For more information, please refer to our 30, 100 Annual Report. EC1COMM Direct economic value generated and distributed 100, 111 For full Financial Statement, please visit our website: www.pttplc.com/TH/ir/index.aspx? EC2COMM Implications of climate change 36, 7 62 63 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 73 EC4 Financial assistance 111 131 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment EC5 Range of ratio of standard entry level wage by 73 1 gender compared to minimum local wage EC6COMM Locally based suppliers 53 EC7COMM Local hiring 6 PTT defines ‘local’ as country where we operate. Currently, the reporting scope in 2012 covers only operations in Thailand and all of employees are Thai. EC8COMM Indirect economic impact 100 110 EC9COMM Describe significant indirect economic impacts 100 110 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves 9 and production Environment Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach Environment 30 31 7, 8, 9 81 82 EN1COMM Materials used by weight or volume 8 Performance indicator is not material. Since with energy as the dominant input and output in our business, it is difficult to see the value of reporting on this indicator for our sector. EN2COMM Percentage of recycled materials used 8, 9 Performance indicator is not material. Since with energy as the dominant input and output in our business, it is difficult to see the value of reporting on this indicator for our sector. EN3 Direct energy consumption 118, 125 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 118, 126 8 OG2 Renewable energy investment 11, 57 OG3 Renewable energy generation 57 EN8COMM Water withdrawal 118 119 8 EN9COMM Water sources affected by water withdrawal 70 8 EN10 Water recycled and reused 118 119 8, 9 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, 98 99 8 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity 98 99 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 98 99 8 EN14COMM Strategies and plans for managing impacts 98 99 8 on biodiversity OG4 Operating sites with biodiversity risk assessment 94, 98 99 EN15 IUCN Red List species 99 8 EN16COMM Direct and indirect GHG 66, 89, 8 118, 124 EN17COMM Other relevant indirect GHG 67 8 EN18COMM Initiative to reduce GHG 64, 85 7, 8, 9 EN19 Emission of ODS 8 PTT is in the process of phasing the ozone-depleting substances (ODS) by substituting ODS with non-ODS refrigerants in which we hope to complete the phase-out process in the near future. EN20COMM NOx, SOx, and other emissions 118, 123 8 EN21 Water discharge 118, 120 8 Wastewater treatment process of PTT and PTTEP are effectively designed, operated and monitoring to assure qualities of treated wastewater are incompliance with relevant standards, prior to discharging to the industrial estate receiving canal and to the sea. EN22COMM Waste 118, 121 8 132 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment OG5 Volume of formation or produced water 118, 120 EN23COMM Spills 118, 122 8 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon PTT learned about the importance of reporting volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon and is working with the calculation methodology so that it can be quantified and reported from FY2013. OG7 Amount of drilling waste 118, 121 EN26COMM Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 56 57 7, 8, 9 products and services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 8, 9 Reporting of percentage of packaging materials that are reclaimed by category materials is not material. Main product is energy which no packaging is used. OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulfur content in fuels 57 EN28 Environmental fines and sanctions 8 No significant fine and non-monetary sanction for non-compliance with environmental law and regulations in 2012. Labor Practice and Decent Work Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach – Labor 30, 78 1, 3, 6 Practice LA1 Total workforce 112 LA2 Rate of new employee hires and employee turnover 112 113 6 LA3 Benefits for employees 73 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining 79 1, 3 agreements LA5 Notice period regarding operational changes 3 Reporting on the minimum notice period regarding significant operational changes is not material. PTT keeps employees well informed of operational changes through a variety of channels. Business and functional specific news is communicated through intranet that can be accessed by any employee in Thai language. In addition, leaders consistently cascade communications through the organization to employees. These communications occur in a time frame that is both timely and effective and does not cause conflict with the potential insider trading. While there is no minimum time frame for notifying our employees of significant operational changes, PTT makes every effort to give a reasonable amount of notice to all employees in the event of a significant change. LA7COMM Rates of injury, occupational diseases, 116 117 1 lost days, absenteeism, fatality LA8 Training regarding serious diseases 74 1 LA10 Training Hours 77, 114 LA11 Programs for skills management 73 and lifelong learning LA12 Employee performance review 74 LA13 Composition of governance bodies 42, 112 1, 6 PTT report diversity data on the composition and breakdown of employees of the board of directors. PTT also report diversity data on employees by gender and age group. However data on minority employees (i.e. disabled employees) are not aggregated at group level as this depends on individual wish for declaration. 133 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment LA14 Basic salary and remuneration 73 1, 6 LA15 Return to work after parental leave 114 Human Rights Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach – Human Rights 30, 40 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 HR1 Significant investment agreements and contracts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 All business partners and contractors undergone human rights screening (100 percent) shall comply with the Thai labour law. HR2 Significant suppliers and contractors undergone 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 All business partners and contractors human rights screening (100 percent) shall comply with the Thai labour law. HR3 Employee training concerning aspects of human rights 41 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 HR4 Non-discrimination 39 1, 2, 6 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 43, 51 1, 2, 3 This year there was on case of child labor, forced labor, employee dismissal or obstruction against the assembling of employees for negotiation purpose. HR6 Child labor 43, 51 1, 2, 5 This year there was on case of child labor, forced labor, employee dismissal or obstruction against the assembling of employees for negotiation purpose. HR7 Forced and compulsory labor 43, 51 1, 2, 4 This year there was on case of child labor, forced labor, employee dismissal or obstruction against the assembling of employees for negotiation purpose. HR8COMM Security practices 87 1, 2 HR9COMM Violation involving rights of indigenous people 1, 2 Reporting on this indicator is not applicable. PTT does not have any operation located in or near the vicinity of indigenous communities. PTT; however, fully supports and respects the rights of communities in accordance with law. PTT Group CSR Framework provides the frame PTT human rights implementation. OG9 Operations where indigenous communities Reporting on this indicator is not applicable. are present or affected by activities PTT does not have any operation located in or near the vicinity of indigenous communities. PTT; however, fully supports and respects the rights of communities in accordance with law. PTT Group CSR Framework provides the frame PTT human rights implementation. HR11 Grievances related to human rights 43, 97 Society Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach Society 30, 39, 10 93 SO1 Impacts of operations on communities 94 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 39 10 SO3 Anti-corruption training 38 10 SO4 Response to corruption incidents 39 10 SO5COMM Participation in public policy development and lobbying 40, 61 1 10 SO6 Political contribution 10 Political contribution is prohibited. CG Handbook page 36 ‘3.2 Ethics for Political Support 134 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited SO7 Actions for anti-competitive behavior 39 Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment SO8COMM Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 39 with laws SO9COMM Operations with potential/actual impacts 94 SO10COMM Preventions and mitigations measures 94 OG10 Number and description of significant disputes Reporting on this indicator is not applicable. with local communities and indigenous peoples PTT does not have any operation located in or near the vicinity of indigenous communities. PTT; however, fully supports and respects the rights of communities in accordance with law. PTT Group CSR Framework provides the frame PTT human rights implementation. OG11 Numbers of sites that have been decommissioned and No decommissioning. sites that is in the process of being decommissioned OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, None of our projects have required the number of households resettled in each and relocation. how their livelihoods were affected in the process OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 87 Product Stewardship Profile Description Page UNGC Principle Comment DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach Product 30 1, 8 Responsibility PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services 54 1 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning health 54 1 and safety impacts of products PR3 Product information requirements 55 8 All products and services (100 percent) shall comply with the PTT labelling procedures which are developed in accordance with the product information laws. PR4 Incidents of non-compliance concerning products 59 8 No significant fine and non-monetary and service information and labeling sanction for non-compliance with laws, regulations and voluntary codes concerning products and service information and labeling. PR5 Customer satisfaction 59 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws related to marketing 54 No significant fine and non-monetary sanction communications for non-compliance with laws, regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship in 2012 PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 54 No significant fine and non-monetary sanction concerning marketing communications for non-compliance with laws and regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship in 2012 PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 54 1 No substantiated complaint regarding breach and losses of customer data of customer privacy and losses of customer data in 2012 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and 54 No significant fine and non-monetary sanction regulations concerning the provision for non-compliance with laws and regulations and use of products and services concerning the provision and use of products and services in 2012 OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased 57 meeting sustainability criteria Orange text means core indicators Subscript COMM means indicators with added commentary in GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement 135 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 PTT Public Company Limited Independent Assurance Report PTT Public Company Limited 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Rd., Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900, Thailand Tel. 66 (0) 2537-2000 www.pttplc.com
