Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer Period covered From Nov-2012 to Nov-2013 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Mammut A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During 2013, we have been in regular dialogue with our suppliers and our own staff communicating Mammut’s principles covering both social and environmental aspects of our operations. We have successfully applied and received a licence for the European Ecolabel the “Flower” on a range of our products. The European Ecolabel is an ISO type I Ecolabel and as such it is a credible Ecolabel that stipulates criteria through the life cycle of the textile products. We therefore see the European Ecolabel as an important scheme and an integral part of our operations. In the coming year we will continue to work with our supply chain and encourage our suppliers to support and join Global Compact as well as the European Ecolabel. Locally, Mammut is engaged in a CSR network that is organised by the Danish fashion and textile association, where we and other members meet periodically to discuss CSR issues. Sincerely yours Michael Graversen Managing Director Human Rights and anti corruption Policy and goals Mammut A/S has a policy that compliance with the universal declaration of human rights is a must throughout all of our operations and corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery is not tolerated. We will not trade with suppliers that break the corruption principles and with any suppliers that do not comply with the universal declaration of human rights. Assessment and Implementation We assess our suppliers through a questionnaire regarding our policy on human rights which is sent to them and it must be filled in and signed. We also visit our suppliers periodically to assess the conditions first hand. We evaluate the supplier’s situation regarding human rights and revert with input in any areas that we deem to be unacceptable. We also inform our suppliers of the 30 articles included in the universal declaration of human rights. Employees and suppliers are informed of the importance of Mammut’s stand on anti corruption. Moreover all elements of Mammut’s activities are completely transparent which reduces the element of corruption greatly. At Mammut, we inform our employees of their rights and have a procedure in place to handle any grievances and or input. Measurement of outcomes At our internal operations, we continue to hold a short meeting every morning where employees have the opportunity to discuss all relevant topics freely as well as a longer meeting once a week consisting of management and employees. Evaluation of our suppliers has shown that they and their sub suppliers uphold the universal declaration of human rights. Mammut A/S adheres to the anti corruption principles and is kept up to date with developments through the CSR network participation and newsletters. Our evaluation has shown that our suppliers and sub suppliers uphold anti corruption principles. Labour Policy and goals Our goal is to provide a work environment and work conditions, which take into account both the physical psychological needs of for our employees. We expect that our suppliers work with labour issues as specified in our code of conduct. We expect as a minimum that they uphold the country’s rules and legislation covering labour issues. Assessment and Implementation Mammut’s work environment group assesses the work environment and prepares both an annual report and submits a compulsory report (APV) to the Labour inspectorate. This year we started a work environment assessment (APV) in our sewing facility in Poland and we will take actions if and where they are needed when the final analysis report is finished Upgrading of Mammuts facilities and working conditions is a continuous task and we work with any work issues as needed and as pointed out by our work environment group. Workers are encouraged to discuss any work conditions topics at the daily/weekly meetings and their input is noted and taken into consideration in future planning. A questionnaire that includes Mammut’s labour requirements is sent to the suppliers and it must be filled in and signed. We also visit our suppliers periodically to assess the working conditions first hand. Measurement of outcomes We have introduced many different measures throughout our offices and storage facilities, such ergonomic desks and chairs, machines for lifting, flexible time schedules and a modern canteen. Work environment assessment and evaluation in our facility in Poland Our evaluation has shown that our suppliers and sub suppliers uphold or in many cases, go beyond the country’s labour legislation. Environment Policy and goals Our overall policy is to reduce environmental damage throughout the life of our products and our operations. This includes our internal operations which are administrative and our sewing facilities as well as our supply chain which includes the production of raw materials and fabrics. It is our ultimate goal to finally end up with suppliers that fulfil the criteria of the EU Ecolabel. It is also our goal to reduce energy, waste and optimise our transport Assessment and Implementation Assessment is carried out both through our environmental requirements and the EU Ecolabel criteria as we progress with certifying our products. During 2013, Mammut started an EU Ecolabel application for one of their qualities and we are continuously monitoring the market for better energy and waste solutions. A questionnaire is sent to the suppliers regarding our environmental requirements and it must be filled in and signed. We also visit our suppliers periodically to assess the conditions first hand and we engage into close dialogue and inform them about the benefits of the EU Ecolabel, EU and Danish legislation regarding prohibited substances, heavy metals and so on. We started a changing our lighting with LED tubes and spots. We monitor the market for products that can save energy, reduce waste through recycling and follow projects and results on recycling of uniforms. Measurement of outcomes Mammut has successfully applied and received an EU Ecolabel licence for another of their qualities (A polyester/cotton blend). The CO2 saved on lighting will be 25 tons when all lighting is eventually changed over to LED. We have contracted an environmental manager to analyse, evaluate products and processes that can be adapted to our business to reduce environmental impacts. Our environmental manager works with our suppliers for the same purpose. Presently, aA project has just been completed by Force technology concerning the possibilities in recycling of clothing and we are in the process of evaluating at the results to see if there any possibilities relevant to our business A close dialogue with one of our fabric suppliers has lead to a decision by that supplier, to apply for the EU Ecolabel on all their qualities. We see this as a major breakthrough on the road to achieving our goals.
