sustainability report 2012 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 p. B The cover: The fisherman represents the thousands of people within our supply chains in all corners of the world whose hard work and commitment in the procurement and production of goods ensure our customers ­receive products of reliable quality and safety. As far as we are concerned, handling raw materials and goods responsibly and valuing the services rendered by each and every individual are part and parcel of sustainable procurement. p. 1  Letter from the Management Board p. 34 Employees and social affairs p. 3  Global challenges – p. 35 Selected measures and projects corporate engagement p. 38 Social policies p. 13 The Management Board of METRO AG and stakeholder dialogue p. 14 Review p. 39 Selected measures and projects p. 16 Our attitude p. 42 Our results p. 17 METRO GROUP’s structure p. 43 Key performance indicators p. 18 Our sustainability vision p. 45 Company p. 20 Our sustainability management p. 46 Supply chain and products p. 22 Five entrepreneurs – one goal p. 46 Energy and resource management p. 24  Responsible corporate governance p. 51 Employees and social affairs p. 56 Social policies and stakeholder dialogue p. 25 Our approach p. 57 METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint p. 59 Goals p. 26 Supply chain and products p. 67  N Global Compact – Communication on U p. 27 Selected measures and projects Progress 2012 p. 30 Energy and resource management p. 71 GRI G3 Content Index p. 31 Selected measures and projects p. 78 Imprint This document represents METRO GROUP’s publication of its full Sustainability Report 2012, produced on the basis of the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3). This version contains all key performance indicators and goals reported on by the Company as well as the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 and the GRI Content Index. An abbreviated version of the METRO GROUP Sustainability Report 2012 is also available in print. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Letter from the Management Board p. 1 Dear Readers, In the financial year 2012, METRO GROUP has had to stand its ground in a dynamic environment marked by various macroeconomic and social challenges. The challenging situation throughout the industry has strengthened our determination to press ahead with the transformation of METRO GROUP into a consistently customer-oriented and forwardlooking retail and wholesale company. In the process, we have yet again firmly acknowledged the import­ The clearer we make the aims ance of sustainability for our business. We ­regard it of our activities, the easier it is crucial for our long-term business success that we link ­economic aspects with sustainable en­viron­ to achieve change. mental and social requirements. As far as our day-today business activities are concerned, this means that when we consider the global challenges we face, we need to identify the economic parameters alongside the social and environmental factors that are relevant to our business. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Letter from the Management Board p. 2 The clearer we make the aims of our activities, the easier it is to achieve change. With this in mind, we have developed a binding Group-wide sustainability vision that provides managers and employees with a framework and code of conduct for implementing our sustainability strategy. In this report on METRO GROUP’s commitment to sustainability, we document how we work together with our sales lines to enhance the quality of life of our customers, employees and people Our sustainability vision who work for us while protecting the environment and the provides managers and employees with a framework and code society we live in. At the same time, the report fulfils our commitment to the UN Global Compact to document our progress in complying with its 10 principles. The report also of conduct for implementing our complies for the first time this year with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative. Its contents reflect the sussustainability strategy. tainability issues that METRO GROUP con­siders to be of major importance. Key performance indicators and goals show what we have accomplished so far and what we are looking to achieve in the future: it is by these standards that we allow ourselves to be measured. We therefore invite you to judge our achievements in the area of sustainability for yourselves and engage in a productive dialogue with us. For metro group, our sales lines and our colleagues düsseldorf, march 2013 Olaf Koch Mark Frese Heiko Hutmacher Frans W. H. Muller Chairman of the Chief Financial Chief Human Member of the Management Board of Officer Resources Officer Management Board METRO AG Our international success has a strong base 278,811 dedicated employees at more than 2,200 locations in 32 countries. Strong sales brands with a comprehensive service spectrum and convincing concepts: wholesale stores, hypermarkets, consumer electronics stores, online stores, department stores and real estate management. This is the diversity of METRO GROUP. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 G lobal challenges – Corporate engagement p. 3 Focused on Global challenges Safeguarding Conserving food supplies resources Demographic change Sustainable consumption METRO GROUP faces a wide range of demands from customers, employees, investors and partners. They expect us to run a profitable business whilst also acting in a manner that is socially and environmentally sound. They also want us to offer them a wide range of products and services with reliable safety and quality. We can only satisfy these demands if we continue to follow our path towards being a sustainable company. For us this means above all contributing to finding solutions to current global challenges as part of our core business. On the following pages, we provide examples of how we put this pledge into practice. Global challenges: Safeguarding food supplies »we should be able to take a balanced meal for granted. however, it’s not something everyone can afford.« »The world will need 70 percent more food to meet its coming food security needs for the earth’s projected 9 billion people by 2050 according to the United Nations food and Agriculture Organization. But the resources needed to create that additional food are increasingly scarce or involve developing lands that have irreplaceable natural value, like rainforests. More frequent droughts due to climate change and the transfer of arable lands from agriculture to biofuels will also reduce the land available to grow crops and graze livestock. Meanwhile, the poorest billion people on earth already depend on fish as their primary source of animal protein. fish have provided acceptable and often inexpensive sustenance for humanity since the dawn of time. We need to bring Andrew Sharpless wild fish stocks back from the brink of collapse, so that they may continue to serve as the world’s major source of protein consumption for years to come.« Andrew Sharpless Chief Executive Officer of Oceana The growing global population is demanding ever more food and other consumer goods. At the same time it is becoming harder to manufacture the corresponding range of products due to the decline in natural resources. Our commitment to securing food supplies starts with our suppliers: in a nutshell, we need to improve yields per unit area and increase the share of marketable goods without plundering natural resources. Therefore, we help producers improve their own processes. At the next stage of the supply chain we invest in efficient transport, packaging and merchandise management systems to maintain the quality of the food for as long as possible. We donate products that are about to reach their best before date and are still edible to food banks. We also run campaigns to sensitise our customers to handling food responsibly to prevent waste from being produced in the first place. Management Board of METRO AG »sometimes food gets left on the shelf and then can’t be sold any more – even if there’s absolutely nothing wrong with the products. i am happy to make sure that it doesn’t go to waste.« The food bank network “Bundesverband deutsche Tafel e. v.” collects perfectly good, surplus food and distributes it to those in need. METRO GROUP has been supporting the association for 6 years as a main sponsor – both financially and through food donations. At the international level, our sales line METRO Cash & Carry is also committed to food banks. By distributing food to charitable initiatives, we help people in need and at the same time prevent food from being wasted. Global challenges: Conser ving resources »taking a little energy on board can be so simple. but that shouldn’t be at the expense of the environment and the climate.« »Rapid increases in population, combined with a corresponding expansion of production and consumption patterns, are pushing our planet’s natural carrying capacity to its limits. An average of 10 tonnes of material is consumed globally per capita every year, global material consumption will nearly triple in the next 30 years and industrial activity already consumes one-third of the world’s total delivered energy. Additionally, the release of toxic substances into the air and water by industrial activity is causing heightened levels of pollution and climaterelated catastrophes in many regions of the world. Seen in this light, it is imperative that economic growth be decoupled from both unsustainable resource usage and negative environmental impacts. Transformative partnerships between the public and private sectors are needed now more than ever to scale up and Kandeh K. Yumkella mainstream more sustainable modes of production into business operations worldwide.« Kandeh K. Yumkella director-General of the United Nations Industrial development Organization (UNIdO) As a retail and wholesale company we are reliant on the long-term availability of resources. They are components of our products and they drive our business in the form of energy. Along the supply chain there are 4 core areas in which our responsible handling of resources is directly or indirectly relevant: in the cultivation and manufacture of products, in logistics, in the management of our locations and in the disposal of waste. We also see the sustainable handling of resources as an economic opportunity. for that reason, we are committed to promoting the regenerative capability of resources, to deploying them efficiently, to discovering and tapping into alternatives and to thinking in process cycles. We also see major potential in the deployment of new technologies and the use of alternative energy sources and forms of energy generation. Management Board of METRO AG »we are economical in our use of energy. often small measures can have a big impact.« We use fans in our chillers that dissipate the heat generated during the cooling process. By replacing all our standard fans with a more efficient model, we save more than 3,000 MWh of electricity in Germany as a whole. That is about the same as the average annual consumption of 850 German households. Even though the little fan is not visible, it makes a big contribution to the reduction of electricity use and thus costs. Global challenges: demographic change »actively shaping your life and growing old without a care – that doesn’t need to be wishful thinking.« »The ageing of Europe’s population will decrease the working age population by 48 million by 2050, and the EU-27 will change from having 4 to only 2 persons of working age for each aged 65+. There is thus a widespread assumption that Europe’s population ageing will lead to a demographic deficit, whereby working age population is insufficient to support the increasing proportion of older dependants. In addition, the internationalisation of the skills market may also encourage European skilled workers to move outside the region and reduce Europe’s ability to attract skilled migrants. however, future changes in the labour market are unknown. Technological advances may reduce the number of workers required to support the economy, and the pool of workers may grow through increased female participation, lowering entry Prof. Sarah harper age into work, or raising retirement age. The determining factor will be the ability of the EU to adapt to its new demographic future.« Prof. Sarah harper director of the Oxford Institute of Population Ageing, University of Oxford demographic change is affecting both the structure of our staff and the structure of our customers. Ethnic diversity is on the rise, whilst the distribution of young and old and the relationship between men and women is shifting. In order to satisfy the diverse needs of consumers, our sales lines are tailoring their concepts, product ranges and marketing strategies to meet the expectations of local customers. As a responsible employer we also pursue a forward-looking hR policy – with a systematic development of managers as well as targeted further and advanced training. By creating an attractive working environment, we also promote the diversity of our staff. In this way, we can benefit yet further from the various strengths and ideas of our employees and thus safeguard our competitiveness in the long run. Management Board of METRO AG »i have now been at metro for 10 years and i still enjoy my work because i have the opportunity to constantly learn new things – whenever and wherever it best suits my working day.« More than 17 percent of all METRO GROUP employees fall within the age group of 50 years and older. We offer our employees targeted support through individual qualification measures to maintain their performance throughout their entire working life. This includes, for example, e-learning. This computerbased training lets our employees improve their skills whenever and wherever they like. Training content includes consultation, sales and product knowledge. Global challenges: Sustainable consumption »healthy, affordable, good for the environment: making the right choice when shopping is not always child’s play.« »All consumption has social and ecological impacts. It can only be sustainable if it operates within the Earth’s range of tolerances. It is essential to consider the economic and social value of the use of goods as compared to their impact on the environment and society – sustainability should not be attained at the expense of quality of life across the entire supply chain. Efficient production and efficient products are important for sustainable consumption. however, there is even greater potential for development in the societal context. Lifestyles need to be considered in holistic terms: how will we feed and clothe ourselves in future? how will we produce heat or communicate, and what form will mobility take? In order to find sustainable solutions, retail and wholesale companies, manufacturers, politics, science and Michael Kuhndt consumers need to interact.« Michael Kuhndt head of the Collaborating Centre on Sustainable Consumption and Production, Wuppertal Using and consuming goods is a part of life. Our core business is providing people with products and services that enhance their quality of life. At the same time we want to offer them an environmentally and socially sustainable form of consumption. We meet this challenge in a number of ways: we trace where our resources come from and record how efficiently they are used for the manufacture of our products and at our locations. We monitor under what conditions goods are produced and exert influence to ensure they are properly disposed of. In dialogue with various stakeholder groups we also pursue the objective of sensitising consumers to issues around responsible consumption. Management Board of METRO AG »we advise our customers to enable them to make sustainable purchasing decisions. that pays – both in their wallet and for the environment.« Our sales line Media-Saturn is systematically adding energy-efficient and resource-conserving devices to its product ranges. These includes, for example, washing machines and dishwashers as well as combination fridge freezers. In specialist consultations the employees explain to their customers the connection between purchase price and cost savings from lower energy consumption. In this way, Media-Saturn promotes sustainable purchasing decisions and contributes to the careful handling of resources. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 G lobal challenges – Corporate engagement p. 12 Committed in all fields of action Supply chain and Energy and resource products management Employees and Social policies and social affairs stakeholder dialogue Sustainability has many facets. A range of activities and cooperative partnerships as well as the commitment of each individual contribute to achieving predefined milestones and constantly driving METRO GROUP forward in the interests of its stakeholder groups. Our commitment is not an end in itself. Instead we always keep our sights on our economic objectives alongside social and ecological factors. This enables us to firmly establish our responsible behaviour in our overall strategic approach and open up new opportunities for the future core principles and development of our business. The Management Board of METRO AG (from left to right): Frans W. H. Muller (Member of the Management Board), Mark Frese (Chief Financial Officer), Olaf Koch (Chairman of the Management Board of METRO AG), Heiko Hutmacher (Chief Human Resources Officer). METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Review p. 14 Review Sustainability in the financial year 2012 Q1/2012 Q2/2012 Q3/2012 Group-wide guideline on quality Cooperation with Utopia Galeria Kaufhof on the assurance ↓ inclusion map ↓ 31/05/2012 In order to increase the pro↓ 24/01/2012 The Quality Assurance Comportion of energy-saving electronic prod11/07/2012 Galeria Kaufhof becomes mittee and the Compliance Department ucts in private households and to provide Germany’s first retail company to be repof METRO AG publish a Group-wide consumers with targeted information, resented on the inclusion map of the Gerguideline on quality assurance. This sets ­Saturn and the sustainability portal Utopia man Federal Government Commissioner down common standards as well as the launch a cooperative partnership. In ­future for Matters relating to Disabled People. most important principles and areas of reparticularly energy-efficient products will 78 outlets of the sales line already offer sponsibility relating to quality assurance. It display the “Utopia empfiehlt” (Utopia recshopping support for the blind and visuadditionally standardises existing systems. ommends) logo in the Saturn online shop. ally impaired. The sales lines are encouraged to develop their own systems for quality control. Protecting bonito stocks Training meat suppliers ↓ ↓ Top employer in Germany 2012 05/06/2012 In conjunction with the 08/08/2012 METRO Cash & Carry trai­ns ↓ Turkish marine research institute TÜDAV, meat suppliers in India as part of the “Meat 20/03/2012 The CRF Institute (Corporate METRO Cash & Carry launches the “Where Suppliers Development Initiative”. The Research Foundation) this year again acare the Bonito?” project. With their initi­ topics of the training courses are innovaknowledges METRO GROUP for its outative the cooperation partners seek to boost tive processing techniques, aspects of food standing and modern human resources awareness of the endangerment of this tuna safety and hygiene, and international trends management. Every year since 2003, the invariety and to protect bonito stocks. The in the HACCP quality standard. stitute has certified companies with excelproject’s aim is to fit around 4,500 fish with lent HR strategies and practices. radio chips by 2015 to track the development of the stocks. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Review p. 15 Training provider of the Shopping for all generations year 2012 ↓ ↓ Inclusion in the Carbon 09/11/2012 In 2012, 28 Galeria Kaufhof 18/09/2012 The trade journal “LebensDisclosure Leadership Index for department stores are awarded the “Genmittel Praxis” awards the headquarters of DACH erationenfreundliches Einkaufen” (Shopthe sales line Real the distinction “Train↓ ping for all generations) quality mark. ing provider of the year”. The hypermar15/10/2012 METRO AG is now listed in Across Germany, 77 outlets have already ket operator wins the accolade for special the newly published Carbon Disclosure been awarded this certificate and make training services in food retailing for the Leadership Index for DACH, which inshopping for older people and people with fourth time. cludes the most transparent companies disabilities as pleasant as can be with as few from the German-speaking area in the barriers as possible. field of climate strategy and greenhouse gas Q4/2012 emissions. “Cotton made in Africa” ↓ Involvement in FLIP4NEW 14/11/2012 Real participates in the “Cot↓ ton made in Africa” (CmiA) initiative and 16/10/2012 Media-Saturn acquires a stake joins a network of textile companies that Agreement on waste reduction in the recommerce provider FLIP4NEW. source and process sustainably farmed cot↓ Saturn customers are now able to exchange ton and market it with the CmiA seal. The 09/10/2012 At the EU Retail Forum for their used electronic devices and media in aim of the initiative is to improve the livSustainability, METRO GROUP signs an the online shop for a shopping voucher. ing conditions of African cotton farmers. agreement to help reduce the amount of The service for buying used products via waste generated by domestic households. FLIP4NEW is planned to be established The Company makes a commit­ment to inacross all sales lines in future. Excellent supply chain crease the number of its measures aimed management at boosting consumer awareness about ↓ the issue by mid-2014. For instance, Compliance Day 2012 07/12/2012 The METRO Cash & Carry by helping the Deutsche Stiftung Ver↓ sales line is awarded the accolade Best Susbraucherschutz (German Foundation 08/11/2012 In 2012, METRO GROUP’s tainable Supply Chain 2012 for its fresh for Consumer Protection) to develop edannual Compliance Day takes place under fish supply chain in Vietnam. In Vietnam, ucational programmes for schoolchilthe motto “Compliance & You”. As part of the company operates a fish platform, is dren. numerous local events, Compliance Offi­ involved in developing quality standards cers from 32 countries brief the employfor aquaculture and the fish industry and ees on the Company’s business principles. provides training for the employees of fish farms and fishery associations. metro group 2012 Our Attitude 1 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 17 METRO GROUP’s structure With approximately 280,000 employees in 32 countries, Media-Saturn is Europe’s No. 1 consumer electronics METRO GROUP is one of the world’s leading retail and wholeretailer. A decentralised organisational structure, attract­ sale companies. The Group’s parent company is METRO AG, ive offers, a diverse range of top brands and innovative its central management holding company. Our 4 sales lines marketing contribute to the sales line’s success. are responsible for the operating business. They offer private and commercial customers comprehensive product ranges Galeria Kaufhof is one of the leading department store and services tailored to their specific shopping habits. operators in Europe. All of its outlets boast highly competitive, international product ranges and high-quality own METRO Cash & Carry is a leading international self-­ brands. service wholesaler. Its range of products and services is geared specifically towards the needs of business owners. Our Company’s real estate portfolio is managed by our real estate subsidiary METRO PROPERTIES. Its prime objective is to Real is one of Germany’s leading hypermarket chains. All increase the value of our real estate assets long term by means of its hypermarkets offer a large percentage of high-qualof active portfolio management. Its services include the selecity fresh produce, a varied nonfood range and optimum tion of new sites, the construction and management of retail/ value for money. wholesale properties and energy and facility management. METRO GROUP and its segments METRO GROUP METRO AG Media Markt Metro Cash & Carry Real Saturn Galeria Kaufhof METRO PROPERTIES Makro Cash & Carry Redcoon METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 18 Our sustainability vision offer of life. we quality Sustainability is an integral part of our business. Our goal is FOR OUR CUSTOMERS to identify answers to global social challenges and to actively by providing them with safe quality products and services contribute to the development of sustainable solutions. In where they live, around the world, constantly improving this way, we create added value for our customers and other our processes. And with products that are made, processed stakeholder groups, make an important contribution to risk and recycled in a socially responsible, environmentally management and ensure our own future as a company. sound, resource-conserving manner. This lets us secure our future. To provide our understanding of sustainability with a sound basis, representatives from the sales lines, the service com OR OUR EMPLOYEES F panies and METRO AG have jointly developed a Group-wide by at all times respecting, protecting and helping them sustainability vision. It offers answers to the question as to grow professionally, and by building trusted relationships what we, as a company, hope to achieve in terms of sustainwith them. This lets us create an attractive working ability. At the same time, the vision provides our employees ­environment. with a framework and starting point for their own efforts and thoughts regarding the subject. In our communications with FOR ALL WHO WORK FOR US the Group’s various stakeholders and in its public relations by doing business fairly and responsibly and providing work, the vision helps to define our sustainability profile and good living and working conditions. This lets us demonclarify the METRO GROUP stance. strate responsibility in the supply chain. Our vision statement is: FOR SOCIETY by protecting the environment, conserving natural resources METRO GROUP. and minimising our effect on the climate. This lets us help We offer quality of life. ensure a sound footing for the retailing of tomorrow. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 19 The vision defines the direction in which our sustainability to integrate the vision into our core business – via sales linecommitment must develop and is the basis for our strategic specific strategies and on into our operating business. alignment. Our sustainability aims, as well as the related measures and projects, all contribute towards the realisation The strategic alignment that derives from our vision is reof our vision over the long term. This holistic approach helps flected in our fields of action and can be sketched as follows. We offer quality of life  FOR OUR CUSTOMERS by providing them with safe quality products and services where they live, around the world, ­constantly improving our processes. And with products that are made, processed and recycled in a socially responsible, environmentally sound, resource-conserving manner. This lets us secure our future. FOR OUR EMPLOYEES by at all times respecting, protecting and helping them grow professionally, and by building trusted relationships with them. This lets us create an attractive working environment. FOR ALL WHO WORK FOR US by doing business fairly and responsibly and providing good living and working conditions. This lets us demonstrate responsibility in the supply chain. FOR SOCIETY by protecting the environment, conserving natural resources and minimising our effect on the ­climate. This lets us help ensure a sound footing for the retailing of tomorrow. Supply Chain Energyand Employees and Social Policies and and Products Resource Management Social Affairs Stakeholder Dialogue METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 20 Our sustainability management As a responsible company we aim to make a contribution to How we handle the challenges within the 4 fields of action is tackling major social challenges and to meet the needs of difdescribed in chapter “Our approach” (from page 22). The results ferent groups. We see this as a strategic task that we tie into of the relevance evaluation can also be found there. our sustainability management. It kicks in where our influence over the effects associated with our core business is The organisational level reflects the processes described. greatest. The starting point is a regular evaluation of social The top decision-making authority for sustainability manageneeds. The subjects of safeguarding food supplies, conservment is our Sustainability Board. It takes up guidelines, standing resources, demographic change and sustainable conards and strategies from our sustainability vision and formusumption are particularly relevant for the retail sector. In lates goals. It is assisted by 4 working groups – one for each order to tackle these socially relevant topics in a structured field of action. Their job is to develop measures for goal manner, we have defined 4 fields of action within the Group: achievement within the thematic core areas, to form responSupply Chain and Products, Energy and Resource Managesible project groups, to pursue the implementation of projects ment, Employees and Social Affairs, and Social Policies and and to report on progress to the Sustainability Board. MemStakeholder Dialogue. Within each of these fields we set core bers of the working groups are experts from the staff units, areas for concrete measures and projects that we regularly sales lines and companies of METRO GROUP, supported by inspect and adapt as necessary. This is done on the basis of METRO AG’s Sustainability Department. Operational impleanalyses and in consultation with experts. We develop recommentation, in turn, is the responsibility of the sales lines and mended solutions to the core areas across the Group and in companies, coordinated and supported by their own sustaincooperation with external partners. We also get involved in ability officers. In this way ecological and social criteria are specialist committees. integrated systematically and effectively into the working processes and decisions. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 21 SUSTAINABILITY BOARD Chair: Members of the Management Board of METRO AG Heiko Hutmacher and Frans W. H. Muller Members: CEOs of the sales lines and METRO PROPERTIES, representatives from Corporate Communications and the Sustainability Department takes up guidelines, standards and strategies from the sustainability vision and formulates goals PREPARATORY COMMITTEE Working group leaders and sustainability representatives of the sales lines, the service companies and METRO AG WORKING GROUP 1 WORKING GROUP 2 WORKING GROUP 3 WORKING GROUP 4 Supply Chain Energy and Employees and Social Policies and and Products Resource Management Social Affairs Stakeholder Dialogue develop plans of action, monitor implementation, report and advise TOPIC-SPECIFIC PROJECT GROUPS consisting of experts from METRO GROUP SALES LINES AND SERVICE COMPANIES delegate experts to working and project groups, are responsible for operational implementation, develop systems for internal sustainability management METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 22 Five entrepreneurs – one goal Within METRO GROUP each sales line is implementing sustainability in its own specific way under the auspices of the common sustainability vision. This is the best way to satisfy operational business requirements and to get people to identify with the topic. As representatives of their companies, the sales lines’ individual CEOs explain what this involves in concrete terms. ing resources, for ­example, we do everything we can to maintain the oceans as an ecosystem and as a source of food. We also use optimised processes and supplier training to prevent food waste. And compliance with social standards in the supply chain is an integral part of our procurement processes. Also, Frans W. H. Muller we achieve measurable results in the Didier Fleury CEO of METRO Cash & Carry reduction of our energy consumption CEO of Real by means of, for example, our Energy “In order to offer our customers real Awareness Programme.” “Every day more than 40,000 employees added value in the long run, as a leadare committed to serving our customers ing international player in self-service in our 312 hypermarkets across Gerwholesale we are actively driving formany. Our strengths include top quality, ward the strategic realignment of excellent service, unsurpassed freshMETRO Cash & Carry. This entails not ness and outstanding value for money. only improving our operating business The topic of sustainability is becoming but also achieving a fundamental shift ever more important to us along the in our corporate culture. In this respect, entire supply chain. In concrete terms each and every employee has the opporthis means that the products we provide tunity to initiate change in their everyday are manufactured according to socially decisions. We can contribute to solving and environmentally sound principles, not only business but also global chalallowing our customers to enjoy and lenges by taking sustainability into consume them with a clear conscience. account in our core line of business and We also treat resources such as paper by acting responsibly. In terms of protectand water carefully and are involved in METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 23 charity projects. And so we are actively doing our bit to conserve the livelihoods of this and future generations.” Lovro Mandac Jean-Christophe Bretxa CEO of Galeria Kaufhof CEO of METRO PROPERTIES “Our customers expect us to make it “As the real estate entity of easier for them to do good not only for METRO GROUP, METRO PROPERTIES themselves but also for other people and is mandated to build, equip, repair horst Norberg the environment. That’s why we have and maintain the sites operated by the CEO of Media-Saturn again raised the requirements on the sales lines worldwide. We are fully aware quality and manufacturing conditions of of our responsibility towards future “Only companies that plan ahead and our own brands. We are expanding our generations: if we want to offer quality work efficiently make it to the very range of the products manufactured in of life, our stores have to be designed, top of European consumer electronics a particularly environment-friendly and developed and managed on the grounds retailing. Companies like us. Efficiency socially compatible manner, especially of preserving natural resources and drives not only our working processes in those product groups where customecosystems. Therefore, we choose our but also how we handle resources. For ers increasingly demand them. For ease sites with great care, challenging each that reason, we launched a Companyof identification, we put our ‘natürlich square metre regarding the aspect of wide energy-saving programme in 2009, GALERIA’ (naturally GALERIA) label on land use. In the selection of the matesince which time we have installed smart those articles. We step up to the demorial, we take the embodied energy into metering systems in our stores. In future graphic challenges by making shopaccount. Water and energy efficiency as we want to promote sustainability as an ping more pleasant and barrier-free well as responsible waste management even more integral component of our for every­ one. Three-quarters of our are ingrained in our Company. Even the activities. Every day we relish the chaloutlets in Germany are already very possible future use of the premises is lenge of acknowledging sustainable generation-friendly. This also sets the assessed beforehand by our real estate principles in our decisions and in our course for our future success.” experts. Being one integrated entity business processes and relationships so with a comprehensive mandate gives that we can turn them into concrete acts. us a significant advantage: we take conThat way we lead by example.” trol of the full life cycle of our buildings and therefore can actively minimise their environmental impact.” METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our attitude p. 24 Responsible Corporate Governance METRO GROUP endorses responsible corporate governInformation, consultation and training ance. For us, legal compliance, integrity and transparency We regularly notify our employees of the relevant guidelines, are important principles in our dealings not only with one standards and processes. To do so, we use different communianother, but also with customers, suppliers and business cation formats that clearly explain our business principles. partners. That is why we have developed consistent guideWe further support the employees in complying with the lines, standards and processes for management and firmly guidelines and standards and the resulting obligations by way established them across the Group. This helps us guard of mandatory training courses and consultation sessions. By against potential risks due to impropriety or ignorance and we the end of 2012, for example, we had familiarised over 10,000 emphasise the importance of taking responsibility for one’s employees with the anti-corruption guidelines in classroomindividual conduct. based courses. Further, in the reporting period we started to roll out a Group-wide e-training platform for computer-based Standards for acting sustainably training. Employees in 13 of the national companies are Our activities are subject to laws, legislative provisions and already undergoing e-training on corruption prevention. A self-imposed standards of conduct. To support our employtraining module on competition law will be added in 2013. The ees in complying with these rules, we have established a topic will further attract a lot of attention thanks to the GroupGroup-wide compliance management system. At its core are wide Compliance Day. Managers will also regularly receive METRO GROUP’s 8 business principles. These are supplethe Compliance Newsletter. mented by standards of conduct, including primarily those relating to competition law and the anti-corruption guidelines Group-wide compliance organisation introduced across the Group in 2011. To prevent corruption Compliance Officers are at hand as points of contact in the and gaining unfair personal advantages, the mandatory check sales lines and the service and national companies of of business partners regarding their compliance with laws METRO GROUP. Their head, the Chief Compliance Officer of and guidelines was introduced in risk areas. This suppleMETRO GROUP, reports directly to the Chairman of the mented the existing elements for ensuring compliance in the Management Board of METRO AG, Olaf Koch. Not only all supply chain. Further, our operational business processes employees but also customers, suppliers and other busiare increasingly being subjected to a minimum standard of ness partners can communicate breaches – if necessary internal controls. anonymously – to the METRO GROUP Compliance Hotline. metro group 2012 Our approach 2 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 26 Supply chain and products Safeguarding quality – creating transparency Our core business is providing private and commercial cusoffer safe, high-quality products and reliable services. At the tomers around the world with high-quality, safe products. same time, our mission is to ensure traceability in the use of Further, an increasing proportion of our product range is resources and the procurement of goods. prod­uced, processed, distributed and utilised in a way that conserves resources and is socially responsible. As a retail In the Supply Chain and Products field of action we concenand wholesale company that operates sustainably, we trate in particular on safeguarding socially responsible workacknow­l­edge our responsibility along the entire supply chain ing conditions at our suppliers. A further focus is the respon– starting with our handling of raw materials and the selection sible handling of raw materials such as paper, wood and palm of agricultural growers and producers through transport, oil as well as the world’s fish stocks and food. By devising and storage and distribution right up to the consumer. One thing implementing guidelines for sustainable purchasing and also that is important for us is to keep losses of raw materials and monitoring compliance with social and quality standards, we food to a minimum at all stages of the supply chain. strengthen our procurement channels and contribute to improving the quality and sustainability of our products. Our supply chain and product management implements measures that create transparency across the entire supply chain, generating added value for our customers. We want to METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 27 S upply chain an d pro d ucts Selected measures and projects Sustainable Fair working standard system to suppliers of nonfood procurement conditions products sourced through local importers by 2015. An increasing number of consumers Complying with social standards is an inteare not simply interested in the quality gral part of our sustainability activities. and safety of the products they buy – they Accordingly, METRO GROUP makes sure Efficient trade also want to know about their social and ecological compatibility. METRO GROUP it complies with the key labour standards of the International Labour Organization structures acts responsibly in this field of action by (ILO) and with the OECD Guidelines for defining production conditions, raisMultinational Enterprises. We also conAmong other things, we guarantee the ing awareness among buyers and maktractually oblige our suppliers to honour high quality and safety of our proding its procurement as environmentally fundamental human rights and maintain ucts by means of efficient procurement friendly and as socially compatible as fair working conditions. To prove complistructures. Well-organised logistics also possible. This is fundamentally based on ance, our supply contracts stipulate an reduces the volume of food lost during our purchasing guidelines, which METRO audit according to the requirements of the the various stages of our supply chain. Cash & Carry, Real and Galeria KaufBSCI (Business Social Compliance InitiaWe therefore make targeted investments hof each developed for their own specific tive) standard or an equivalent thereof. We in our business processes. 4 centralised needs in 2012 based on the Group-wide make this requirement of suppliers who purchasing offices oversee the purchasfish purchasing policy adopted in 2011. produce our end products in risk couning of specific product groups. METRO A Group-wide general purchasing policy tries and import them to the EU. All the Cash & Carry also sets up local collecfor all products is scheduled for 2013 and manufacturers of nonfood items suption centres for farmers in the vicinity of will stipulate the principles of the sustainplied to the EU via our subsidiary MGB the cultivation areas, and this reduces able procurement of products containing Hong Kong were audited accordingly and the time between harvesting and delivery important resources and raw materials, 62 percent of them passed the audit with a of the produce to the stores. In addition, such as wood and paper, palm oil, cocoa good mark. Suppliers who do not yet make the sales line is using its Fast Inventory and soya. the grade have the option to be supported Turnaround project to reduce its product over the course of their development proinventories and storage times. cess until they satisfy the requirements. We are also working towards introducing the BSCI standard or an equivalent social METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 28 S upply chain an d pro d ucts Selected measures and projects Supply chain uct groups in the future. The approach good availability and high quality of prod­ transparency revolves around decentralised data storage that makes data access easier and ucts. The farmers who bring their prod­ uce to the collection centres have “pay more reliable, thereby creating greater direct cards”, which give them instant paySustainability calls for supply chain transparency throughout the supply chain ment for their goods. METRO Cash & Carry transparency that can be guaranteed in the long term, right the way up to the was the first company in India to introduce by means of product-based traceability. end consumer. this method of payment, which is similar The purpose of this is to be able to trace to a German EC (electronic cash) card and products back to their origins and to be which allows for secure and fast financial aware of the conditions under which transactions. they were produced. This is the only way 5 All-encompassing in which to pinpoint potential risks and need for improvement, both in terms of approach METRO Cash & Carry also supports its Indian suppliers with expertise given to the product quality and social and ecothem during training programmes. For logical standards. A prime example of In order to offer high-quality and safe example, in the reporting year the sales this is the need to protect the fish stocks products in India, for example, METRO line’s Quality Assurance division trained in the world’s oceans. Illegal fishing Cash & Carry works closely with the agrimore than 25 meat suppliers in innovacannot be stopped unless there is tarcultural producers there and supports tive processing solutions, food safety and geted traceability from the fish counimprovements being made to the supply hygiene. In this way, METRO Cash & Carry ter to the fisherman. For a number of structures. Having already established improves product quality and the supyears now, METRO GROUP has therefore collection centres for agricultural prod­ pliers’ ability to earn, and reduces food been actively working in tandem with uce in a number of Indian provinces, loss at the first stage of the supply chain. industry partners and political decithe wholesale expert opened a further 2 sion-makers in order to achieve supply platforms for fresh fish in 2012. The local chain transparency. METRO GROUP is fishermen’s catches are bought here and currently working with GS1, a compeprocessed in readiness for shipment elsetence and service centre for the optimiwhere. Everybody involved in this bene­ sation of internal and external business fits: the fishermen are given access to processes, and other renowned partners the market and have calculable incomes, to develop a global all-encompassing while METRO Cash & Carry benefits from solution that can be applied to all prodefficient logistics, which guarantees it METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 29 S upply chain an d pro d ucts Selected measures and projects 6 Responsible ucts, in its online shop and soon also in friendly or socially ethical in their ma­­ consumption its stores, Saturn is using the label “Utopia empfiehlt” (Utopia recommends) to nufacture. Customers in Galeria Kaufhof department stores can identify children’s mark the appliances that are the most wear, linen and household textiles made of METRO GROUP assists consumers in energy-efficient, the most environmenskin-friendly organic cotton in accordbeing more conscious about their contally friendly and the cheapest to operance with the Global Organic Textile sumer behaviour and in choosing to buy ate according to the EcoTopTen lists pubStandard (GOTS) and winter sportswear more sustainable products. And this lished by the independent Öko-Institut e. V. that complies with the bluesign standard doesn’t just apply to food. Since October organisation. Additionally, products that thanks to the logo “natürlich GALERIA” 2012, Media-Saturn has a stake in the are especially worthy of recommendation (nat­urally GALERIA). At the end of 2012, leading recommerce company FLIP4NEW because, for example, they are the most almost 1,500 different textile items of the and has thus added a modern service to popular choice among customers are sales line’s own brands and also of the the conventional marketing of consumer given the label “Utopia Produkt” (Utopia manufacturers’ brands complied with electronics and electrical appliances product). Also, the sales line gives inforone of the sustainability standards as via speciality stores. Customers can mation on the intelligent and economical defined by “natürlich GALERIA”. In 2012, exchange electrical items and media that use of electricity in a section of its website Real added cotton products made as part they no longer need for a voucher via the entitled “Energiesparen mit Saturn” (Savof the “Cotton made in Africa” (CmiA) iniSaturn online shop and in an ever-increasing energy with Saturn). tiative to its range. This initiative suping number of stores. FLIP4NEW tests the ports African farmers by trading in susused goods and then sells them via online tainably grown cotton. In the reporting platforms, thereby extending the lives of year, Real was already offering 20 items these elaborately manufactured prod7 Sustainable with the CmiA logo, and had sold around ucts. Media-Saturn plans to roll this business model out internationally. The sales textiles 133,000 of them. Further initiatives are set to follow. line also gives consideration to sustain­ ability when it comes to the new appliances In the reporting year, Galeria Kaufhof and it adds to its product range, and Saturn’s Real have expanded the number of susportfolio now includes a wide array of tainable products in their textile product energy-efficient electronic products and ranges. Our Galeria Kaufhof sales line home appliances. To make it as easy as continues to increase its portfolio of texpossible for people to locate these prodtiles that are particularly environmentally METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 30 Energy and resource management Reducing emissions – conserving resources To ensure that we can successfully operate our core business greenhouse gas emissions per square metre of selling space and meet our customers’ requirements we need to utilise to a level 20 percent lower than in 2011. And secondly, we energy and natural resources – now and in the future. But neiintend to reduce our consumption of resources. ther are unlimited in their availability. This means costs for our Company and also an impact on both the environment and To achieve both of these goals, we are concentrating – in the our climate. area of energy – on making ourselves more energy-efficient. The basis for this approach is a systematic energy data manAs a retail and wholesale company, we accept responsibility agement, which allows us to identify efficiency potential for protecting the climate and resources for those segments and optimise our energy usage. As far as resource manageof the supply chain in which we can exert a direct influence: ment is concerned, we are looking to reduce our reliance on from warehousing, refrigeration of products and transport to paper as well as cut down on emissions caused by the use of operation of our stores and administrative sites across the refrigerants. In this way, we will not only be making a valuable world. To achieve this, we are pursuing 2 key goals: firstly, we contribution to climate and environmental protection but intend to reduce climate-related emissions throughout our also reducing our operational expenses. commercial operations. Thus, by 2020 we aim to reduce our METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 31 E nergy an d resource management Selected measures and projects New climate group, can directly influence (see chapnent of the 2009–2012 project Saving protection goal ter “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”, pp. 57–58). Energy. This project has helped the sales line to reduce electricity consumption by 250,000 MWh at almost 600 stores METRO GROUP has decided on a new, and consequently save more than Group-wide climate protection target: by €30 million. In 2012, METRO GROUP’s 2020 we aim to reduce our specific greenEfficient use of energy consumption for electricity house gas emissions to a level 20 percent lower than in 2011. This corresponds to energy and heating was 433 kWh per square metre of selling space. We reduced a reduction from 323 to 258 kilograms of consumption by 3.4 percent over the CO2 equivalents per square metre of sellThe major part of our energy demand is previous year. ing space. In 2012, we managed a reducdown to lighting and the heating and tion of 2.5 percent emissions compared cooling technology used in our stores with the previous year. Our specific emisand outlets. To further reduce our consions per square metre were 315 kilosumption, we followed up on our energyLess paper grams. saving programmes in the reporting year. The measures involved included, priThe manufacture of paper demands large METRO GROUP has been publishing marily, exchanging fluorescent tubes at quantities of wood, water and energy. To its carbon footprint since 2008 as part of METRO Cash & Carry and Galeria Kaufhelp conserve these resources, we have its commitment to climate protection. To hof for LED lamps with a lower energy been advocating a more economical use achieve an even higher level of transparconsumption and equipping freezer units of paper for many years. Our strategy ency regarding the directly and indirectly and refrigerated displays with sliding includes reducing the amount of paper caused greenhouse gas emissions, in doors. In almost all of its stores, Mediapurchased and also increasing the perthe financial year 2011 we substanSaturn is compiling data on its electri­ centage of ecologically optimised paper. tially expanded our reporting on our city, gas, district heating, district cooling, With this in mind, the company respon­ carbon footprint and correspondingly heating oil and water consumption via sible for buying our paper, METRO GROUP reworked and adapted our climate prosmart metering systems and using it to Advertising (MGA), ensures that the protection target. With our new target, we optimise the on/off cycles and the conportion of recycled paper is as high as are concentrating even more on the trol parameters of its heating and venpossible and that any virgin fibre paper emissions that are fundamental for us tilation systems. The introduction of the purchased is, where possible, chlorineand that we, as a retail and wholesale smart metering systems was a compofree and FSC®-certified. Over 80 percent METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 32 E nergy an d resource management Selected measures and projects of the paper procured by MGA already fulreasons or because of safety aspects, 6 Ideas and action fils these criteria. however, existing installations cannot simply be converted and thus it is not poswanted sible to use natural refrigerants at all locations without extensive refitting. Environmentally aware behaviour on the Natural cooling part of employees offers another source of potential savings. To make targeted use of this potential, METRO Cash & Carry Losses of refrigerants due to leaks in 5 More efficient prepared its Energy Awareness Procooling systems are a major source of emissions of greenhouse gases and also refrigeration gramme (EAP) in 2012. It was launched on International Energy Saving Day on a significant cost factor. Therefore, we 5 March 2013. The sales line’s goal is to have made it our goal to reduce our topUninterrupted refrigeration or freezing inspire and motivate its employees worldup rates for refrigerants. Since 2012, of products is one of the fundamental wide to use energy more efficiently. in addition to remote monitoring for prerequisites for quality and freshness. the refrigeration systems, we have been For this reason, it is necessary for the re­­ The EAP is structured in 2 phases: Durcarry­ing out at least 4 instead of the prefrigeration systems in our stores to run ing the first phase, the employees will vious 2 leak-tightness inspections per around the clock. Nevertheless, there are be challenged to come up with energyyear on the seals on all refrigeration sysstill possibilities for reducing electricity savings potential in their own homes. tems at Real and Galeria Kaufhof. Since consumption. METRO Cash & Carry has The Best Home Energy Saver will receive METRO GROUP committed itself to exclucome up with a simple, yet highly ef­­­­­fect­ an award from METRO Cash & Carry sively using natural refrigerants such ive measure: the sales line is replacing at the end of 2013. The second phase as carbon dioxide in all of its new stores the ventilator in its refrigeration units will involve getting the employees to from 2015 onwards as part of its involvewith energy-saving fans. In Germany realise savings measures in the wholesale ment in the Consumer Goods Forum, alone, METRO Cash & Carry has been stores. Every location will be assigned a we have already seen a number of posi­ able to reduce its electricity requirements set reduction target that takes specific tive results: in 2012, we installed cor­ by more than 3,000 MWh by using around factors such as the local climate into responding refrigeration systems in 5 other 17,000 energy-saving ventilators. This account. All employees are encouraged to stores. Natural refrigerants have a much corresponds to the annual consumption contribute their ideas and to make a conlower global warming potential than the of 850 German households. scious effort to change their behaviour in traditionally used gases. Due to climatic the workplace in order to save energy. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 33 E nergy an d resource management Selected measures and projects The best suggestion and the wholesale operational hours of the lighting. Standnow controlled using CO2 sensors which store that makes the greatest level of ard lamps run for 24 hours as they need deliver air as required. In this way, the savings will also be awarded a prize. In a certain amount of time to reach their department store has achieved annual total, METRO Cash & Carry has made it maximum illumination at the cold temelectricity savings of 3 percent and thus a its goal to reduce its energy consumption peratures. The warehouse in Hamm man5-figure sum off its bills. The new Energy by August 2013 by 5 percent from its 2011 aged to reduce its electricity requirement Saver fluorescent tubes that are now level and by 2015 by a total of 18 percent. for lighting by around 40 percent. Lighting being used to provide basic illumination This corresponds to an overall saving of accounts for around a quarter of the elecin the store in Hanau require 30 percent €37 million. tricity consumption at the Hamm wareless power. In some areas, such as es­­ house. Encouraged by this positive result, calator lighting and jewellery display MGL is refitting a number of other locations. cases, replacing the existing lights with LEDs has brought a saving of around 7 Low-energy 80 percent. By mid-2012, the escalator lighting 8 A win-win situation lighting in a further 67 outlets had been converted to LEDs. How savings potentials can be realised in the area of lighting is well illustrated Protecting the environment and cutting by the example of our warehouse in the costs at the same time: that is the core German city of Hamm, which opened idea of the municipal project Ökoprofit. in 2011 and is operated by our subsid2 Galeria Kaufhof department stores in iary METRO Logistics (MGL). During Düsseldorf am Wehrhahn and in Hanau construction of the around 3,200-squareboth took part in the project and implemetre freezer warehouse, LED lighting mented a number of small-scale measwas installed throughout. Compared with ures that, taken as a whole, have led to standard lights, LED lamps are considersignificant energy and cost savings. ably more energy-efficient. What is more, In Düsseldorf the lights on the escal­ they can immediately produce 100 percent ators and in the advertising boards were light output even at cold store tempera­ replaced with LEDs and motion sensors tures of minus 24 degrees Celsius – were installed in the employees’ stairunlike standard lamps. This reduces the ways. The fresh-air circulation system is METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 34 Employees and social affairs Promoting value orientation – reinforcing willingness to perform A dwindling population, rising average age, increasing migraactions with one another. By increasing our attractiveness tion – demographic developments pose major challenges for as an employer, we invest in the future of our Company. The the global economy and social systems. Our world of work is objective of our HR management is to promote and reinforce also undergoing dramatic changes: the age structure of our employees’ satisfaction, willingness to perform and value oristaff and the composition of our teams are changing, and the entation. By doing so, we create the prerequisites for our succompetition for specialists and managers will become even cess today and in the future. fiercer over the coming years. In order to generate enthusiasm for our Company among employees and motivate them With this objective in mind we consistently support the further in the long term, we need to offer them opportunities for development of our employees. Central issues in this context development and an attractive working environment. It is also are for instance management culture, entrepreneurial responimportant for us to promote diversity amongst our employees. sibility, customer orientation and awareness of sustainabilAgainst this background, flexible working models are becomity. Through our active demographics and diversity manageing increasingly relevant. ment we reinforce the diversity in our teams and create a safe and positive working environment in which professional Our employees make an essential contribution to the sucand family interests can be reconciled. International workcess of METRO GROUP. For us this means a high level of ing standards and criteria as well as the values and principles social responsibility, which we approach with forward-lookof METRO GROUP and its sales lines form the strategic pillars. ing Human Resource policies and mutual trust in our interMETRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 35 E mployees an d social affairs Selected measures and projects Changing the Commitment to organising the Group holding company, corporate culture greater diversity METRO GROUP still considers its social responsibilities towards its employees. The change process will run until 2015 METRO GROUP has set itself the goal of We respect, appreciate and promote the and will affect up to 105 members of significantly increasing the added value it diversity of our employees and we make METRO AG staff. There are no plans for offers its customers. To realign our busia concerted effort to actively foster diverredundancies. Instead, the employees ness, we need our employees to play their sity within our Company. We committed will be made attractive offers early on to part in and actively live out this realignourselves to this in 2007 when we signed voluntarily terminate their contracts of ment. And this is founded on a change the “Charta der Vielfalt” (Diversity charemployment. A consultancy company conin our corporate culture. We aim to creter). Comprising more than 1,300 signatracted by us will provide assistance to the ate a work environment characterised tures, this is one of the highest-profile iniemployees with restarting their careers by open dialogue, diversity of opinions tiatives for the promotion of diversity in outside of METRO GROUP and will organand the systematic implementation of the business world. We also became a ise the necessary qualification measures. decisions. Based on this, in the reporting member of the association bearing the METRO AG will also explore other options year our sales line METRO Cash & Carry same name in early 2012. As a project to make the staff cuts socially acceptable, developed new guidelines for its employsponsor, we want to play a part in further such as transferring employees to vacant ees and started to integrate them into its establishing active diversity management positions elsewhere within the Group or leadership development. The aim is to in the working world. making use of natural fluctuation. have incorporated all the employees into this process in the medium term. Working in groups, they are shown how they can Reorganisation of Fair working apply the guidelines to their day-to-day work in specific terms. More than 2,600 the Group holding conditions employees from 22 countries already company participated in such groups in 2012. Fair working conditions and social partAlthough we made substantial savings in nerships have been an integral part of terms of material and project costs in the our business principles since 2004. These financial year 2012, we will have to make principles stipulate our aim of creating some workforce changes at our Company a work environment characterised by headquarters in Düsseldorf. But in re­­ respect, fairness and partnership. We ran METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 36 E mployees an d social affairs Selected measures and projects a Group-wide campaign in 2012 designed of added value for the customer and innountil the advance they received has been to remind our employees of these prinvation. In the first module, the 26 partici­ offset. Based on this, METRO GROUP is ciples and to make them aware of their pants were presented with the task of creating the necessary parameters for content. This included producing a flyer developing innovative business ideas that supporting its employees as they care for which was translated into 26 languages would offer the customers added value, their family members. As early as in 2008, and then distributed in all countries. The such as METRO event services or organic Galeria Kaufhof reached an agreement content of the principles was also incorpoingredients for restaurateurs. Then, in with the General Works Council regardrated into a Group-wide newsletter. And to the second module, the executives preing a family-friendly HR policy. Employreach as many employees as possible, we sented their results and discussed their ees have been able to put their employeralso published the key content in employee ideas and findings with experts. In this employee relationship on hold in order magazines and put it up in social rooms way, we integrate strategic key topics into to care for a family member, initially for and on display boards in the stores. our leadership development and assist a year and then, since 2011, for 2 years. our managers in expanding their skills in Real has been offering this family care a targeted manner. period since June 2012 too. This makes it easier for employees to reconcile their Exchange among family and work duties. 5 executives Support in caring Media-Saturn also plays its part, together 6 In order to nurture a value-oriented leadfor family members with METRO AG. In 2012, the companies participated in the “Pflege & Eldercare” ership culture within our Company, we (Nursing and eldercare) model project support our managers in the shape of taiHaving a family member become dependinitiated by famPlus GmbH, a provider of lored development and qualification proent on care can often take you by surmeasures to support families. The aim grammes. One such example is METRO prise and calls for quick organisation to of this project is to identify just the right University’s new EMBARK programme, accommodate the new situation. Since care solutions for people in employment which is our primary qualification plat2012, German law has allowed employees who have elderly relatives or family memform. EMBARK is specifically targeted to reduce their working hours down to as bers dependent on care. Up to 10 Mediaat executives at the business and secfew as 15 hours a week for a maximum Saturn employees and a further 10 from tion head levels who have only recently of 24 months, while retaining 75 percent METRO AG were able to sign up for the assumed their positions. In 2012, the of their salary. When they then return to pilot phase to receive assistance in look2-part programme focused on the issues their full hours, their salary is reduced ing for a qualified carer. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 37 E mployees an d social affairs Selected measures and projects providers and business partners. Galeria Store training Exemplary Kaufhof gives consideration to its employ7 8 ­sessions to achieve inclusion ees and customers in equal measure with its all-encompassing approach to inclutailored service sion. For example, the sales line adapts It is our intention to have an inclusive work the workplaces of blind employees or of Regular exchange between our employenvironment. This means we offer people wheelchair-bound colleagues specifically ees at our headquarters and at our wholewith disabilities and limitations due to their to their needs, thereby enabling each and sale stores is essential to having efficient health the opportunity to be a part of the every employee to make a valuable conand customer-oriented processes. We working world. The diverse array of options tribution to the Company. More than devised a 1-day store training session for offered by our sales lines demonstrates 7 percent of the employees are people executives and headquarter staff in order how we live up to this aspiration every with a severe disability. In October 2012, to actively foster dialogue, interconnecday. At Real, having people with disabili­ the department store company received tion and customer orientation. Beforeties working in the stores is a matter the 2012 inclusion award bestowed by hand, the participants can carefully preof course, and has been for quite some “Unternehmens-Forum e. V.”, an assopare themselves for the store-based time – even before “inclusion” became ciation that promotes the integration of date using various online training tools. a concept. For example, the Real hyperpeople with disabilities. The participants are taken on a tour of a market in the German town of Hallstadt METRO Cash & Carry wholesale store, has been actively promoting the integraduring which the department heads pretion of people with disabilities since 2004 sent their respective areas and give an and has 9 such employees working at the insight into the store’s work processes. checkout, on the switchboard and in the The colleagues from the headquarters drinks shop. Based on this, the hyperalso actively get involved, helping to stack market was awarded an inclusion award shelves or work at the checkout. The first by the “Paritätischer Wohlfahrtsverstore training sessions were held in 2012 band Bayern” (Bavarian Welfare Associ­ at the wholesale stores in Neuss, Krefeld, ation) in 2012. METRO Cash & Carry likeDortmund and Recklinghausen, and furwise specifically promotes inclusion. For ther sessions are in the pipeline for 2013. example, since 2006 the sales line has been looking after the interests of dis­ abled employees in France – not just within the company itself, but also of its service METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 38 Social policies and stakeholder dialogue Seeking interaction – networking with partners Global challenges such as demographic change, conholder groups at the interface between producers and conserving natural resources, safeguarding the world’s food sumers and to take responsibility as a good corporate citizen. supply and sustainable consumption need ideas and proposed solutions from a range of social actors. One of these is Against this background we focus on 3 key areas in the field METRO GROUP. The Company is not only an employer, buyer of social policies and stakeholder dialogue: compliance with and supplier of goods and services but also a partner within codes of conduct and management principles, regular comthe economic and sociopolitical discourse. munication and reporting on social topics as well as charit­ able commitment in the form of donations and sponsoring As a part of wider society we see how we can apply our comactivities that are a good fit with our core business in terms mitment, expertise and experience in a number of fields of of their subject matter. In this way, we contribute to finding action. This includes in particular collaboration with partners answers to big social challenges and improving the local qualand dialogue with customers, experts and stakeholders. Our ity of life of people around the world. aim is to establish a transparent interaction with our stakeMETRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 39 S ocial policies an d stakehol d er d ialogue Selected measures and projects Preventing waste Group-wide Local presence in compliance the market To prevent the large-scale loss and waste of food, a range of actors in society need METRO GROUP has been engaging sysMETRO GROUP has set up the Store to pull in the same direction. For that reatematically with the topic of compliance ­Visits project along with other German son we discuss this topic intensively with for some time – the observance of rules, companies to demonstrate the economic our stakeholder groups – for example laws and internal guidelines in the Comsignificance of retail to representatives as part of the EU Retail Forum for Suspany. Among other things this includes from politics and associations and to reintainability in Brussels. The forum brings providing our employees with regular force understanding of the complexity together representatives from politics, information about the significance of the of the sector. Store visits are conducted retail and non-governmental organisatopic and ensuring ongoing training to ­ enable insights into current issues tions to discuss sustainable management on that topic. Further, the question as to and innovations in the trade sector. in retail. In 2012 METRO GROUP had its what specific contribution each individual Around 40 decision-makers from Euroown information booth at this event. A key can make in their day-to-day work was pean institutions and representatives of topic was our holistic approach to reducthe central topic of a Group-wide Compligovernment, associations and companies ing food losses along the entire supance Day in 2012. Under the motto “Comaround the world have already taken ply chain. We and other retail companies pliance & You” employees in almost all advantage of this offer. The destinasigned an agreement on the prevention countries, sales lines and service compations of these visits were various METRO of waste at the forum. Under this agreenies were invited to a range of initiatives. Cash & Carry wholesale stores and the ment measures for consumer education These included for example group discusReal Future Store in Tönisvorst, which and information on the prevention of waste sions, the presentation of training videos sees our sales line blazing a new trail into will be rolled out by the middle of 2014. and a competition. customer communication and the layout of the store and product range. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 40 S ocial policies an d stakehol d er d ialogue Selected measures and projects Alliance for con5 Achieving improve6 Greater energy sumer education ments together efficiency together From the mobile phone contract through Constructive dialogue and responsible Since 2012 our sales brand Saturn has security on the Internet right up to healthy supplier management pay dividends in been cooperating with Utopia, Ger­ eating: the consumer competence of chilthe long run, which can be seen for ex­­ many’s leading Internet platform for dren and young people is being tested ample in our relationship with Asia Pulp sustainable consumption, with a view to in a whole host of ways. In order to re­­ and Paper (APP). The Asian pulp and making it easier for their customers to inforce the topic of consumer education paper manufacturer has been one of our take sustainable purchasing decisions. whilst still at school, the “Deutsche Stifsuppliers for many years. Because the To increase the proportion of low-energy tung Verbraucherschutz” (German Founcompany had come under fire for clearing and resource-saving products in housedation for Consumer Protection) has set rain forests in Indonesia, we engaged in a holds, the initiative aims to provide clear up an alliance for consumer education, series of discussions with APP along with and targeted consumer information. The the “Bündnis für Verbraucherbildung”. various non-governmental organisations partners have developed a dedicated logo METRO GROUP is one of the supportand other companies. This effort is now for this purpose: in the Saturn online shop ers of this initiative with further actors showing positive results: on 5 February the “Utopia empfiehlt” (Utopia recomfrom commerce, politics, the academic 2013 APP publicly declared that it was mends) logo indicates washing machines, sector and civil society. In the reporting drawing up a new forest policy and manfridge-freezers, TVs, tumble driers, dishyear we have signed the resolution “Veraging already cleared areas to minimise washers and coffee machines that are braucherkompetenzen frühzeitig fördern – greenhouse emissions. The implementaparticularly energy-saving and therefore mehr Verbraucherbildung in die Schution of the measures is to be monitored by recommended. In future Saturn intends to len” (Promote consumer competence an independent party. extend the rating to other categories and early on – more consumer education in to expand the initiative to include stationschools). One of the ways in which we are ary retailing. supporting the initiative is making sure it is discussed with representatives of regional governments with a view to them including it in their school curriculums. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Our approach p. 41 S ocial policies an d stakehol d er d ialogue Selected measures and projects 7 New from old 8 Healthy in Vietnam 9 Commitment to children To reduce carbon emissions and elec­trical High standards in the areas of hygiene waste and at the same time create and food safety need to be maintained A growing number of children from jobs for people with disabilities – this along the entire supply chain to ensure socially disadvantaged families or orphans is the approach of the charitable comhigh food quality. In some countries there cannot take toys at Christmas or equippany “Arbeit für Menschen mit Behinis still room for improvement in the ne­­ces­ ment when they start school for granted. derungen” (Work for People with Dis­ sary conditions and structures. Aiming Along with social institutions, Galeria abilities, AfB). The integration-focused to enhance the quality and safety of food Kaufhof is committed to helping these company collects used IT devices such as in conjunction with customers, sup­pliers children: in the run-up to Christmas 2012 laptops, computers and printers from its and employees, METRO Cash & Carry our sales line again put up charity trees cooperation partners, reconditions them Vietnam set up the “Healthy” programme that were hung with children’s wish lists and resells them at affordable prices. in 2012. The 20-month-long project intein all outlets and at the head office. CusOur IT company METRO SYSTEMS also grates the various actors along the supply tomers and employees took the lists off supports AfB and donates devices that chain and trains them individually: custhe trees, fetched the gifts described are no longer needed by the Company tomers are instructed in handling food on them and forwarded them to a central that would otherwise cost money to disand food safety. Suppliers of fruit, vege­ point. Galeria Kaufhof organises the ini­ pose of. In the reporting year this came to tables and fish are given information tiative and steps in if any lists are left on around 700 computers, laptops and printabout international supply chains, buyer the trees. In this way more than 15,000 ers. In return the charitable organisation expectations and the significance of dolls, picture books, soft toys, toy cars pledges to create one job for every 2,000 measures for improving quality, hygiene and balls find their way into children’s devices received. AfB aims to create 500 and resource efficiency. In this way bedrooms every year. In some outlets a new jobs for people with disabilities in the METRO Cash & Carry makes an essensimilar initiative is held at the start of the coming years. tial contribution to improving the quality school year. For example, in June 2012 of life in Vietnam and at the same time 50 children from the Theresien Kindersecures the high quality standards of und Jugendhilfezentrum in Offenbach products across the entire supply chain. were given gifts. metro group 2012 Our results 3 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 43 Key performance indicators The chapter “Key performance indicators” provides information about METRO GROUP’s sustainability commitment in the form of key performance indicators (KPIs). It includes KPIs relating to the Company’s economic performance and our 4 fields of action. The KPIs reported here are based on data that is gathered We do not have all measured or read-out data for energy conthrough a range of internal systems and central guidelines. The sumption by the Media Markt and Saturn consumer electronics data is usually collected systematically every quarter for each stores which are tenants in shopping malls. For that reason the sales line and country, and in some cases every month. The coverage level of the energy-related KPIs is less than 100 KPIs presented are generally based on data gathered for the percent. Similarly, there is no data relating to the quantities of whole METRO GROUP. For some consumption data, however, paper not procured centrally by Media-Saturn. Corresponextrapolations are needed if only incomplete primary data is dingly, the coverage level of the carbon footprint KPIs is available. In very limited cases no reliable primary data is less than 100 percent. available that we can use to extrapolate consumption. Such consumption is therefore not included in the KPIs. The table To date we have only been able to present the KPIs on workData range provides information about the coverage level related accidents, continuing professional development and of the respective KPI (see p. 44). vocational trainees for employees in Germany. For that reason the coverage level of those is just 36 percent. We present the Some of the figures presented in previous sustainability reports KPIs “continuing professional development” and “vocational differ from those contained in this report. In the reporting year trainees” from the reporting year 2011 onwards. Community we have also been able to retrospectively close data gaps for investments has been included in 2012 for the first time. 2011 and thus further enhance the data quality. We also update data retrospectively if changes to methodology substantially The selling space figures used as a basis for a number of key impact the data reported. For this report we have included performance indicators are average figures for the year. They other companies or consumption levels not previously rec­ differ from the reporting date figures given in the annual report. orded in some KPIs. Wherever possible we present these KPIs with extended coverage, including for previous years. We We are constantly enhancing our data collection techniques to have made it clear where measured or read-out data is not improve transparency and management of our sustainability available for the previous years. commitment. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 44 data range 2010–2012 in % 2010 2011 2012 Economic value (value creation) — 100 100 Community investment — — 100 Suppliers who passed the social audit 100 100 100 Carbon footprint 89 97 97 Energy 96 98 98 Waste 85 100 100 Recycling rate for waste 85 100 100 Water 83 100 100 Refill rate for refrigerants 88 100 100 Share of eco-friendly paper 96 100 100 Own fleet of lorries in Germany 100 100 100 Employees 100 100 100 Gender distribution in managerial positions 100 100 100 Staff turnover 100 100 100 Work-related accidents 39 39 36 Continuing professional development — 39 36 vocational trainees — 39 36 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 45 Company Economic value (value creation) in € million Key performance indicator 2011 2012 Revenue from sales 65,926 66,739 Interest yields 133 123 Rent yields 488 489 Cost of sales –51,924 –52,798 Selling expenses –11,928 –12,393 Administration costs –1,587 –1,664 Write-downs –1,351 –1,636 Personnel expenses –7,286 –7,495 dividend payments –442 –442 Interest expenditure –713 –685 Income taxes –732 –709 Investments (capex total) 2,095 1,437 disinvestments (disposals of tangible assets and sales of companies) 566 817 Indebtedness (if any) 4,075 3,245 EBITdA 3,429 3,014 EBITdA (before special items) 3,651 3,292 EBIT 2,113 1,391 EBIT (before special items) 2,372 1,976 Pre-tax profits 1,473 810 Net profit for the period 741 101 Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders of METRO AG 631 3 Net profit for the period attributable to non-controlling shareholders 110 98 Profit per share in € 1.93 0.01 Sum of cash flows –1,421 1,993 Community investment in € thousand Charitable donations 2,315 Community investments 534 Commercial initiatives 4,790 Total 7,639 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 46 Supply chain and products Social audits relating to own imports by MGB Hong Kong Suppliers who passed the audit BSCI-relevant Thereof with definition: suppliers (active) passed audit Status of BSCI audits of active suppliers for own imports by MGB hong Kong from (in %) countries defined as risk areas by the BSCI. Active suppliers are defined as those who 901 provided METRO GROUP with clothing, shoes, toys and hardware for the EU market 893 868 as of 31 december of the year under review and generated actual sales as of this date. Suppliers who have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliance with the BSCI standard by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third 284 256 party. Alternatively, suppliers may produce a certificate issued by an independent third 333 party attesting to successful compliance with an equivalent social standard system. Explanation: The audit is performed every 3 years. during this period the extent to which the 609 645 68 72 62 535 standard requirements are fulfilled may fluctuate. for that reason future monitoring intervals will be shorter and we will provide regular training for our manufacturers as part of the ILO SCORE (Sustaining Competitive and Responsible Enterprises) project. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Energy and resource management* Climate protection target – greenhouse gas emissions in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalent) per m2 selling space** METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 553 486 520 474 467 429 293 323 315 263 271 255 169 196 185 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Greenhouse gas emissions from METRO GROUP’s stores, administrative units and warehouses (by selling space) included within the climate protection target. Included are the emissions from electricity and heat energy consumption, also counting upstream chains and grid losses, coolant emissions from commercial cooling and air conditioning, fuel consumption by company cars, paper consumption for advertising material and photocopying paper as well as business trips. The calculation is done by METRO PROPERTIES Energy Management (see also the section on data recording, p. 43). Explanation: Given the revised climate protection target, the information in this report is only comparable to that in earlier reports to a limited extent. See the chapter “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. Emissions are declining for most emission sources. The energy-saving measures are having an impact in the energy context, although these need to be carried forward. further successes have also been achieved in terms of paper. despite a reduction of the leakage rate, there has been an increase of emissions in the area of coolants. This is attributable mainly to a shift in the type of coolant leakage towards cooling agents with higher greenhouse gas emissions. *TheKPIs and goals relating to energy and resource management have been audited by the auditing firm KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. The assurance report is part of the online version of the METRO GROUP sustainability report. ** In2011 we altered the scope of the emission sources recorded. for the years before 2011, however, some primary data is not available. The reporting year 2010 therefore does not include emissions from company cars, some upstream chain emissions and network losses from direct and indirect energy sources and coolant losses from air-conditioning equipment. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 47 Energy and resource management Carbon footprint – emission sources included in the climate protection target Scope 1 = heating oil, natural 18% definition: gas, liquefied petroleum gas 23% distribution of the emissions relevant to the “20% by 2020” cli(LPG), refrigerant losses from mate protection target to the respective scope in line with the commercial cooling, refrigerant methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The new climate losses from air conditioning, fuel protection target covers the main emissions that can be influconsumption of company cars, enced by us. emergency power generators Explanation: Scope 2 = electricity conIn 2012 the total quantity of CO2 emissions included in the climate sumption, long-distance protection target amounted to around 4.0 million tonnes, of which heating and cooling Scope 2 made up the largest proportion with 59 percent. Scope 3 = paper consumption for advertising materials and copying paper, business trips, 59% upstream chain emissions and grid losses for all direct and indirect energy sources Carbon footprint – all emission sources recorded Scope 1 = heating oil, natural definition: gas, liquefied petroleum gas 10% distribution of the amount of all CO2 emissions by Scope in line with (LPG), refrigerant losses from the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. commercial cooling, refrigerant losses from air conditioning, fuel Explanation: consumption from our own fleet In 2012 the total quantity of greenhouse gases emitted amounted to of lorries and company cars, around 10.3 million tonnes, of which Scope 3 made up the largest emergency power generators 23% proportion with 67 percent. Scope 2 = electricity consumption, district heating/cooling Scope 3 = all external logistics (incl. shipping and airfreight) paper consumption, business travel, purchased goods and services (not for sale) with the exception of paper, 67% capital assets, upstream chain emissions and grid losses for all direct and indirect energy sources, waste, staff commutes, leased assets Changes in the emissions included in the climate protection target definition: Ermission sources 2011 2012 Change in % Comparison of the area-specific CO2 emissions of the emission Electricity consumption 211.9 205.8 -2.9 sources included in the climate protection target over the base Thermal energy 28.1 27.3 -2.6 year 2011. consumption Explanation: Company cars 7.1 7.2 2.3 The climate protection target was revised in 2012. By 2020 Refrigerant leakage 48.8 50.2 2.8 METRO GROUP intends to reduce its area-specific emissions by 20 percent as compared to the base year 2011. In the first year we Paper consumption 23.4 21.3 -8.6 were able to save as much as 2.5 percent, which means we are Business travel 3.8 3.0 -22.2 within the target range we have set ourselves. for further details 323.1 314.8 -2.5 also see the KPI climate protection target – greenhouse gas emissions in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalent) per m2 selling space. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 48 Energy and resource management Energy – electricity consumption in kwh per m2 selling space/thermal energy consumption in kWh per m2 selling space Thermal energy Electricity METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 563 538 553 528 508 504 447 433 408 416 393 37 371 363 365 362 112 134 130 101 36 84 105 102 82 122 114 56 55 58 429 452 491 468 396 408 324 342 331 289 294 307 310 304 279 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Specific energy consumption of METRO GROUP’s sites by selling space. The energy consumption consists of electricity consumption and heating and cooling energy consumption (heating oil, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas [LPG], emergency power generators and longdistance heating/cooling). Explanation: The specific energy consumption in kWh per m2 selling space was reduced by 3.4 percent as compared to 2011. This is partly due to measures from the energy-saving programmes. Examples are the fitting of glassdoors to refrigerators, changing the lighting system or fitting energy-efficient fans in the refrigerators. Overall the direct energy consumption from heating oil, natural gas and LPG was 1,014,916 MWh. 4,541,648 MWh was attributable to electricity, long-distance heating and cooling (indirect energy consumption). Waste – amount of waste in kg per m2 selling space/recycling rate in % METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 72.5 68.8 65.0 57.9 60.6 50.7 49.6 43.2 43.7 44.7 43.9 45.2 41.9 41.1 32.1 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 76.2 68.8 67.8 86.6 86.3 85.6 76.2 74.8 71.3 62.5 55.8 56.2 37.9 10.7 16.0 definition: Specific amount of waste (sum of waste for disposal, for recycling or heat recovery, hazardous and organic waste) of the METRO GROUP sites by selling space. The recycling rate is calculated from the sum of waste for recycling and heat recovery and the organic waste as compared to the overall quantity of waste. Explanation: The specific amount of waste in 2010 is not comparable to 2011 and 2012 due to the improved data quality. In Asia/Africa in particular quantities had to be extrapolated for 2010. The space-specific amount of waste in 2012 declined slightly as compared to the previous year. however, the proportion of recycled waste also fell somewhat. In absolute terms 637,310 tonnes of waste were produced within METRO GROUP in the reporting year. This can be apportioned as follows: waste for disposal 144,674 tonnes, waste for recycling or heat recovery 358,518 tonnes, organic waste 73,758 tonnes, hazardous waste 60,360 tonnes. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 49 Energy and resource management Water – water consumption in l per m2 selling space METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 2,318 2,251 1,229 1,211 1,732 1,128 797 699 665 523 411 401 398 368 357 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Specific water consumption by METRO GROUP sites by selling space. Explanation: The specific water consumption fell by 5 percent over the previous year. This was achieved, for example, through improved recording of consumption and associated increased greater awareness among employees, identification and eradication of unnecessary water use and adjustments to the keeping of live fish. In absolute terms METRO GROUP consumed 8.5 billion l of fresh water. This is usually procured from the public drinking water supply. The quantity of fresh water roughly corresponds to the quantity of wastewater, which is usually drained into the public sewage system. Refrigerants – refill rate in %* METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 21.0 18.2 17.3 15.3 14.7 15.1 15.4 15.5 15.1 13.4 13.6 12.5 12.5 11.1 11.0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Quantity of refrigerants refilled in existing commercial refrigeration systems by the total filling quantities of the systems, excluding scheduled refrigerant replacement. Refrigerants must be refilled following emissions due to leaks or malfunctions caused by damage to pipes, for example. The Media-Saturn sales line has no commercial refrigeration systems. Explanation: The refill rate fell in Germany and Western Europe. This points to a successful implementation of the “Refrigerants” directive. The lower leakage rate in Asia/Africa was influenced above all by the increased number of new systems. Overall, however, the refill rate is not satisfactory. *The reporting year 2010 does not include METRO LOGISTICS. This was included in the data gathering from 2011 onwards. No primary data is available for the years before 2011. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 50 Energy and resource management Paper – share of eco­friendly paper in % METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 100.0 89.5 92.7 88.0 81.0 79.0 82.2 81.0 75.0 69.7 60.0 59.4 51.1 0.0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: The following paper types are considered eco-friendly: newsprint (containing 65–100 percent recovered paper fibres) and magazine paper (fSC®certified or made of pulp bleached without the use of chlorine and/or with a minimum recovered paper content of 20 percent). The percentage of these types of paper is calculated in relation to the total quantity of paper purchased via METRO GROUP Advertising (MGA). Office paper and paper not procured centrally by the sales lines are not included. The KPI therefore applies to 66 percent of the total paper quantity purchased by METRO GROUP. Explanation: We extended the use of eco-friendly paper in the reporting year. for example, paper for Asia/Africa was purchased centrally for the first time, and this was 100 percent eco-friendly. Overall MGA and the sales lines procured 266,758 tonnes of paper (excluding quantities not procured centrally by Media-Saturn) in the reporting year 2012. In the previous year this was 287,884 tonnes. The proportion of paper made from recovered paper fibres was 58 percent. Own fleet of lorries in Germany Number of Share of Euro 5 diesel fuel per lorries lorries in % 100 km in l 170 94.9 94.8 156 155 67.1 32.04 32.36 32.24 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Share of vehicles among the entire fleet of own company lorries of METRO LOGISTICS Germany Gmbh (MGL) in Germany compliant with the European emission standard and the average diesel consumption per 100 kilometres driven. Explanation: The share of lorries that satisfy the Euro 5 emission standard and the average diesel consumption remained constant in the reporting year. The planned expansion and replacement of the fleet with Euro 6 lorries has had to be postponed due to delivery issues with the suppliers. The total Groupwide consumption of fuel for the own fleet of lorries and company cars was 56,885,584 litres in the reporting year. This corresponds to an energy consumption of 2,014,703 GJ. The kilometres driven are only available as reliable figures for Germany. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 51 Employees and social affairs Employees METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 249,953 252,258 248,637 91,189 90,260 94,169 89,293 89,149 90,732 50,675 52,746 48,090 17,829 16,194 20,522 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 43.9 44.4 44.7 39.3 39.2 39.3 53.0 52.9 53.2 40.8 42.1 42.2 58.8 59.7 59.8 56.1 55.6 55.3 60.7 60.8 60.7 47.0 47.1 46.8 59.2 57.9 57.8 41.2 40.3 40.2 Share of men in % Share of women in % definition: full-time employees, average for the year, excluding trainees. Part­time rate in % METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 44.5 44.3 44.5 36.3 36.5 37.0 28.6 28.2 27.5 8.0 8.7 7.6 6.3 4.2 4.3 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Share of part-time employees, average for the year, excluding trainees. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 52 Employees and social affairs Employees by age group in % < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2012 (2011) METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 50.8 (51.3) 53.9 (52.9) 54.6 (53.3) 1.9 (1.9) 52.7 (52.2) 34.3 (35.7) 38.0 (39.8) 31.7 (32.9) 46.4 (47.5) 26.5 (25.2) 22.6 (23.5) 15.5 (14.9) 11.8 (11.4) 7.4 (6.9) 51.7 (50.6) definition: distribution of employees by age group, average for the year, including trainees. Number of nationalities METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 179 179 175 135 137 137 137 140 134 57 51 49 42 46 45 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Number of different nationalities among our employees, excluding trainees. As of closing date (31 december). METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 53 Employees and social affairs Gender distribution in managerial positions in % Share of men Share of women METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 67.1 67.2 66.0 81.4 80.8 80.3 84.9 79.8 79.0 85.1 84.7 87.0 87.4 87.6 81.9 32.9 32.8 34.0 18.6 19.2 19.7 18.1 20.2 21.0 14.9 15.1 15.3 13.0 12.6 12.4 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Managerial positions are those in levels 1–3 (Management Board, General Management, divisional Management, departmental Management and Store Management). The proportion of male and female employees in these positions is calculated (per capita as of 31 december). Explanation: The proportion of women in managerial positions rose once again in the reporting year. METRO GROUP has pledged to increase the percentage of women to 25 percent worldwide by the end of 2015. Managerial positions by age group in % < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2012 (2011) METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 1.9 (1.9) 1.1 (1.1) 1.0 (1.7) 7.5 (7.5) 4.1 (4.0) 9.5 (9.0) 2.6 (1.6) 22.0 (20.6) 30.9 (28.3) 22.1 (20.6) 76.1 (77.5) 68.0 (70.6) 76.9 (77.7) 88.4 (88.5) 87.9 (89.4) definition: distribution of managerial positions by age group. As of closing date (31 december). METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 54 Employees and social affairs Number of nationalities in managerial positions METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 60 58 54 36 35 31 30 29 31 29 29 29 26 22 23 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Number of different nationalities among our managerial staff. As of closing date (31 december). Staff turnover by region and gender in % Share of men Share of women METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 26.8 27.1 23.5 24.7 23.0 23.0 18.0 17.9 18.5 19.2 18.3 16.6 34.8 34.9 24.9 20.8 30.2 22.6 22.0 21.7 8.3 8.5 8.1 19.3 21.0 19.5 19.7 24.5 26.4 7.1 10.8 6.8 10.1 9.4 19.2 21.2 21.8 23.5 14.2 15.0 14.9 17.7 17.7 16.9 7.6 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Staff turnover is defined as all employees leaving, i.e. those who retire, die or resign/are dismissed. The staff turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. All employees currently on permanent contracts are included. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 55 Employees and social affairs Staff turnover by region and age group in % < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2012 (2011) METRO GROUP Germany Western Europe Eastern Europe Asia/Africa (excl. Germany) 9.3 (9.8) 8.0 (9.2) 7.4 (7.7) 18.1 (19.9) 17.7 (8.7) 10.2 (10.8) 11.7 (11.8) 6.0 (6.4) 18.1 (18.3) 31.5 (32.7) 42.4 (39.7) 37.9 (39.0) 15.4 (14.1) 35.5 (34.6) 18.1 (18.3) definition: Employees leaving due to retirement, death or resignation/dismissal, broken down by age and region. The staff turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. Work­related accidents Continuing professional development in Germany* per 1,000 employees Germany Number of CPd Average CPd days per employee expenditure in € per year per employee per year 22.8 23.1 18.4 737.0 723.4 691.5 0.8 1.1 0.9 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: definition: Number of reportable work-related accidents per 1.000 Training (hygiene, occupational safety, etc.) and courses focusing on ongoing employees as compared to the number of full-time emoperations plus medium-/long-term CPd opportunities that are offered with a ployees, average for the year. view to enhancing the course of business. Explanation: Because of the widely varying definitions of “work-reExplanation: lated accident” in the countries in which METRO GROUP for METRO GROUP, CPd is important from the perspective of a sustainable operates, we are currently only reporting on this KPI for staffing policy. however, to date we have only been able to collate this KPI for Germany. We are working on a Group-wide KPI. Germany. * Excluding Media Markt and Saturn METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 56 Employees and social affairs Vocational trainees Germany Percentage of Thereof Thereof trainees success rate hiring rate in % in % 7,894 7,176 6,953 96.5 96.4 95.2 2010 8.4 64.3 61.1 61.4 2011 7.9 2012 7.8 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 definition: Based on the definition issued by the German federal Statistical Office, trainees are people completing vocational training to qualify in a recognised occupation as per the German vocational Training Act (Berufsbildungsgesetz). Explanation: due to the widely varying definitions of “traineeship” we are currently only reporting on this KPI for Germany. Social policies and stakeholder dialogue This report includes KPIs for the “social policies and stakeholder dialogue” field of action for the first time. Evaluation in relevant sustainability indices and rankings Index/ranking Current evaluation dow Jones Sustainability Index (dJSI) 63 points Oekom Corporate Rating Prime status rating C+ disclosure score 84 Performance Band C Listed in the Carbon disclosure Leadership Index Carbon disclosure Project (CdP) Germany, Austria, Switzerland forest footprint disclosure Above sector average in 10 out of 12 segments Participating. There is no individual assessment, just an overall assessment of CdP Water disclosure the input. Explanation: As part of our stakeholder dialogue we notify the capital market about our sustainability management. In this way we obtain an evaluation of our sustainability activities from an independent third party. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 57 METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint New climate protection target considerably longer transport routes are the norm. We thereIn 2012, the METRO GROUP Sustainability Board adopted a new fore no longer include them in the new climate protection target. climate protection target: we now plan to reduce our greenAs our new target concentrates on emissions that are fundahouse gas emissions per square metre of selling space by mental for us as a retail and wholesale company, and more 20 percent by 2020. The basis for this calculation is our importantly, we are able to directly influence, we are concurlevel of emissions as measured in 2011. In terms of CO2 equivarently also able to improve the management of our climatelents, this means specifically: reducing our emissions from related activities. The new climate protection target includes the current level of 323 kilograms of CO2 equivalents per year to emissions from 258 kilograms of CO2 equivalents. the consumption of electricity, thermal energy, paper and refrigerant losses for commercial refrigeration and air METRO GROUP has been publishing its carbon footprint since conditioning, 2008. It includes all the fundamental climate-damaging greenfuel consumption from company cars and emergency power house gas emissions that we either directly or indirectly cause generators as well as as part of our business activities. Our carbon footprint reporting business travel. is the basis for our goal of reducing our impact on the climate as These make up almost 40 percent of the total emissions detailed much as possible. In 2011, we further professionalised our in the carbon footprint. carbon footprint reporting and expanded it in line with the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate Methodology and scope Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard of the Our reporting is based on the standards laid down in the CorpoGreenhouse Gas Protocol. We also added a number of extra rate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the Corporate reports on additional emission sources. Therefore, it was Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard of the also necessary to update the climate protection target that Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The emissions from all sales lines had been in place since 2008.* and service companies as well as the administration buildings are taken into account. In total, we include 19 different emission We are only able to represent the years before 2011 to a limited sources (see graphic on p. 58). Using the Group-wide Carbon extent in our extended reporting. This is mainly because we Intelligence System (introduced in 2011) we record the energy have no data from that period for the emissions sources that consumption and other key environmental effects in almost all have been added since then. For that reason we have defined stores and department stores, administration buildings and 2011 as the base year for the new climate protection target. warehouses. As more than 95 percent of the emissions in Scope Additionally, our previous climate protection target also 1 and Scope 2 relate to gathered data, the data quality is very included emission sources such as logistics. Emissions from good. Less than 5 percent involves extrapolations. The overall logistics are increasing at a disproportionate rate due to our effect of all fundamental greenhouse gas emissions is reported expansion into countries such as China and Russia, where in the form CO2 equivalents. *The climate protection target from 2008 planned a 15 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per square metre of selling space by 2015 in comparison with 2006. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Key Performance indicators p. 58 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has been auditing sions under the new climate protection target yet further. We and certifying our carbon footprint since 2011. In addition, we lowered the emissions per square metre of selling space by have also been publishing our climate protection strategy and over 8 kilograms of CO2 equivalents (2.5 percent) over 2011. emission levels as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project Measures from the energy-saving programmes introduced (CDP) since 2006. The aim of the independent organisation of in 2011, for instance, helped to reduce energy-related emisthe same name is to create transparency in the way compasions by just under 7 kilograms per square metre of selling nies report climate-relevant data. space. We achieved savings of a further 2 kilograms by reducing paper consumption. We still see potential for further Developments in the reporting year optimisation in the level of emissions caused by leakages of In 2011, METRO GROUP directly and indirectly caused 10.4 refrigerants. Here the emissions per square metre of selling million tonnes of CO 2 equivalents. In 2012, the level of these space increased by over a kilogram. Over the next few years, emissions fell to 10.3 million tonnes. That corresponds to a we intend to achieve a significant reduction in loss of refrigerants. reduction of 1.4 percent. We were able to reduce the emisWe are also looking to use natural refrigerants more frequently. METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint and climate protection target Scope 1 Heating oil, natural gas, LPG, company cars, emergency power generators, refrigerant losses from commercial cooling and air-conditioning,. own fleet of lorries. Scope 2 Electricity consumption District heating and cooling Climate protection target 2020 –20% Scope 3 Paper consumption, business travel, upstream emissions and grid losses for all Emission sources covered by the climate direct and indirect energy sources. protection target All external logistics Emission sources not covered by the climate Purchased goods and services protection target (with the exception of paper) Capital assets Waste Staff commutes Leased assets. 2011 2020 Carbon footprint METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 59 Goals Within each of our focused fields of action, we have set specific goals for the continuous improvement of our sustainability efforts – including targeted measures for achieving these goals. The current status of these goals and their associated measures is indicated in the following table. degree of goal achievement Measure Measure Measure Measure New goal Goal not yet Goal Goal not not yet started started ongoing concluded implemented reached reached reached Company Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures COMPLIANCE METRO GROUP continuously Implementation of the comprehensive communication strategy ORGANISATION ANd improves the effectiveness of its to educate employees by means of Group-wide awareness MANAGEMENT compliance management system. campaigns in various formats (e.g. Compliance day), reports in newsletters, the intranet and employee magazines, etc.; to be continued in 2013. Introduction of Group-wide anti-corruption guidelines and enhancement of the Group-wide competition law compliance programme by the addition of extensive training programmes. Implementation of an internal control system to manage compliance risks within operational processes, including systematic checks, a dual-control principle and also the separation of functions. All processes of phase 1 have been completed, the processes of phase 2 are to be completed in 2013. Group-wide online survey of level 1, 2 and 3 managers to measure the progress of compliance at METRO GROUP. The results are reported to the Management Board and included in the Compliance Newsletter. The survey was conducted in 2012. Compliance check of business partners (based on compliance questionnaire) implemented; questionnaires collected from more than 15,000 suppliers/service providers; assessment to be completed in 2013. E-training platform for compliance training courses implemented in half of all METRO GROUP countries (first modules: anti-corruption and antitrust). METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 60 Company Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures RISK MANAGEMENT Establishment of the integration of Systematic inclusion of sustainability criteria that are critical sustainability criteria into the risk to METRO GROUP into the risk management system. Since the management system by 2012. beginning of 2012, this has been laid down in a risk management guideline. As of 2012, relevant sustainability-related risks are part of the risk inventory. Field of action: supply chain and products Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures CONSERvATION OF METRO GROUP continues to refine development of sales line-specific implementation guidelines RESOURCES / its strategy on sustainable fishing. for METRO GROUP’s sustainable fishing purchasing policy. FOOd SAFETY / SUSTAINABLE All METRO Cash & Carry countries must develop their own impleSOURCING mentation plan for a sustainable fish strategy by May 2013. All METRO Cash & Carry countries must implement a specific plan for sustainable fish-buying practices by 2015. Targeted external and internal communication to raise awareness of sustainable fishing and fish products as part of the implementation of the fish strategy by 2015. METRO GROUP develops and METRO GROUP is to develop a general purchasing policy coverimplements a general purchasing important resources by december 2013. ing policy covering important resources. METRO GROUP initiates and Based on the project steps realised so far (see chapter “Supply supports the development of chain and products”), a pilot project is to be implemented in the an international, intersectoral fish category by the middle of 2014. and product-spanning technical solution for traceability. METRO GROUP is expanding its In March 2011, a UNIdO partnership project with 120 own-brand supplier training programme suppliers of METRO Cash & Carry and Real was launched in Russia. in developing and emerging Pilot project with 17 suppliers concluded in 2012. Plans for countries. further project implementation developed. In 2011, a UNIdO partnership project with own-brand suppliers of METRO Cash & Carry was launched in India. Pilot project with 10 suppliers concluded. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 61 Field of action: supply chain and products Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures CONSERvATION OF In 2011, an IfC partnership project with suppliers of METRO RESOURCES / Cash & Carry was launched in Ukraine. FOOd SAFETY / 7 training workshops for 41 METRO suppliers conducted. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING In 2012, an IfC partnership pilot project with suppliers of METRO Cash & Carry was launched in Kazakhstan; it will run until March 2013. The Star farm programme of METRO Cash & Carry was further expanded in 2010. Star farm in Pakistan started in 2011. In future, training programmes will be offered by Star farm on a regular basis. CONSERvATION Conversion of several Real ownAn agreement was concluded with A.I.S.E. in 2011. Individual OF RESOURCES / brand cleaning agents to A.I.S.E. cleaning agents are being converted. dESIGN OF certification. PROdUCT RANGE Real Germany contributes to the from 2011, conversion of several Real own-brand Tetra Pak/ development of more sustainable combiblock packaging materials to the forest Stewardship packaging. Council® standard. METRO GROUP contributes to Implementation of a METRO GROUP packaging policy by sustainable packaging. december 2013. INTERNATIONAL METRO GROUP intensifies its Inclusion of all nonfood own-brand suppliers in a BSCI or LABOUR commitment to fair working equivalent social standard system by 2015 if the final product is STANdARdS / conditions among its suppliers. produced in a risk country (definition of risk country according SOCIAL STANdARdS to BSCI). Project starts with a pilot project in Germany. Implementation of internal procedures to monitor and document social standards throughout the entire supply chain has been improved by the introduction of an internal IT system (Quality Link). Survey of food suppliers regarding compliance with BSCI or equivalent social standard systems by december 2013. development of a METRO GROUP purchasing policy for fair working conditions by december 2013. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 62 Field of action: energy and resource management Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures CLIMATE Improvement of data quality by upIntroduction of a new carbon emission measuring and calculation PROTECTION / grading primary-data coverage and system with a shortening of reporting times in 2011 and 2012. RESOURCE increasing the quality of primary Carbon Intelligence System implemented. MANAGEMENT data for targeted management and increased planning security by the data collected at store level. end of 2013. METRO GROUP will reduce its GhG Continuation of “low-hanging fruit programme” as “Energyemissions by 20 percent from Saving Programme”; additional Energy Awareness Programme 323 kg/m2 in 2011 to 258 kg/m2 from 2013. in 2020. Introduction of new reduction target: for details refer to chapter “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. METRO GROUP will reduce its GhG Continuation of “low-hanging fruit programme” as “Energyemissions caused by electricity Saving Programme”; additional Energy Awareness Programme consumption by 21 percent by 2020 from 2013. compared to 2011. Introduction of new reduction target: for details refer to chapter “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. METRO GROUP will reduce its Continuation of “low-hanging fruit programme” as “EnergyGhG emissions caused by heating Saving Programme”; additional Energy Awareness Programme energy consumption by 10 percent from 2013. by 2020 compared to 2011. Introduction of new reduction target: for details refer to chapter “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. METRO GROUP continues to Expansion of collection and monitoring of energy consumption improve its energy management. with the help of smart metering systems. By the end of 2012, 95 percent of stores around the world were equipped with such systems. Raising the level of qualifications and responsibilities of employees through training courses. Regular trainings of in-house technicians and annual energy checks. Training courses for METRO Energy Management System almost finished. Energy Awareness Programme starting 2013. development of uniform standards for new and remodelled buildings. Standard Operating Procedure was published in february 2013. Roll-out of successful efficiency measures. Measures in 2012 including replacement of standard refrigerator fans with energy-efficient eco-fans. In 2013, further energy-saving measures, e.g. LEd lighting, air curtains. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 63 Field of action: energy and resource management Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures CLIMATE Complete installation of the By the end of 2012, 95 percent of stores around the world were PROTECTION / METRO GROUP Energy Manageequipped with this system. RESOURCE ment System (> 95 percent) in MANAGEMENT 2012. Beginning in 2012, review of every development of a project plan including work instructions. new store opening regarding the In 2013, integration in the standard operating procedure for possibility of using a photovoltaic construction and engineering (METRO Cash & Carry). system. Revision of energy primer in 2012. Content compiled and integrated into Energy Awareness Programme. from 2015, use of natural refrigReview of technical feasibility. erants in the cooling systems of Check in pilot countries. every new store. Conversion of pilot units. 5 pilot stores in 2012. Conducting of life cycle analyses. Lifetime maintenance and repair, refill and costs analysis. METRO GROUP will reduce Measures are not yet finally assessed and will be reported in its GhG emissions caused by next progress report. refrigerants by 29 percent by 2020 Introduction of new reduction target: for details refer to chapter compared to 2011. “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. from 2012, expansion of e-mobility Creation of loading infrastructure at the düsseldorf location. at METRO GROUP in Germany. 5 charging stations installed in 2012. Purchase of electric vehicles (initially 2 e-vehicles). Installation of charging stations at new stores built between 2012 and 2015. Participation in a tender process for e-mobility in German showcase projects. By the end of 2011, METRO GROUP By the end of 2012, 95 percent of trucks in Germany meet the upgrades its fleet of trucks in Euro 5 standard. Because of the introduction of Euro 6 we Germany to meet the Euro 5 changed to this standard. however, we have had to postpone the standard at the very least. investment until 2013 because of availability problems. METRO GROUP will reduce the Rolling environmental training courses help drivers to reduce environmental impact of logistics fuel consumption. All drivers undergo this training at least once. with programmes designed to In addition, drivers will be instructed once a year. change drivers’ behaviour. METRO GROUP will reduce its Measures are not yet finally assessed and will be reported in GhG emissions caused by comnext progress report. pany cars by 10 percent by 2020 Introduction of new reduction target: for details refer to chapter compared to 2011. “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 64 Field of action: energy and resource management Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures CLIMATE METRO GROUP continues to im80 percent of paper for advertising material is environmentally PROTECTION / plement its environmental guideoptimised. RESOURCE lines covering paper purchased MANAGEMENT for advertising material. Since 2008, Real Germany has reduced paper consumption by 11 percent by reducing the size of its advertising flyers. METRO GROUP will reduce the Measures are not yet finally assessed and will be reported in GhG emissions caused by paper next progress report. consumption by 11 percent by Introduction of new reduction target: for details refer to chapter 2020 compared to 2011. “METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint”. Field of action: employees and social affairs Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures OCCUPATIONAL METRO GROUP will expand the Alignment of h&S standards of METRO GROUP by setting HEALTH ANd key figures and reporting systems uniform KPIs and providing more guidance and standards, prefSAFETY on health and safety (h&S) for erably linked to the Occupational health and Safety Assessment METRO GROUP by the end of 2013. Series (OhSAS) 18002. As part of this measure, employee health programmes and occupational safety in stores and warehouses will be checked and optimised. SUSTAINABILITY METRO GROUP will raise development of a concept and accompanying action plan in the AWARENESS awareness of sustainability and first half of 2013 to raise employees’ awareness of sustainability corporate social responsibility and to further embed sustainability in daily business processes throughout the Company. and decisions. dIvERSITY METRO GROUP will continuously Intensification of human resource marketing with a special increase the number of women in focus on the target group of women and increased consideration managerial positions. of women in managerial development activities and successor planning. The following measures were concluded in 2011 and 2012: Testimonial Campaign “Women in Executive Positions” in 2011 focusing on diversity, women and international career opportunities at METRO GROUP. foundation of employee network “Women” in 2012 with Management Board commitment. As part of the dAX 30 voluntary commitment, the proportion of women in managerial positions (METRO managerial levels 1–3) is to be increased to 20 percent by the end of 2013 and to 25 percent by the end of 2015. In 2012, the proportion was 19.7 percent. With active demographic manageExpansion of the qualification and promotion programmes as ment, METRO GROUP will syswell as the development of age-appropriate working conditions, tematically develop the strengths including preventative measures. of its diverse workforce. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 65 Field of action: employees and social affairs Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures EMPLOYEE METRO GROUP will expand its development of new training modules in the areas of customer RETENTION further education activities for management, sales and procurement as well as expansion of employees. e-training modules. METRO GROUP will further expand In 2012, the decision was made to realign the development its professional development Centre approach with the cultural change initiative – in line with programmes for employees. METRO Cash & Carry’s new Guiding Principles. After completion of this alignment process, the activities of the development Centre will be resumed. Career development for employees with help of individual development plans. METRO GROUP will continuously Annual employee survey to measure employee motivation. improve employee motivation in Increase in employee motivation from 37 percent in 2010 to order to increase customer satis70 percent in 2012. faction and business success. Preparation of action plans by employee teams to increase employee motivation. Based on the results of the survey conducted in 2011, this goal was accomplished in 2012 with more than 13,000 action plans prepared by the teams. FAIR WORKING METRO GROUP will increase its A deepening of the work relationship with METRO GROUP’s CONdITIONS ANd commitment to fair working condi“Euro-forum” European works council. SOCIAL tions and social partnership. PARTNERSHIP Continued partnership with the international union organisation UNI Global Commerce. METRO GROUP has intensified its commitment to fair working conditions and social partnership. In 2012, METRO GROUP ran a self-assessment in all countries, and a flyer summarising the key facts on fair working conditions was distributed throughout the Company. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Goals p. 66 Field of action: social policies and stakeholder dialogue Status Status Theme Goals goal Measures measures CORPORATE Assumption of corporate social Increased support for the Tafel and international food bank CITIZENSHIP responsibility by donating money movement by internally addressing sales countries in an effort and food while reducing food to expand or initiate such activities. waste. The “Care & Share” programme at METRO Cash & Carry was successfully rolled out in 22 countries in 2011 and expanded to 25 countries in 2012; in 2013 it will be expanded to 27 countries. STAKEHOLdER METRO GROUP conducts dialogue METRO GROUP representatives will meet with selected dIALOGUE with experts and stakeholders on experts at least once a year to discuss issues related to the subjects of its fields of action. global challenges that have been identified as relevant for the Company’s business. Increase in the number of developRegular meetings with development organisations such as ment or cooperation partnerships. UNIdO, GIZ, Idh (dutch sustainable trade initiative), IfC and KfW and with cooperation partners like Bayer CropScience. Meetings in 2012: UNIdO: European development days Brussels; UN System Private Sector focal Points Meeting. GIZ: regular meetings and exchange as part of dIAE (German Initiative on Agriculture and Nutrition). Idh: meetings and exchange in order to set up a cooperation on ASC products (Aquaculture Stewardship Council). IfC: exchange on roll-out of cooperation in Ukraine and Kazakhstan. With almost all partners: exchange and cooperation in the context of WEf (World Economic forum). Establishment of 79 customer Quarterly meetings of 10 to 15 Real customers from various age advisory councils at Real Germany groups to discuss the improvement potential of local stores. in 2011. Expansion to 154 councils In 2012, the number of customer advisory councils already in 2012 and 229 in 2013. exceeded 220, so this goal is seen as reached. METRO GROUP promotes cusIn line with the Retail forum Agreement on Waste: each sales tomer awareness regarding waste line to conduct awareness-raising campaign with respect to its prevention. specific product portfolio by June 2014. METRO Cash & Carry in Germany is conducting an initiative in collaboration with the German federal Ministery of food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection to educate the consumers about best-before dates. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 p. 67 United Nations Global Compact By joining the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility – METRO GROUP is emphasising the fact that sustainability is an integral part of its corporate strategy, and making its long-standing commitment to responsible and ethically correct business activities even more transparent. With this Communication on Progress (COP) , METRO GROUP is complying with its obligation to disclose which guidelines and measures are improving its performance in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. The COP also shows how METRO GROUP ensures that the 10 core principles of the Global Compact are respected – not only today, but also in future stra­ tegic decisions as well as in day-to-day work. düsseldorf, MARCH 2013 Olaf Koch Ch airm A n of the M anagement Board of ME TRO Ag United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 The following table contains sample commitments and management systems that aid compliance with the 10 principles, measures we have taken and results achieved in the 2012 reporting period. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 p. 68 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Responsibilities and Principle management systems Measures in 2012 Performances 2012 Human rights and labour standards Principle 1: Support of METRO GROUP Corporate Support of nonfood suppliers 62 percent of BSCI-relevant suphuman rights Principles for own imports* through MGB pliers passed the BSCI social audit Principle 2: Prevention Hong Kong in the implementation →  See key performance indicators METRO GROUP Business Principles of the BSCI standard (Business of human rights violations section “Supply chain and prod­ Guideline on Antidiscrimination Social Compliance Initiative) or an ucts” p. 46 Principle 3: Protection equivalent social standard system, of the freedom of association provided that the imported goods METRO GROUP principles on fair Implementation of internal and the right to collective were manufactured in countries working conditions and on social processes in the monitoring and bargaining categorised as risk areas by the partnership documentation of social standard Principle 4: Elimination BSCI (*Suppliers who provided systems along the entire supply of all forms of forced and International standards along the METRO GROUP with clothing, shoes, chain through the introduction of compulsory labour supply chain (BSCI) toys and hard goods for the EU marsystematic IT support (Quality Link) Principle 5: Abolition of ket in the corresponding year) improved ILO (International Labour Organizachild labour tion) Declaration on Fundamental After signing the “Charta der Proportion of women in managePrinciple 6: Elimination Principles and Rights at Work Vielfalt” (Diversity charter) in 2007, ment positions increased to 19.7 of discrimination embedded in different corporate membership of the organisation of percent guidelines the same name in 2012 → See key performance indicators Social standards clause in supplier DAX 30 voluntary commitment to section “Employees and social contracts increasing the proportion of women affairs” p. 51–56 in management positions (METRO OECD Guidelines for Multinational In two-thirds of countries collective management levels 1–3) Enterprises embedded in different labour agreements on the sector corporate guidelines Initiation of the “Frauen” (Women) or company level, depending on the employee network with a corsales line, are already applicable responding commitment of the or currently being prepared. These Management Board collective labour agreements are the result of social dialogue between Involvement in the area of inclusion, local management representatives cf. chapter “Employees and social and 1 or more of the local employee affairs” representative bodies, for example the labour unions. Commitment to fair working conditions and social partnership deepened, self-evaluation of METRO GROUP performed in all countries, Group-wide information via brochure on the key facts on fair working conditions Continued social dialogue with international union organisation UNI Global Commerce at worldwide level Participation in the UNI Global METRO Alliance Meeting in Berlin, where issues discussed included the commitment to fair working conditions and social partnership → See chapter “Employees and social affairs”, 34–37 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 p. 69 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Responsibilities and Principle management systems Measures 2012 Performances 2012 Environmental protection Principle 7: Precaution­ METRO GROUP Corporate Revision and raising of climate Greenhouse gas emissions reduced ary environmental protection ­Principles protection target by 2.5 percent per square metre of Principle 8: Greater selling space as compared to the METRO GROUP Environmental Expansion of smart metering sys­ previous year environmental responsibility Guidelines tems for collection and monitoring Principle 9: Diffusion of energy consumption Smart metering systems imple­ of environmentally friendly Energy and environmental manage­ mented in more than 95 percent of technologies ment systems Implementation of energy-saving all sales locations worldwide measures (including the “energyPurchasing guidelines, for example saving programme”) Energy consumption per square fish purchasing policy metre of selling space lowered by Implementation of the fish 3.4 percent as compared to 2011 International standards along the purchasing policy, preparation of supply chain (GLOBALG.A.P., IFS) further purchasing guidelines Paper consumption reduced by The Consumer Goods Forum Board 7 percent in absolute terms as Committee functions (sustainable compared to the previous year Resolution on Deforestation consumption, ocean protection, etc.) The Consumer Goods Forum METRO GROUP qualified for the Active support of ASC (Aquaculture CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Board Resolution on Sustainable Stewardship Council) Refrigeration Index for the German-speaking Voluntary taking back of waste elec­ countries Retail Forum Agreement on Waste tronic goods at Media-Saturn Energy management of Round Table on Sustainable Palm Cooperation of Media-Saturn with METRO PROPERTIES Energy Oil (RSPO) Utopia, Germany’s largest sus­ Management GmbH recertified tainability portal, and klima:aktiv according to ISO 50001 and the en­ in Austria to publicise energyvironmental management systems saving devices at METRO Cash & Carry Denmark recertified according to ISO 14001 Participation in the free taking back of LED and energy-saving bulbs in BREEAM certificate secured for stores of Real Germany the M1 Shopping Centre managed by METRO PROPERTIES in Poznań, Use of natural refrigerants such as Poland CO2 or ammonia in 5 further stores → See chapter “Energy and resource management”, p. 30–33 Participation in the Forest Footprint → See key performance indicators Disclosure section “Energy and resource Installation of charging stations management”, p. 46–50 at various locations to promote Sustainable Cocoa Forum electric mobility co-founded by Real Range of ecologically and socially certified products extended (for example GOTS products under the umbrella label of “natürlich GALERIA” (naturally GALERIA) at Galeria Kaufhof, textile products from “Cotton made in Africa” at Real) Partnership programmes for the sustainable production of food in cooperation with Bayer CropScience implemented in 12 countries → See chapter “Supply chain and products”, 26–29 METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 p. 70 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Responsibilities and Principle management systems Measures in 2012 Performances 2012 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Anti-corMETRO GROUP Corporate Second Group-wide Compliance O ver 14,000 employees from all ruption measures Principles Day held hier­­archy levels across the Group received training on the anti-corrupMETRO GROUP Business PrinIntroduction of Group-wide antition guidelines by the end of 2012. ciples corruption guidelines and enhanceThis corresponds to over 80 percent ment of the Group-wide competition of the entire target group. OECD Guidelines for Multinational law compliance programme with Enterprises embedded in different extensive training programmes E-training modules on the pre­ corporate guidelines vention of corruption being attended Compulsory face-to-face train­­ing by employees from 13 national sessions (up to 2.5 hours) for companies the relevant employees of → S  ee chapter “Responsible corpo­ METRO GROUP focusing on anticorruption guidelines for dealing rate governance”, p. 24 → S  ee chapter “Social policies and with officials/government agencies and business partners stakeholder dialogue”, 38–41 Implementation of an internal control system to manage compliance risks within operational processes, including systemic controls, dualcontrol principle and separation of functions Group-wide survey among man­ agers on levels 1, 2 and 3 to measure the progress of compliance, reported to the Management Board and included in the Compliance Newsletter METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 71 Gri G3 content inDex This sustainability report is based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For the first time METRO GROUP is reporting in line with the requirements of version 3.1 of the G3 guidelines, which represents a further step towards enhancing the transparency of the Company’s sustainability commitment. The report satisfies the requirements of application level B. The following table refers to information in METRO AG’s sustainability report and annual report in respect of indicators and profile. Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the Management Board. Completely [SR 2012 // Letter from the Management Board: pp. 1-2] [SR 2012 // Global challenges – corporate engagement: pp. 3-12] 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. Completely [SR 2012 // Letter from the Management Board: pp. 1-2] [SR 2012 // Global challenges – corporate engagement: pp. 3-12] [SR 2012 // Our sustainability vision: pp. 18-19] [SR 2012 // Goals: pp. 59-66] 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s structure: p. 17] [AR 2012 // Information: p. 305] 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s structure: p. 17] [AR 2012 // Strategic Positioning of METRO GROUP: pp. 41-53] [AR 2012 // Group structure: p. 83] 2.3 Structure of the organisation. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s structure: p. 17] [AR 2012 // Group structure: p. 82] 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Completely [AR 2012 // Strategic positioning of METRO GROUP: p. 41] 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates. Completely [AR 2012 // Group structure: p. 84] 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Completely [AR 2012 // METRO shares: p. 59] 2.7 Markets served. Completely [AR 2012 // Group structure: pp. 83-84] 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Completely [AR 2012 // Employees: p. 111] [AR 2012 // Strategic positioning of METRO GROUP: pp. 41-53] [AR 2012 // Overview of the financial year 2012 and forecast: p. 81] [AR 2012 // Earnings position: pp. 100-101] 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. Completely [AR 2012 // Letter to the shareholders: p. 3] [AR 2012 // Strategic positioning of METRO GROUP: pp. 41-53] [AR 2012 // Group structure: p. 82] 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Completely [SR 2012 // Review: pp. 14-15] [AR 2012 // Strategic positioning of METRO GROUP: Real: p. 46] [AR 2012 // METRO shares: p. 60] [AR 2012 // Employees: p. 116] [AR 2012 // Supplementary and forecast report: pp. 167-168] 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period. Completely [SR 2012 // Imprint: p. 78] METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 72 Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure 3.2 Publishing date of previous report. Completely The progress report 2011 was published on 23/5/2012 and the last sustainability report on 23/11/2010. 3.3 Reporting cycle. Completely A sustainability report or a progress report is published once a year. 3.4 Contact point for the report or its contents. Completely [SR 2012 // Imprint: p. 78] 3.5 Process for defining report content. Completely [SR 2012 // Global challenges – corporate engagement: pp. 3-12] [SR 2012 // Our sustainability management: pp. 20] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] [SR 2012 // Energy and resource management: pp. 30-33] [SR 2012 // Employees and social affairs: pp. 34-37] [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: pp. 38-41] 3.6 Boundary of the report. Completely [SR 2012 // Imprint: p. 78] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: pp. 43-56] [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s carbon foot print: pp. 57-58] 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s carbon foot print: pp. 57-58] 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and subsidiaries. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s structure: p. 17] [AR 2012 // Group structure: p. 82] 3.9 data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: pp. 43-56] [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s carbon foot print: pp. 57-58] 3.10 Effect of restatements of information provided in earlier reports. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: pp. 43-56] [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s carbon foot print: pp. 57-58] 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: pp. 43-56] 3.12 GRI Content Index. Completely [SR 2012 // GRI G3 Content index: pp. 71-77] 3.13 External assurance for the report. Completely [SR 2012 // Imprint: p. 78] Certification by the independent auditor 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation. Completely [SR 2012 // Our sustainability management: pp. 20-21] [AR 2012 // Group structure: p. 82] [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 76] [AR 2012 // Sustainability management: p. 121] 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Completely [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 76] an executive officer. [AR 2012 // Corporate Boards of METRO AG and their mandates: pp. 257-261] 4.3 Independent members of the highest governance body. Completely [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 76] [AR 2012 // Corporate Boards of METRO AG and their mandates: pp. 257-261] 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations or direction to the Completely [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 78] highest governance body. [AR 2012 // Report of the Supervisory Board: p. 65] [AR 2012 // Sustainability management: p. 121] 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the governance Completely [AR 2012 // Remuneration report: pp. 134-141] body and the organisation’s performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Completely [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 77] conflicts of interests are avoided. 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest govCompletely [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 76] ernance body. [AR 2012 // Corporate Boards of METRO AG and their mandates: pp. 257-261] 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Completely [AR 2012 // Employees: p. 117] conduct and principles. [AR 2012 // Sustainability management: p. 122] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Completely [SR 2012 // Our sustainability management: pp. 20-21] organisation’s identification and management of sustainability [AR 2012 // Corporate governance report: p. 77] performance. [AR 2012 // Sustainability report: p. 121] [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 73 Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance body’s own perCompletely [AR 2012 // Report from the Supervisory Board: p. 65] No process for formance with respect to sustainability performance. evaluating sustainability performance is currently implemented. 4.11 Implementation of precautionary approach or principles. Completely [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] Business Principles for employees of METRO AG International standards along the supply chain (BSCI) METRO GROUP Environmental Guidelines Purchasing guidelines, e.g. fish purchasing policy 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Completely [AR 2012 // Sustainability management: pp. 121-122] principles or other initiatives. [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: pp. 38-41] International standards along the supply chain (BSCI) ILO (International Labour Organization) declaration on fundamental Principles and Rights at Work embedded in different corporate guidelines OECd Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises embedded in different corporate guidelines International standards along the supply chain (GLOBALG.A.P., IfS) The Consumer Goods forum Board Resolution on deforestation The Consumer Goods forum Board Resolution on Sustainable Refrigeration 4.13 Membership in associations and/or national/international advocacy Completely [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: organisations. pp. 38-41] [SR 2012 // Goals: Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: p. 66] [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] Public policy 4.14 List of stakeholders. Completely [SR 2012 // Goals: Social policies and stakeholder There is no comdialogue: pp. 66] plete list. however, [AR 2012 // METRO shares: p. 59] we report on our [AR 2012 // Employees: pp. 111-118] stakeholders at [SR 2012 // Global challenges – corporate engagement: various points. pp. 3-12] [SR 2012 // Employees and social affairs: pp. 34-37] [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] Public policy 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders. Completely [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: pp. 38-41] [SR 2012 // Goals: Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: p. 66] 4.16 Stakeholder engagement. Completely [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: pp. 38-41] [SR 2012 // Goals: Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: p. 66] 4.17 Response to stakeholder requests. Completely [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: Sample representapp. 38-41] tion in the chapter [SR 2012 // Goals: Social policies and stakeholder “Social policies dialogue: p. 66] and stakeholder dialogue”. Economic performance Management approach [AR 2012 // Strategic positioning of METRO GROUP: pp. 41-53] EC1 direct economic value generated and distributed. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Company: p. 45] EC2 financial implications due to climate change. Not In the course of our regular participation in the Carbon disclosure Project we report about risks and opportunities due to climate change. METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 74 Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure EC3 Benefit plan obligations. Completely [AR 2012 // Employees: p. 111] [AR 2012 // Personnel expenses: p. 203] [AR 2012 // financial and asset positioning: p. 110] [AR 2012 // Provisions for pensions and other commitments: pp. 220-223] EC4 financial assistance received from government. Not Market presences EC5 Standard entry-level wage and minimum wage. Not EC6 dealing with locally based suppliers. Not EC7 Employment of local staff. Not Indirect economic impacts EC8 Investments for infrastructure and services. Not EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts. Not Environmental performance Management approach [SR 2012 // Energy and resource management: p. 30] Materials EN1 Materials used. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Paper – share of The information on eco-friendly paper: p. 50] material consumption relates to the resource of paper. EN2 Percentage of recycled materials. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Paper – share of eco-friendly paper: p. 50] Energy EN3 direct energy consumption (primary energy). Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Energy – electricity consumption and thermal energy consumption: p. 48] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Own fleet of lorries: p. 50] EN4 Indirect energy consumption (primary energy). Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Energy – electricity consumption and thermal energy consumption: p. 48] EN5 Achieved energy savings. Completely [SR 2012 // Energy and resource management: pp. 30-33] Exemplary description with reporting of savings achieved. EN6 Energy-efficient products. Not EN7 Reductions achieved in indirect energy consumption. Completely [SR 2012 // Energy and resource management: Ideas and Exemplary descripaction wanted: pp. 32-33] tion with reporting of savings achieved. Water EN8 Total water consumption. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Water – water consumption in l: p. 49] EN9 Water sources. Not EN10 Water recycled and reused. Not Biodiversity EN11 Biodiversity: land in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Not high value. EN12 Biodiversity: significant impact. Not EN13 Biodiversity: habitats protected or restored. Not EN14 Management of impacts on biodiversity. Not EN15 Biodiversity: red list species. Not Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s carbon foot print: pp. 57-58] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Carbon foot print: p. 47] EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Completely SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Carbon foot print: p. 47] EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Completely [SR 2012 // METRO GROUP’s carbon foot print: pp. 57-58] [SR 2012 // Energy and resource management: pp. 30-33] EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Not METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 75 Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. Not EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Water – water consumption in l: p. 49] EN22 Total waste by type and disposal method. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Waste: p. 48] EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not EN24 hazardous and special waste. Not EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the Not discharges of water run-off. Products and services EN26 Reduction of environmental impacts of products and services. Not EN27 Recycled products and packaging material. Not Compliance EN28 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and Not regulations. Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transports. Not [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Changes of climate relevant emissions by segment: p.47] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Own fleet of lorries: p. 50] Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. Not Social performance: labour practices and decent work Management approach [SR 2012 // Employees and social affairs: p. 34] Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region. Completely [AR 2012 // Employees: p. 112-117] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees: pp. 51-56] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Part-time rate: p. 51] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees by age group: p. 52] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees – number of nationalities: p. 52] LA2 Employee turnover. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Staff turnover: p. 54-55] LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees. Not Labour/management relations LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Not LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Not changes. Occupational health and safety LA6 health and safety committees. Not LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism. Not LA8 health and safety: prevention of diseases. Not LA9 health and safety: formal agreements. Not Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees Information relates training: p. 55] to Germany. LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning. Not LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews. Not diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees: pp. 51-56] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees by age group: p. 52] [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Employees – number of nationalities: p. 52] LA14 Basic salary ratio of women to men. Not LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave. Not METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 76 Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure Social performance: human rights Management approach [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: p. 26] Investment and procurement practices hR1 human rights: investments and contracts. Not hR2 human rights: supplier involvement. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Social audits: p. 46] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: Social standards: pp. 26-27] hR3 human rights: employee training. Not Non-discrimination hR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and corrective action Not taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining hR5 Warranty of freedom of assembly. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Social audits: p. 46] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] Child labour hR6 Measures to avoid child labour. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Social audits: p. 46] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] Prevention of forced and compulsory labour hR7 Measures to avoid forced labour. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Social audits: p. 46] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] Security practices hR8 human rights: security personnel training. Not Indigenous rights hR9 disregard of the rights of indigenous people. Not hR10 Operations subject to human rights reviews. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Social audits: p. 46] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] hR11 formal grievances regarding human rights. Completely [SR 2012 // Key performance indicators: Social audits: p. 46] [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: pp. 26-29] Social performance: society Management approach [SR 2012 // Social policies and stakeholder dialogue: p. 38] [SR 2012 // Responsible corporate governance: p. 24] Local communities SO1 Operations with implemented local community engagement. Not Corruption SO2 Corruption: number of business units analysed. Partially [AR 2012 // Risk report: p. 159] SO3 Corruption: training of employees. Completely [SR 2012 // Responsible corporate governance: p. 24] More than 80 percent [SR 2012 // UN Global Compact Communication on of the approximately Progress 2012: pp. 67-70] 17,000 employees classified as relevant have already received training on the anti-corruption guidelines. SO4 Corruption: action taken. Not Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying. Not SO6 Policy: financial contributions. Not Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and Not monopoly practices. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and sanctions for nonNot compliance with laws. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impact on Not local communities. SO10 Prevention and measures to avoid negative impacts. Not METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 GRI G3 Content index p. 77 Profile description Reported Cross-reference Explanation disclosure Social performance: product responsibility Management approach [SR 2012 // Supply chain and products: p. 26] [AR 2012 // Sustainability management: pp. 82-83] Customer health and safety PR1 health and safety: product analysis. Not PR2 health and safety: non-compliance with regulations. Not Product and service labelling PR3 Labelling and duty to inform for products. Not PR4 Labelling: non-compliance with regulations. Not PR5 Measures related to customer satisfaction. Completely [AR 2012 // Strategic positioning of METRO GROUP: All sales lines pp. 41-53] perform regular surveys on customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Marketing communications: compliance with codes. Not PR7 Marketing communications: non-compliance with regulations. Not Customer privacy PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Not protection. Compliance PR9 Significant fines regarding product liability. Not METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 Imprint p. 78 imprint Publisher Reporting period Disclaimer METRO AG The reporting period is the calendar year This sustainability report contains forwardSchlüterstraße 1 2012. For reasons of topicality or to looking statements that are based on cer40235 Düsseldorf provide updates on developments, additain assumptions and expectations at the Postfach 23 03 61 tional information has been included that time of its publication. These statements 40089 Düsseldorf was available at the time of going to press are therefore subject to risks and uncer(11 March 2013) or that relates to the tainties, which means that actual results METRO GROUP on the Internet period before 2012. The cut-off date for may differ substantially from the futurewww.metrogroup.de figures in the “Key performance indicaoriented statements made here. Many of tors” section is 31 December 2012. The these risks and uncertainties are determiSustainability frame of reference for the information ned by factors that are beyond the control Tel.: +49 (211) 969-9094 in the section “Goals” is given within the of METRO GROUP and cannot be gauged Fax: +49 (211) 969-4909094 targets and measures. with any certainty at this point in time. This sustainability@metro.de includes future market conditions and Reporting scope economic developments, the behaviour of Responsible The scope of applicability of the informaother market participants, the achievement Hans Jürgen Matern tion is given in the respective texts, key of expected synergy effects as well as legal performance indicators or goals. and political decisions. METRO GROUP Concept and editorial does not feel obliged to publish corrections Chantal Wagner UN Global Compact to these forward-looking statements to Karolina Otto Since 2010, METRO GROUP has subscrireflect events or circumstances that have Silvio Schmidt bed to the principles of the UN Global occurred after the publication date of this Compact, a United Nations-led global inimaterial. Project management tiative that aims to encourage businesses Chantal Wagner to adopt universal sustainability principles. By subscribing to the United Nations Creative execution Global Compact, we have committed Strichpunkt GmbH, Stuttgart / Berlin ourselves to continuous improvements in the areas of human rights, labour Editorial support and realisation standards, environmental protection Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf and anti-corruption measures. With its sustainability report, METRO GROUP Printing is fullfilling its obligation to show what Druckstudio GmbH, Düsseldorf the Company is doing to make improvements in these areas (Communication Photo credits on Progress). Corbis Images (Title) Oceana (Portrait Andrew Sharpless) UNIDO (Portrait Kandeh K. Yumkella) Frank Dora (Portrait Michael Kuhndt) University of Oxford (Prof. Sarah Harper) Photography Julian Baumann (Image and members of Operational audit of the the Management Board) carbon footprint 2012 For the reporting year 2012, the auditing company KPMG AG WirtschaftsprüfungsMETRO AG is registered with gesellschaft assessed our data collection FSC® Germany. processes and data entry system as part Look for FSC®-certified products. of an operational audit and also verified our carbon footprint for 2012 in accordance with ISAE 3000. The certification by the independent auditor can be seen on the Internet at: reports.metrogroup.de/ 2012/sr/ audit_carbon_footprint METRO group SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2012 p. 79 Join in the dialogue Dialogue with you, dear readers, is important to us because it shows us what you expect of our Company and where we can make further improvements. We would therefore like to hear any questions or comments you may have about the METRO GROUP Sustainability Report 2012 and our sustainability activities in general. To share your thoughts, use one of our online dialogue tools or send us an e-mail: sustainability@metro.de IndependentAssuranceReport1) To the Executive Board of METRO AG, Düsseldorf We were engaged to provide assurance on Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators for the business year 2012 published in the Sustainability Report 2012 (further ‘The Report’) as well as in the Online Sustainability Report 2012 (further ‘The Online Report’) of METRO AG, Düsseldorf (further ‘Metro’). The Executive Board of Metro is responsible for the appropriateness of the determination and presentation of the Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators in accordance with the reporting criteria, including the identification of material issues. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report on the Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators published in The Report and The Online Report. Scope Our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether the following Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators and specific goals for the business year 2012 in The Report and The Online Report are presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: − The Report: • Climate protection target – greenhouse gas emissions in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalent) per m2 selling space − The Online Report: • Climate protection target – greenhouse gas emissions in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalent) per m2 selling space • Carbon footprint – emission sources included in the climate protection target • Carbon footprint – all emission sources recorded • Changes in the emissions included in the climate protection target • Energy – electricity consumption in kWh per m2 selling space / thermal energy consumption in kWh per m2 selling space • Waste – amount of waste in kg per m2 selling space / recycling rate in % 60.006672-1373845 1 • Water – water consumption in l per m2 selling space • Refrigerants – refill rate in % • Paper – share of eco-friendly paper in % • Own fleet of lorries in Germany Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Reporting criteria and assurance standards Metro applies the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development, supported by internal guidelines, as described in the explanations on Energy and Resource Management, as reporting criteria. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. This standard requires, amongst others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to provide assurance on sustainability information, and that they comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure our independence. Work undertaken Our procedures included: • Assessment of the suitability of the reporting criteria as well as processes for collection, analysis and aggregation of data regarding documentation. • Interviewing management responsible for goal setting and monitoring processes for the Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators. • Evaluation of the design and implementation of systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators, including the consolidation of the data. • Interviews with relevant staff at Group level responsible for providing the data, carrying out internal control procedures and consolidating the data. 2 60.006672-1373845 • Visits to the service entities METRO PROPERTIES Energy Management GmbH (Düsseldorf), METRO LOGISTICS Germany GmbH (Düsseldorf), MGA METRO GROUP Advertising GmbH (Düsseldorf) as well as the sales divisions of real,SB-Warenhaus GmbH Deutschland (Moenchengladbach) and METRO Cash & Carry France SAS (Nanterre) to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data. • An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sales divisions for consolidation at Group level. • An evaluation of the overall presentation of the Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators and specific goals included in The Report and The Online Report. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Energy and Resource Management key performance indicators and specific goals for the business year 2012 in The Report and The Online Report of Metro are not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Frankfurt am Main, March 13, 2013 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Fischer Glöckner Certified Public Accountant Certified Public Accountant (Wirtschaftsprüferin) (Wirtschaftsprüfer) _____________ 1) Our engagement applies to the German Versions of the Sustainability Report 2012 as well as the Online Sustainability Report 2012. This is a translation of the independent assurance report, which is authoritative in German language. 60.006672-1373845 3
