Corporate Report Released April 5, 2013 Fourth Edition, January December 2012 MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 1 CREATING BETTER EXPERIENCES... MeetGreen® is pleased to present our fourth annual Corporate Report. As a small conference management company, MeetGreen® works hard to plan successful events, sustainably. We integrate values of inclusivity, integrity, stewardship and transparency into all sustainable event consulting and conference projects we manage on behalf of clients, encouraging them to create better event experiences that also do better. In 2012 the event industry completed three important bodies of work: • APEX/ASTM Environmentally Sustainable Event Standards • ISO 20121 Event Sustainability Management System Standard • Global Reporting Initiative Event Organizer Sector Supplement (GRI EOSS) Collectively these initiatives are designed to create an accepted and consistent approach to integrating sustainability into events. MeetGreen® is honored to have participated in the development of these projects. We were also pleased to report our company’s certification against ISO 20121: 2012, improving upon our initial certification under BS 8901 in 2009. Our event sustainability management system has played a key role in aligning our project teams to pursue consistent, measurable objectives to reduce our operational footprint, improve risk management and measure the impact of legacy activities. In 2012 MeetGreen®: • Documented a crisis management plan template for event projects, better preparing staff to respond to everything from event protests to extreme weather situations. • Expanded our event purchasing tools to include social responsibility issues, such as ethical sourcing, accessibility and worker health and safety. • Provided policy guidance to staff on giving and receiving gifts, including mandatory disclosure of all incentives received. • Achieved a 43% reduction in emissions in one of our key areas of environmental impact: discretionary, non-project-related air travel. In addition, we offset 100% of all office and transportation emissions. Our ISO 20121 system has helped us refine our report focus to differentiate between the objectives described above, which we can control, and those we can only influence. MeetGreen® exercises our influence by educating clients about opportunities where they can integrate sustainability into projects, and remaining very active on sustainability issues within our industry through associations and social media. This year MeetGreen®: • Educated over 2000 professional and pre-professional planners about sustainability and its relevance to the event sector through webinars and professional development seminars. • Improved MeetGreen® Calculator event sustainability scores for client events by 2% overall since 2011.This is an 11% improvement over our 2009 baseline. As a small-business enterprise our greatest challenges over the next few years will be to continue to carefully manage our resources, find cost efficiencies and enhance value to clients to maintain a thriving company. We believe our event sustainability management system is integral to our success and the development of happy, productive staff, satisfied clients and better events that also do better. We hope you enjoy reading the report and learning a bit about what makes us MeetGreen®. We invite you to contact us with your feedback and questions. Amy Spatrisano, CMP Nancy Zavada, CMP Principals, MeetGreen® ...THAT ALSO DO BETTER MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 2 MEETGREEN®: WE PLAN SUCCESSFUL EVENTS, SUSTAINABLY The event industry is ubiquitous yet quite invisible. It touches many, but few outside of the industry know it exists. Yet meeting and events are the forums where change happens, lives are impacted and history is made. MeetGreen® creates seamless meeting and conference experiences that enable our clients to achieve their goals, which may include education, sales and marketing and advocacy. Our aim is to exceed our client expectations and in doing so use our influence to improve the world around us. EVENT [ih-vent] (noun): An organized occasion such as a meeting, convention, exhibition, special event, gala dinner, etc. An event is often composed of several different yet related functions. THE EVENT PLANNING PROCESS A TIMELINE Planning This is the stage where the event is conceptualized, locations sited and vendors selected. The program is planned, sponsors acquired, speakers engaged, invitations issued and registration by participants occurs. The environmental impact of planning activities is smaller, typically limited to site visits and small meetings by the event team. Development of a sustainability strategy is critical at this stage when planners have the greatest ability to influence experience design, purchasing decisions and contracts. Photo: Intercontinental Shanghai Expo demonstrates sustainability commitments back of house during a pre-event site visit. Onsite This is the period when the event is executed and attendees participate most intensely, either in-person or virtually. Environmental, economic and social impacts are most significant during this time, so oversight and verification of sustainability plans is paramount. Some events extend the value of onsite programming through social networking pre-event and content management and sustainability storytelling post-event. Unfortunately, planners’ ability to influence impact can be greatly diminished onsite compared to planning phases. Photo: Oracle OpenWorld San Francisco’s Green Team prepares to monitor waste management practices. Post-Event Following the onsite stage, planners will reconcile budgets and conduct evaluations and supplier reviews. Legacies of the event, such as exhibitor directories, session handouts and recorded content are archived and shared. Reports about attendance, audience feedback and sustainability are analysed and submitted in order to inform future plans. The greatest environmental impacts have passed by this time, however, social legacies of the event can become very important and have a much greater long term impact, even if difficult to measure. Photo: Global Green Integrators provides proof of proper disposal of compostable serviceware following the Unitarian Universalist Association Justics General Assembly 2012 in Phoneix, Arizona. Photo credit: Global Green Integrators. High PLANNER INFLUENCE ON SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS (ENVIRONMENT / ECONOMY / SOCIETY) Planning begins Onsite experience Post-event MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 3 WHAT DO WE MEAN BY EVENT SUSTAINABILITY? Client services driven by four Principles-based key values: integrity, inclusivity, stewardship and transparency. Independently certified to manage all Standards-compliant projects according to ISO 20121: 2012 management standard 154 pro-bono hours delivering Community-involved sustainable event training and community service 208 client planners and 23 agencies Legacy-leaving mentored to improve their events through sustainable approaches 17 Minimum Guidelines for project Impact-reducing managers that ensure our actions reduce and conserve Training educates staff about our Socially-conscious social responsibilites under the UN Global Compact 3% increase in MeetGreen® Improvement-oriented Calculator event sustainability scores across all projects Mandatory disaster response plans Risk-reducing and emergency, health and safety procedures for all projects Photos (top to bottom): Responsible purchasing using standard Supply chain-driven 1. The challenges of using mixed materials (plastic, metal and paper) for attendee communications are discussed with agency planners and venue haulers request for proposals and contract during a site visit to a recycling cooperative in São Paulo, Brazil, in preparation for Oracle OpenWorld Latin America 2012. language for 12 types of suppliers 2. Improved front-of-house recycling by Moscone Centre was an important new ingredient that assisted Oracle OpenWorld San Francisco 2012 in improving event diversion from landfill to 70%. New hybrid event and sustainability 3. Nancy Zavada participates in a volunteer program during the Green Meeting Industry Council Conference in April 2012. Future-looking standards-compliance tools and 4. Justice General Assembly Youth Campers are given an event tour to learn services developed about how the Unitarian Universalist Association reduces the impact of their annual conference. Waste demonstration provided by Global Green Integrators and MeetGreen®. 5. Need a box? Take a box! UUA actively reuses shipping materials and signage. Value of sustainable event 6. Pictured signs have been re-used for five years. Amy Spatrisano conducts exhibit booth audits at the IMEX 2012 tradeshow Financially-feasible management recommendations for in Frankfurt, Germamy. Audits are directed at rewarding exhibitors who clients measured at US$297,000 are reducing the impacts of their booth through design, onsite practices, community service and logistics. MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 4 OUR COMPANY | OUR REACH | 2012 Total event participants across managed or mentored projects 321,387 Maximum number of event participants in a single project 90,000 35 Minimum number of event participants in a single project 1,549 Total events managed or mentored Total number of direct vendors 365 Total number of event destinations 88 15 Total non-project webinars and workshops delivered 2,031 Total participants in webinars and workshops OUR COMPANY 3,343 Type Small business, fewer than 15 employees Vision To continuously transform the event industry Total exhibitors and through leadership, innovation, education and sponsors managed performance inspired in sustainabillity. Values Inclusivity | Integrity | Stewardship | Transparency Locations Service projects Global; Headquarters: Portland, OR APEX-ASTM Environmentally Sustainable Event Standards, Chair | Global Reporting Initiative Event Organizer Sector Supplement, Task Force 2,486 Twitter followers Members | Green Meeting Industry Council, Founders | ISO 20121 Mirror Committee, Members (USA/Canada) | Oregon Food Bank, Donor | UN Global Compact, Signatory Memberships Green Meeting Industry Council | Meeting Professionals International | Professional Convention Management Association | Natural OUR PRODUCTS Step Network | Sustainable Event Alliance MeetGreen® Calculator Sustainable event measurement Certifications ISO 20121: 2012 (Company) | Certified Meeting www.meetgreen.com tool launched 2007. Revised 2010. Professionals | Sustainable Event Alliance Accredited MeetGreen® Resource Kit Sustainable event toolkit including Professional www.meetgreen.com RFP surveys, contract language Supply chain influence Accommodation providers | Audio-visual & and measurement aides. Launched Production | Destinations, Destination Marketing 2007. Revised annually. Companies and Convention and Visitor Bureaus | Simple Steps to Green Meetings Resource book and training tool for Carbon Offset Providers | Decor and Floral | Food Saving Green By Going Green event professionals to ‘green’ their and Beverage | General Services Contractors | Book series meetings. First book published 2007. Information Technology | Marketing | Promotional Second book published 2011. Products | Registration | Transportation and Best Places to MeetGreen® Online directory of sustainable Shipping | Venues www.bestplacestomeetgreen.com event destinations. Launched 2008. Events include meetings, conferences, committee meetings and site visits included under Photo: Shawna McKinley convenes a “Green Event Tour” for members of Meeting Professionals client scopes of work. The significant increase since 2011 is accounted for by two clients International and the Green Meeting Industry Council at Oracle OpenWorld San Francisco 2012. who globalized their sustainable event programs by providing training and mentorship by This is the fourth annual tour and hosts 50 participants. Photo credit: Freeman. MeetGreen®. MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 5 OBJECTIVES | OUTCOMES | INFLUENCE | INTENTIONS MeetGreen® takes full responsibility for business decisions within our control, including office operations, procurement and our workforce. We also attempt to influence positive progress on significant sustainability issues for client projects where we are not the final decision-maker. Sometimes we succeed, sometimes we do not. But we never stop learning. We dissect successes and failures to learn more about what actions are most important and effective in the young and emerging field of sustainable event management. Following is a snapshot of our objectives, outcomes and influence in 2012, and intentions into 2013. Photo: Waste auditors from Aventura, Global Green Integrators and MeetGreen® capture contaminants at UUA’s Justice Assembly 2012. SIGNIFICANCE | LOW HIGH HIGH OBJECTIVE I: REDUCE OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT: OFFICE FOOTPRINT OFFICE FOOTPRINT 2012 2011 2008 2012 2011 2009 18,021 kwh electricity $ 17% | # 10% 34 Metric tons CO2e emissions from air travel (Scope 3) $ 7% | $ 4% + 108 therms natural gas $ 10% | $ 81% $ 7% | N/A Q 81% Portion of carbon footprint from air travel S 23 CCF water # 28% | $ 60% 66,229 Air miles for discretionary non-project travel # 4% | $ 43% CONTROL | LOW 100% Total carbon emissions offset (42 metric tons) 0% | # 100% P 67% waste diversion 0% | # 14% 8 MT CO2e emissions F (Scope 1 & 2) $ 35% | N/A COMPANY OPERATIONS / PRACTICES 100% Employees offerred transit subsidy R MeetGreen® has a sustainable event management system and achieved a key target this year: ISO 20121 third-party certification. This system enhances client services and includes 17 minimum sustainabilty guidelines for all projects. The system requires all teams to document sustainability v 50% Employees work from home issues and anticipate and respond to project stakeholders. It has also designated a new sustainability coordinator role for all project teams. Risk management capabilities have improved through the adoption of a standard disaster 2013 Intentions: Continue to measure & minimize office footprint where opportunities are not maximized. h response plan and first aid training for all staff. Workplace protocols for staff emergency response and workplace safety incidents have also been improved and formalised. No workplace health and safety issues were reported in 2012. OBJECTIVE II: MEASURE LEGACY: @ Purchasing tools including RFPs and contracts were expanded to include ethical sourcing, accessibility and workplace health and safety requests. 74 Pro-bono consulting hours Client satisfaction rating of 4.31, exceeding 4.0 target. Rating has dropped 0.34 points since 2011. I 80 Service hours donated in six e Post-project reporting has expanded to include disclosures of any incentives or gifts received by staff. No cash or in-kind gifts over $25 per person in value were recorded in 2012. communities on company Day of Service 2013 Intentions: Continue to improve and formalize ISO 20121 system. Provide internal training in UN Global Compact Principles and formalize ethics policy. Minimize discretionary travel and 2013 Intentions: Provide and measure pro-bono offset Scope 1, Scope 2 and air travel portion of Scope 3 emissions 100%. consulting and service hours. OBJECTIVE III: ADVANCE SUSTAINABILITY OF EVENTS AND PROJECTS WE ARE INVOLVED IN: 2011 2009 MeetGreen® provides sustainable event @ purchasing tools, including RFP surveys and contract language, to 100% of our clients. Q 152,718 60% Air miles for project travel Average MeetGreen® Calculator event sustainability score # 23% | # 37% # 3% | # 10% These tools touch on carbon offsetting, communications and marketing and onsite office practices that reduce impacts. MeetGreen® provides sustainability purchasing tools to all clients and employs these where We support client work to communicate sustainability efforts to their stakeholders, @ applicable to our scopes of work. This includes supply chain research, contract and measurement tools. Tools that support destination, venue and accomodation selection, food and beverage, including “fun facts” onsite and post-event transportation and exhibits are deemed most significant. sustainability reports. MeetGreen® created a new hybrid event calculator to inform clients of the carbon benefits of promoting content delivery to remote audiences. Prelliminary use of the calculator shows remote 2013: Be responsive to less material needs participants may have less than 1% of the carbon footprint of onsite participants. by creating tools and performing research as needed to support client communication 2013 Intentions: Continue to improve client adoption of sustainable procurement tools and efforts. Ensure client satisfaction remains MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 6 MeetGreen® Calculator scores, particularly in areas that have significant impacts. above 4.0. MEETGREEN®: SMALL BUSINESS, MIGHTY INFLUENCE As a small conference management company, our operational footprint is miniscule compared to projects we support and the clients we work with. While we fully disclose our direct operational footprint, every year we ask: “Why are we doing a report? We’re just a small group of planners. The fact that air travel went up, we dropped a bit of water use and continued to buy recycled copier paper at the office doesn’t really matter in the grand scheme of things. It’s really our clients’ decisions that have the most impact.” It is true. And we feel our involvement in these projects helps affirm the role small enterprise has in driving sustainability solutions. So in addition to being transparent about our small business footprint, we would like to report some of our project-related accomplishments this year, which we feel demonstrate proof that a few people with an ideal can indeed make a difference. We invite you to engage with our clients to gain more insight into the full impact of their event sustainability programs and reports we have issued on their behalf: IMEX America http://www.imexamerica.com/sustainability.html Oracle OpenWorld San Francisco http://www.oracle.com/openworld/green/index.html Oracle OpenWorld Latin America http://www.oracle.com/openworld/lad-en/12ggt-oowladreport-1915870.pdf Unitarian Universalist Association Justice General Assembly http://www.uua.org/ga/justice/greening/index.shtml Get Your Green On Wins! In 2011, a pro bono project by MeetGreen®, Footprint Management Systems and Quickmobile tested a theory that event attendees could be harnessed to reduce their environmental impact and maximise social good by playing a mobile application-based sustainability game at Event Camp Vancouver. Our team was thrilled to share the IMEX Commitment to Community Award with our project partners in May 2012. Photo: Judy Kucharuk of Footprint Management Systems, Shawna McKinley of MeetGreen®, and Trevor Roald of Quickmobile receive the IMEX Commitment to Community Award 2012 from IMEX’s Ray Bloom and GMIC’s Tamara Kennedy-Hill. Carbon calculator for hybrid events While many planners are focused on understanding how to make hybrid events work, MeetGreen® now also understands how to illustrate the carbon benefits of events that include in-person and remote attendance options. In our first pilot of a new hybrid event calculator tool, we were able to confirm 10.6 metric tons of carbon emissions avoided by providing virtual streaming for 50 attendees at a 332 person event. Photo: Awareness of the carbon footprint of events is demonstrated by Colombia’s exhibit booth at IMEX Frankfurt 2012. Accessibility-sensitive training for onsite waste management How do you provide waste management training and a positive volunteer experience to someone with a visual impairment? This year MeetGreen® learned we were ill-prepared to provide training for “green angel” volunteers who have accessibility needs. The experience led us to improve our training from only using visual cues to also including tactile methods, bold colour coding and verbal methods of inquiry that enable someone with unique accessibility needs to join our team. Photo: Touch and feel boards and bright-colored signs are tools to improve the accessessibility of onsite event recycling at UUA Justice General Assembly 2012. Client legacy opportunities 2012 afforded three unique, new opportunities to provide sustainable event education to attendees at our client events. This included hosting an event sustainably tour for Justice General Assembly Youth Campers, which involved 20 pre-teens in learning about recycling and composting at events. A “Sustainability Safari” at IMEX America in Las Vegas gave hosted buyers a behind-the-scenes tour of how the host venue manages events more sustainably. We also continued to faciliate a “Green Tour” of Oracle OpenWorld San Francisco for 50 Northern California members of the Green Meeting Industry Council and Meeting Professionals International. Photo: Paul Salinger of Oracle shares green event facts at Oracle OpenWorld San Francisco’s Green Event Tour 2012. MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 7 Expanded global perspectives 2012 provided expanded opportunities for MeetGreen® to learn and respond to sustainable event needs in Latin America and Asia. Six event projects and two speaking opportunities enabled site visits to Beijing, São Paulo, Singapore and Shanghai, in addition to virtually mentoring teams in Hong Kong, Rio, and Tokyo. Each region has unique challenges and opportunities. We were particularly pleased to support teams in Brazil to develop sustainable event purchasing policies in order to improve responsible sourcing for signs, name badges, giveaway items, and event t-shirts for Oracle OpenWorld Latin America 2012. Photo: Banner repurposing through Instituto Nova União da Arte-NUA is one step that helped Oracle improve event diversion from landfill by 13% for their Latin America event. Sustainability sponsor packages For those clients who hire MeetGreen® to manage their conference and not event sustainability, it can be challenging to find the time and resources to step outside of our Minimum Sustainability Guidelines. Project managers for the Businesses for Social Responsibility Conference have been able to convert this limitation to an opportunity by successfully designing and marketing both Water Refill Stations and Fair Trade Coffee Breaks to sponsors. Sponsorship included onsite promotion through paper-light methods that minimized excessive collateral. Photo: DIsposables-free water service is a priority at all MeetGreen® events. While considered fairly standard in North America, Europe and Australia, health concerns and cultural norms make this practice much more difficult in other regions. GreenStorming! Just because we are in the business of event sustainability does not mean we don’t need advice! There is a growing community of event sustainability professionals who have deep expertise in our field. We appreciate the opportunities to learn from our peers through social media, event associations, network events and our MeetGreen® LinkedIn Forum. We also invited event professionals attending IMEX America to “GreenStorm” with us their favorite ways to reduce negative impacts and do good at events. We thank those who stopped by to share their knowledge with us! Photo: Amy Spatrisano connects with sustainable event professional peers around the Campfire at the Green Meeting Industry Council Sustainability Hub at IMEX Frankfurt. Engage a younger demographic, especially Millenials. They have an expectation and will change their buying habits when sustainability is introduced. Hire vendors that treat their employees with respect and pay fair wages. Promote the different practices ~ Neil Goldman, Hotels for Hope the event has implemented. ~ Pauline Sanchez, Arizone State University Ask about dietary needs in registration forms to save over-spending and wasting food that will not be eaten. Serve whole foods, and avoid processed Use sustainable centerpieces, like a plant or foods. tree, and after the event have the hotel, staff or participants plant them. ~ Terry Struckrath, Thrive! Meetings & Events ~ Laura Fantasia, Boston Consulting Group Start with baby steps and small goals for your meeting so you can see successes and build on those. ~ Debi Kinney, Clean the World MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 8 IMPROVED KNOWLEDGE | IMPROVED OUTCOMES Over the last six years MeetGreen® has collected a wealth of information about event impacts. We have entered 40 client events into our MeetGreen® Calculator which provides a metaindicator of how successful our clients have been at improving event sustainability through policy, procurement, implementation and measured results. We are thrilled to see their efforts continue to improve overall year after year. MeetGreen® Calculator Event Sustainability Score Comparison 59.8% Cross-project MeetGreen® Score 2012 57.0% Cross-project MeetGreen® Score 2011 Cross-project MeetGreen® Score 2010 53.5% Cross-project MeetGreen® Score 2009 Graphs not to exact scale 49.3% In addition, 32 of these events have delivered data about carbon, waste and water impacts. We audit and analyse this information to filter for reliability and completeness under our ISO 20121 management system. Based on this information, we estimate the average daily footprint of a typical event attendee at events we have worked to be as follows, which provides us with a baseline of comparison for client events*: 319 pounds carbon dioxide per participant 10 gallons water use at venues per participant 1.4 pounds of landfill at venues per participant 3.6 pounds of waste at venues per participant Photos: Luxury and sustainability are mutually inclusive at Canada Media Marketplace 2012. The event featured disposable-free food service, upcycled decor and unique *Data footnotes provided on next page under Report Boundary. living wall architecture at offsite venues. Catering featured 70% of menu ingredients sourced within 250 miles with 25% certified organic content. Foamcore signs were eliminated in favor of recyclable cardboard. MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 9 APPENDIX I: REPORTING DISCLOSURES UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The following table summarizes progress against the ten Principles within the UN Global Compact. For a full text of the Principles please refer to the UN Global Compact website http://www.unglobalcompact.org. POLICY/ACTION STEP ACHIEVED BY MEETGREEN® IN 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Operational footprint continues to be monitored and minimized where within MeetGreen®’s control P P P Certified ISO 20121: 2012 compliant P P P P P P P P P P Minimum Guidelines for event projects expanded P P P P P New Sustainability Coordinator role established for all conference management projects P P P P P MeetGreen® toolbox of sustainable event procurement tools, including RFP surveys and contract language, expanded P P P P P P P P P P to include ethical sourcing, accessibility and workplace health and safety requirements. Post-project reporting expanded to include disclosure of accessibility, fairness, privacy, and event site health and safety P P P P P P incidents Post-project reporting expanded to include disclosure of any gifts to staff P P P Disaster response plan formalized P P P Processes to document employee emergency contact and travel information formalized P P Event industry-relevant training to familiarize event professionals with Principles of the UN Global Compact developed and P P P P P P P P P P delivery to MeetGreen® staff initiated Hybrid event production capacity improved through practical implementation of a virtual office model and conference P P P management Hybrid event calculator created that shows the carbon potential avoided by including remote participants P P P Social media content includes information that applies UN Global Compact Principles to the event industry P P P P P P P P P P GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE DISCLOSURES The following table summarizes where you will find disclosures relating to the Global Reporting Initiative Event Organizers Sector Supplement (GRI EOSS) in this report. Please note several event reports published by MeetGreen® use GRI EOSS disclosures and may be available upon request to MeetGreen® or our clients. PROFILE DISCLOSURES Indicator Fully Page(s) PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES Indicator Fully Page(s) Reported Reported Executive Statement 1.1 P 2 Local spending EC6 9 Name of organization 2.1 P 1 Benefit of pro bono engagement EC8 P 4, 6-7 Events, products, services 2.2 P 5 Value creation EO1 4 Operational Structure 2.3 P 5 Direct energy consumption EN3 6 Locations of operations 2.5 5 Energy saved EN5 6 Scale of organization 2.8 P 5 Initiatives to reduce direct energy use EN6 P 6-9 Awards 2.10 P 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy use EN7 6-9 Reporting period 3.1 P 1 Direct and indirect GHG emissions EN16 / EN17 P 6, 9 Date of most recent report 3.2 P 1 Initiatives to reduce GHG & reductions EN18 P 6-9 Reporting cycle 3.3 P 1 Initiatives to mitigate impacts EN26 6-9 Contact for questions 3.4 P 11 Impacts of transportation EN29 P 6 Report boundary 3.6 P 6, 10 Workplace incidents LA7 P 6 Limitations on boundary 3.7 P 6, 10 Employee training LA10 6 Data measurement tech3.9 6, 9, 10 Discrimination/fairness HR4 P 6 niques Transport impacts EO3 P 6, 9 Changes since previous 3.11 6, 9 Event site injuries/fatalities EO7 P 6 report Food & Beverage EO8 9 Table of disclosures 3.12 P 10 Type/performance of sustainable sourcing EO9 6-9 Statement of mission, values 4.8 P 5 Number, type, impact of raising awareness EO11 P 5 External commitments 4.12 P 5 Knowledge transfer EO12 5-9 Memberships 4.13 P 5 Number, type, impact of physical/ EO13 5, 7, 8 technology legacy REPORT BOUNDARY This report discloses scope of project activities and impacts from MeetGreen® office operations. Carbon emissions on page 6 include Scope 1, 2 and 3 (air travel). Scope 1 emissions are zero. Operations data collection started in different years (2008 or 2009). Select client projects are included to illustrate influence, but are not provided in detail as they are reported separately by our clients and deemed outside of our direct control. Event impacts summarized on the bottom of page 9 include average impacts across 32 separate events for which reliable carbon, water and waste data has been acquired between 2009-2012. Carbon data includes emissions from venue energy, total hotel room nights, ground transportation, mobile power generators, show management freight, attendee ground transportation, landfill and estimated attendee travel to and from the meeting destination (by foot, transit, train, car, or air). Water use includes venues only, and any onsite catering (not guest rooms). Landfill and waste includes venues only, and any onsite catering (not guest rooms). Landfill is trash sent to landfill. Waste is all event discards including landfill, recycling, compost and donations. MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 10 MeetGreen® is proud to publish this Twitter: @MeetGreen annual report of our activities. We https://twitter.com/MeetGreen welcome your questions about our 2012 Corporate Report in hopes of Facebook: improving our 2013 update: http://www.facebook.com/MeetGreen www.meetgreen.com Linkedin: http://www.linkedin.com/groups/ T +1 503.252.5458 MeetGreen-3768008 F +1 503.261.0964 E operations@meetgreen.com Blog: http://blog.meetgreen.com/ EDITORIAL CONTENT & DESIGN THIRD PARTY EVENT SUSTAINABILITY AUDITOR Shawna McKinley Sustainable Event Certification PHOTOS CARBON OFFSET CALCULATIONS & PROVIDER Shawna McKinley TerraPass Global Green Integrators Freeman MeetGreen® Corporate Report 2012 | 11
