Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress April 2013 1 Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 Statement of continued support from Julian McGrath – Managing Director, Law In Order. “Sustainability, Environmentally Conscious & Corporate Accountability are phrases too often spoke of and too rarely acted upon; our Environmental & Sustainability committee, same of which stretches over four Australian States, stands to ensure this is never the case at Law In Order. I am pleased to confirm that Law in Order (LIO) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we are pleased to detail the integration of the Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations; we also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” ..................................................................... Julian McGrath Managing Director Law In Order 2 Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Law In Order strives to provide its employees with a workplace they not only feel comfortable in but ultimately look forward to, as such, Human Rights are not an issue, but a responsibility taken crucially serious at LIO. Given the nature of our business, workloads often fluctuate and in turn so does Principle 1 the work required of our employees, regardless, we encourage all our Businesses should support and employees to strike a healthy work/life balance and via our Human Resources respect the protection of (HR) department have implemented policies to enable employees to do so, as internationally proclaimed well as clarifying channels through which Human Rights abuses may be human rights. reported. In 2013, and beyond, we aim to continue our progress in supporting causes that Principle 2 champion Human Rights as well as taking steps within our areas of influence to advance the principles of Human Rights outside our own walls, including, but no Business should ensure that they limited to assessing current and potential suppliers based upon their are not complicit in human rights abuse. commitment to same. Implementation • LIO has a well entrenched equal opportunities policy that is published in the LIO training guide and again emphasised during employee induction and management training exercises. • Our HR department is responsible for the internal protections of Human Rights; employees are made aware and regularly reminded of the channels through which Human Rights violations should be reported. • LIO has proclaimed our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Measurement of outcomes • LIO have made progress in staff awareness and development of policies and channels in which we deal with human rights abuses. LIO has a very culturally diverse staff and as such, policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that the policy is up to date and relevant for all employees irrespective of culture, gender, sexual orientation, age or race. • LIO not only has a commitment to the well being of employees, but a commitment to the well being of people in general, as such, LIO has adopted Lifeline as a chosen charity and will continue to assist them where possible with their hard work. 3 Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Nationally, the Law In Order team comprises of legal and business professionals as well as operations staff with unparalleled experience in legal technology Principle 3 support services. Our wealth of knowledge and experience emanates from our staff comprising of lawyers, paralegals, system operators, programmers, Business should uphold the freedom of association and the consultants and project managers. We total over 300 years of experience effective recognition of the right and speak 47 languages; with this in mind, it goes without saying our employee to collective bargaining base is a truly diverse one. Principle 4 Implementation Business should uphold the • Law in order does not employ staff based upon gender, race or sexual elimination of all forms of forced orientation; instead, we simply employ the best person for the job. and compulsory labour • All employees are made aware sexism will not be tolerated in the Principle 5 workplace; HR make this point very clear upon employment commencement and hold a training session on this topic. Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Measurement of outcomes Principle 6 • LIO have pledged our support to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 4 Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals As a member of the printing industry, LIO have a heightened sense of Principle 7 commitment in the area of environmental responsibility; as such, Businesses should support a environmentally conscious practices are at the forefront of all business precautionary approach to decisions, irrespective of decision size. environmental challenges; In many ways, it is our responsibility and commitment to the environment that Principle 8 prompted the establishment of our Environmental and Sustainability committee, and has lead to the subsequent discussions, projects and Undertake initiatives to promote implementation of best practices throughout our offices. greater environmental responsibility; and Implementation Principle 9 LIO have implemented numerous policies and procedures in order to measure and regulate our impact on the environment; LIO commits to the following Encourage the development and actions and practices, diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Maintain appropriate systems to ensure all operations are managed in accordance with federal and state legislative requirements, local by-laws and formal Government policies. • Environmental considerations will be taken into account in respect of purchasing of all goods and the services provided. • All staff and contractors will be made aware of the Environmental Policy and appropriate level of training will be provided; the policy is made available on the Law In Order website. • LIO commits to an Environmental & Sustainability Committee that will review internal and external issues and identify, evaluate, manage and report on risks or new initiatives that the company should consider and/or undertake. 5 Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 Environment Measurement of outcomes Principle 7 • LIO have taken part in a national energy auditing process through which we were able to make significant savings to the consumption of Businesses should support a energy. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • LIO have made the switch to Certified Carbon Neutral Paper and have adopted a double sided printing default for all internal printing. Principle 8 • Recycling awareness material, for both general waste and business Undertake initiatives to promote produced waste has been distributed and displayed through all greater environmental offices. responsibility; and • Energy saving awareness material has been distributed and displayed through all offices. Principle 9 Encourage the development and • Plastic water bottles have been banned in all offices, with all staff instead being provided with a stainless steel water bottle for office diffusion of environmentally use. friendly technologies. • LIO frequently attend conferences / webinars on environmental sustainability hosted by the Australian Legal Sector Alliance (AusLSA). • LIO have adopted Landcare Australian as a chosen charity, to whom we will work beside in the interest of the environment. 6 Law In Order UNGC COP 2013 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals LIO take pride in our zero tolerance approach towards corruption and bribery. We are careful to ensure that our suppliers are aware that LIO will not tolerate any form of corruption and will not associate with or give custom to any supplier that we deem as engaging in dishonest conduct. Principle 10 Implementation Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • LIO have implemented an anti-corruption policy that is published on including extortion and bribery. our website and made available to suppliers and staff. • LIO requires all employees, directors, agents, representatives or third parties to conduct all business with integrity and in an ethical manner. • LIO employees practice a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and acts of corruption. Measurement of outcomes • In order to ensure compliance with the Anti-corruption policy, LIO has introduced internal controls and a monitoring system where there is a possibility of a corrupt act taking place. This relies on open communication and review of systems including those relating to risk assessment. 7
