REC’s Commitment in Support of UNGC Programme REC acknowledges and reiterates its allegiance to the Ten Principles proposed by the Global Compact of the United Nations. We are committed to such adherence and look forward to leverage within our Organization and its Subsidiaries, the actions that such principles impress for. These principles are incorporated in our organizational policies on different areas which are modified with the emergence of changing priorities of the Organisation, Govt. of India and demands of the Socio Economic demographics of the Country, within the law of the Land from time to time and we seek the direction from these policies while discharging the issues mentioned above. REC also engages itself in various Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability initiatives and has put it as a measurable performance indicator in Target matrix of the Organisation for the year 2012‐13. We in REC have taken measures to accommodate the principles of human rights, labour practices, environment protection and corruption in Organization’s policy as a part of identifying ourselves with best business practices. Further, in compliance with the amendment in the clause 51 of Listing Agreement by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), REC in its Annual Disclosure Report/Annual Report has also added a feature on Business Responsibility Report (BRR) for the Financial year 2012‐13. The programmes undertaken by REC identify with the philosophy of Global Compact such that from the very beginning its efforts are directed towards improvement in living standards of village folk through village electrification. The programmes have contributed to poverty reduction, income generation opportunity, better health and sanitation, education, increased productivity and improved living conditions in the rural areas. Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) occupies a key position as one of the leading public financial institutions in the Power Infrastructure space of the Country. REC plays an integral role in implementing the GoI's plans for the growth of Power Sector with special emphasis on Rural Electrification. REC now finances all segments of power sector throughout the country. With a strong force of around 700 employees spread over 18 project offices and five zonal offices we believe that we are capable of reaching to the marginalized communities even in the remote areas and serve them by providing access to electricity. We believe that adherence to the above principles would strengthen the Organisation’s response for future environmental challenges and continue to commit ourselves with the standards of the Ten Principles of Global Compact in future also.
