The sustainable partnership Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 03 Uhrenholt CSR Report 2012 04 Message from the CEO 05 About Uhrenholt 08 Uhrenholt vision and values 09 The Uhrenholt Partnership Philosophy 10 Invitation to responsible partnership! 11 Projects that made a difference in 2012 18 Focus Areas 19 Progress 2012 20 Status and perspectives for 2013 27 Action Plan 2013 28 Inspiration and support 2 Uhrenholt CSR Report 2012 Welcome to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2012. This is our second report since we entered as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. We hope it will provide you – partners and stakeholders with an understanding of how we handle and integrate CSR in our daily business. The report is structured in accordance with our six focus areas – which all comply with the Global Compact principles. As such it serves as a review on the projects we have been dealing with in 2012 to fulfil our ambition continuously to improve our performance in terms of our Corporate Social Responsibility. The report on corporate social responsibility is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act § 99 a. April 2013 Global Compact Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative with more than 10,000 business and non-business participants in over 130 countries. As a member we are committed to bring improvements in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. For more information visit: www.unglobalcompact.org 3 Message from the CEO It is my pleasure to introduce the Uhrenholt Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012. We are still pretty new in this game, but the framework and guidelines of the UN Global Compact that we joined in 2011 has been a valuable help to structure our efforts. It ensures that we get around every corner and brings us closer to our goal to build the CSR into our business mindset and culture. We demand responsibility from ourselves as well as from our suppliers and I feel that this approach is winning acceptance and respect in the whole chain upstream and downstream. I 2012 we have continued the expansion of the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. It is now mandatory for all new suppliers to sign and in parallel we rapidly succeed to roll it over the existing suppliers. It guarantees that all our products are manufactured under conditions where employees’ basic rights and working environment demands are fulfilled. In that respect our achievement of the certificate as an Authorised Economic Operator is another milestone. AEO has its own purpose to sharpen our profile as a trustworthy partner in every aspect regarding security and financial and administrative reliability. But it also fits well as a supplement to our efforts to improve our structures and processes in terms of CSR. Finally I want to mention our projects aiming to build and improve cold chains in Africa. So far we are up and running in Uganda and further steps will be taken in 2013. I look forward to follow this inspiring project that really combines business partnership with local development and welfare gains. I want to thank the CSR working group that has done a great job again this year. We will succeed in gradually making CSR grow into our backbone. Not only driven by enthusiasm but in the long term simply to be an integrated part of the way we think, act and communicate in our relations with partners of any kind Sune Uhrenholt CEO 4 About Uhrenholt Uhrenholt A/S is a global food company, supplying products within the categories dairy, seafood, meat and vegetables to wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers across the world. Our products are sold in more than 80 countries under the brand names Emborg™, Friendship™ and Amigo™ or as commodities and industrial sales. Uhrenholt was founded April 1st 1978 in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business was international trading of table cheeses and cheese for processing and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest privately owned dairy companies in Denmark. In 2005 Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S and in 2009 all activities of the former Uhrenholt and Emborg Foods companies are merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. In 2007 Sune Uhrenholt took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include sales to the retail channel and focus on branded products. The original ship logo was created by Frank Uhrenholt. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, The Steadfast Tin Soldier, who went to conquer the world in a ship of paper. Today the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This visualizes that Uhrenholt is a modern food company and all our actions are agile reflections of the surrounding world and the opportunities it offers. Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt Number of employees: 625 Ownership: Uhrenholt A/S is a 100% family owned business CEO: Sune Uhrenholt Location Denmark: Head office in Middelfart Location worldwide: Offices and representatives in more than 15 countries 5 Uhrenholt Global Organization Today Uhrenholt employs 625 dedicated people. Our commercial organization is structured in four regions: Russia & CIS, Middle East & Africa, Asia and Europe & Oceania. Our Global Trading section focusing on commodities and industrial sales is integrated in the Europe Division. Uhrenholt Meat A/S and Uhrenholt Seafood A/S handle the group’s trading in these areas. All regions are supported by our expert corporate functions including Legal and Risk Management, Quality Assurance, Procurement, Portfolio Management, Marketing, Logistics & Transportation, HR, Finance and IT to secure that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet the diversity demands worldwide. The commercial organization is responsible for sales in the regions and divisions as mentioned above. The regions are apart from the geographical differences also different in terms of business focus. Unique for the region Russia & CIS is the large distribution setup in Moscow. Here Uhrenholt distribute own products and external brands to the retailand foodservice channel. Organisation of the Uhrenholt Group CEO Commercial structure Corporate Services Corporate Legal and Russia Marketing Risk Management Middle East Logistics and Quality Assurance and Africa Transportation Asia Human Resource Europe, CIS and Finance Oceania Global Trading IT Uhrenholt Meat A/S Uhrenholt Seafood A/S 6 Business areas and product portfolio Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products B2B and B2C. Reliability, tailor-made service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners has made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our partners benefit from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. This enables us to offer unique tailored food solutions across the entire portfolio. Dairy Seafood Vegetables Meat We supply a wide range of Our seafood portfolio is We supply our customers – Our meat sales activities cheeses sourced from all over sourced from all over the B2B and B2C with a wide covers retail, foodservice as the world and aim to source world. range of traditional frozen well as industry. the cheeses from where the vegetables e.g. peas, beans, cheese has its origin. Uhrenholt is one of the leading sweet corn and carrots. Our portfolio of meat prosuppliers of coldwater and ducts contains a broad range At our Grøndal Dairy we warm water shrimps. We have The Emborg vegetable range of pork, chicken and other produce cheeses like Fontina an extensive know how in has been awarded Supermeat products. and Havarti. international sourcing, producBrand several times in e.g. tion, processing and product U.A.E. The Uhrenholt Trading divifunctionalities. sion delivers flexible solutions in terms of variety of product Uhrenholt was the first shrimp composition, origin and packsupplier in the world who was aging for milk powder and certified to use the Euro Leaf cheeses. logo on organic shrimps. The Uhrenholt dairy portfolio also contains milk powder, butter, UHT-milk and cream. For more information about Uhrenholt please visit www.uhrenholt.com 7 Uhrenholt vision and values Vision Our vision is to be a Leading Food Solutions Provider. Globally. We will market a portfolio of high quality brands that anticipate and satisfy the needs of our customers and consumers. • We will create long-term value for our business partners, employees and owners based on our unique company competences and by delivering sharp commercial propositions. • We will succeed because of the unique Uhrenholt spirit, which is founded on responsible entrepreneurship, deep market and product insight and personal freedom. Values Uhrenholts activities are based on four values: Winning, Partnering, Excellence and Passion. These values are part of our daily work and we strive to follow them in everything we do. Winning We value partnership and win-win solutions in everything we do – when we develop great products, service customers and work together with suppliers. Our goal is to create an environment where we are inspired to perform our very best together. Partnering Our business is based on long-term partnerships with customers and suppliers around the world. We strive to add value in our partnerships by continuously exploring new opportunities and by working together to create mutual sustainable value. Excellence Professionalism and commercial excellence is the foundation for our behavior internally and externally. We deliver results through strong solutions for our customers and our organization. Passion We are passionate about food and enjoy an exciting and dynamic atmosphere in our daily work. Our enthusiasm is reflected in our way of working with markets, products, partners and colleagues. 8 The Uhrenholt Partnership Philosophy In accordance with our vision and values Uhrenholt is a partnership driven corporation. We believe in close partnerships and networks. The Uhrenholt way of working is to demonstrate an entrepreneurial approach to the development and innovation of food solutions. We have for 35 years made valuable connections and relations around the world. This is how we can be a part of the optimization of very strong and diverse food solutions for a global audience. We consider this knowledge-based partnership as the core of our business engine. Our Business and UN Global Compact We offer value chain optimizing services for the food industry from sourcing, distribution to sales, tailored to our business partners’ need. Our entrepreneurial approach, deep insight and broad knowledge make it possible for us to create value for our business and for our partners by finding and dealing with the links in the value chain which needs special attention. Through close cooperation with our partners we are well prepared to meet the increasing demand and continuously pressure from the world around us to deliver higher food safety, deeper traceability and information flow, sustainability etc. Every day this challenges the way we are working and how we understand doing business and we continuously look for improvements. By entering the United Nations Global Compact we commit to integrate and promote the ten principles into the value chain and into the Uhrenholt way of working. 9 a r t ners hip le p io n to re sponsib a t olved. In v it rn from and influe nce all pa rtners inv ork to lea ure that bal netw making s y is to u se our glo w o rl d s! philosoph nd th e allenge u O ur re n t p ro jects arou o u to jo in and ch iffe ed y e en o ur d d. We ne u il d b ri dges betw rn e rs of the worl s. We will b to all c o standard b e s t practice s t fo od safety s/ we bring out th e the hig h e aniza nti o s o lu ti ons with rs /e n d -u sers, org inab le me ent susta ers, custo m b it io n is to inv b e tw e e n produc T he a link m en t. le as the d govern ke the ro N G O s an We will ta h focus o n: t to p ro jec ts wit rke ts. me n wm a in u s fo r commit c o ld c h ains in ne tc .). jo broke n 20 0 0 e invited to ent of un RC, ISO2 You are d de v e lo p m pra c ti c e (B etc.) . hment an an d b est .P., AEO • Establis s a fe ty programs A S C , G lobal G.A ri ghts, labo ur, h est foo d ic , MSC , f human •T h e hig (O rg a n c ip le s o abilit y mpact pri n d sustain Global Co • Certifie n t o f th e rr u p tion. n d im p roveme e n t a n d anti -co a • R es p e c t environm 10 Projects that made a difference in 2012 Employees Internal CSR campaign We want to have CSR as an integrated part of our Uhrenholt culture and we want to market the company as such. We will take a step by step approach to make this vivid and have decided that first step is to focus on internal promotion and internal establishment of know how about CSR. We have taken several initiatives on this during 2012: • A cross organizational working group has been established. • Lecture about business economics and CSR for the CSR team and CEO by Ph.d. Dennis van Liempd. • Three colleagues in key positions were appointed as CSR ambassadors to disseminate the project and support the working group. In 2013 we plan to enlarge the number of ambassadors. • A structured communication plan was made, which included a presentation on our House Meeting in the beginning of 2012, followed up with monthly articles on our intranet. Human rights Harassment policy Uhrenholt takes pride in providing a safe, professional work environment for all employees. This means that: • All employees are entitled to respectful treatment. Being respected means being treated honestly and professionally, with each unique talents and perspectives valued. • A respectful workplace is an environment that is free of inappropriate behavior of all kinds and harassment because of age, disability, marital status, race or color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation or gender identity. • We do not tolerate any type of harassment, be it physical, verbal or sexual, and will act quickly to investigate and resolve any harassment complaints our employees may have. • Any employee of Uhrenholt that feels they are being harassed, or any employee, who becomes aware of harassment, should promptly notify management or human resources without fear of retaliation or judgment. Uhrenholt views harassment and retaliation to be among the most serious breaches of work place behavior. Consequently, appropriate disciplinary or corrective action, ranging from a warning to termination, can be expected. 11 Partnership Development Africa: Unbroken coldchain As a spin-off from the investment in a cold storage facility in Uganda the idea of providing freezers to our African business partners within the retail segment surfaced during 2012. The idea was developed into a project aimed at: • Improving food safety and developing our access to market. • Allowing the retail stores to store frozen products correctly and offer products from an unbroken cold chain. • Allowing our local business partners to offer a broader range of products, which are stored correctly and with due respect to food safety principles. • Supplying freezers that have been assessed from an environmental view to avoid excessive electricity consumption. • Providing freezers that are purchased and serviced locally. The project has been launched successfully in Ghana, Liberia and Uganda and will be expanded to 20 countries in each of which 30-100 freezers will be supplied. The investment amounts to USD 1 Mio. It is expected that the placement, service and maintenance as well as increased sale will generate additional 3-7 workplaces per country. 12 Donation strategy In Uhrenholt we have chosen at Christmas time to use the money we would otherwise spend on a present to our customers and business partners, to make a donation for charity. The donation is given to contribute to our social responsibility in the countries in which we operate. It can be given: • Anywhere around the world. • To an international humanitarian organization, whose primary aim is to improve conditions for children. In 2012 our donation was given to the Danish humanitarian association Dental Health Without Borders (DHWB). DHWB sends out a substantial number for voluntary dentists and dental assistants to improve oral health in low-income countries – especially for children and adolescents. Dental Health Without Borders The Uhrenholt donation will be focused on the work done in Rwanda and Vietnam. “Oral health is an essential component of health in general. Good oral health enables an individual to speak, eat and socialize without active disease, discomfort or embarrassment. Oral diseases cause untold pain and suffering, disruption of daily performance, and therefore present an economic burden to society”. World Health Organization 13 Environment Sustainability MSC, ASC, Global G.A.P. and B.A.P. As to our objective for 2012 Uhrenholt has promoted certified sustainable products inside our group and with our partners around the world. Special focus has been on promoting MSC products for wild caught seafood and Global G.A.P. for farmed seafood. Progress we made: • Using MSC and Global G.A.P. as a sales parameter for our retail and manufacturing channels with focus on Denmark, Germany and UK. • Expand the knowledge about certified sustainable seafood products inside the Group. • Participated in a MSC campaign in cooperation with other seafood suppliers and supermarket chains (Danish Supermarket, COOP, SuperBest). The purpose of the campaign was to make the consumer aware of the choices they make when buying seafood products. Below you can see some of the materials being used during the campaign. 14 Labour Supplier Management During 2012 we have accomplished a cross organizational project regarding our requirements for approval of our suppliers. The purpose of the project was to: • Assure improved food safety and quality of our products. • Incorporate CSR requirements in the supplier approval procedure. Previously we have had some of the elements incorporated, but in connection with a more structured CSR process during 2012, we wanted to assure that we cover all six CSR elements (business ethics, employees, environment, labour and human rights) from Global Compact. The output is what we call the “Uhrenholt Quality Assurance” which include all important Uhrenholt requirements on Quality, HACCP, CSR and AEO that our suppliers at least have to fulfil and sign of before they can be approved as Uhrenholt suppliers. It will be mandatory for all new suppliers as per January 1st 2013. Additional to this we have set a goal to update our already existing suppliers requiring their signature on the updated document. Our goal in 2012 was that more than 25 % of all Uhrenholt suppliers and more than 90 % of our main suppliers (top 50) have accepted and signed the requirements in the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. The actual result was that 23.7 % of all our suppliers and 94 % of our main suppliers have signed the document. 15 Business Ethics Uhrenholt A/S is an AEO certified company In December 2012, Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate proving our status as an Authorised Economic Operator (AEO). The AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all economic, custom and safety related operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all the common criteria regarding: • Security and safety standards. • Record of compliance with customs requirements. • Satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records, which allows appropriate customs controls. • Proven financial solvency. To the benefit of our partners the AEO certificate allows goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential treatment in certain procedures of customs control of goods and documents. First of all at the EU level, but in the long term it will become much more global. So far mutual recognition is in place with Japan, Norway and Switzerland and the EU Commission is negotiating with USA, China, Australia and Canada. Uhrenholt is among the frontrunners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate and as such we are in due time to face the future. Companies with AEO status are recognized as safe, secure and compliant business partners in international trade. 16 ISO 22000 project at Grøndal Dairy During 2011 it was decided that Grøndal Dairy should aim for certification in concordance with ISO 22000. The purpose of this decision was basically to: • Get the highest standard on the food safety assurance program. • Upgrade the whole organization with knowledge and awareness on food safety. • Assure that our management system to control food safety is in place and up to date. • Ensure an ongoing focus internally on continuous improvements. As part of the project an extra resource in a newly established position was employed (a Quality Manager). In June 2012 the Management System at Grøndal Dairy was awarded with the ISO 22000-2005 Certificate with the underlying programs: PAS 220:2008 and FSSC 22000. All employees have been trained in ISO 22000 and through continuous internal miniaudits the knowledge and awareness is maintained in the organization. The goal is that all employees over time are able to accomplish such miniaudits and thus strengthen the daily effort to maintain the highest food safety assurance and quality of the product. 17 Focus Areas We have structured our CSR work around six focus areas. These areas are most relevant to our business and we focus our efforts here. The ten principles of Global Compact complement our work and activities and as a member of Global Compact we describe our progress and efforts in these areas. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 9: corruption in all its forms, including Employees Encourage the development and diffusion of extortion and bribery. environmentally friendly technologies. Business Ethics Environment Partnership Development Human Labour Rights Principle 1: Principle 3: Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the protection of internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; rights; and Principle 4: Principle 2: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18 Progress 2012 Focus Area Goal Results 2012 Employees Introduction Programme Implementation of a mandatory introduction programme for Fully implemented in Denmark all employees Global Recruitment Process Development and implementation of a global recruitment Developed and used in new recruitments process and principles Internal CSR Campaign Increase awareness of CSR work and engagement in Information and updates given by partnership intranet and at house meetings Human Rights Harassment Policy Development and implementation of a global harassment Policy formulated and announced policy Uhrenholt Quality Continue expansion of Uhrenholt Quality Assurance for sup24% achieved Assurance pliers. More than 25% of the Uhrenholt suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. More than 90% of the main 94% achieved suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance Partnership Development Finding “Ambassadors” Sustainable Production Expansion and awareness of certified sustainable wild caught Mapping report prepared seafood – MSC mapping our sourcing and sales Retailer campaign Expansion and awareness of certified sustainable farmed The ASC-concept introduced to seafood – BAP, Global G.A.P. or ASC. Mapping our sourcing customers and sales Organic shrimp production – green leaf. Mapping our sourcing Collaboration established with permanent and sales provider Organic cheese – green leaf. Upstart of 1-2 organic cheese Postponed products Africa Accelerate business with local partner in Uganda and Danida. The Uganda concept now forms the model Continue to expand business through the cold storage facilities Secure availability of Emborg frozen food products in Liberia Project launched. Will be extended to and Ghana by developing a secure cold chain all way to the several countries in 2013 supermarkets Labour Supplier Management Continue expansion of Uhrenholt Quality Assurance for sup94% achieved pliers. More than 25% of the Uhrenholt suppliers have signed 24% achieved the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. More than 90% of the main suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance Environment Grøndal Dairy Continue working against the 2020 goals and action plan Lower production decreased consumption • Reduce water consumption by 2% 2012 in total but increased it pr. kg • Reduce CO2 emission by 2% in 2012 Business Ethics Code of Conduct Continue implementation of Code of Conduct Accomplished All employees have signed the Code of Conduct Risk Management Implement new Risk Management System globally Prepared for implementation in 2013 Food Safety ISO 22000 certification of Grøndal Dairy Achieved June 2012 AEO Certification Continue work towards final certification end 2012 Uhrenholt received the AEO certificate in December Governance Minimum 2 external board members Sustained 19 Status and perspectives for 2013 Employees Internal diversity and uniformity Diversity has always been an important trademark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in 15 countries and have more than 27 nationalities employed. We want to reflect the variety in society in terms of culture and way of thinking. At the same time our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high level of service whoever they address. Consistent skills development Qualified workforce is essential to the success of the Uhrenholt business. It is of extreme importance to have the right competences. During the last couple of years we have focused on internal sales training and the next years we will prioritize leadership development and continue our commercial sales training besides enhancing our apprentice program. Communication In Uhrenholt we believe in an open and informative approach – as reflected in our values – we also expect an open dialogue internally. Different communication initiatives have been made lately: • Monthly house meetings. • Lunch meetings with CEO and employees. • Establishment of an internal proposal box with the purpose to give all employees the possibility of submitting a proposal for savings or better use of resources or can be used for proposals within other areas – that could for example be physical and psychological working environment, a business opportunity, other working routines, education etc. During 2012 a written policy for harassment has been made and as a natural continuation the focus in 2013 will be on ensuring information on other/alternative communication canals. The more diverse an organization gets the more is the need of ensuring that each employee is aware of the different possibilities for communication. 20 Selected Employee Data 2012 2011 Total employees 625 663 Female 45% 45% Male 55% 55% Average age 38,15 37,6 Average senority 5 6,2 Sick leave, percentage 1,64 2,6 Number of promotions 34 22 (next level promotions) Female manager 62% 41% Male manager 39% 59% Female directors 16% 25% Male directors 84% 75% Investment in education 112 165 and training (EURO) per employee Number of nationalities 27 24 21 Labour Supplier management Our ambition is that all our suppliers must sign and follow the “Uhrenholt Quality Assurance” which includes all important Uhrenholt requirements on Quality, HACCP, CSR and AEO. This is how we can guarantee that Uhrenholt’s products are produced by companies in which working environment, quality control and food safety of the products can be documented throughout the production process. Our goal in 2013 is that 35 % of all Uhrenholt suppliers and more than 90 % of our top 100 suppliers (measured by GM and turnover) have accepted and signed the requirements in the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. The actual result in 2012 was that 23.7 % of all our suppliers and 94 % of our top 50 suppliers have signed the document. As an important part of supplier approval, a risk assessment is conducted for all new suppliers in relation to factors including country of production, brand, product type, labour and the supplier’s quality certifications (BRC, IFS, ISO 22000, ISO 9001 etc.) according to which suppliers must document their food safety systems. Selected suppliers must complete the Uhrenholt supplier approval survey. The survey includes questions and requires documentation about supplier issues including: • Quality management and food safety system as well as documentation in the form of HACCP plan, flowchart, etc. • The supplier’s control measures in relation to ingredients, finished products, production control, supplier approval, etc. • Control of contaminants and foreign objects (metal, glass, etc.). • Allergens and GMO. • Traceability. • Cleaning and disinfection. • General hygiene and training. • Control. • Environment. • Social rights. • Human rights. • Minimum wages. • Workplace safety. It is the intention to secure that local offices cooperating with local suppliers will during 2013 take steps to initiate the supplier management tools to be applied. 22 Environment At Uhrenholt we want to minimize our impact on the environment! Environmental responsibility is a moral obligation for any commercial business. Protection of our nature including biological diversity on earth is an important issue when reviewing different business areas. Uhrenholt follows the environmental legislation in the countries we are placed, but acknowledge that our responsibility includes our business in other countries and an effort for further improvement. Our company structure leads to different areas on which we can influence the environment. These include our own dairy Grøndal, our offices around the world and our cooperation with food producers and suppliers worldwide. Sustainable vegetable oils We are increasingly focused on the environmental impacts from intensive palm oil production in South Asia. Forest conversion often means loss of habitats for endangered species, soil depletion and erosion and contributes to climate changes. These productions take place in accordance with all national legislation, but never the less must be regarded as incompatible with our values and goals. In 2013 we will chart our products based on vegetable oils in order to ensure the sustainability. 23 Grøndal Dairy In 2010 we started to implement our environment strategy at Grøndal Dairy with focus on long term reduction of CO2, electricity and water consumption. Furthermore our ambition is to minimize packing material and waste. We have set the following goals from 2010 until 2020: • Reduce our CO2 emissions by 20%. • Reduce our water consumption by 2% per year. • Focus on minimizing packaging. • Focus on minimizing our waste. • Focus on climate friendly cleaning products. Results 2012 Total use Use 2012 vs. 2011 pr kg 2012 vs. 2011 cheese produced CO2 -10,4% +2% Electricity +5% Gas +7% Water -6% +8% Waste -25% Cheese production -13% The total amount of cheese produced at Grøndal Dairy decreased 13% in 2012, meaning that also the CO2 emissions and use of energy and water declined. However measured pr kg of cheese it was not possible to follow the downward trend as the basic use of resources is more or less independent of the production level. The results are in general better than 2010 – but not as good as 2011. In 2013 we expect to increase the production activities and by that to improve our environmental performance in relative terms. 24 Minimizing packaging material A new type of carton with 5-10% less cardboard was used in 2012. But at the same time for quality reasons it has been necessary to reduce the number of layers per pallet from 9 to 8 to stabilize palletizing and to use pieces of cardboard between each layer of carton. Waste minimization Grøndal dairy has a high focus on minimizing waste and recycling as much as possible. In 2012 it has been possible to reduce the amount of burnable waste by 25% compared to 2011. Climate friendly cleaning products We strive to use the most environmentally friendly cleaning products and equipments available without compromising product safety. It is the intention to secure that climate friendly cleaning products are applied at all offices globally during 2013, this including our large office and warehousing facilities in the Russian Federation. In 2012 a new rack-washer has been deployed using climate friendly chemicals, resulting in a process that is more gentle to the environment as well as the employees. Environmental goals 2013 In 2013 we foresee a significant increase in cheese production at Grøndal Dairy which will enable us to achieve the scheduled energy and water savings pr kg. Additionally we plan a review of the dairy plant in collaboration with our energy consulting agency in order to identify further saving opportunities. Especially around our CIP and brine system we expect to save another 2-3% in water consumption. Regarding cleaning chemicals we plan to intensify the cooperation with supplier to the benefit of climate, water and health. At our headoffice in Middelfart we are starting an energy saving project in 2013. A comprehensive report has been prepared by our energy supplying company which will form the basis for decisions regarding future investments in energy savings. According to the report there are significant potential savings to gain in both heating and electricity by investments with a relatively short payback time. 25 Business Ethics Code of Conduct As we operate in approximately 100 countries it is only natural that employees working in the frontline find our business ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in daily decision making our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. In 2012 all employees have signed the Code of Conduct. In particular in the Russian Federation action has been taken to improve and simplify procedures to allow for a very tight control with adherence to ethical and moral standards. Uhrenholt will continuously seek to improve the level of business ethics even further. We care about choosing business partners, whose business standards and ethics match ours. As a part of that we prepare to carry out an overall survey to identify the major geographical risk zones to our business in 2013. Risk Management During 2012 a new risk management tool was developed and introduced to key personnel in both the commercial and administrative functions. The aim has been to develop a system, which comprises assessment of a set of predefined risks of a general nature and risks pertaining to particular areas of the business. Matters relating to our CSR focus areas will continuously be embedded in the predefined risks. It is the intention to fully implement the new risk management tool during 2013. 26 Actionplan 2013 Focus Area Activity 2013 and Goal Employees Education Leadership training and continued sales training activities. Internal CSR Campaign Increase awareness of CSR work and engagement in partnerships. Human Rights / Labour Uhrenholt Quality Assurance for Continue expansion of Uhrenholt Quality Assurance for suppliers. More than 35% suppliers of the Uhrenholt suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. More than 90% of the top 100 suppliers (on GM and sales) have signed the Uhrenholt Quality Assurance. Take steps to prepare for implemetation at local offices cooperating with local suppliers. Partnership Development Finding “Ambassadors” Sustainable Production Expand the knowledge about certified sustainable seafood products. Focus on MSC for wild caught seafood and ASC, Global G.A.P. and B.A.P. for farmed seafood products. Using certified sustainable seafood products as a sales parameter in Europe and next step in our Regions: Russia, Asia and China. Africa Continue to expand business through the cold storage facilities. Environment Environment Continue work against the 2020 environment goals and action plan for Grøndal •R educe water consumption by 2% 2012. •R educe CO2 emission by 2% in 2012. Apply usage of environmental frienly cleaning materials in all offices. Energy saving Energy saving project at the head office. Palm oil Charting our products based on vegetable oils in order to ensure the sustainability. Business Ethics Code of Conduct Continue implementation of Code of Conduct. All employees have signed the Code of Conduct. Risk Management Implement new Risk Management System globally. Governance Minimum 2 external board members. 27 Inspiration and Support CSR 2012, English, Layout 03/2013, Print 04/2013 The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for inspiration and support to the 2012 CSR report. Special thanks to: • The task force from the Danish Ministry of Taxation Ketty Sparvath, Maria Bundgaard Hansen og Bjarne Tønning for assistance and guidance in the process of achieving the AEO certificate • Ph.d. Dennis van Liempd from the University of Southern Denmark for education and inspiration • L ars Christensen and Pia Mathiasen for valuable assistance to complete the report The CSR team: Mette Mikkelsen (Group HR), Lone Høgholt (Corporate Services), Anne-Marie Rasmussen (Quality Assurance), Susanne Overby (Quality Assurance), Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard (Global Trading), Jan Møller (Industry Seafood), Jørgen Jeppe Hansen (Group Logistics) and Keld Winther Rasmussen (Global Trading) Uhrenholt A/S Phone: +45 64 41 40 41 Teglgårdsparken 106 Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 DK-5500 Middelfart E-mail: info@uhrenholt.com Denmark uhrenholt.com
