WE DESIGN FOR PEOPLE GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2013/ COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLH Arkitekter A/S is a multi-disciplinary architectural practice focused on stimulating an interactive and productive working environment for our talented and creative people, partly architects, but also interior designers and industrial designers, together with specialists within construction, process planning and communication. PLH works with a broad spectrum of commissions from architecture, urban planning and workplace design to client advisory and industrial design. The company is often involved in complex, largescale multi-disciplinary projects that evolve over long timeframes and are often associated with a high degree of confidentiality and proper due process. Regardless of the project type, PLH’s commitment to responsible business practices and highest standards of professional integrity are the foundation of all interactions with clients, collaborators and fellow colleagues. PLH’s business ethics and code of conduct is grounded in around 30 years of professional industry experience and the commitment of the leadership team to follow responsible business practices in an ever changing global marketplace. Since 2009 PLH has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative as part of maintaining and developing our social and environmental responsibility. PLH embraces, supports and enacts, within its sphere of influence, the Global Compact set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. PLH wishes to continue participation in Global Compact and seeks to support the principles as an integral part of our day-to-day operation and organizational culture, and where possible align leadership strategies to the ten principles. The principles covering the environment are a focus area for PLH and where we can have a measurable, positive impact. Steen Enrico Andersen, Director, Architect MAA, Intl. Assoc. AIA July 2013 THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY As a member of the Danish Association Firms, PLH is obliged to respect the Financial reporting of Architectural Firms (DANSKE basic conventions. Kristian Hollmann account manager ARK), PLH’s operational procedures and Susanne Knudsen Head of are based on Danish Legislation and Engagement in business accounts, supported by PWC consulting DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines associations auditors and contractual standards, aimed Several of PLH’s 10 partners are Legal accountability and risk at strengthening the quality level leading representatives at DANSKE management and professionalism of practicing ARK, acting as members or heads of Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner architectural firms, and covering committees such as the Board, the supported by Philip & Partners Lawyers Level of professional liability insurance Contracts Committee, the Committee for Professional Indemnity Insurance, Quality Assurance and standard contracting agreements and the Committee for Professional Holger Bak Partner General Conditions for Consultancy and Assistance 1989 (ABR 89). Agreements and the International Digital knowledge management Committee. Jan Sander Fredriksen Partner and Collective bargaining process whereby Several partners are also active Claus Johannessen Senior Architect DANSKE ARK negotiates the general agreements on pay and working members of the Architect’s Sustainability (PLH Green Team) conditions etc. of the technical staff Association of Denmark (Akademisk Søren Mølbak Partner, Paulette that are in the employment of the Arkitektforening), represented in Christophersen Partner, Steen Enrico member firms. the Legal Committee and as the Andersen Partner and Rie Rosenkrans organisation’s appointed jury members Gjedsted Architect Cand.polyt.arch Fees and standards for architectural in architectural competitions. work with individual clients, private Staff representatives client organizations and public Leadership responsibility Henning Solfeldt Industrial Design authorities. Leader, Rikke Haugaard Architect, The PLH leadership team members are Kim Ringvei Architect and Mikkel DANSKE ARK also participates in individually and collectively responsible Boysen Meikle Constructing Architect. negotiations with public authorities on for ensuring the firm’s adherence to Occupational Health & Safety tax aspects, prices and profit legislation, responsible business practices and Supervisor Helle Maria Christensen, regulations on competitive tendering, our Code of Ethics. To that end, the Architect. liability and insurance matters as well as following nominated partners, directors building assignment procedures, quality and professional staff have been assurance and other terms relating assigned specific areas of responsibility to the professional activities of the member firms. BIMS & UN Global Compact Based on national and international Steen Enrico Andersen Partner and legislation on human rights, the Danish Paulette Christophersen Partner Consolidation Act no. 68, of january 2005, and our membership of the Financial accountability Danish Association of Architectural Torben Hjortsø Partner “Our business responsiblity is based on high standards of Danish legislation and our active engagement in associations, committees and conferences” WORK ENVIRONMENT AND POLICY PLH has a clear and balanced Psychiatry Fund to be able to advice ment also in relation to the split of gender policy where some of our and guide colleagues on issues of sex, nationality and age. We foster key values are to embrace diversity stress. The PLH leadership, together an open and inclusive culture where of competencies, experiences with the stress counsellors have racism or bullying is not tolerated. and viewpoints and to support a prepared an anti-stress policy guideOur procedures have proven effechumanistic and collegial work style line that covers both preventative tive and PLH wishes to continue this to add real value to our business. actions (behaviours and organisation engagement and investment in the of work), detection of early warning working environment in order to Actions signs and management of stress remain an attractive, healthy and effected staff. Any stress affected productive office retaining and We recruit solely on proven comemployees will be offered psycholoattracting the best. The priority of petencies and experiences not sex, gical consultation as needed. a responsible work environment nationality, religion nor age. Staff members are selected for project and recognition of human diversity teams on the basis of relevant qualiBenefits is a significant value for the office’s fications and experience corresponPLH is recognized as a stable and capability to evolve in tune with the ding with the project demands and attractive workplace, with many changing demands, challenges and our overall strategies and goals for employees being a part of the practendencies of our industry. meeting the clients’ needs. tice for 10-25 years. In order to promote well being at We follow the Danish Working work, PLH has in recent years focusEnvironment Act and according to sed on prevention of stress. Two our latest annual Work Assessment of our employees have undergone carried out in 2012 our staff is very specialised training through the satisfied with the working environNumber of employees split on age and sex Number of employees split on seniority at PLH 20 20 15 15 15 15 10 10 10 10 5 5 5 5 0 0 0 0 20-30 20-30 31-40 31-40 51-60 51-60 41-50 41-50 61-70 61-70 0-2 3-5 0-2 6-10 3-5 11-20 6-10 21+ 11-20 21+ years years years years years years years years years years years years years years years years years years years years Female Male year year WE DESIGN FOR PEOPLE PLH’s main focus in connection to ons concerning the environment, can thrive. the principles of UN Global Compact whether it is “locally” at the office or Our office is focusing on a holistic is directed towards environmental “globally” with a client. approach across disciplines to create challenges and possibilities. PLH has Sustainability is an integrated eleinformed, inventive and sustainaa responsibility to create holistic ment in our projects from the initial ble solutions. PLH is taking several sustainable and humanistic solutions thoughts about form and function. initiatives to promote our responsito the greatest extent that it can We strive to inform our clients bility towards the environment and influence project outcomes. throughout the decision making prois including environmental aspects We are committed to reviewing how cess to optimize the outcomes within in all phases of our project and conour activities can contribute to the the parameters of each project. We struction processes. reduction of CO² emissions and minisee workshops and exchange of By focusing attention and knowledge mize the planet’s consumption of knowledge with the project’s stakesharing on environmentally sustainafossil resources. However, sustainaholders as the optimal foundation ble design (ESD) parameters, the bility is not only a question of energy for the development of sustainable practice has been able to inform cli– social well being and cultural behaprojects that are also aesthetically, ents of possibilities and advantages, viour are aspects that we consider as functionally and economically sucand advise them about ESD options a central part of designing sustainacessful. and systems, that can become an ble buildings. investment in operational savings. PLH supports a considered approach Promotion and goals Our significant competencies within to environmental challenges by Buildings are more than “passive” the area have also enabled the office promoting our own and others users of energy. They are also to respond to and challenge the awareness of our impacts on the “active” environments, where expectations of our increasingly environment and surroundings. We human needs are an integral part environmentally conscious investors expect our staff to be conscious of of the creation of environmentally and clients. the consequences of their actisustainable solutions where people # CASE VERMUNDSGADE The transformation and interpretation of a former factory building in the city of Copenhagen has created a workspace for PLH based on new synergies from inside to outside. To improve daylight and indoor climate, window openings were reverted back to their original fullheight and fitted with an extra insulating glass panel and sun screening. To further reduce heat gain, insulation has been added to the inner facades making the building comply with current codes, and the ground floor slab has been insulated with a bed of sand before constructing a new timber floor above. The transformation and interpretation is underlined through the rhythmic environment has an appealing balance of a former factory building in the city of repetition of columns and windows, and between the rough and delicate, the old Copenhagen has created a workspace the inserted mezzanine level creates a and new. based on new synergies from inside to dynamic effect, and exciting new vanoutside. The vast hall, which is proportage points. The design brief and concept has tionally long and narrow, was originally evolved through extensive workshops a part of the Lauritz Knudsens Factories, The original crane structures and elewith the entire organisation. The vision and used to manufacture electrical parts ments such as steel trusses and beams for a ‘visibly creative space, reflecting in the 1920’s. are exposed as a dramatic reminiscence the way we work’ has been realised of the buildings industrial past. The through a diverse variety of work The conversion project involved refurcranes are now parked in each end of settings and collaboration areas. The bishment of the existing building, adding the studio where they create a ‘roof’ transformation dramatically showcases a mezzanine along one side, as a huge that defines the café at one end and the architectural practice to staff and ‘piece of furniture’ providing 40 extra team space at the other. visitors alike, and strengthens the firm’s workspaces upstairs and diverse ‘laborabrand we design for people. tory spaces’ below for meeting, modelNew open steel staircases and wire making, brainstorming and product mesh balustrades provide a robust yet research. The interior is defined by its transparent connection between the spaciousness, with a ceiling height of 6.5 two levels of workspace. In combination meters, and the tall, narrow industrial with the accent-coloured walls, warm windows. The verticality of the space oak flooring and super graphics, the Doku Proj Fase Indh Aktø Vers Vers Revi Revs Side “Besides my DGNB consultant training, I have been educated in using the LCA methods (Life Cycle Assessment) and Renov Projekt LLC (Life Cycle Costs) on projects with the focus on environTDD 1-4 Miljø Placerin og dispone RAPPORT ment and sustainability.” MILJ KOR ØTLÆ MILJ MILJ funktio GNIN PRIO ØMILJ ENERGIMÆRKNINGSeksis G RITE PRO ØSTAT Øteren RING GRA for hver US de eksis M RAPPORT og lands bygn teren fase inger Miljøpriorit kab de forho ld MILJ LOKALPLANEN ØKO RTLÆ FOR SLU VEN GNING RIE ROSENKRANS GJEDSTED, DGNB INTERNATIONAL MILJ HEL TEVA ØPÅ TED AF BET HED MILJ ved LUE VIRK E RAG SPRO Øaflev RING NING ER IFT. TNINGER GRA M ering reno MILJ verin Ø nyby proje gsgger ktet i FORURENINGSUNDERSØGELSE Doku MILJ ØKO RTLÆ FOR MILJ VEN GNING MILJ ØPÅ TED AF PRO ØSTØJKORT VIRK E GRA NING Proj ER M nyby sted, gger og landsfunkt proje iion ktet kab TEKN. RAPPORTER Miljøpriorit Fase CONSULTANT, PLH MILJ OG NOTATER ØKO RTLÆ FOR MILJ VEN GNING ØPÅ TED AF VIRK E Indh NING sted, ER fuktio og lands n kab “LCA is a tool to perform life cycle analysis of materials Aktø Konstru Vers Vers contained in construction. The analysis provides an overRevi Revs Helhedbetr Side view of the materials’ environmental impact eg in relation Dokumentna ProjektID: Fase: Disp Indholdsty avn:I1229_K :1229 positionsfo K01_C05_N01 orslag 1_Helhedsbe etragtninge er ift. mil ljø hvor de ops ype:C05 Aktør:K01 to global warming and different issues, and focuses on the RRG Versionsda ato: 201302 Versionsnr 228 r.:01 Revisionsn nr: XX Renov Ex: Revsionsda ato: 2012XX Side: 2:3 XXX consumption of energy for exploration and production, Renovering: Projekteringsasp Projekt pekt Energiforhold Vinduer, dagslys s Dokumentna avn:I1229_K K01_C05_N01 1_Helhedsbe etragtninge er ift. mil ljø Placering på gru Ventilation n og unden og Bygningernes place‐ og kunstlys ProjektID: :1229 Lydfoorhold disponering af Indeklima Rumudf Fase: Disp positionsfo Løsninger (virkem orslag Placerin ring er e fastlagt. Især Behov for regulerb midler) funktioner bar Behov for att solafskærmning, begrænse aIndholdsty ype:C05 bygn. 20 har mange dder Behov v for at facad gør det muligt ntallet af Der er lavet en transportation, disposal and recovery. I have produced a der orienteret udnytte dagslys at oplukkelige Aktør:K01 åbninger begræ RRG ænse antallet af funktioner ift. zon neinddeling af mod syd, syd‐vest, dispone ogg oplukk kelige åbninger brug vest. Zoneinddelin passiv solvarme og vinduer modmVersionsda ato: og vinduer mod 201302 228 placeret i en zone gstid. Faglokaler er Strandboule og o af funnktioner ift. g maksimalt. Versionsnr evarden Strandr.:01 gruppe‐ og fællesru basislokaler, pga. foruren dboulevarden um i en anden. brugsstid, for dermed ning Revisionsn og pga. fonr: XXog Desuden er der støjbelastning. orurening ikke placeret funktio at minimere basislokaler ud Revsionsda støjbe ato: 2012XX elastning. XXX mod Strandboule‐ energgiforbrug varden (i etape unød til Side: 3:3 1). De vinduer er orienter oplukkelige dig ventilation ret ind mod skolens Konstruktioner og op pvarmning. grønne arealer. s Eta ablering af indven‐ Beho ov for velisolere‐ dig regulerbar solafskærmning, supplementary tool to evaluate the materials further on de ko onstruktioner Behov for overflad samtidig sikrer der der Behov for tu udssyn og mulighed med høj unge for att opnå lavt var‐ lysreflektans. Tykk konstruktion Nybyggeri: Behov v for udluftning ved åbning af vinduer. for mefo orbrug. OBS! Op‐ ner for at konstr Ydervægge ke udjævne terrmiske ruktioner med er til mestendels timerring er klima‐ ydevægge reducer hulmurede og rer Projekteringsashøj lyd spekt samt Energiforhold Vinduer, mm. dagslyys Ventilation n og Lydfoorhold Løsninger (virkemidler) lysindfald og udsy varmebelasttninger disolering i dimm. 400‐800 skærmene er fra‐ yn behov Efterisolering er gennem vinduer. og dermed reducere v for fra avalgt.ogRåkunstlys Indeklima valgt,, med undtagel‐ r lydabssorbenter ubehandlede murv behovet for værksflader har se af hvor der af an‐ Placering på tunge, foran gruunden Idræt tshallens lysreflektans , menss Behov for lav regulerbbar ‐ ‐ Der er foretaget en n zoneinddeling af ventilation. Behov den årsag å og disponering aaf lydreflekterende place høj ring på grundenskillevægge lysreflektans har solafskærmning, dder hallen i forhold til brug. b Denne 3‐ udføres et for at rumlu . Lydabsorbent tiltagg, ex. laves uft og sikrer r placeres stort solindfald gør det er muligt at deling bevirker at kun k en del af hallen stør‐ ventilationsluft funktioner konstrruktioner. ikke på yd dervægge, men re lyssindtag i kælder‐ har uden videre mobil indervægge, på udnytte dagslys ogg ventileres, oplyses,, opvarmes/køles. parameters such as scarce resources, cleaning and maintedirekte adgaang e vægge, i loftet til på inventar skygg gevirkning forfra ogg etageen på bygning overfladen på derrmed atpassivudnytte solvarme p de den termiske nabob bygninger. Etablering af indvendig regulerbar 20 – ded nye vinduer tunge masse og maksimalt. Rumudformning er en nergieffektive. Zonei inddelingp,afsom undgå skimmelsvam solafskærmning, de er samtidig sikrer g konstruktion ner. m ellers kan opstå Storee rum bag lydabsorbent funkt ioner ift. er mulighed for udluftning ved åbning aff Behov for rum placeret på en vanskkeliggør meed hulmuret brugsstid, for dermed ydervæg vinduer. stor fleksibilitet, Behov for sttort pga. kondens. energgieffektiv Behov v for lukkede at min nimere åbenhed og lys rumvolumen for indekklimareguler fraa at rum med Der energarbejdes giforbrug medtil store ing. flere retninger. reducerer og m god s rum, mulighed unødig ventilation og med udjævne lydisolation mellem for at kun nne opdele i Behov for stor mindre opvarrmning. rumlighede ventilationsbehov. rum og mod er. Ved brug af nance.” loftshøjde og Konstruktioner bygnin ngens mobile Behovvvægge for skab bes fleksible Behov ex. for vægge Behov for tu unge Behovv for Ydervægge er 600 mm og for at højtsiddende/høje rumligheder e omgiv velser. Behov veliso olerede til adsskillelse afmed høj konstruktion ner for at lydabssorbenter forbedre kontrast og o lys/skygge vinduer – særligt støjende stille og i for lyddabsorbenter i funktione konsttruktioner for De er. at mobilelysreflektans. Tykkke udjævne terrmiske foran tunge, forhold etableres ene tekstil reflektor dybe rum. vægge loftet i lav højde og opnåskal lavtyde tilstrækkelig vægge reducerer varmebelasttninger lydreflekterende som trækker dagslyyset længere ind i lydisolation og Installa på vægge og andre Konstru varmeeforbrug. lydaabsorbering. lysindfald og udsyyn r og dermed reducere konstrruktioner. hallen. Der er etableret 15 % Der arbejdes med Installationer overflader nær flere f gennem vinduer. lofthøjder behovet for vent. glasareal/gulvareall. Lydabsorbering Behoov for støjkilder. hvert rum, for i at skkabe zoner Behov for att rumluft monteres på vægge fra 2 m over gulv energgieffektive Behov for i størst forskellige funktion til de mulig grad at Behov for i størst ner med forskellige og ventilatio onsluft og op og ligeledes i loftet. Både på installationer samt s Behov akustiske behov. tilgodese mulig udstræ v for støjsvage har direkte adgang a vægge og i loftet ettableres lameller regulering heraf. ækning install Installationer og individuelle behov at tilgodese ationer som deeres regulering til overflade en på de foran lydabsorbering for at afværge v ikke påvirker energioptimeres, for regulering individuelle behov således at skolen tunge bolde el. lign som kan k beskadige af lyys‐ akustikken negativt. uden for brugstid og solindfald samt om at kunne e ex. e i weekenden konstruktion ner. materialet. På denn ne måde tilgodesess t Solafs kun er opvarmet afskærmning mod regulere kærmninggmå Rumudformning Store rum til 17 grader. Den Behov for rum meed Behov for sttort Behovv for de akustiske forholld og samtidig d ikke give unødig energieffekti ve drifft vægtes stor fleksibilitet, generende indetemperatur støj vanskkeliggør højere rumvolumen for at lydabssorbenter i holdes en del af de en tunge og ved re egulering. end individuel solindfald. lufttilførsel. energgieffektiv regu ulering, derfor åbenhed og lys fraa reducerer og loftet i lav højde og konstruktion åben for adgang for det ikke muligt for brugerne er regulereindekklimaregulering. at flere retninger. udjævne på vægge og andre rumluft, således at massens temperatu urforhold via Behov for stor termostater. Derim ventilationsbehov. overflader nær varmeakkumuleringsevne til dels mod er det muligt loftshøjde og støjkilder. udnyttes til udjævn ning af termiske åbne vinduer, att dog vejledes brugerne højtsiddende /høj e belastninger. til kun at åbne vindduer mod Strand‐ vinduer – særligt i boulevarden uden for undervisning dybe tiden, for at undgå s‐ rum. støj giver og forurening. Overflader Lyse overflader o Behov for loft og Behov for Behovv for Vægge i en idrætsh hal males i (ex. 30% bedree udnyttelse af vægge med høj allergivenliggt, lydabssorbenter på grå) for at give beddre fokus på dagslyyset og lysreflektans. Rå støvfrit inde eklima vægge e og andre aktiviteter/ redskaber/udstyr. For at reduccerer dermed tegl‐ og med overflader nær mindske behovet for kunstlys, behovvet for kunstlys. betonoverflader bbør rengøringsvenlige, støjkilder. monteres lysreflektorer ved vinduer derfor holdes i lys e robuste ove erflader. for at trække dagslyset længere ind i farver. hallen. De akustiske forhold optimeres ved at etablere lydabsorbenter på vægge og lofter med lameller foran n for at afværge beskadigel‐se af materialet, til gengæld nedprioritteres det rengørings‐venlig indeklima, dog minimeres antallett af horisontale flader ved at udføre lamellerne vertikalt. Installationer Behovv for Behov for i størst Behov for i størst s Behovv for støjsvage Brugernes behov fo or individuel energgieffektive mulig grad at mulig udstræ ækning installationer som regulering af luft og varme tilgodeses.. installationer samt tilgodese at tilgodese ikke påvirker i Evt. kan laves den individuelle styring reguleering heraf. individuelle behovv individuelle behov akustikken negativt. gøres tidsdefinerett, ex. efter 2 timer for regulering af lyys‐ om at kunne e Solafskærmning må ændres reguleringe er til de og solindfald samtt regulere ikke give unødig støj driftsoptimerede in ndstillinger. afskærmning modd indetemperatur og ved re egulering. generende lufttilførsel. solindfald. Rumudf LOCAL INITIATIVES GLOBAL IMPACT Installa Central to sustainable design is using Andersen all partners together with to minimize the environmental load local resources and adapting the architects Rie Rosenkrans Gjedsted, of the daily running of our own office building complex to the local climate Line Marie Nisted and Gitte S. and to create a healthy and safe conditions, inspired by the local Lorentzen. An extensive seminar on workplace. Energy consumption tradition. energy was held in 2011 in order to (power, HVAC, water) as well as the Local resources must be explored upgrade our design methodologies waste of office supplies and paper is wind for electricity, sun for energy, in optimizing the passive charastericontinually being reduced. sea water for cooling, rainwater for stics in buildings. We are conscious of the environment recycling and underground geotherWe have hired new employees with impact of transportation to/from mal potential. Sun screening, lighting certification training from the newly meetings, and use office bikes for control, natural ventilation as well as established Green Building Council meetings held within a 5 km radius local and natural materials are imporDenmark. DGNB Denmark is a Danish of the office. Our other initiatives in tant factors in obtaining a comforcertification system for sustainathis area include widespread use of table indoor climate and optimized bility in buildings which match the tele conferences and tele meetings, energy sufficiency. international high standards. Other together with purchasing carbon The selection or exclusion of green sustainability and calculation tools quotas on air travel. initiatives needs to be seen from a are continuously implemented and It is our aim to be considered as an lifecycle perspective. Many solutions several employees have particienvironmentally conscious office will have an appealing pay-back time pated in the cource ’Innovation & with expertise in the planning and when considered over a 5, 10 or 15 Certification’ held by Architectural execution of high quality sustainable year horizon for running costs. Association in 2012. buildings. The office has established an internal An essential approach in all our work task-force working with initiatives is the integration of hard factors Sustainable design at PLH and approaches for internal developsuch as geometries, orientation, PLH’s knowledge about sustainable ment, training, debate and knowlocation of windows, choice of solutions and initiatives, seen in a ledge sharing, study trips, lectures, materials, engineering systems and broader perspective, is developed workshops etc. This Green Team lighting, with soft factors related to significantly by implementing specific consists of Søren Mølbak, Paulette user comfort and welfare. projects with defined goals from the Christophersen and Steen Enrico PLH is working on a targeted effort client’s viewpoint, and by participa0 kg CO2 per year 290 kg CO2 per year 22% bike/walk cykler/går 40 kg CO2 per year 31% by bus or train bus/tog 47% by car bil Employees transport to and from work at PLH ting in competitions. All projects play In 2012 PLH won the competition for ons, where sustainability goals are a an important role as ”case studies” a new headquarters for the transfocus for our clients, and an integral which reinforce the practice’s comportation and logistics company DSV component of our approach. Of note petencies, skills and profile. with a compact atrium for around is our commission as Tenant Advisor In 2011 PLH won the competition 750 employees. The building supto the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a new Hospice in Svendborg, ports DSV’s core values of​​ equality for the implementation of UN City which is planned for completion in and openness, and the competition in Copenhagen. PLH has a key role autum 2012. The recurring theme proposal suggested a series of in the development of what will be in the design is to create a homely sustainable initiatives, such as natua new benchmark Energy Class 1 place where the sense of life is everral ventilation and CTS-controlled office campus for Denmark. PLH has present and nature an integral part external blinds. A large solar power focussed on ensuring a holistic vision of the experience at the hospice. The plant on the adjacent terminal could incorporating sustainable workplace architectural main idea is to merge be integrated on the roof, in order to thinking, such that UN City will not form, function and landscape into produce electricity used for forklifts only be an energy efficient building, a coherent whole, with fine experiand other local equipment. but also a healthy and productive ences for the senses. In collaboration with landscape workplace. The brief demanded an increased architects PLH also won a competiApart from specific project examprequirement for environmentally tion for transformation and revitales, it is important to note that on a sustainable design, such that the prolization of an urban park in Husum, daily basis, the staff at PLH is making ject meets the criteria of the future near Copenhagen. The proposal informed and conscious decisions Building Code 2015. The hospice is incorporates local drainage of rainimpacting on the environment when designed and developed in a genuine water (LAR), which also can contrithey select and specify materials, sustainable matter using new builbute to changing experiences in the finishes, furniture and fixtures. ding materials, certificated as ”cradle green compound. Through one-on-one or group activito cradle” products in combination In the spring of 2010, PLH received ties, our staff is continually updated with high standards in insulation an award for the Aller Building, a on new and emerging products, and indoor environment. Key energy multimedia office in Copenhagen. techniques or manufacturers that features in the complete energy The award acknowledged the builcan strengthen our ESD approach. programme, is the extensive use of ding’s energy saving planning and solar cells on the roof, approx 15 % of sound indoor environment, amongst the buildings area, and underground other aspects. This building is one of geothermal. PLH’s “flagships” in demonstrating a Over the past years, PLH qualified to holistic sustainable building, where participate in manwy competitions, the workplace design is integrated in most of which included sustainability a compelling architectural form. as criteria in the weighted scoring The practice also undertakes a wide system. range of client advisory commissiDEVELOPING PROJECTS AND DESIGNS What kind of sustainable aspects do you integrate in a project? JESPER FRIIS, CONSTRUCTION ARCHITECT, PLH “I usually enter the process after the most significant sustainable initiatives have been decided. In the Clearance and Maintenance Center the Client – Metroselskabet – required that cradle to cradle materials were used and in any case PVC-free materials. It was a very clear and tangible request. It gave some challenges f.e when we planned the flooring, which required different standards in relation to the loads and wear and tear.” “Ryparken’s Ice Skating Rink in Copenhagen is the project which carried most sustainability forward. We had 11 spearheads in all, which made it a ‘tour de force’ project on that front. It was quite exceptionel and additional actions that are beyond the law are usually difficult to convince the developer about.” Which sustainable aspects do you have in focus whilst developing design objects? HENNING SOLFELDT, PRODUCT DESIGN MANAGER, PLH “There are three main aspects I consider in the product development. Firstly, the product should be able to get dismantled into individual components when its lifetime has come to an end. Secondly, the materials or the components should be reusable. Thirdly concerns the operation and maintenance, where the product during its lifetime has a sensible energy consumption as possible. It is the type of product that determines which factor that gets the biggest importance, if not all. I develop products with ‘common sense’ in mind and on the basis of the dialogues I have with other professional experts in the team. Years ago we developed a sign series, DanSign, before ‘sustainability’ was a widespread notion, and now the series has been ‘cradle to cradle’ certified. It could only be done on the basis of ideas about simplicity of design components and materials, and it confirms that ‘common sense’ can bring you far. “ CMC CLEARANCE AND MAINTENANCE CENTER FOR THE NEW CIRCULAR LINE, METRO CITYRINGEN COPENHAGEN NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND DESIGNS PLH will put effort into the specificaat the international climate confesaving lighting. These innovative light tion, use and development of new rence, World Climate Solutions, held in fixtures are produced in collaboration products and techniques that reduce Copenhagen. The award acknowledges with and for major international light impact on the environment. As stated innovative initiatives for cleaner energy manufacturing companies. In april 2012 earlier it is a question of using local production. Philips Lighting launched LumiStone resources and adapt the construction a new LED fixature designed by PLH methods and technologies to the local There is a need to produce far grea(Henning Solfeldt design manager) as climate conditions, inspired by local ter wind energy in response to both the first suspended LED fixature that traditions. PLH integrates this in develoclimatic considerations and the future meets current requirements for office ping projects with the central aim to security of energy supply. It is with lighting. LumiStone gives a luminous improve the environment, generating this viewpoint that EdgeFlow wants to efficacy exceeding 100 lm / W, which energy and add value to the human explore the potential of wind energy is 30-40% higher than T5 luminaires everyday life (!). production in built environment. often used for offices. The fixture is EdgeFlow’s first project involves the elegant, evocative and energy efficient, As a result of one of PLH’s industrial development of a windmill for applicaand is specifically developed to bring design group’s “green” initiatives, PLH tion to primarily larger buildings in the at homely atmosphere into the work established the company EdgeFlow ApS industrial areas. spaces. It has a unique LED-shielding so on July 1st. 2009. The long term goal of the light does not dazzle or distract the EdgeFlow is to commercialize a new, Besides this great initiative on urban user. environmentally and economically feasiwind energy, PLH’s industrial design ble wind turbine. EdgeFlow won the team has designed and developed a LumiStone is designed for long life innovation award ”Climate Cup 2010” new series of light fittings for energy cycling and has a lifespan of approx 17 years by usage of 8 hours a day and PLH Global Compact Ambition all materials can be reused by a simple 2013/2014 separation of the fixtures parts. PLH is proud to be a member of Global The existing building stock represents Compact. In the year ahead, the praca tremendous energy consumption and tice will continue to seek opportunities there is a great potential to reduce the to support and enact the principles. In total energy consumption in refurbishparticular, we aim to show built works ments of older buildings. PLH develops that demonstrate more extensive and a ventilation unit that can recycle 4/5 of measurable outcomes in the area of the energy in the otherwise lost heat, environment. which makes the unit an obvious technical device to use in connection with the renovation of older buildings. The project is sponsored by the Innovation Fund (Fornyelsesfonden) and is expected to be ready for production in the summer of 2014. PLH ARKITEKTER A/S VERMUNDSGADE 38K 2100 KØBENHAVN Ø +45 3543 0055 WWW.PLH.DK
