ACTION EVOLUTION PROGRESS CARE DEVELOPMENT Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 This year’s report is dedicated to the memory of the recently deceased Petros Vettas, President of ATTICA GROUP, inspirational entrepreneur, visionary associate of the shipping industry and above all an exceptional person. Contents CEO’s Address................................................... 05 IV. Market................................................................. 41 1. Corporate Governance.......................................... 43 2. Fair Competition........................................….….. 45 The Report......................................................... 07 3. Responsible Marketing.....................................…. 45 4. Customer Service & Satisfaction...........................… 46 5. Communication With The Market........................... 49 I. Introduction....................................................... 09 1. Coastal Shipping and Greece................................ 11 2. Our Group.......................................................... 11 3. Our Lines............................................................. 14 V. Environment....................................................... 51 4. Our Fleet............................................................. 15 1. Organization & Management................................. 53 5. Our Network....................................................... 16 2. Raw Materials and Waste Management.…............. 54 6. Our History........................................................... 17 3. Information and Awareness – Raising................…. 58 7. Signifant Events in 2012....................................... 19 4. Climate Change..................................................… 60 8. Financial Data...................................................... 20 5. Biodiversity.......................................................... 61 II. Social Responsibility Management........... 23 VI. Society................................................................ 63 1. Vision & Strategy.........................................…..... 25 1. With Local Societies as our Destination.................. 65 2. Management Practices....................................….. 27 2. We Support Local Societies.....…......................….. 65 3. Social Responsibility Organizational Structures....... 29 3. Information to the Public...................................…. 73 4. Management Systems........................................... 29 4. Volunteering.....................................................… 73 5. Stakeholders........................................................ 30 5. Cooperation With Non–Government Organization.. 75 6. Participation & Recognition................................... 31 6. Thank you Letters................................................. 76 III. Workplace ................................................ 33 1. Our Personnel..................................................... 35 VII. Cop Attica Group.......................................... 78 2. Health & Safety.............................................….. 36 3. Fair & Diverse Workplace.................................... 37 4. Labor Rights....................................................... 38 VIII. Gri-G3.1....................................................... 80 5. Development of Employees.................................. 38 6. Employee Satisfaction......................................... 39 7. Staff Briefing........................................................ 39 IX. Report Evaluation Form................................ 91 CEO’s Address This Social Responsibility Report reflects our Group’s strong commitment to promote direct, transparent and accurate information to all stakeholders on the actions and initiatives in place to ensure a sustainable future and protect the environment. Therefore, the exchange and adoption of best practices to create positive and sustainable results both to the society and to the company, are the only way to ensure a competitive advantage for Attica Group, at a time when uncertainty and insecurity prevail. Global changes seen in recent years as well as fluctuations and uncertainties of the markets as a result of the financial crisis, have significantly affected business activity both internationally and nationally. The continuous increase in the international price of oil which also determines the price of fuel consumed by the Company's fleet, and the rapid decline in the disposable income of consumers could not but result in several challenges facing the Group, which we have managed responsibly, with business insight and openness. It should be noted here that in 2012, at these particularly challenging times, the Group managed to increase its market shares (passengers, trucks and private cars), holding the lead for one more year both in domestic and international lines. For yet another year, the Group has sought full compliance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and retained its key role as a social partner while, setting shortand long-term strategic goals, put its values to practice and committed to four distinct pillars: market, employment, environment and society. We are really proud that through the acceptance of the new passenger ferry BLUE STAR PATMOS in June 2012, we completed a very significant investment of €140 million in total, to further upgrade and modernise the fleet of Attica Group, establishing the company’s domestic presence. The construction and acceptance of BLUE STAR PATMOS also signalled the launch of a new route for Attica Group (Piraeus Chios Mytilene) redefining the level of services in the country’s maritime transport. Environmental protection is a primary corporate goal, pursued through the adoption of best practices that promote sustainable development and minimise the impact of the company’s operations on the environment. In 2012, the Group continuously and consistently implemented its environmental policy and took a number of measures to limit climate change and rationally manage waste, by launching a new programme for the recycling of lamps and expired medicinal products. Through the programme “With you as our destination”, the company listens to the needs of the society and adapts its operations based on the feedback it receives. The Sun Protection programme was held for the fourth year, providing free medical examinations and information to the residents of Ios and Santorini. At the same time, “Blood Ties”, the programme of voluntary blood donation, was held twice during the year, and 70 blood units were collected to meet the needs of remote islands served by the Group. It was an honour for the Group to be awarded the Corporate Affairs Excellence Award in the category Low Cost Action/ Programme unit for the “Traditional Professions” action, during the major event of the communication industry, organized for the first time this year by the Hellenic Management Association (HMA). Attica Group has demonstrated it’s social sensitivity in supporting municipalities, communities, agencies and associations by making donations and sponsorships and helping to build on a priceless “social product”. This concept of responsibility also governs our policy in relation to the most important asset of our company: our people. Our goal is the continuous follow-up and development of a safe and equal workplace, as well as the development of employees beyond our obligations under labour law. The Group’s priorities for 2013 have been adjusted to the needs and challenges that the current circumstances pose. However, the principles of social responsibility implemented across the business operations of Attica Group are the drive of our effort to overcome this crisis. Enjoy your reading! Spiros Ch. Paschalis Chief Executive Officer 5 The Report Introduction For Attica Group this is the 6th consecutive annual “Social Responsibility Report” and the 4th issued according to the guidelines of the GRI/G3.1 International Sustainability Reporting Initiative. Its contents reflect the overall perception of Corporate Responsibility for the Group, setting out and disclosing important issues and effects with regard to the fundamental principles of Social Corporate Responsibility (SCR). The Report represents the period 01/01/2012 – 31/12/2012 (unless otherwise indicated at some points) and pertains to all Group operations in Greece and in part to foreign operations. The Report contains quantitative data drawn from direct measurements; where estimates are made, express reference is made thereto. Reporting principles The structure of the Report follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (version G3.1,2011), at the same time adopting the UN-developed Global Compact principles and criteria. Report terminology For easier reading of the Report, please pay attention to the following, widely used terms: TERM REFERS TO “Company”, “we”, “Attica Group”, Attica Holdings SA “Group” «Blue Star Ferries», «Superfast Ferries» the subsidiaries comprising the Group «ΑΝΕΚ-SUPERFAST» the joint service of ΑΝΕΚ LINES with SUPERFAST FERRIES for the Piraeus-Heraklion & Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona routes «Report» Social Responsibility Report 2012 «page 7, 8, etc» Report section Sources of data All data presented in the Report were drawn from individual business units of Attica Group. The quantitative data were drawn from the databases maintained centrally at the company and its individual Divisions, with the support of IT systems, applications, files, and established procedures. Indicatively: • The analysis data of HR categories are drawn from the HR Division database • The financial data are drawn from the Finance Division database • Recycling data are drawn from the Quality Assurance & Environmental Management Division • The customer service data are drawn from the Customer Service & Loyalty Division database • The discount and free tickets data are drawn from the booking systems and the Commercial Division • The sponsorship data are drawn from the Commercial Division and the Marketing department databases • Recording data related to the LIFE program are provided by the Hellenic Ornithological Society Objectives of Report 2013 • Certification of the Report by a third independent entity • Recording of water consumption at the company’s headquarters • Recording of energy consumption at the company’s headquarters • Collection of quantitative data in relation to the provision of free and/or discount tickets for the Piraeus Heraklion route which is served by the ANEK-SUPERFAST joint venture with Olympic Champion and SUPERFAST XII vessels ..but also to • Expand the collection, recording and control system for data included in the Corporate Responsibility Report • Continue operations Blood Ties , Sun Protection and Traditional Professions” • Develop new programs that will focus on local communities • To reinstate the Administrative Personnel Opinions and Satisfaction” survey 7 INTRODUCTION COASTAL SHIPPING AND GREECE OUR GROUP OUR LINES OUR FLEET OUR NETWORK OUR HISTORY SIGNIFANT EVENTS IN 2012 FINANCIAL DATA 9 Coastal shipping and Greece As a Mediterranean country with almost the longest coastline in Europe, Greece has been traditionally a strong player in coastal shipping. It could not be otherwise, since Greece is a leader in shipping, with its numerous islands with varying landscape, the mild climate and sunshine. The above, combined with the favourable sea conditions for sailing and the short distances between coasts, strengthen the interest of tourists who are successfully and consistently served by the country’s lines. As a result, maritime transport aims to support the country by contributing to its cultural and economic growth, both locally and generally. It connects people, products, cultures, civilizations and strengthens the development of remote regions, offering them a transport and communication channel. Historically the role of coastal shipping in Greece was closely connected and intertwined with economic prosperity and tourist entertainment. However, the most important aspect of the industry’s contribution is connection, a vital factor for local communities, which leads to communication between people and ultimately acts as a decisive factor to improve the daily life of people living in remote regions, but also of other Greek islands. Our Group Attica Group is a Marfin Investment Group subsidiary and the parent company of shipping companies Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries. Our Group operates in the passenger shipping industry. The fleet numbers 14 car-passenger ferries which are registered in the Greek ship registry, operating on Greece-Italy routes, and Cyclades, Dodecanese, NE Aegean and Crete routes. The head offices are located at 123-125 Syngrou Avenue and 3 Torva St, 117 45, Athens, Attica. In particular, the Group's ferries currently operate: a) in the Adriatic Sea, on the Patras Igoumenitsa Ancona route which is served by the ANEK-SUPERFAST joint venture with 2 SUPERFAST ferries and Hellenic Spirit, and on the Patras Igoumenitsa Bari route which is served by 2 SUPERFAST ferries, and b) in Greek coastal shipping, on the routes of Cyclades, the Dodecanese and the islands of the North East Aegean Sea, served by 8 BLUE STAR ferries, and on the Piraeus Heraklion route, which is served by the ANEK-SUPERFAST Joint Venture with Olympic Champion and SUPERFAST XII ferries. The traffic volume for the Group over the last two years was as follows: Domestic route figures International route figures 2011 2012 2011 2012 Passengers 3,012,308 3,072,191 Passengers 460,178 383,439 Cars 373,891 385,239 Cars 128,788 99,909 Trucks 138,112 139,320 Trucks 113,191 114,902 11 The company's sales network is highly developed both in terms of domestic and international routes. In fact, the Group maintains 37 Premium Sales Agents worldwide and more than 20,000 travel agencies in Greece and abroad to serve its customers. All of the Group’s vessels are certified by the International Safety Management Code ISM in accordance with SOLAS requirements, for the safety of human life at sea, and in accordance with the international standards ISO 9001:2008 (International Quality Management Standard) and ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management Standard). The ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 certifications were issued by the American Certification Agency “ABS Quality Evaluations”, part of the international Group of Companies, American Bureau of Shipping (ABS). The certification according to the new Quality Management Standard ISO 9001:2008 took place in 2009 and stands as recognition of the high standard services provided by the Group. Finally, the contractor has provided Goody's restaurants on BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS, BLUE STAR ITHAKI & BLUE STAR DELOS with the certified “Food Safety Management System according to the TUV Hellas EN ISO 22000:2005”. Also all FLOCAFE shops operating on all Group ferries apply the “HACCP Food Safety Management System”. As one of the largest coastal shipping companies with 20 years of successful operation and continuous growth, Attica Group is a key pillar of development of Greek tourism and of all the Greek islands, and plays an essential role in the country’s social and economic growth. In addition, over the last two years the company has made significant investments in the Greek market with the construction of two new and sophisticated ferries: BLUE STAR DELOS and BLUE STAR PATMOS. At the same time, its operations across Greece offer professional growth opportunities and direct employment to approximately 1,011 employees. Attica Group, through Blue Star Ferries, was responsible for changing the conditions of travel in the wider area of the Aegean, combining responsibility and reliability with elegance and comfort. Together with Superfast Ferries, which holds the leading position in the Adriatic Sea market and Crete, it provides high quality services, respecting the needs of its partners, employees and, above all, its passengers. 12 Shareholder structure Based on the shareholder list information on 31.12.2012, the holders of shares and voting rights above 5%, according to Law 3556/2007, as well as Sivet Holding Inc., which is controlled by the Company’s Chairman, Mr. P. Vettas, were the following: Shareholder list details as of 31.12.2012 of ATTICA Holdings SA (Law 3556/2007) Shareholders Number of shares % Voting right (Law 3556/2007) % MIG Shipping SA 149,072,510 77.78 Marfin Investment Group Holdings SA 22,241,173 11.60 171,313,683 89.38 Sivet Holding Inc.1 8,273,724 4.31 8,273,724 4.31 Other shareholders 12,072,913 6.31 12,072,913 6.31 Total 191,660,320 100 191,660,320 100 1 Sivet Holding Inc. is a company controlled by the Chairman, Mr. Petros Vettas. The Company does not own treasury shares and its subsidiaries do not own Company shares. Organizational structure The following chart presents the structure of the ATTICA HOLDINGS SA Group with its subsidiaries. ATTICA HOLDING SA SUPERFAST ONE INC. BLUE STAR FERRIES Maritime S.A. BLUE STAR FERRIES Shipowning company of the Shipowning company of the 100% MARITIME SA & CO vessel SUPERFAST I 7 vessels BLUE STAR JOINT VENTURE SUPERFAST TWO INC. BLUE STAR M.C. Shipowning company of the Shipowning company of the vessel SUPERFAST II vessel BLUE STAR DELOS 100% SUPERFAST EXI INC. BLUE STAR FERRIES M.C. Shipowning company of the Shipowning company of the vessel SUPERFAST VI vessel BLUE STAR PATMOS 100% SUPERFAST ENDEKA INC. BLUE STAR FERRIES S.A. Shipowning company of the Management company vessel SUPERFAST XI ATTICA FERRIES Ν.Ε. Shipowning company of the Notes: vessel SUPERFAST XII BLUE STAR FERRIES SA is the owner of vessels BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS, BLUE STAR ITHAKI, BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, DIAGORAS and ΒLUE HORIZON. The chart does not include ex shipowning companies, joint ventures and other SUPERFAST FERRIES S.A. Management company companies with no activity. 13 Management The current structure of the Board of Directors (hereinafter the “BoD”) of the Company is the following: Full name Capacity Petros M. Vettas Chairman Non-Executive member Kyriakos D. Magiras Vice-Chairman Executive member Spiridon Ch. Paschalis CEO Executive member Michael G. Sakellis Director Executive member Ioannis V. Kritikos Director Executive member The professional address of the BoD Members is the Efthymios Th. Bouloutas Director Non-Executive member Company’s registered office at 123-125 Syngrou Ave & 3 Torva St, 117 45 Athens. Areti G. Souvatzoglou Director Non-Executive member The Company’s sole administrative and management Independent Markos A. Foros Director body, in accordance with its Articles of Association, is Non-Executive member Independent its Board of Directors. The Company's supervisory Alexandros Th. Edipidis Director Non-Executive member body is the Audit Committee. Our lines Greece Italy In the Adriatic Sea, Attica Group operates 4 SUPERFAST ferries (SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI) with daily routes throughout the year a) from the ports of Patras and Igoumenitsa to Ancona (the route is served by the ANEK-SUPERFAST joint venture), and b) to Bari. During the summer months there are routes connecting the island of Corfu with Bari. Domestic lines Attica Group is active in the domestic market with 9 BLUE STAR ferries and 1 SUPERFAST vessel, carrying out year round routes to the following destinations: • Piraeus-Heraklion with SUPERFAST XII (route served by ΑΝΕΚ-SUPERFAST) • Piraeus-Syros-Tinos-Mykonos with BLUE STAR ITHAKI • Piraeus-Paros-Naxos-Ios-Santorini with BLUE STAR DELOS • Piraeus-Syros-Paros-Naxos-Santorini & Amorgos (Katapola & Aigiali)-Iraklia-Schinoussa-Koufonissi-DonoussaAstypalaia with BLUE STAR PAROS & BLUE STAR NAXOS • Piraeus-Patmos-Leros-Kos-Rhodes & Syros with BLUE STAR 1 & BLUE STAR 2 • Piraeus-Kalymnos-Kos-Rhodes & Astypalaia-Patmos-Lipsi-Leros-Nisyros-Tilos-Symi-Kastellorizo with DIAGORAS • Piraeus-Chios-Mytilini with BLUE STAR PATMOS 14 Our fleet The fleet of Attica Group consists of 14 car-passenger vessels serving the routes performed by the company in Greece and abroad: FLEET CONSTRUCTION (year) MAX SPEED (knots) PASSENGERS GARAGE CAPACITY BLUE STAR 1 2000 28 1,890 641 BLUE STAR 2 2000 28 1,854 641 BLUE STAR ITHAKI 2000 24.1 1,317 245 BLUE STAR PAROS 2002 24 1,474 212 BLUE STAR NAXOS 2002 24 1,474 212 BLUE STAR DELOS 2011 25.5 2,400 434 BLUE STAR PATMOS 2012 25.5 2,000 434 DIAGORAS 1990 21.1 1,462 274 BLUE HORIZON 1987 23 1,497 780 SUPERFAST VI 2001 27.6 1,595 712 SUPERFAST XI 2001 28.5 1,639 649 SUPERFAST XII 2001 28.5 1,639 649 SUPERFAST I 2008 23 928 783 SUPERFAST II 2009 23 928 783 Attica Group, with a fast and ultra modern fleet at its disposal, fully understands the essence of a comfortable and pleasant trip. A full range of amenities and services are offered on board our vessels: • Spacious cabins • Aircraft type seats • Cabins with PURE technology (available on SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XII, BLUE STAR 1 & BLUE STAR 2) • Restaurants, Bars and Cafés for delicious meals and moments of relaxation • Bars and Cafés on deck • Pool (available on SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII, SUPERFAST VI) • Casino (available on SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI) • Shops for on board shopping • Wi-Fi connection • Internet Corner (available on SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI) • Coin telephones and ΑΤΜs • Disco (available on SUPERFAST VI & SUPERFAST XI) • Video Games (available on all ferries except BLUE STAR PAROS & BLUE STAR NAXOS) • Reserved space for pets 15 Our network International lines The Sales Network of Attica Group for international lines expands across the world and is supported through the company’s modern call centre which provides fast and quality service to all customers, and by 37 Premium Sales Agents in the main markets and port agents at the departure ports. Attica Group is a full member of the management and commercial bodies of the International Union of Railways (UIC), the International Common Tariff System of Railways (NRT) and other railway organizations (such as the EURAIL, the INTERRAIL, etc.), the International Rail Transport Committee (CIT), the Central Clearing Buraeu of Railways (BCC), the European railway Statistics and Information organizations, etc. Recently it also became a full member of the South-East Europe Railway Group (SERG). Today the International Union of Railways has 200 members from 92 countries and 5 continents, through which our services are available. The Group aims to identify new markets and meet new challenges in order to expand its collaborations and increase sales. Our experienced personnel, after careful strategic planning, using a variety of marketing tools, is in communication with its partner networks, informing and guiding them in relation to the commercial policy, as well as keeping them up to date with the company’s activities and new products. In its effort for ongoing modernisation, the Group keeps investing in new technologies and means, promoting online ticket sales through its website at www.superfast.com, as well through the websites of its partners, achieving increasing sales every year. It also participates in the main Tourism and Transportation trade fairs in Europe, promoting the programs and services it offers. Also, the reservation system of Attica Group is linked to the International Reservations Networks. More than 20.000 travel agencies are connected online to these networks, offering direct integrated services. Domestic lines Attica Group, via Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries, has an active presence in the Greek Ferry Lines. The Domestic Sales Network of the Group is well developed. In every port of departure there are agents who are connected online to the central reservation system, whilst through the CRS systems (ForthCRS, Ferryscreen, Start), more than 20.000 travel agencies in Greece and abroad are able to place reservations via the Group’s central system. Through the corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com & www.superfast.com, the Group has an additional channel of communication with its customers through which online booking and ticket purchases can be made. 16 Our history ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. with distinctive title Attica Group was established in 1918 and its current name was given by a decision of the Ordinary General Meeting of shareholders of 03.06.2004 (GGI S.A. & LLC 6333/18.06.2004). The Company is classified, according to the classification of the Economic Operation Sectors (STAKOD 2003) of the NSSG, under code 741.5 on Holding Companies Activity Management. The Company is registered in the Companies Register of the Ministry of Development, Department of Companies and Credit, with registry number 7702/06/Β/86/128. Its operation in the sector of passenger shipping through subsidiaries began in 1993. In 1999 Attica Group acquired 38.8% of the shares of ATHEX-listed Strintzis Lines Shipping S.A., which it increased to 48.6% the following year. In the same year, in 2000, it changed the company’s trade name to Blue Star Maritime S.A. and created the Blue Star brand. The Blue Star fleet's renewal started mid-2000 and was completed in June 2002 with the construction of five new generation Blue Star car-passenger ferries. On 3 October 2007 the ownership status of Attica Group changed when MARFIN INVESTMENT GROUP SA (MIG) directly and indirectly acquired 51.64% of the share capital and voting rights from the Company’s old reference shareholders. In September 2008 the Company’s head offices were relocated and all departments were centralized in the new offices at 123 125 Syngrou Ave & 3 Torva St, 11745 Athens. The Company’s registered office was also transferred to the Municipality of Athens. In October of 2008 the newly built Superfast I, 24 knots speed, with a capacity of 950 passengers, 140 trucks and 100 cars was delivered. The vessel was deployed in the Patras – Igoumenitsa – Bari route in the Adriatic Sea. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of 02.12.2008 approved the merger, according to the provisions of article 68(2) -77(a) and 78 of C.L. 2190/1920, of articles 1-5 of Law 2166/1993, and in general the commercial legislation, as applicable, through the absorption of Blue Star Maritime S.A. and of the 100% subsidiary Superfast Ferries Maritime S.A. by Attica HOLDINGS S.A. The said merger of the three SAs was approved with decision number Κ2 15054/23.12.2008 of the Ministry of Development. As a result of the merger, Attica Group issued 37,440,020 dematerialized common registered shares, with a nominal value of €0.83 each, which it distributed to the shareholders of merged company Blue Star Maritime S.A., according to the determined exchange ratio. On 25.06.2009 Attica Group announced the signing of a shipbuilding agreement with shipyards Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. (DSME) of South Korea, for the building of two ultra modern car-passenger ferries. The total investment cost reaches €137 million for both vessels. 17 In October of 2009 the newly built Superfast II was delivered, with features similar to Superfast I, and it was also deployed in the Patras-Igoumenitsa-Bari route in the Adriatic Sea. In January of 2010 the Company’s Share Capital increase was completed with the payment of cash and a pre-emptive right for old shareholders. 20,810,300 new shares were issued, with sale price €2.00 per share, and €41.6 million were drawn in total. Therefore, the Company’s share capital amounted to €134,811,920 divided into 162,424,000 dematerialized common registered voting shares, with a nominal value €0.83 each. In February 2010 SUPERFAST V which operated in the Adriatic Sea was sold. As of 1 February 2010, SUPERFAST FERRIES became the first shipping company worldwide to offer a new class of cabins with “PURE” technology, on the Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona line, in the Adriatic Sea. On 20 November 2010, BLUE STAR DELOS, the first of the two new Group’s vessels ordered in June 2009 was launched at the shipyards of Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. (DSME), South Korea. In January 2011 the Company’s Share Capital increase was completed with the payment of cash and a pre-emptive right for old shareholders. 29,236,320 new shares were issued, with sale price €0.83 per share, and €24.3 million were drawn in total. In March 2011, Superferry II, a vessel built in 1974, was sold to GOLDEN STAR FERRIES SHIPPING CO. The vessel was delivered at the port of Rafina. In the same month, SeaSmiles, the new single Customer Loyalty Scheme was launched for Attica Group passengers travelling with Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries, in the Adriatic Sea, the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, Crete and the islands of the Northeast Aegean Sea, offering exclusive privileges, unique gifts, special offers and high quality services to its members. From April 2011, BLUE STAR 1 and BLUE STAR 2 which serve the Dodecanese lines, and SUPERFAST XII which serves the line to Heraklion, are equipped with a new, innovative air and surface purification technology system, the “PURE cabins”. On 8 June 2011, Attica Group proceeded to a partnership of high strategic importance with ANEK Lines for combined routes by vessels of the two companies on the international Patras-Igoumenitsa-Ancona line, and on the Piraeus-Heraklion line. The newly built vessel BLUE STAR DELOS was delivered in October 2011 at the shipyards of Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering Co. (DSME), South Korea. The vessel started its itineraries on the Piraeus-Paros-Naxos-Ios-Santorini on Sunday 13 November. During the same year, Attica Group certified BLUE STAR DELOS according to the International Quality Standards ISO 9001:2008 and Environmental Management Standard ISO 14001:2004. 18 Significant events in 2012 The company further strengthened its presence in the domestic lines in June 2012, with the delivery of BLUE STAR PATMOS from the shipyards of Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co Ltd, South Korea. The construction of this new, ultra-modern vessel marked the launch of a new line for Attica Group, on the Piraeus-Chios-Mytilene route, where the company previously had no presence, redefining the level of transportation services to the islands of the North-East Aegean Sea. BLUE STAR PATMOS is the second of the two vessels ordered. It is a high-specification vessel with a total length of 145.50 meters, speed at 26 knots and a capacity of 2,000 passengers and 427 passenger cars or 60 trucks and 145 passenger cars. At this challenging period for our country, Attica Group’s investment, which exceeds 70 million euros, is part of the company’s ongoing effort to provide high-quality transportation services with modern, new and fast vessels and contribute to the tourism development of the country’s islands. During the same year, Attica Group certified BLUE STAR PATMOS according to the International Quality Standards ISO 9001:2008 and Environmental Management Standard ISO 14001:2004. These certifications are a confirmation of the Group’s increased environmental awareness and intense efforts to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment. 19 Financial data ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A., with distinctive title Attica Group is purely a Holdings Company and as a holdings company it has no activity. The company, through its subsidiaries, is mostly active in passenger shipping and the provision of tourism services. Attica Group is classified, according to the classification of the Economic Operation Sectors (STAKOD 2003) of the NSSG, under code 741.5 on Holding Companies Activity Management. The Group’s main operation is covered by sector 611.0 “Maritime and Coastal Transport”. The shares of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. are listed on the Athens Stock Exchange with the code “Attica”. The Company is registered in the Companies Register of the Ministry of Development, Department of Companies and Credit, with registry number 7702/06/Β/86/128. Its term was initially set at 90 years, extended by decision as of 19.03.1992 of the Extraordinary General Meeting (GG 3526/13.07.1992) for another hundred years, expiring on 27.10.2108. The Company’s share capital stands at € 57,498,096 and is divided into 191,660,320 common registered shares with the nominal value of €0.30 each. The ATTICA HOLDINGS SA GROUP is consolidated using the full consolidation method in the Financial Statements of MARFIN INVESTMENT GROUP HOLDINGS SA, which is established in Greece. Selected figures of Group results for the financial year of 2012 are shown in the table below: STATEMENT OF TOTAL EXPENSES OF ATTICA GROUP (in thousand EUR) 01.01-31.12.2012 01.01-31.12.2011 Turnover 256,002 246,790 Gross profit 22,981 10,094 % of turnover 9% 4% Profit/ (loss) before taxes, -17,022 -36,195 financing and investing results % of turnover -7% -15% Impairment of assets -20,359 -41,827 Profit/ (loss) before taxes -53,187 -86,690 Income tax -82 187 Profit/(loss) for the period after taxes -53,269 -86,503 Attributable to: Parent company owners -53,269 -86,503 Minority interest Other comprehensive income before tax -2,575 -1,986 Cumulatice total income after tax -55.844 -88,489 Profit/(loss) after taxes per share – basic (in EURO) -0.2779 -0.4553 Profit/(loss) before tax, financial and investment 10,159 -8,851 results and depreciations (EBITDA)* % of turnover 4% Note: Any divergences in the total from the sums of individual figures are due to rounding offs. Source: Annual Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 01.01-31.12.2012 prepared by the Company based on IFRS and not audited-reviewed by a Certified Auditor-Accountant 20 The Group's turnover for financial year 2012 amounted to € 256.00 million and profit before taxes, financing, investing results and total depreciation and amortization amounted to € 10.16 million compared to turnover of €246.79 million and loss before taxes, financing, investing results and total depreciation and amortization of €8.85 million in 2011. Specifically for FY 2012, the turnover represented domestic lines to 59.5% and the Adriatic Sea to 40.5%, while the corresponding figures in 2011 were 56.5% for domestic lines and 43.5% for the Adriatic Sea. The Group's activities by geographic region are as follows: As regards domestic lines, the Group operated the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, the Piraeus-Heraklion routes, and starting from July 2012, the Piraeus-Chios-Mytilene route, with BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS, BLUE STAR DELOS, BLUE STAR ITHAKI, BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, DIAGORAS, SUPERFAST XII and BLUE STAR PATMOS. In this market, the Group's turnover for 2012 amounted to € 152.21 million compared to €139.30 million in 2011, up by 9.3%, while ferry itineraries were increased by 2.9% compared to 2011. The above turnover includes compensation for the performance of public service itineraries for the competent Ministry, standing at € 11.47 million compared to € 10.04 million in 2011. The operating expenses of vessels increased and reached € 132.01 million compared to € 127.26 million in 2011, mainly due to higher fuel prices. This increase in operating expenses was more than offset by the increased turnover resulting in profit before taxes, financing, investing results and total depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) in the domestic market to stand at € 15.34 million compared to € 1.50 million in 2011. In 2012 the domestic lines posted loss after taxes of €15.28 million, including losses resulting from the impairment of assets (vessels) of €5.81 million. In 2011, loss after taxes amounted to € 38.80 million, including loss resulting from the impairment of assets (vessels) of €21.16 million and profit of €3.93 million from the sale of SUPERFERRY II. In the Adriatic Sea, the Group operated the Patras Igoumenitsa Ancona routes with SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, and the Patras Igoumenitsa Bari route, with SUPERFAST I and SUPERFAST II. In this market, the Group's turnover for 2012 amounted to € 103.79 million compared to €107.49 million in 2011, down by 3.4%, while ferry itineraries were decreased by 8.4% compared to 2011. The operating expenses of vessels decreased to €101.01 million from €109.12 million in 2011, down by 7.4%. Losses before tax, financing, investing results and total depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) in the Adriatic Sea stood at €4.02 million compared to losses of €6.97 million in 2011. In 2012 the Adriatic Sea segment posted losses after taxes of €35.86 million, including losses resulting from the impairment of assets (vessels) of €14.55 million and losses of €6.40 million from the sale of SUPERFAST VI. In 2011, losses after taxes amounted to € 44.44 million, including losses resulting from the impairment of assets (vessels) of € 20.66 million. Despite the significant improvement of its performance, the Group posted losses in 2012. The two main causes that affect the Group's results are the deep recession in Greece, which significantly affects the transport of passengers and vehicles, and high fuel prices that greatly affect the operating expenses of vessels. 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT VISION & STRATEGY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURES MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS STAKEHOLDERS PARTICIPATION & RECOGNITION 23 Vision & Strategy Our strategy Historically, our Group’s strategy has been to maintain practices that promote fair business in passenger shipping. For Attica Group, Corporate Social Responsibility is intertwined with the culture of all its participants, and with its business mission and policy. The responsibility with which we handle our customers’ needs and our constantly upgraded services are a non-negotiable principle of the company. Based on these principles, the Group seeks to integrate social and environmental factors in every activity. The commitment under the Corporate Social Responsibility programme of Attica Group entitled “With you as our destination” reflects the Group’s principles and values and places people in the center of all actions, by designing programmes which apply to four different fields of interest: market and corporate governance, the environment and sustainable development, human resources, and local societies. With market & governance With the environment and sustainable development as our destination as our destination With employees With local societies as our destination as our destination A benchmark for Attica Group is the implementation of two important investments of €137 million to upgrade and modernize its fleet, which was completed during the current year when BLUE STAR PATMOS was delivered, always having in mind our ongoing efforts to provide high-quality transportation services, and the development of Greek islands. In an environment of economic uncertainty, we implement a targeted and structured strategy for sustainable development and rational management of available resources, which is characterized by continuity, stability and consistency, carrying out our business as an “Operation Active Citizen”. Over the last twelve years, we have stood by the islanders providing support to parents associations, charities and non-profit organisations, Metropolitan churches, cultural and athletic clubs, the medical community, agencies, etc, in order to facilitate and support them. In parallel, we have acted as an important bridge and, on occasions, even a lifeline, by providing transportation for patients who needed to be transferred to Athens, by going to destinations not included in our scheduled itineraries. We have also supported a number of organizations and associations in the sectors of health, education, culture and sports by providing free or discount tickets. Finally, Regions and Municipalities have been supported by the Group which responds to various requests, by sponsoring initiatives in the interests of residents in the fields of environment, society and local economy. The following pages present in detail the Group’s CSR best practices and initiatives for 2012, and the last pages present the correlation of the content with the GRI – G3.1 indicators. 25 Pillars of action The company’s goals under the four pillars of our responsibility commitment are presented below: Workplace Our goal is the continuous improvement of working conditions and the development of employees beyond our obligations under labour law. An important prerequisite for Attica Group is to maintain a safe environment in which employees can trust the management of the company and feel pride in their work. Environment Our goal is to adopt best practices that promote sustainable development and minimise the negative impact of the company's operations on the environment. The continuous improvement of environmental performance and the evaluation of effectiveness of our programs and actions are a top priority for the Group. Society Our goal is to respect and support local society across the spectrum of the company activities, through the creation of partnerships and trust. Through its programme “With you as our destination”, the company listens to the needs of the society and adapts its operations based on the feedback it receives. Market Our goal has always been to provide passengers the highest possible quality of services. The company seeks to maintain its leading position in the industry and continue to develop and implement measures to ensure the highest quality services to passengers, while following the rules of conduct and fair competition. Measurable figures The company has adopted the international trend towards the publication of reliable and measurable figures which enhance transparency to the social partners. For this reason, the report presents the widest possible range of quantitative indicators over a period of four years: Quantitative figures 100 90 88 80 76 76 70 65 60 61 50 49 49 40 39 30 30 20 16 15 16 12 10 10 10 0 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total of cited Full reference of GRI Partial reference of GRI Charts & tables indicators (number) indicators (number) indicators (number) (number) Over the last four years (2009 – 2012), we have managed to:  Increase the total number of GRI indicators to which reference is made by 80%. More specifically, from 2011 to 2012 the change corresponds to 16%.  Increase the number of GRI indicators to which full reference is made by 95%. More specifically, from 2011 to 2012 the change corresponds to 25%.  Decrease by 20% the number of GRI indicators to which partial reference is made.  Increase by 1,400% the number of charts. More specifically, from 2011 to 2012 the change corresponds to 88%. 26 Management practices Our vision Attica Group, through Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries, provides services to maritime transport. Our belief, intention and commitment is to provide these services on certain standards of quality, skill, flexibility, safety, reliability, accuracy, capacity and innovation. We aim at performance levels which will redefine the boundaries and expectations of our industry. The successful cooperation between management and employees creates a suitable working environment where all employees know their obligations and duties, are supported in the development of their skills and are treated with respect and dignity. All employees in our company, regardless of their position and rank, try for the highest professional standards and provide our customers with maximum return services in relation to our competitors. Our people and our reputation are our core strengths. Our Company educates, motivates and rewards its personnel in order to ensure continued operations, always to the highest standards. The Management sees to ensure appropriate working conditions and discourages any behaviors which could affect the personality of the employees. It also applies the principle of equal treatment and evaluates employees fairly. Environmental protection is a core corporate objective which is pursued through proper fleet maintenance, ongoing investment in modern, environmentally friendly technology and full compliance with local, regional and international regulations. Our principles and values The reputation and good name are, together with human resources, the most valuable asset of the Group, establishing its commitment for compliance with the principles and values summarized below: • Honest, fair and transparent transactions • Quality and skills in the provision of services • Avoidance of negative comments made in public on Group competitors • Meritocratic approach with regard to the recruitment of personnel, partners and suppliers • Full compliance with the laws and regulations on the actions involved in the performance of our duties Code of business conduct and ethics Under the UN Global Compact, the Group is committed to recognize, accept and support the four core pillars concerning human rights, working conditions, the environment and the battle against corruption. The Department of Human Resources is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Code. The Department seeks to: • Include the Code in the information package given to all new employees; • Obtain a signed declaration of acceptance and commitment to abide by the principles of the Code from all employees, whenever issued or amended. 27 Core axes (indicative extracts): Secrecy Confidentiality “Every member of the personnel must keep internal information about the Group confidential and not disclose it to third parties, abiding with the information and system security rules, as set out in the relevant manuals. Disclosure of confidential information to third parties is only permitted upon prior written approval of the Management or a court order.” Business conduct “It is the Group’s intention to keep high levels of business conduct in all transactions and relations, both with customers or partners and colleagues. It should be stressed that no comments are permitted at Attica Group with regard to age, race, religion, sexual orientation, citizenship, disability, family status, pregnancy, political beliefs, participation in trade unions, or any other special needs, to customers, colleagues, visitors and partners.” Conflict of interests “As a general principle, it is strongly suggested to avoid situations where an employee’s personal interests affect or might affect his/her judgment when acting on behalf of the Group.” Enticement Bribery Graft acceptance “Any member of the Group’s personnel and any of his/her first degree relatives will be strictly prohibited from becoming directly or indirectly involved in graft/bribery of any kind. Graft acceptance or obtaining personal gain from any customer or entity or organization cooperating or seeking cooperation with the Group is unacceptable.” Meritocracy All issues pertaining to the Group’s Human Resources are dealt with in absolute meritocracy and objectivity.” Transparency of activities “All personnel must follow all procedures as anticipated in the review and evaluation of any financing, cooperation, purchase or sale of goods, services, and in the selection of suppliers on account of the Group, keeping the Group’s interests in mind.” Respect to property and available assets “All personnel must protect the Group’s assets and available equipment, following the security rules. Any installation of software must only be performed by authorized persons of the IT Department.” Corporate social responsibility “The Group has incorporated social and environmental actions in its business practices, demonstrating its strong sense of responsibility to the society, its shareholders, employees and the environment.” The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any amendments thereto are approved by the company’s Board of Directors. 28 Social responsibility organizational structures The Corporate Social Responsibility strategy is a priority for the business operation of Attica Group and is closely related to the Company’s development strategy and procedures. At Group level, the overall responsibility for the design, coordination and implementation of actions in the field of Social Responsibility, lies with a special Corporate Responsibility Team consisting of independent and executive officers of the company from different organizational units. More specifically, this group: • monitors the performance of all Group companies in Social Responsibility and presents the results to the BoD, • ensures that Corporate Responsibility principles are integrated in the company units and that awareness is systematically raised among employees in similar issues. Management systems Attica Group has adopted a set of standards and guidelines in the context of systematic management of Social Responsibility, while all Company vessels operate and are certified based on a set of management systems: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report Content UN Global Compact Report Principles ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management ΕΝ ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management System HACCP Food Safety Management System International Convention on Marine Pollution MARPOL 73/78 of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) Safety Management Code in accordance International Safety Management Code (ISM) with the requirements of SOLAS on safety of life at sea. 29 Stakeholders According to the definition of the AA 1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard, “stakeholders are those groups that influence or could be affected by the activities, products or services and related performance of an organization” (www.accountabilityrating.com). Dialogue and our relations with our Social Partners are two of the aspects involved in the social model of Attica Group. The following table summarizes the groups considered to be our Social Partners, and the main methods used to understand their expectations and needs. STAKEHOLDERS DIALOGUE THROUGH: Negotiations with the Employees’s Union Employee Satisfaction Survey Organization of Events Employees and Employee Associations Intragroup Newsletter Educational Programmes Meetings Customer Service Center Passenger Satisfaction Surveys Passengers Customer Loyalty Programmes Corporate sites Social Media Regular meetings Sales network – Port agents Annual meeting Meetings Suppliers Evaluation of suppliers Dialogue with authority representatives at national level State and Regulatory Authorities Cooperation with organizations and associations Corporate Responsibility actions Local societies Ongoing conversation with local authorities and various entity representatives Cooperation NGO’s and bodies Meetings with NGOs Sponsorships Corporate Announcements (Press Release) etc. Press Conferences Events Media Contacts with media representatives Information through the site Adoption and implementation of principles and policies Shareholders Cooperation Annual General Meeting 30 Participation & Recognition Participation in national and international organizations Focusing on responsible entrepreneurship and transparency, Attica Group is involved in a significant number of institutions and authorities at national and international level, through which it promotes the role of Social Responsibility in the economy and society. The company is member of entities which include, but are not limited to, the following: 1. United Nations Global Compact 2. International Maritime Organization (IMO) 3. Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association (HELMEPA) 4. Sustainable Mobility Group of the International Union of Railways (UIC) 5. International Safety Management Code (ISM) of the organization on Safety Of Life At Sea (SOLAS) Awards We believe that the reward of our company’s efforts in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility is clearly not an end in itself. Nevertheless, the Group has received several honors in recent years, such as: Attica Group • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards 2004 • Distinction for its invaluable contribution to the country’s tourism and national economy, 36th International Tourism Industry Exhibition “XENIA 2005” Blue Star Ferries • “Superbrand 2005” and “Superbrand 2006” in the category “Tourist Services” • Elected “Best shipping company of the year” for 2005 and 2006 by the readers of Voyager magazine • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards 2006 • “Silver Ermis Award”, of the Ermis PR unit for the social responsibility program titled “Sun Protection”, Ermis Awards 2010 • “Best Communication Strategy” for 2010, “Efkrantis” Awards, organized by “Shipping Chronicles” in cooperation with the Association of Shipping Economists of Greece (ENOE) • “Most popular domestic shipping company in Greece and Cyprus”, readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2010 • “Golden Reputation Award 2011” in the category “Shipping Companies, FAMOUS BRANDS Awards 2011 by the Reputation Management Institute • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping 2011” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards • “Best company of the year for Passenger Shipping 2012” in the Lloyd’s List of Shipping Awards • “Golden Reputation Award 2012” in the category “Shipping Companies, FAMOUS BRANDS Awards 2012 by the Reputation Management Institute • Corporate Affairs Excellence Award 2012 in the category Low Cost Action/Programme , Corporate Affairs Excellence Awards of the Hellenic Management Association (HMA) Award of BLUE STAR 1 and BLUE STAR ITHAKI by the Swedish magazine ShipPax Information for their design and excellent decoration. Superfast Ferries • “Most popular domestic and international shipping company in Greece and Cyprus”, readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2009 • «“Most popular domestic and international shipping company in Greece and Cyprus and top ranking company in the same category”, readers awards Condé Nast Traveller Awards 2010 It is worth noting here that in September 2002, Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries were the first passenger vessels to receive ISO 14001 certification for Environmental Management from the American Certification Agency “ABS Quality Evaluations”, part of the International Group, American Bureau of Shipping. 31 WORKPLACE OUR PERSONNEL HEALTH & SAFETY FAIR & DIVERSE WORKPLACE LABOR RIGHTS DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION STAFF BRIEFING 33 Our Personnel It is the Group’s belief that human resources is the greatest asset for its growth. Realizing that these are the people that, through their work in our offices and on board our vessels, show their commitment, contributing to the provision of high quality services and towards maintaining the company’s reputation, we implement polices that reinforce the personal growth of our personnel. The Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics states in writing the basic principles and rules that govern all business activities of Attica Group, based on international best practices, beyond the existing legal and regulatory obligations. The Management and Personnel of Attica Group and its companies are fully committed to respect these principles in carrying out their duties and to recognize, acknowledge, accept and support the 10 universally accepted principles of the United Nations Global Compact (a strategic policy initiative) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and business activity within the market. Allocation of personnel Today, 1,011 people work for Attica Group. 175 are office-based and 836 work on board our vessels. 83% Sea Allocation of Human Resources. Figures for 2012 17% Land The following table details the allocation of Group employees by gender for 2012: Gender Land Sea Average Age Average years of work % % (land) (land) (land) (sea) Men 85 788 43.64 12.62 49% 94% Women 90 48 38.37 12.79 51% 6% The following table shows the allocation of the Group’s land-based personnel by educational level: Education University Technological Secondary Mandatory Men 29 33 22 1 Women 22 42 26 0 35 As shown in the following chart, the majority of our officers (72%) hold a University or Technological Educational Institute degree: Allocation of land-based employees by educational level 50 40 42 33 30 29 26 20 22 22 10 1 0 0 Women Men University Technological Secondary Mandatory A fundamental axis of every company’s growth and prosperity is the careful and meritocratic selection and subsequently the growth and development of its Human Resources. There is a predefined recruitment process and policy, which outlines and defines the actions required for the selection of the best candidates, and also for their better development. This ensures that workers have the skills, capabilities, abilities and effectiveness necessary to their position, according to the principles and culture of our Group, and also that we are able to meet the challenges and demands of our times. In 2012, 3 new employees joined forces with the existing personnel of Attica Group to further promote the dynamic growth of our company. Health and Safety It is our priority and main goal to ensure the health and safety of our employees through compliance with all required safety policies and also proper information on issues relating to health and personal safety. A key and essential factor for our company is the elimination of accidents and the creation of a safe working environment by ensuring access to quality health care in case of illness or accident. In December 2012, the Group's management reinstated the private group insurance plan for employees that had been temporarily suspended, which includes life insurance and hospitalizationmedical points of coverage. 36 Fair and diverse workplace Our Group condemns forced, abusive and child labour practices. The Group recognizes, accepts and supports the ten principles of human rights as defined by the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Working Conditions Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Based on the above, the company commits that it will not hire any employees under the legal age (as defined by Greek law) shall in no case, irrespective of the legislative framework, hire any employees under the age of fifteen. In addition, the company commits that it will not use any form of forced or compulsory labor while it will defend the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Finally, the company sees that its commitments also apply to the network of its partners, and will not tolerate and not overlook any human rights violations. Equal treatment of employees Equal treatment of employees and the avoidance of discrimination incidents at work on grounds of race, ethnicity, origin, religion, sex, age, disability or sexual orientation, are an integral part of Attica Group’s policy. The company puts the concept of diversity to practice by defending the values of equal opportunities, impartiality and inclusion, for the creation of a balanced working environment. It is worth noting that: • In 2012 there were no incidents of discrimination at the workplace of Attica Group • The percentage of women in the total number of land-based employees is 51.4% 37 Labor rights Union bodies The Group respects the rights of employees to trade unionism and to participate in labor unions, and accepts Law 1264/82 on the democratization of the trade union movement and the establishment of employees’ trade union freedoms, as amended and supplemented by laws 1915/90 and 2224/94, the provisions of which apply to all personnel employed under private-law salaried employment contracts both in the private and the public sector. Employees of our Group actively participate in and are elected members of collective bodies (Hellenic Association of Employees in shipping and tourism). Development of employees Training of employees The optimization and continuous training of our people is a key component of the operation of the Group’s HR Department. Due to the increasing workload after the acceptance of BLUE STAR DELOS and BLUE STAR PATMOS, less training and specialization seminars were held in 2012 compared to the seminars with a total duration of 113 hours which were held in 2011. Information on how to deal with emergencies involving passengers with Diabetes Mellitus Attica Group and MITERA Children’s Hospital, in cooperation with the Hellenic Diabetes Federation, being fully aware of their enhanced social role and always with a focus on people and their needs, successfully completed the information meetings on how to deal with emergency situations of passengers suffering from Diabetes Mellitus, for all land-based and onboard personnel. The action started in July 2011, when the experienced medical staff of MITERA Children’s Hospital offered information speeches and educational meetings about Diabetes Mellitus, the symptoms demonstrated in case of hypoglycemia and the methods to deal with it to the crews of BLUE STAR FERRIES BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE STAR ITHAKI & DIAGORAS, as well as of SUPERFAST ΧΙI. Information material was handed out during the meeting, while participants attended a demonstration of how to use a blood sugar metering device. At the end of the presentation, testing strips were handed out to deck officers, to deal with potential emergencies. 38 Evaluation and development of employees In 2008, for the first time, we implemented a Performance Management System for the Administrative Personnel of Attica Group. A similar Evaluation System is being implemented for our onboard staff, with performance appraisal conducted at two hierarchical levels. This Performance Management System is developmental in nature, and the purpose of the exercise is to identify the strengths and the weaknesses of staff, in order to develop their individual performance in general, by capitalizing on their skills and improving their weaker points. This evaluation procedure aims to create better professionals and more efficient employees. The entire Administrative staff of Attica Group participates in this evaluation process and soon this system will be linked to our Compensation and Benefits System. Employee satisfaction The Group would like to know the views and opinions of its employees, and is interested in the level of satisfaction of each employee. In order for employees to freely express their opinion, and also to have the option of producing measurable statistics, but mostly useful conclusions, the Department of Human Resources carries out each year an anonymous and voluntary “Personnel Opinion Survey”. Specifically, the first “Administrative Personnel Opinions and Satisfaction” survey took place in December of 2008 with 86% participation, and the second in December of 2009, with 69% participation. A similar survey was carried out in November 2010 for the first time for our Group’s seamen, with a 73% participation. Staff briefing The systematic provision of information and interactive and open communication between the Management and employees are key to the Group. The communication of corporate and other affairs related to Attica Group is achieved using various means, including: • E-mails • Personal notices to target audiences • Information by mail • Posters and other printed publications, information material etc. • Intragroup newsletter 39 MARKET CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FAIR COMPETITION RESPONSIBLE MARKETING CUSTOMER SERVICE & SATISFACTION COMMUNICATION WITH THE MARKET 41 Corporate governance The Group places particular emphasis on a policy of transparency in all corporate activity and transactions. In this context, Attica Holdings SA prepared the Corporate Governance Code which aims at setting out the corporate governance practices applied by the Company, both at own initiative and pursuant to the applicable legislation. The Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies, as published by the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (January 2011), was taken account in the preparation of the code, as well as the obligations arising from the provisions of Greek Law on corporate governance, and the general corporate governance principles adopted by EU countries. The Code forms a reference framework on which the corporate governance declaration is based, which is included in the Director’s Annual Management Report, pursuant to Law 3873/2010. In the context of Corporate Government: • There are four executive members, three non executive members and two independent non executive members in the nine-member Board of Directors of the company • The responsibilities of Chairman and CEO Director do not fall to the same person • In the Company’s Internal Rules of Procedure, as drawn up and implemented, there is a full description of the tasks and duties of all the organizational units of the company and the Group • An Audit Committee was established and operates according to the provisions of article 37 of Law 3693/2008 • There is an Internal Audit Department in operation, as well Corporate Communications and Shareholders' Support services The Corporate Governance Code has been posted on the official Attica Group website, in the context of transparent, uninterrupted and discrimination-free information. Audit committee The General Meeting of shareholders, in order to ensure the legitimate and safe operation of the Company at all times, as well as the restriction of financial and legal risks, decided in implementation of the existing legal framework and the provisions on corporate governance aiming at transparency and the coordinated supervision of the auditors’ works, to establish an Audit Committee. The Committee comprises three members (one non-executive and two independent non-executive members). The Audit Committee reports to the Board of Directors. The Committee primarily aims to support the Board of Directors in performing its supervisory duties, to ensure transparency in all the corporate activities and to fulfill obligations and responsibilities towards the shareholders and the supervisory authority. Internal Audit Department The Internal Audit Department operates as an independent body of the Company and is supervised by the Audit Committee. The Department’s main objective is to conduct efficient audits of the operations and approved procedures of all the organizational units of the Company and the Group, in order to ensure their smooth and efficient operation within the framework of the adopted strategic policy and the achievement of the qualitative and quantitative stated objectives. 43 The Internal Audit Department’s main duties are: • To plan the annual schedule of audits, as well as the individual schedules and their implementation seeking to determine and protect the observance of policies and procedures, as well as the effective and legal operation of the Company and the Group’s subsidiary Companies; • To provide the Management with the necessary information regarding the efficiency of operations and the maximization of the Company’s performance; • To study the range and quality of the internal audit system and to propose more efficient procedures for its improvement, in order to reach its business objectives; • To monitor the implementation and the continuous compliance with Internal Operating Regulations and the Articles of Association, in order to identify and evaluate any possible operational risks in a timely fashion; • To control the implementation of the legislation related to the Company and in particular the legislation on companies and stock markets; • To control the company’s organizational structure and operations. The Internal Audit Department operates on this procedural basis and conducts controls in order to evaluate the Company’s operational efficiency. Its purpose is to develop a climate of communication and cooperation with the other Departments – Services, so that the development of the audit culture ensures the protection of the Company’s interests and the acceptance of the Internal Audit as a tool for providing assistance to those being audited. To achieve its objective, the Internal Audit Department works closely with external auditors to avoid duplication of audits in fields where audits have already been conducted, and emphasize on areas of risk. Corporate Announcements Service The main duty of this Service is to ensure the Company’s compliance with the obligations regarding the provision of information to investors and the supervisory authorities, as stated in the existing institutional framework. Additionally, the Division is responsible for the Company’s communication with the Stock Exchange Authorities, the Media and any other competent bodies. The Corporate Announcements Service is responsible for planning and publishing all announcements related to investors. Shareholder Support Service The Service is responsible for the immediate and equal information of shareholders and for supporting them in exercising their rights based on the law and the Articles of Association. The Shareholders Support Service seeks to promptly inform investors regarding any important issues and especially on matters arising from the Company’s corporate activity, publications and distribution of dividends. In addition, the Service provides information regarding the Company’s General Meetings, as well as their decisions. 44 Fair competition The company undertakes to adapt its strategy to the requirements of the Competition Commission both locally and at European level, while respecting the legislative framework on competition (competition law). Our Company has not been subject to any legal actions for breach of competition law during the reporting period. Responsible Marketing Attica Group follows the principles of the Greek Code of Advertising Marketing Communication of the Communication Control Board, which makes sure that its communication material is lawful, decent, honest and truthful while respecting human dignity and does not imply any form of discrimination such as race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability or sexual orientation. The code and the principles it contains have been adopted and implemented at national and international level by the competent self-regulating bodies. The code and other regulatory provisions concerning advertising and marketing communication are observed by all entities involved in the process of marketing communication. To this end, the Group’s Marketing Division performs audits of advertisements before their communication and in some cases the procedure is implemented in cooperation with the company’s legal department. It is worth noting that in 2012 there have been no withdrawals of communication material and no fine has been imposed by the competent authorities. 45 Customer service & satisfaction Customer Service Department Attica Group’s Customer Service & Loyalty department, recognizing the importance of customers, focuses on the best possible service & satisfaction, through the proper and decent handling of customer requests. Via the Customer Service & Loyalty department, the Company aims to provide quality services to customers, namely to provide substantial service based on the customers’ actual needs, and covers issues related to domestic and international lines. The company’s Customer Service Department undertakes the receipt, handling and evaluation of complaints through a special collection system of complaints made by phone or in writing via email and/or contact forms. Upon completion of the evaluation process and in cooperation with the relevant departments, Customer Service responds to all complaints, requests and suggestions, acting as a bridge of communication between the company and its customers. Finally, the Management is updated on a monthly basis in relation to all complaints per vessel and in cooperation with the concerned departments analyses the extent to which the services provided by the Group have failed to meet a customer’s quality requirements, with a view to the Company’s continuous development and improvement. Customer Service & Loyalty is available to the public from Monday to Friday, 09:00 to 20:00. Attica Group insists on an open and customer-oriented policy, always focusing on maximum customer satisfaction and service, through Customer Service & Loyalty. In order to enhance this concept and ensure the quality of the provided services, the company lists a number of services offered on domestic and international lines. In particular: Official reply letters to customers 500 492 450 400 410 379 350 300 302 250 200 171 193 150 100 100 50 59 0 Complain letters Thank you letters Complain letters Thank you letters International lines International lines Domestic lines Domestic lines 2011 2012 46 Lost and found forms Compensations 4000 80,000.00 , H 3,767 73,210.00 H 3500 70,000.00 , H 3,141 61,914.82 H 3000 60,000.00 , H 2500 50,000.00 , H 2000 40,000.00 , H 1500 30,000.00 , H 1000 728 20,000.00 , H 603 500 10,000.00 , H 0 0.00 H 730.00 H 730.00 H 2011 2012 2011 2012 International lines Domestic lines International lines Domestic lines 47 Customer Satisfaction Questionnaire 1200 1,154 1000 1,016 800 745 600 505 400 200 0 2011 2012 International lines Domestic lines The differences between domestic and international lines are due to the proportionately multiple number passengers traveling on domestic routes. More specifically, in 2012 the total number of passengers was 3,072,191 for Domestic Lines and 383,439 for International Lines. See section I-2 for more information. All data collected was communicated to management and relevant departments to carry out the review of the results. SeaSmiles loyalty programme Through the new SeaSmiles Loyalty Programme which was launched on 1 March 2011, the Company aims to further improve its services and create more flexible methods of service, developing substantive and close ties with its customers. This is a unique loyalty programme for Attica Group passengers travelling with SUPERFAST FERRIES and BLUE STAR FERRIES in the Adriatic Sea, the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, the islands of the North Aegean Sea and Crete. The programme is designed to provide exclusive benefits, unique gifts, special offers and high-quality services to its members. Each member card is strictly personal and not transferable. The cards are personalized and may be used on all Attica Group vessels and to any destination. On 31 December 2012, the programme numbered 41,914 active members in total, including the 6,251 members of the Group’s existing program. More specifically, since the programme’s launch on 1 March 2011 and by 31 December 2011, there were 17,797 active members, while an additional of 17,866 active members joined the programme during the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. 2011 2012 17,797 17,866 48 Communication with the market We are part of the market’s improvement One of the Group’s key objectives is to have the greatest possible contribution to the business life of the country and more specifically to improve the industry in which it operates. For this reason, the Group aims to have a strong presence in entities and organizations that publicly express views on business and industry-specific issues, while forming a communication channel with political leadership. Also, the company’s representation in unions closely associated with the maritime industry and coastal shipping promotes the spirit of cooperation between passenger shipping companies, which can be positive for consumers. • Participation in the Association of Greek Passenger Shipping Companies: The mission of this Association is the further modernization and development of modern Greek passenger shipping creating a competitive national capital in European and global economic competition. The object of the Association is the actual implementation of fair competition rules among its members, the protection of its members from the imposition of any kind of legislature, and finding the necessary solutions to ensure the survival and growth of the passenger shipping industry. It is worth noting that the President of the Association is a member of Attica Group’s Board of Directors. • Participation in the Hellenic Chamber of Shipping: The Hellenic Chamber of Shipping is the State’s official consultant on shipping issues. It is a public-law entity and aims to protect and promote the interests of the Greek Merchant Marine, through the cooperation of all its members and the rational coordination of their actions. We raise awareness among consumers Attica Group informs the public and all other interested members through targeted communication actions. For more information, see sections IV-3 and V-3. We ensure the reliability of data It is the obligation of all employees to protect confidential privileged information of the Group. This information is an asset of the Group, its use is limited to colleagues on a need-to-know basis in order to perform their duties, and may not be disclosed to anyone outside the Group, not even to relatives. Also, employees must refrain from disclosing confidential information relating to the Group's operations, the cooperation of customers with the Group or any other personal and financial issues of customers and personnel members to unauthorized individuals both during and after their service at the Group. Certain Services/Departments and members of personnel that have access to confidential and/or privileged information due to the nature of their duties and position will be subject to the additional restrictions set out in the Internal Rules of Procedure”. 49 ENVIRONMENT ORGANIZATION & MANAGEMENT RAW MATERIALS AND WASTE MANAGEMENT INFORMATION AND AWARENESS RAISING CLIMATE CHANGE BIODIVERSITY 51 Organisation and management Attica Group, via Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries, places particular importance on environmental issues and the aspects that are most likely to be affected by their operation. The companies of the Group assess annually the environmental actions they implement, in order to continuously improve their results and to minimize the overall impact of the Group’s operations on the environment. At the same time, they evaluate any environmental issues related to the Group’s operations, and respond to them through a structured and multifaceted environmental policy. The most important of these issues are: emissions, discharges into the sea, waste management, use of raw materials and resources and the environmental demands of local societies. It is worth noting that Group companies Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries were the first Greek companies in the passenger shipping industry to receive the ISO 14001:1996 Environmental Management certification. All Group vessels have been certified based on the same standard. For more information, see section I-2. The Group's environmental consciousness is inseparable from our commitment to providing superior customer service and satisfaction of our passengers. The Group's environmental policy objectives are to: • Continue to invest in new technologies and to apply environmentally friendly methods • Minimize the negative impact from engine operation, through their timely and proper maintenance • Encourage its personnel, both onboard and office-based, to adopt environmentally friendly methods and to develop their environmental conscience, through proper information and training • Actively participate in organizations which promote the principles of environmental safety and protection • Participate in international research and development programs which promote efficiency, responsibility and reduction of pollution in the shipping sector • Be kept up to date with regard to environmental issues and to adopt appropriate new practices Environmental policy management Via the human resources department, Attica Group trains its employees in best practices to minimize the impact on the environment. Each vessel has designated officers who are responsible for the implementation of the environmental measures adopted. At the Group’s offices, there are qualified engineers and designated officers who monitor performance and set the guidelines for the general and specialized environmental training needed. On-board and office-based staff systematically participate in environmental emergency exercises, in cooperation with the local authorities. 53 Raw materials and waste management The protection of the environment is one of the most important issues facing modern society, and is, therefore, one of the top priorities of Attica Group. As a result, the Group recycles various materials in order to reduce waste volume and its impact on environment. At the same time, the company adopts best practices and measures aimed at effective and efficient waste management and sustainable use of resources. Cooking oil collection Instead of being disposed of as ordinary waste, used cooking oils are collected to meet needs in energy and lubrication. The company undertakes the responsible collection of such oils, and in cooperation with licensed companies, forward the use the oils in a legal, safe and environmentally-correct manner in industrial applications, i.e. for the production of biofuels and biolubricants. It is worth noting that biofuels and biolubricants produced after the appropriate treatment of these oils are more environmentally friendly because they do not cause air pollution like fossil fuels and lubricants. The Group, and more specifically the Blue Star Ferries vessels, generated and managed in an environmentally-correct way: • 2009: 5,375 liters of waste cooking oil • 2010: 8,645 liters, up by 32.7% compared to 2009 • 2011: 17,575 liters, up by 49.2% compared to 2010. This significant improvement is due to the extension of the initiative to the vessels of Superfast Ferries as well. • 2012: 21,065 liters, up by 17% compared to 2011 Cooking oil (liters) 25,000 , 21,065 20,000 , 17,575 15,000 , 10,000 , 8,645 5,375 5,000 , 0 2012 2011 2010 2009 54 Paper recycling The main priority in this direction is paper recycling at the offices of the Group. Nowadays, the protection of forests, and thus of the biodiversity, is crucial, but wasting paper unfortunately continues to be a daily practice. If we consider that one ton of paper is equivalent to 17 large trees, and that 93% of business waste is paper, then we can comprehend how paper recycling can “turn the page” and make a difference towards a new, viable future. In Attica Group we seek to reduce total paper consumption with daily practices such as double-sided printing. At the same time, new initiatives are being evaluated to further promote rational management of paper and to reduce required quantities of printed advertising material. Between 2011 and 2012 we managed to keep total paper consumption both at the company’s offices and onboard most of the vessels unchanged. In particular: The supply of recycled paper to meet the needs of the company’s offices was as follows: • 2011: 705 boxes (x 5 packs = 3,525 packs) • 2012: 700 boxes (x 5 packs = 3,500 packs) The supply of non-recycled paper to meet the needs of vessels was as follows: • 2011: 598 boxes (x 5 packs = 2,990 packs) Refers to the supplies of 12 vessels: BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE STAR ITHAKI, BLUE STAR PATMOS, BLUE STAR NAXOS, DIAGORAS, BLUE STAR DELOS, SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII • 2012: 585 boxes (x 5 packs = 2,925 packs) Refers to the supplies of 13 vessels: BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, BLUE STAR ITHAKI, BLUE STAR PATMOS, BLUE STAR NAXOS, DIAGORAS, BLUE STAR DELOS, BLUE STAR PATMOS, SUPERFAST I, SUPERFAST II, SUPERFAST VI, SUPERFAST XI, SUPERFAST XII More specifically, from 2008 up to and including 2010, in collabPaper recycling (kg) oration with the nonprofit organization Klimaka , the company 9,400 , 9,400 has recycled: • 2008: 17,574 liters of paper , 9,380 • 2009: 31,712 liters of paper • 2010: 36,290 liters of paper , 9,360 9,352 , 9,340 It has been reported that since 2011 and according to a new modification, the recommended measurement with regard to paper , 9,320 recycling is made in kilos and corresponds to the quantity of paper 2011 2012 which was actually recycled. According to the Group’s available data, the following quantities were recycled over the last two years: • 2011: 9,352 kg of paper • 2012: 9,400 kg of paper 55 Apart from paper recycled by the Group, many of our advertising pamphlets have been printed on chlorine-free paper, which consists of wood pulp fiber from certified controlled cultivations (Forest Stewardship Council CertifiedFSC). The Group uses this type of paper to print the annual Report of Sustainable Development (2007 – 2008 – 2009 – 2010), all Adriatic Sea line brochures, small cards with useful tips on dealing with climate changes as part of everyday practices, which are distributed onboard and via the Group’s partner agencies, as well as other corporate pamphlets and ashtrays for the beach. Based on the above, it is worth noting that the Social Responsibility Annual Report 2011 and this report were not printed for environmental reasons. Both reports are available online, on the websites of Blue Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Attica Group. Electrical appliance recycling In 2012, 57 electronic devices, such as keyboards, computer monitors and printers were collected from vessels and the Group’s offices, posting an increase of 77% compared to 2011. Inc cartridge recycling In the context of the used ink cartridge recycling programme, 712 ink cartridges were collected from the Group’s offices and vessels for recycling in 2012, compared to 370 cartridges collected in 2011, posting an increase of approximately 90%. Battery recycling The Group, in cooperation with the company AFIS (battery recycling), has placed special battery recycling bins in all offices and vessels for all battery types up to 1500 grams, whether primary (single use) or secondary (rechargeable). According to the available data of the Group, we collected from the offices and our vessels and recycled: • 2008: 147 kg of batteries • 2009: 575 kg of batteries • 2010: 593 kg of batteries • 2011: 10,358 kg of batteries. This increase is due to the addition of larger batteries for recycling. • 2012: 8,621 kg of batteries Battery recycling (pcs) Battery recycling (kg) 800 12,000 , 712 10,358 600 , 10,000 8,621 400 370 , 8,000 200 , 6,000 0 4,000 2011 2012 2,000 , 593 575 0 2012 2011 2010 2009 56 Recycling of expired household medicinal products For the first time in 2012, the Group proceeded to the collection and recycling of expired medicinal products with the aim to inform and raise awareness among its employees, but also to protect the environment and public health. The special collection of expired medicinal products is particularly important, as pharmaceutical substances that remain for a long time in the aquifer and in the soil can affect the food chain and significantly burden the environment. This was a successful initiative, as we managed to collect 409 pieces. Lamp recycling Another initiative launched in 2012 was the collection and recycling of lamps. After the elimination of incandescent bulbs, more bulbs contain mercury. Mercury dramatically burdens the ecosystem, contaminating the entire food and feed chain. This is why bulbs should be recycled through appropriate procedures. In 2012, the Group managed to collect 800 lamps which were then transferred to dedicated collection points, so that they can be reused. Transport of recyclable materials With the aim of supporting and contributing to the development of recycling as an institution, as well as to enhance sustainable development, Attica Group offers free or discount tickets for the transport of recyclable materials. In particular, in 2012 we cooperated with a number of entities, non-profit organizations, schools and companies from local societies to transport materials to Athens 57 Information and awareness-raising The avoidance of reckless destruction of the environment and of the systematic shrinking of our natural resources is the new reality which every organization, company and individual should assist using all available means. We aim to be more than a simple ferry company, and within a short period of time, we have been able to actively demonstrate that we have made a substantial contribution to the preservation and protection of our natural resources. In this light, Attica Group has adopted practices and actions oriented towards informing and raising awareness among the general public on issues relating to sustainable development and environmental protection. Participation in the “Earth Hour” Attica Group supported for the first time the “Earth Hour”, an international environmental initiative of WWF, which aims to mobilize and raise awareness on the protection of the environment and the critical issue of global warming. On Saturday, 31 March, at 20:30, the Group switched off the lights at the offices on 123-125 Syngrou Avenue & 3 Torva st, and the outdoor lights on vessels docked at the port of Piraeus, for one hour and in some cases until next Monday morning, sending a strong message of optimism about the need to protect the environment. At the same time, the WWF action banner was posted on the website www.bluestarferries.gr. Particular emphasis, however, was placed on informing and raising awareness among all employees and partners of Attica Group on land and at sea, encouraging them to take part in this collective action by demonstrating in practice the spirit of volunteerism that governs the Group. Alternative – Environmentally friendly ways to travel We promote alternative and environmentally-friendly ways to travel, by offering travel packages combining “Train and Ferry” for destinations outside Europe. Beach ashtrays The Group continues to actively participate in the effort to keep our beaches clean. For the fifth year it distributed beach ashtrays through port agencies and onboard vessels. Overall, between 2007 and 2012, Attica Group printed & distributed 978,500 beach ashtrays. It is worth noting that in the past they had also been distributed through Traveller's Icons magazine, in volunteer beach cleaning actions in Amorgos and Naxos, while they were also handed out on numerous beaches of Greek islands. 58 Useful tips for planet protection For environmental reasons, in 2012 the leaflets containing useful tips for tackling climate change through daily practices were replaced by posts on the official page of Blue Star Ferries on Facebook for dissemination through the company’s 23,000 friends. We support the efforts of entities Superfast Ferries and Blue Star Ferries are active members of HELMEPA, the Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association, a non-profit, non-governmental organization that aims to cultivate environmental awareness and concepts of safe operation in the shipping sector, through information, advertising and publicity. Attica Group is member of the Sustainable Mobility Group, the International Union of Railways (UIC) and the only shipping company which, together with 43 carrier companies-UIC members, signed the Declaration on Sustainable Mobility and Transport. Finally, there is continuous flow of information and involvement in environmental issues through subscriptions to specialist publications. 59 Climate change Environmental footprint In 2008 Attica Group started recording the environmental footprint of its vessels. The Group initially calculated the consumption of diesel fuel and lubricants and engine and boiler room emissions (carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, methane, nitrous nitrogen, nitrogen dioxide and suspended particulates). The second phase involved calculation of the overall footprint, which apart from emissions and diesel fuel consumption, includes the materials used by the Hotel Division (sheets, soaps, chemicals, textiles, carpets, edible raw materials, water, food and drinks packaging). The results of the annual recording of the footprint are evaluated by the Group with the ultimate purpose of reinforcing the efforts of the company’s preventive environmental policy. Reduction of emissions The newly built vessels BLUE STAR PATMOS and BLUE STAR DELOS were designed so as to achieve the best ship-building characteristics for high efficiency with improved special emissions coefficients. In addition, by adopting: • An optimized hybrid propulsion-power generation system, • The most modern and automated air conditioning system, • The generalized use of energy-efficient and low voltage LED bulbs, • The use of suitable laminated stadip glass panels, • The use of suitable new generation ceramic insulating materials, • The required power is reduced, thus achieving a respective reduction of total emissions. We modernise our fleet The Attica Group fleet is one of the most modern fleets in Europe, with newly built vessels that meet all international regulations for the protection of the environment and sustainable development. The most important is the convention MARPOL 73/78 of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The launch of the brand new BLUE STAR DELOS on the Cyclades routes in November 2011 and of BLUE STAR PATMOS on the Chios-Mytilene route in July 2012, confirm the Group’s consistency, which operates a fleet of 14 vessels with an average age of just 10 years, but also its contribution to the development of Greek islands. Examples of strict environmental criteria to improve the energy and environmental performance of the company’s feet: • The fuel used in the Group's vessels comply with national and international regulations. • The oily bilge water residue, which is discharged in the sea, meets the 15 ppm limit set by the international and national regulations. • The antifouling paints are non-toxic, and non-poisonous for marine organisms. This is another practice, which was adopted before it became mandatory under international regulations. • All chemicals used in vessels are environmentally friendly. • The use of substances that cause ozone depletion is prohibited. Any chemical additives in use must be environmentally compatible. Most of the water used onboard is desalinated, via special boilers. Only low consumption light bulbs are used onboard the Groups’ vessels, apart from emergency lighting. The warm air for heating in common areas and hot water used for sanitation purposes is generated via the heat exhaustion from the main engines through the specially designed installations. 60 Biodiversity According to the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) WBCSD/CSI guidelines, “biodiversity” is defined as the variability of living organisms from all sources, including the ecological complexes of which they are part, and diversity within and between species and of ecosystems (as defined in the Convention on Biological Diversity). The intensified urbanization and the increase of infrastructures, the over-exploitation of natural resources, pollution of all kinds, and the introduction of alien species into ecosystems significantly harm biodiversity. This is why Attica Group actively participates in the protection of flora and fauna, aiming at preserving or disseminating environmental values. Support to “LIFE” programme Supporting all information-awareness actions under the LIFE Programme for seabirds implemented by the Hellenic Ornithological Society, starting from summer 2011, all BLUE STAR FERRIES and SUPERFAST FERRIES vessels performing itineraries to the Cyclades, the Dodecanese, Chios, Mytilene and Crete have leaflets available for the information of passengers about sea birds, the actions of LIFE Programme and the importance of the island and sea areas of the Aegean. During their journey, passengers can observe the Aegean sea birds. Using the sea bird observation leaflet made available at the vessels receptions, passengers can identify sea birds and contribute themselves to the counting of their population in Greece, by filling in and handing in the special recording form at the reception or by posting their notes on www.ornithologiki.gr/seabirds. It is worth noting that in 2012 the Hellenic Ornithological Society received 428 written and 1,500 online records through the special form made available onboard of Group vessels and port offices. Support to local producers by distributing 9,000 mastic trees Blue Star Ferries in collaboration with Marfin Foundation made a substantial contribution to the development of Chios, which was hit by the devastating fire that also destroyed mastic trees, a major source of income for the island. Aiming to protect the unique and world famous product of Chios and to raise the lost capital, the two companies offered 9,000 mastic trees, thus supporting local producers who saw the destruction both of their properties and of the turnover of the Growers’ Association. 61 SOCIETY WITH LOCAL SOCIETIES AS OUR DESTINATION WE SUPPORT LOCAL SOCIETIES INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC VOLUNTEERING COOPERATION WITH NON GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS 63 With local societies as our destination The local societies of the Aegean islands where our fleet travels daily are a top priority closely linked to our company’s principles. We reach out to the entire spectrum of local societies, from the environment, culture and education, to sports and health. Our company shows its human and sincere face to youth, children and the elderly. An important initiative in the context of the Group’s social contribution is the systematic response to numerous requests for donations or indirect sponsorships of societies from mainly in the islands of the Aegean. Local tradition and athletics have long been a wide field of social contribution for the Group. In this context, Attica Group offered for another year discount or free tickets to cultural and athletic clubs, this way supporting the continuity of local culture and sports activities. Our main goal every year is to add new actions to local action plans, thus contributing to a better quality of life and sustainable development of local communities. At the same time, the company is implementing a number of actions aimed at strengthening the local society in social and environmental terms. These initiatives, which are governed by continuity and consistency, have managed to substantially contribute to local development and awareness and have established the Group’s presence in local societies. In conclusion, it should be emphasized that Attica Group will continue the ongoing implementation of the Corporate Social Responsibility programme in 2013, adhering to all its commitments towards sustainable development and vigorously supporting local island communities, and young people in particular. We support local societies “Sun Protection” Program The Group, in cooperation with the “Melampous” Melanoma Prevention and Treatment Organization and the assistance of local doctors and bodies, organized free check-ups and informative speeches for the fourth year, with the purpose of informing islanders enjoying the Greek sun regarding the risk of prolonged exposure and methods to prevent sunstroke and melanoma. In May and June 2012, Blue Star Ferries and the medical team travelled to the islands of Ios and Santorini where 707 adults and children were examined, while even more were informed about the appropriate methods of prevention which help benefit from the sun and eliminate health risks. Further, Blue Star Ferries distributed informative pamphlets to islanders with references to the indicated methods of self-examination. Pamphlets are also available at the company’s central and port agencies and the domestic line vessels of Attica Group all year round. 65 For the first time, this year the information campaign on sun protection and skin moles began onboard; on the way to Santorini the crew of BLUE STAR DELOS were able attend the speech of the President of Melampous, be examined and learn about how to provide first aid to passengers and relatives in case of sunstroke. The Sun Protection programme was successfully implemented in islands of the Aegean: • in 2008, in: Amorgos, Tilos, Astypalaia and Nisyros • in 2010 in the Small Cyclades (Donoussa, Schinousa, Koufonisi and Iraklia) • in 2011, in: Patmos and Leros • in 2012, in: Ios and Santorini The table below shows the total number of people examined Early diagnosis and removal of melanomas and carcinomas per year during the programme: of the skin or atypical moles has contributed to the early diagnosis and removal of suspicious lesions and most Year Examined importantly to the timely removal of melanomas and skin 2008 255 cancers before they become threatening to the lives of 2010 170 patients. 2011 590 2012 707 It is worth noting that this action has been honored in the past in the category “Society and Entrepreneurship of the Ermis PR unit, organized every year by the Greek Association of Advertising and Communications Companies. Traditional professions In 2011, the Group launched a new business responsibility programme entitled “Traditional Professions”. Through the official website of Blue Star Ferries (www.bluestarferries.gr), Attica Group presents a number of professions and crafts which are under the increasing threat of extinction. The aim of this effort is to revive and preserve those professions, promote the role of local society, and to protect our national heritage. In implementing the programme, the company contacted talented people who, in their own unique way, shared their expertise and secrets of their profession. Older and younger craftsmen from the Aegean islands share their personal experiences and stories, how they use local materials and techniques to keep traditional professions alive and meet the need for quality. 66 Since 2010, the list of Traditional Professions has mapped 24 islands and records 65 cases of people (38 in 2011 and 28 in 2012) who insist on preserving traditional crafts. The website of Blue Star Ferries, which is constantly updated with new professions, had 876,208 visits in 2012 (unique users). During the same year, this initiative was expanded through “On Blue”, the magazine of Blue Star Ferries, as well as through the official page of Blue Star Ferries on Facebook. It is worth noting that this action was awarded the Corporate Affairs Excellence Award in the category Low Cost Action/Programme of the Programme/Action Excellence unit, during the major event of the communication industry, organized for the first time this year by the Hellenic Management Association (HMA). Supporting “Agoni Grammi Gonimi 2012” programme For the 6th consecutive year, Attica Group was the major sponsor of the “Agoni Grammi Gonimi” programme, organized by “Diadrasi” non-profit organization under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and supported by the European Parliament. The aim of this programme is equal access to education and culture for all, regardless of their place of residence. The programme mainly addresses children, but is also open to adults. Among other things, the programme includes interactive events, training workshops, reading clubs, reading contests, theater shows, concerts with the involvement of some of the major cultural entities in Greece. In 2012 the program travelled to 4 islands: Iraklia, Thirasia, Halki and Antiparos, while for the first time the workshops started in February and were repeated on a monthly basis to ensure continuity and support the efforts of the children. The enthusiasm and commitment demonstrated by all members of the team create a unique atmosphere in all events, and take the residents of the participating islands to a journey full of theatre, music, sports events and strong emotions, proving people in all areas can come together in fruitful procedures. This initiative of “Diadrasi” reveals and promotes the needs for artistic expression to people who live in remote areas and have no access to such activities, and at the same time provides entertainment during the difficult long winter months. 67 We support sports Attica Group has a long tradition of community service in the area of sports and in support of the efforts of the groups and associations of the local island communities. The Group’s support, apart from giving free or discount tickets, also includes direct financial aid. Recognizing the important role which sports can play in developing the tourism market and by supporting the organization of sports events with international audiences in our country, as well as the promotion of fair competition, among others, we have sponsored or supported the following, with the provision of free or discount tickets: • Panathinaikos, Kos • Tae Kwon Do Of Leros • Panathinakos Football Schools Of Syros • Equestrian Clubs Fivos, Cyclades, Ialysos, Kadmos, • Union Of Cyclades Football Clubs Rhodes • Yacht Clubs Of Syros, Paros, Antiparos, Mytilini, • High School Football Team Of Mykonos Rhodes, Kos • 25th Track Events Of The Aegean, Naxos • Cyclades Equestrian Club • Football Club Omiros Kallimasias, Chios • Veterans Of Patmos • Motorsports Club • Union Cyclades Basketball Clubs • Greek Swimming Federation • Kalloni Football Club • Tennis Club Of Kos • Panaxiakos Club • Windsurf World Championship • Foinikas Syros Volleyball Club • Mytilene Car Club • Diagoras Club • Chios Motorists Club • Chess Union Of The Aegean • Hellenic Judo Federation • Kolossos Rhodes Bc • Asteras Korthiou Sports Club • National Championship Inflatable Boats, Rhodes • Bowling Club Of Leros • Filinos Sports Club Of Kos • Panionios Athletic Club Of Santorini 68 We support culture We actively provide systematic and consistent support with donations and sponsorships to cultural and social associations of the islands. Requests reach the company daily, followed by the thank you letters, which are our reward. In this context, Attica Group has enthusiastically responded to numerous requests made by cultural groups in Cyclades, the Dodecanese and the islands of North East Aegean, thus supporting local traditions and the preservation of the unique cultural characteristics of each place. The numerous requests from cultural associations and other entities across Greece to which we responded offering tickets for the realization of their actions feature: • 3rd Festival Of Short Films, Amorgos • Cyclades Orchestra • European Music Festival, Naxos • Kavafy Cultural Association Of Ano Syros • Municipalities Of Megisti, Syros, Tilos, Rhodes, Antiparos, Naxos, Thira, Kalymnos, Patmos • Folk Dance Club Of Naoussa, Paros • Board Tourism Development And Promotion Of Paros (Municipality Of Paros) • Syros Organization Of Sports & Culture • Aion Cultural Non-Profit Organisation • Maxoulia 2012, Astypalaia • 2nd Fava Festival, Schinousa • Festival Of Flavours And Tradition (Patmos) • Union “Friends Of Santorini • Religious Music Festival, Patmos • Axanemos Festival (Chios) • Union Of Donoussa Locals • Animasyros • Region To Centre Event (Megisti) • Up Festival (Koufonisia) • Tinos Festival • 20th Ephorate Of Pre-Historic Antiquities, Mytilene • 2nd South Aegean Traditional Music Meeting Of Youth 69 We support the Greeks in Europe In order to promote the Greek language and by extension the Greek culture, we sponsored the granting of tickets to the following Clubs and Associations, we present indicatively: • Greek Community Of Rotterdam And Greater Area • Greek-Irish Society St. Patrick’s Day Ball • Greek Intercultural Centre Of Brussels • Belgian Club Of Greeks From Hepirus • Greek Community Of Maintal • Brussels Club Of Cretans • French Aid Association • Ahepa International Organisation For Greeks Abroad • Comunita Elenica Pavese (Co.El.Pa.) We support people and sensitive social groups Furthermore, in the context of enhancing actions addressed to sensitive social groups, we also supported the following: • Association For The Psychosocial Health Of Children • Make A Wish & Adolescents (A.P.H.C.A.) • The Smile Of The Child • Kethea Nostos Family Association Programme • Megisti Elementary School • Hellenic Society For Disabled Children (Elepap) • Medicins Du Monde • Recovery & Rehabilitation Centre For Children With • Women’s Association Of Marpissa, Paros Disabilities • Aegean Team • General Hospital Of Syros • Seahawks Rib Club • Paros Emergency Medical Services (Ekab) • Municipality Of Rhodes, Free Transport • Mytilene Kethea Of Mammography Device • Club Of Akrotiriani, Thira • Region Of North Aegean, Free Transport • Life Line Hellas Of Cancer Unit • Volunteers Of The World The programme of the Attica Group has a long history. From 2005 to December 2012, Attica Group has offered a particularly large number of discount and free tickets, whereas every year it supports through direct sponsoring cultural and athletic associations, non-governmental organizations, Municipalities, Communities and Bodies. 70 Travel benefits 2009: The cost of discount & free tickets amounted to €391,016 Domestic line travel benefits 2010: The cost of discount & free tickets amounted to €498,653 500,000 , H 498,653 H 496,805 H 478,148 H 2011: The cost of discount & free tickets amounted to €496,805 450,000 , H 2012: The cost of discount & free tickets amounted to €478,148 400,000 , H 391,016 H 350,000 , H 300,000 , H 250,000 , H The above data refer to domestic lines. 200,000 , H Years 2011 & 2012 are exclusive of discount and free tickets offered for the Piraeus Heraklion route. 150,000 , H 100,000 , H 50,000 , H 0H 2009 2010 2011 2012 The cost of free and discount tickets allocated by the Group for international lines in 2012 amounted to €62,000. However, the number of used tickets has not been determined yet. Domestic-International line travel benefits 2012 € In more detail, the allocation of discount and free tickets on domestic routes and the Adriatic Sea in 2012 is shown in the 478,148 Domestic lines following chart: 62,000 International lines Direct sponsorships In 2009 the Group gave in total: €186,279 In 2010 the Group gave in total: €158,264 In 2011 the Group gave in total: €132,280 55,678 Direct sponsorships (€) 2009 In 2012, despite the international economic recession and the 186,279 2010 global restraint in spending, Attica Group gave in total for direct 132,280 sponsorships the amount of €55,678. 2011 158,264 2012 71 Actions on the Piraeus Crete route For another year, the company supported a number of organizations and associations by offering free and/or discount tickets for the Piraeus Heraklion route served by ANEK-SUPERFAST with Olympic Champion and SUPERFAST XII, aiming at preserving local culture, develop sportsmanship and fair play, as well as to relieve fellow citizens. We support culture • 3rd Children’s Festival Of Agios Nikolaos, Crete • Heraklion Theatre • Costas Tsoklis Museum Gallery Spinalonga • Association Of Architects, Prefecture Of Heraklion • Aetogianni Club • Exhibition Of Classical Vehicles, Heraklion, Crete • University Of Crete Museum Of Natural History • Municipality Of Heraklion 6th International Sculpture Symposium We support sports • Union Of Heraklion Football Clubs, Referee Board • Tae Kwon Do Academy Of Crete • Heraklion Sports Union • Shooting & Archery Athletic Club Of Crete • Union Of Basketball Clubs, Crete • Motorsports Club • Marathon Runner’s Club, Crete We support people and sensitive social groups • Medicins Du Monde • The Smile Of The Child • Medicins Sans Frontieres • Charity Union Agios Ioannis Eleimon • General Hospital Of Rethymno Anogia Health Centre • Dikeoma Sti Zoi Association – Union Of Parents • Volunteer Doctors Of Aegean Islands And Friends Of Disabled Persons • Greek Rescue Team, Heraklion Branch • Regional Directorate Of Primary & Secondary Education Of Crete The collection of quantitative data on the value of the free and/or discounted tickets on the Piraeus Heraklion route is included in the Group's goals for the next Corporate Responsibility Report. 72 Information to the public National Transplant Organization Since 2012 the Group has supported the National Transplant Organization and has actively aided its important mission, with the goal of widely disseminating the concept of organ donation and transplantation. According to the data of the organization, approximately seven donors per one million of population were recorded in Greece in 2012, a number which is practically at the levels of 2011 (7.2 donors per one million of population) in the context of an action promoted by the Ministry for Health to increase organ donation. Our country ranks among the lowest in Europe in transplantation. Recognizing the growing need for information and awareness, the Group placed printed information material in the reception area of nine ferries (BLUE STAR 1, BLUE STAR 2, DIAGORAS, BLUE STAR PATMOS, BLUE STAR DELOS, BLUE STAR PAROS, BLUE STAR NAXOS, BLUE STAR ITHAKI and SUPERFAST XII) through which passengers can be informed about organ donation and transplantation. Volunteering Blood ties Based on its man-centered concept and using the Blood Ties slogan, Attica Group held for the fourth consecutive year the voluntary blood donation for employees, in cooperation with the General Hospital of Athens G.Gennimatas . Since 2009 when the programme was launched, blood donation has been an act of responsibility, contribution and solidarity of our employees to people in need. The donation programme was held twice during the year, in May and in September 2012 at the of the Group’s offices and onboard the vessels during their stay at the port of Piraeus. Both land-based and onboard employees proved in practice that a modern company must contribute to society, which is reflected in the response of the company’s personnel to the call for voluntary blood donation. 73 The 70 units of blood collected confirmed that this initiative has become a blood tie for all of us, as the Blood Bank created responds to requests from residents of remote islands where the Group travels, while meeting extraordinary needs of employees and their families. Specifically, the Blood Bank was created to: • Give blood in case of emergency to residents of small remote islands served by the company; • Give blood if needed to Group employees and their families; • To promote the concept and values of voluntary blood donation and to reinforce the spirit of solidarity of employees working in the offices, vessels, agencies and islands. In detail, since launch of the programme and until the last donation Blood donation data event, the following results were recorded regarding the collection 120 118 blood bottles: 100 89 80 64 70 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 74 Cooperation with Non Government Organizations In the context of the company’s responsible actions for the greater good, Attica Group offered a helping hand to the non-government organizations “The smile of the child” and “Medicins du Monde”, providing support to their significant work and initiatives. The Group recognizes the efforts made by those two organizations, and placed charity boxes on all vessels, thus proving in practice its intention to support them in their work. At the same time, the company also supports other non-profit organizations and the very important work they perform, by offering free and discount tickets as already mentioned. Cooperation with NGOs 6,000 , H 5,308.50 H 5,000 , H 4,219.35 H 4,000 , H 3,804.86 H 3,229.75 H 3,000 , H 2,000 , H , 1,000 H 991.85 H 738.60 H 733.81 H 884.00 H 356.00 H 0H 0H 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The Smile of the Child Medicins du Monde 75 Thank you letters The social role of Attica Group is our bond with the local societies and the residents of islands of the Aegean. By our actions, we have not and do not aim to substitute for the State or regional infrastructure planning. We just wish to be an integral part of the local societies, of the places we travel to every day. We do not want to just be a bystander, who focuses solely on corporate development. This is why, every time a small, simple “thank you note” reaches our offices from Municipalities, Regions, Associations and NonGovernmental Organizations, it gives us great pleasure and satisfaction, and encourages us to continue our work in the same manner. 76 77 Communication on Progress (COP) Global Compact Attica Group, within the framework of its Corporate Responsibility Program, is committed since the beginning of 2009 to the Global Compact of the United Nations, which encourages companies to adopt 10 universally accepted principles for the sustainability of the environment, human rights, labour conditions and the fight against corruption, via universal implementation of the principles in all international activities. The Global Compact is the largest global initiative in corporate responsibility, with thousands of participants from more than 100 countries and its primary goal is to build and promote the social legitimacy of companies and markets. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary global initiative with two primary goals: • That these 10 principles should become the main trend governing business activities all over the world. • That the initiative should act as a catalyst for action in support of the millennium development objectives of the United Nations. Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Attica Group respects and protects human and labour rights and its Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics declares in writing the acknowledgment and support of these rights. Page 27, 28, 35, 37 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Attica Group does not violate any human rights and the Internal Code of Business Conduct describes in writing the relations between colleagues, Administration and Suppliers. Page 27, 28, 35, 37 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Attica Group defends the right of the employees to participate in organized unions and this is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 27, 28, 35, 37, 38 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Attica Group opposes any form of forced or compulsory labour and this principle is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 27, 28, 35, 37 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Attica Group opposes any form of forced or compulsory labour and this principle is clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct. Page 36, 37 78 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Attica Group adopts an efficient recruitment procedure and policy, which states and identifies all required actions for the meritocratic selection of the best qualified candidates and their personal development. Since 2008, Attica Group has been implementing a Performance Management System which refers to the evaluation of the company’s administrative and on board staff. Page 36, 37, 39, 43 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Attica Group has adopted a preventive environmental approach. Page 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Attica Group has undertaken specific initiatives for the reinforcement of environmental responsibility and implements programs aimed at that objective. Page 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Attica Group encourages the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies, such as the use of low power consumption lightbulbs throughout its vessels and premises, etc. Page 53, 57, 58, 59, 60 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Attica Group is opposed to any form of corruption, as clearly stated in the Internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and also in its corporate governance policy. Page 27, 28, 37, 43 79 GRI G3.1 Indicator Table The Corporate Responsibility Report of Attica Group is based on the Guidelines GRI / G3 applied for the composition of sustainability reports. The GRI instructions are a sum of principles and indicators, with a wide range of technical and specialized guidelines, notes and annexes, depending on the sector, which were formed through the international cooperation of multiple interested parties and are evaluated within the composition of these sustainability reports. More specifically, these reports are based on the GRI Sustainability Report Publication Framework and disclose all conclusions and results extracted during the reporting process concerning the commitments, strategic policy and administrative methods of the organization. The Framework is applied to all organizations, of any size, type or geographical location, and it is already in use as a foundation for the publication of sustainability reports by thousands of international companies, associations and organizations, in all sectors. The Report refers to the period 2012 and records the performance of Attica Group in the sectors of corporate governance, environmental policy, human rights, personnel and society at large. This is the 4th consecutive annual “Social Responsibility Report” issued according to the guidelines of the GRI/G3 International Sustainability Reporting Initiative. Electronic database management systems were used for the data collection included at the Report in hand. It is worth mentioning that the methodology used for the calculation of the Report’s indicators remained the same as in the previous years apart from the recommended methodology for calculating paper recycling which was modified during 2011 from liters to kilos. Finally, it is specifically stated that the present Report has not yet been certified by an external, independent body but it is anticipated to be implemented in 2013. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization CEO’s Address Page 5 (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2* Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. The Report Page 7, Vision & Strategy 25-26 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of organization. Our Group Page 11, Our history 17-18, Corporate governance 43-44 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. Our Group Page 11, Our fleet 15 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Our Group Page 11, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Organizational structure 13 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Our Group Page 11, Management 14, Our history 17-18 *Partial indicator coverage 80 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Our Group Page 11-12, countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant Our lines 14, to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Our network 16 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Our Group Page 11, Organizational structure 13, Management 14, Our history 17-18 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Our Group Page 11, 12, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Our lines 14, Our network 16, Financial data 21 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Our Group Page 12, Our network 16, Our history 17-18, Financial data 20-21, Our Personnel 35-36 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Our history Page 17-18, regarding size, structure, or ownership. Significant events in 2012 19 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Participation & Recognition Page 31, We support local societies 66-67 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. CEO’s Address Page 5, The Report 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. The Report Page 7 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) CEO’s Address Page 5, The Report 7, Vision & Strategy 25-26 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Report evaluation form Page 91 81 GRI G3.1 Indicator Table 3.5 Process for defining report content. CEO’s Address Page 5, The Report 7, Vision & Strategy 25-26 Stakeholders 30 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 80-90 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 80-90 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 80-90 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Vision & Strategy Page 25-26, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied GRI – G3 Attica Group 80-90 to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 80-90 in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, GRI – G3 Attica Group Page 80-90 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Customer service Page 46-48, in the report. & satisfaction Communication 49 with the market GRI – G3 Attica Group 80-90 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance COP Attica Group Page 78-79 for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 82 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under Management Page 14, the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as Social responsibility 29, setting strategy or organizational oversight. organizational structures Corporate governance 43-44 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Management Page 14, executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s Corporate governance 43-44 management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Corporate governance Page 43-44 number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Our network Page 16, recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Management practices 27-28 Corporate governance 43-44 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Management practices Page 27-28, governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts Management practices Page 27-28, of interest are avoided. Corporate governance 43-44 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the memManagement practices Page 27-28 bers of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes CEO’s Address Page 5, of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, Vision & Strategy 25-26, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Management practices 27-28, Our Personnel 35-36, Corporate governance 43-44 83 GRI G3.1 Indicator Table 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Management Page 14, the organization’s identification and management of economic, Management practices 27-28, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks Social responsibility 29, and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally organizational structures agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Our Personnel 35-36, Development of employees 38-39, Staff briefing Corporate governance 43-44, Organization 53 and management 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Social responsibility Page 29, performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, organizational structures and social performance. Employee satisfaction 39, Corporate governance 43-44 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach CEO’s Address Page 5, or principle is addressed by the organization. Vision & Strategy 25-26 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Our Group Page 12, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Our network 16, or endorses. Our history 17-18, Significant events in 2012 19, Management systems 29, Participation & Recognition 30-31, Our Personnel 35-36, Fair & diverse workplace 37, Labor rights 38, Corporate governance 43-44, Responsible marketing 45, Customer service & satisfaction 46, 48, Organization and management 53, We support the local 65-66 communities 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Our network Page 16, and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Management practices 27-28, Management systems 29, Participation & Recognition 30-31, Communication with the market 49, Information 58-59 and awareness-raising 84 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Shareholder structure Page 13 Stakeholders 30 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Stakeholders Page 30 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Labor rights 38, Staff briefing 39 Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Significant events in 2012 Page 19, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Financial data 20-21 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Vision & Strategy 25-26 providers and governments. We support local societies 65-66 Cooperation with 75 Non-Governmental Organizations EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Health & Safety Page 36 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Our network Page 16, EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, We support local societies 65-66, or pro bono engagement. Information to the public 73, Volunteering 74 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, Financial data Page 20-21, including the extent of impacts. Information to the public 73, Volunteering 74 Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Raw materials Page 54-57 and waste management EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Raw materials Page 54-57 and waste management 85 GRI G3.1 Indicator Table EN3 * Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Organization Page 53, and management Information 58-59, and awareness-raising Climate change 60 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Organization Page 53, 60 and management Climate change EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Raw materials Page 54-57 and waste management EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Organization Page 53, products and services, and reductions in energy requirements and management as a result of these initiatives. Raw materials 54-57, and waste management Information 58-59, and awareness-raising Climate change 60 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Organization Page 53, achieved. and management Raw materials 54-57, and waste management Climate change 60 EN8 * Total water withdrawal by source. Climate change Page 60 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Climate change Page 60 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Biodiversity Page 61 EN14 Strategies, current actions & future plans for managing impacts Biodiversity Page 61 for biodiversity. EN18 * Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Organization Page 53, achieved. and management Climate change 60 *Partial indicator coverage 86 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Organization Page 53, and management Climate change 60 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Raw materials Page 54-57 and waste management EN23 * Total number and volume of significant spills. Climate change Page 60 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, Organization Page 53, and extent of impact mitigation. and management Raw materials 54-57, and waste management Information 58-59, and awareness-raising Climate change 60 Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Our Personnel Page 35-36, and region. Fair & diverse workplace 37 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Our Personnel Page 35-36 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Our Personnel Page 35-36, to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Development of employees 38-39 Employee satisfaction LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Our Personnel Page 35-36 agreements. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs Development of employees Page 38-39 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. *Partial indicator coverage 87 GRI G3.1 Indicator Table LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Health and Safety Page 36 unions. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Development of employees Page 38-39 category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Our Personnel Page 35-36, the continued employability of employees and assist them in Development of employees 38-39 managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Development of employees Page 38-39 development reviews. Employee satisfaction LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Our Personnel Page 35-36 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Human Rights HR3 * Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concernFair & diverse workplace Page 37 ing aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Fair & diverse workplace Page 37 taken. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom Our Personnel Page 35-36, of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, Fair & diverse workplace 37 and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 * Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Management practices Page 27-28, labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Labor rights 38 HR7 * Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Management practices Page 27-28, or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination Fair & diverse workplace 37 of forced or compulsory labor. *Partial indicator coverage 88 Society SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices Management practices Page 27-28, that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, Fair & diverse workplace 37 including entering, operating, and exiting. SO3 * Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption With local societies Page 65, policies and procedures. as our destination We support local societies 66-72, Information to the public 73, Volunteering 74, Cooperation with Non75 Governmental Organizations SO4 Actions taken in response incidents of corruption. Our Personnel Page 35-36, Corporate Governance 43-44 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Management practices Page 27-28, and lobbying. Fair & diverse workplace 37 SO6 * Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Communication Page 49, politicians, and related institutions by country. with the market We support local societies 67, 69, Cooperation with Non75 Governmental Organizations SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, Vision & Strategy Page 25-26 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. *Partial indicator coverage 89 GRI G3.1 Indicator Table Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Fair competition Page 45 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR3 * Type of product and service information required by procedures Our history Page 17-18, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such Development of employees 38-39 information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Our Group Page 11, and voluntary codes concerning product and service information Significant events in 2012 19 and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Responsible marketing Page 45 measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Our Group Page 12, related to marketing communications, including advertising, Our fleet 15, promotion, and sponsorship. Our network 16, Our history 17-18, Significant events in 2012 19, Vision & Strategy 25-26, Participation & Recognition 30-31, Development of employees 38-39, Customer service 46-48, & satisfaction Information to the public 73 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Management practices Page 27-28, voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Responsible marketing 45 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 * Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Responsible marketing Page 45, of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Customer service 46-47, & satisfaction Communication 49 with the market *Partial indicator coverage 90 EVALUATION FORM OF 2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Aiming at the continuous development of the corporate social responsibility actions implemented by the Attica Group, please take a few moments to fill in the following questionnaire. Your opinion is especially important to us. In which category of the Attica Group participants to you belong: Employee Local Society Participant Associate Non-governmental Organization / Society / Association Customer Media Shareholder/Investor Other Supplier Please note your overall impression about the following units of the Report: Excellent Good Average Poor Social Responsibility Management Development of Actions for employees Corporate Governance Development of Actions for the environment Development of Actions for the support of local societies (culture, athletics, social care, etc.) Report Information Please note your overall impression from the Corporate Social Responsibility Report Excellent Good Average Poor There is balance between the units The texts are complete The content is comprehensible It includes all the subjects it should Would you like to make any other comments/recommendations? .................................................................................................................................... .................................................................................................................................... Personal Details (optional): Full name: Organization: Address: Tel: e-mail: Please mail this questionnaire to: ATTICA GROUP, attn. Mrs. Christina Grigora, address: 123 -125 Syngrou Ave. & 3, Torva Str., 11745 Athens, Greece or by e-mail to: grigora@attica-group.com or by fax to: +30 210 89 19 829. All information will be used by the Group. All information will be used by the Group to evaluate the Report through a statistical analysis. Personal details are protected as stipulated by the law on personal confidentiality. 91 In the interest of the environment, this report has not been printed and has instead, been made available as an HTML pdf document on the sites of: Blue Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Attica Group. Readers may also choose to print sections of the report. ATTICA GROUP 123 125 Syngrou Ave. & 3, Τorva Str., 11745 Αthens, Greece, Tel.: +30 210 891 9500, Fax: +30 210 891 9509, www.attica-group.com
