31/07/2013 Teleperformance Communication on Progress Report 2013 Statement of Continued Support by the CEO Dear Stakeholders, On behalf of our 138,000 Teleperformance people around the world, it is my pleasure to provide you with our 2013 United Nations Global Compact Report. We remain committed to providing everyone with a clear and transparent view of our compliance to the UN Global Compact including human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption (“the UNGC principles” or “principles”). Daniel Julien, our Chairman, noted in our report last year that Teleperformance believes the principles comprising the UN Global Compact are in complete harmony with our corporate values of integrity, respect, professionalism, innovation and commitment. Said another way, these principles actually serve as “action mechanisms” for our cultural beliefs. We remain committed to applying these principles in the way we operate to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, sustainability, transparency and basic human decency. As also noted in 2012, our commitment extends to all the people we touch around the world including our employees, clients, suppliers, shareholders, partners, NGOs and the communities where we live and work. Teleperformance believes adhering to these ten universal principles can enrich individual lives, our business and the world we live in. I am pleased to report good progress for Teleperformance in both implementing and adhering to the UNGC principles. For brevity’s sake, I cannot list all of our actions in this letter but want you to know that in the past twelve months Teleperformance people around the world conducted well over 1000 philanthropic and environmental campaigns through our Citizen of the World and Citizen of the Planet programs. These programs embody the very spirit of the UNGC principles and we are very, very proud of all of our people who have participated in and who continue to participate in these actions. We also achieved over 280% of our annual commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative while helping some of the world’s most vulnerable people in all global regions. To date, Teleperformance has raised almost $12 million (USD), in cash and in-kind donations to aid less fortunate people. We invite you to please visit our website at www.teleperformance.com to learn more about these efforts. In addition to our field and local country efforts for charity, communities and the environment, we also moved forward from a corporate perspective by establishing the first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Committee in Group history. The CSR Committee is a worldwide consortium responsible for overseeing Group CSR policy development and compliance to the UNGC principles among other responsibilities. In late 2012, we launched our Anti-Corruption Policy and several other important CSR policies are being implemented this year to further strengthen compliance to the principles across our Group. In summary, Teleperformance believes actions speak louder than words. You have our promise we will not only continue to support the UNGC principles, but that we will fully embrace them through the very essence of our corporate culture and our corresponding daily actions. Yours sincerely, Paulo César Salles Vasques Chief Executive Officer – Teleperformance Group 1 Introduction Teleperformance, the worldwide leading provider of multi-channel customer experience management, has been serving the biggest brands on the planet since 1978. We employ more than 138,000 people across 270 contact centers in 46 countries which makes us one of the world’s larger private sector employers. The Group operates over 100,000 high tech workstations and conducts programs in more than 66 different languages and dialects on behalf of our clients. Our Values The Teleperformance culture is based on five core values: Integrity, Respect, Professionalism, Innovation and Commitment. These values are fully embedded in the way our company operates – our values are considered in both strategic planning and decision making and in the day-to-day management of our business. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. These principles are wholly aligned with our own values and culture. Teleperformance fully endorses, practices and disseminates the principles of the United Nations Global Compact throughout our entire enterprise. Teleperformance became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in July, 2011. In order to manage and monitor the proper implementation of the principles in a systematic and efficient manner, we implemented a CSR Committee in January, 2013. Among other responsibilities, the Committee is responsible for the development of global tools & policies to help our entire organization implement and adapt the principles. Our goal is to ensure consistent adherence to the UN Global Compact Principles across the globe. Please review this report to understand how the Teleperformance monitors and ensures compliance with the principles. We have divided the report in 4 areas:  Human rights;  Labor Rights & Human Resources;  Business Conduct & Anti-corruption;  Environment . 2 Human Rights I. Respect for human rights standards and prevention of violation Teleperformance CSR Committee  Strategy: One of the purposes of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR Committee” or “Committee”) is to help us embrace and adhere to the universal principles of the UN Global Compact. This Committee is also responsible for creating and overseeing the worldwide Group CSR strategy efforts including developing the necessary policies and ensuring compliance. Furthermore, the CSR Committee is aiming to integrate local CSRinitiatives and deploy consistency across all operations.  Implementation: The Committee is led by Mark Pfeifer, Executive Vice President-Global Management Team, with Olivier Rigaudy, Group Chief Financial Officer (Executive Advisor), Allison Junoy, Group Chief Legal Officer, Annette Engelsgaard, Committee Secretary and 4 other members. Furthermore the Committee is supported by a team of experts, all in different functions, both at the Group as well as country level. Compliance and audit support is provided through our Internal Audit Team. The Committee was launched on th January 28 2013, it is subject to by-laws and it has its own individual budget. The Committee meets every month according to a pre-defined agenda followed by meeting minutes and it submits a half year report to the Board of Directors.  Results: In the first half of 2013 a Code of Ethics, an Environmental Policy and a CSR New Hire Training have been drafted and piloted. Implementation is planned for the second half of 2013. In 2014, the Committee will focus on Supplier Relations and Equal Opportunities for our employees. Teleperformance CSR New Hire Training Strategy: We commit to apply the UN Global Compact principles in the way we operate to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, sustainability, transparency and basic human decency. We believe adhering to these ten universal principles can enrich individual lives, our business and the world we live in. In order to infuse this commitment throughout our organization, Teleperformance is launching a Global CSR New Hire Training. The training module is included in the onboarding process of any new hired in all countries across all departments and functions. The module is introduces the CSR history, Teleperformance CSR strategy and how CSR is an integral part of our day-to-day business, values, processes and 3 standards. Finally the new hires are introduced to all global CSR initiatives, our corporate CSR agenda as well as a walk-through of the initiatives and partnerships in the local country.  Implementation: The training has been developed and piloted in one major country in each of our three world regions. During August, 2013 the course will be translated into all local languages. A worldwide Train-the-Trainer phase will take place in September and the CSR New Hire training will be integrated in all local induction trainings and launched in each local th country beginning 15 September, 2013.  Results: All countries are required to have new employees undergo this training, with both a pre and post quiz (where permitted), measuring the subject matter knowledge and skill increase level. All existing employees will have the opportunity to join online virtual training. Teleperformance Data Privacy  Strategy: In Teleperformance, Information Security and Privacy are not merely seen as necessary initiatives, but extremely high priorities and an integral part of our everyday business. Information Security and Privacy are key factors for the success of our business and we have defined very strict policies to protect our employee, client and customer data.  Implementation: With the hiring of a global Chief Information Security Officer (“Global CISO”) in 2005, Teleperformance started implementing a global Information Security and Privacy program. Each country has one or more dedicated Information Security and Privacy officers reporting directly to the responsible Regional Information Security Directors, who report directly to the Global CISO. The implementation of all Security and Privacy controls is monitored via an internal Compliance Management Framework called TP Policy. Today, all important Information Security standards such as PCI-DSS, ISO 27001, ISO 27002, and HIPAA as well as all privacy regulations such as Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and all local privacy regulations are documented and monitored in TP Policy. Since Teleperformance operates in 46 different countries and has more than 270 different locations, the data transfers between the different countries must be both technically and legally protected.  Results: Teleperformance complies with all Data privacy laws and regulations. We are also increasing the level of compliance with the security standards such as PCI-DSS and ISO 27001. Teleperformance Employee Satisfaction Survey Strategy: Since 2008, Teleperformance has performed an annual employee satisfaction survey in which all employees are encouraged to participate. The objective is to listen to the voice of our employees to give our people the opportunity to express their needs so we can improve work conditions and their wellbeing on a continuous basis.  Implementation: The survey takes place online in all spoken languages across the world each mid-May to Mid-June. All responses are gathered with 100% anonymous treatment. 4 The project is managed globally with a single-point-of-contact in each local Human Resources Department. There is full executive sponsorship of this initiative. Reports are provided on a global, regional, country and site level. In each report, the previous years’ results are included with a clear indicator of the evolution of the item measured. Furthermore, the results are compared with the group and regional results. An external engagement benchmark is included in each report to ensure a comparison between Teleperformance in the local country and other companies within the same country. All countries receive training, sharing sessions, FAQ & communication material throughout the preparation phase. One-to-one follow up calls are available on a weekly (or monthly) basis with those countries requesting or requiring a tailored accompaniment and support on their action plans.  Results: All countries and sites are requested to provide a detailed action plan covering priorities and main drivers with project owners, sponsors and deadlines for each action. All countries update the progress of their action plans on a quarterly basis. The information is uploaded to a global reporting platform in order to follow and share best practices across all countries. II. Community Involvement Teleperformance Citizen of the World Initiative  Strategy: Teleperformance has long recognized the plight of millions of infants and children in regards to basic survival, health, nourishment and shelter. There is also an understanding that once a child is saved and safe, there is an opportunity to provide joy and education so each child has a chance to reach their individual potential and positively contribute to society. In September 2006, Daniel Julien, Founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors formally announced an expansive social responsibility program, which incorporates an internal charitable initiative called Citizen of the World (“COTW”) at the Clinton Global Initiative (“CGI”) in New York where he is a member on global health issues and corporate philanthropy. The CGI is a non-political annual global summit of selected national government, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and business leaders to address the world’s biggest issues. Implementation: Saving and nurturing children in countries where Teleperformance has a presence is a priority issue for COTW. Teleperformance collects cash and in-kind donations (computers, toys, clothing, etc.), and these donations are given to local charities to support multiple programs, such as abandoned baby shelters, de-worming and other medical supplies, food provisions, computer donations to impoverished schools, clothing and toy Donations. Teleperformance employees routinely volunteer thousands of hours each year to help charitable partners at shelters, food distribution facilities, telethons, etc. Ad hoc global crisis relief campaigns focused to respond to natural and other major disasters is a secondary focus of COTW. Teleperformance responds annually to several such large disasters. Funds are collected and used to distribute blankets, ready-to-eatmeals, baby supplies, water, medicine, blood and other items for affected victims by collaborating with recognized international relief organizations and/or local NGOs. Teleperformance organizes emergency fundraisers in all countries to assist those in need, including our own employees. COTW is managed by a Global Director, through a network of COTW coordinators in each country. Management oversight and executive sponsorship is 5 overseen at the Group level through an Executive Vice President on the Global management Team. Annual objectives are set for each Teleperformance country. Quarterly campaigns (Food/Clothing, Health, Education, Toys, Books, Blood, etc.) are initiated to drive Teleperformance charitable commitments. The main goal is to promote Teleperformance initiatives to employees by encouraging them to be involved with collection campaigns (volunteering, local drives, etc.) and deepen our culture of giving. Results: Our annual CGI commitments ($USD), have been exceeded in each program year and we have extended our CGI annual commitments through 2016. COTW’s total contribution exceeded our CGI commitment in 2012 by 286%. $2.8M in total donations including nearly $1 million in cash and $1.8 million in in-kind donations (over 1900 computers, more than 25,000 toys and 36,129 volunteer hours), resulted in countless lives improved. More than 1,500 local CSR campaign were executed across Teleperformance in 2012 alone. Approximately 145 different organizations have received charitable donations from Teleperformance. Feed the Children, Citizen of the World Philippine Foundation, International Red Cross, Save the Children, UNICEF, War Child, Oxfam, Salvation Army, Make a Wish Foundation, Doctors Without Borders, Literacy India, Legion of Good Will, SOS Children's Villages, Foundation Hôpitaux de France, Puglia Without Borders, Un Kilo de Ayuda and Terres des hommes are just a few examples of the charities that have been recipients of Teleperformance donations. Feedback from both NGO’s and business analysts indicate Teleperformance has achieved clear industry leadership in our Social Responsibility commitments: “Teleperformance has an enviable corporate social responsibility (CSR) program that is sponsored globally but is led and delivered locally (that is, Citizen of the World and Citizen of the Planet)” – Gartner (December 2012) “We are impressed by how engaged Teleperformance employees are in their CSR efforts and how Teleperformance develops grassroots campaigns that also focus on building the future workforce,” Atul Vashishta, Founder and Chairman of Neo Group, 2012 Foundations for the Future Award “The leadership team at Teleperformance has made a pledge to sustainability – going green and staying green – and believes that it is crucial to establishing the company's image in the marketplace, workplace and community, Michael DeSalles, Frost & Sullivan Principal Analyst Teleperformance was an overall winner for the Nearshore Executive Alliance’s first Foundation for the Future award for 2012. Teleperformance bested a competitive field of applicants in part because of the ability to transform our corporate social responsibility efforts into community based grassroots campaigns with sustained local support. Recently, Teleperformance also won a major award for EMEA Corporate Social Responsibility in which the European Outsourcing Association (EOA) recognized the Group’s charitable, environmental and community commitments. For more information regarding COTW and to view the 2012 CSR video and annual report, visit http://teleperformance.com/en/a-people-company/social-responsibility.aspx. 6 Labor Rights & Human Resources I. Promotion of Labor Relations Teleperformance Social Dialogue  Strategy: Teleperformance respects the legal rights of more than 138,000 employees to join or not to join trade or labor unions, or other organizations of their choice in accordance with local laws. We promote constant social dialogue between management and employees with the sole aim to improve the living and working conditions of our employees. Social dialog takes place at different levels within the company and may exist in different forms depending on standards, practices and applicable regulations in all the various countries. Where trade unions or staff representative bodies exist, regular meetings are organized with management.  Implementation: Teleperformance has developed a communication strategy with several different channels to listen and understand our employees. This strategy brings our leadership closer to our employees and creates open and clear communications with all of our people by keeping them informed, motivated and participating in the company’s initiatives and decisions.  Results: We utilize various channels to ensure open two way communications with our employees and/or their union/workers council representatives: Each operating entity of the Group has been required to publish/post the ten principles of the UN Global Compact so that our employees are fully informed of our commitment to the principles of the UN Compact; We make easily available information/documents to our employees that outlines our policies and practices regarding conditions of employment and business practices; We constantly strive to provide an “open door policy” at all our sites in order that employees and/or their representatives are easily able to share their concerns for speed of resolution. Examples of various formal programs include but are not limited to “Chat with the CEO” (a regular meeting between the CEO, staff, leadership and agents), Our Channel (email for all employees’ requests, doubts, suggestions, complaints and compliments), Focus Groups (round tables with employees to better understand their needs and root causes of concerns) etc. Through various means including management training, we communicate zero tolerance for reprisals against employees for lodging a good faith compliant about discrimination or harassment. 7 Teleperformance Employee Satisfaction Survey  Strategy: With the yearly employee satisfaction survey (see Human Rights), we want to ensure that the organization is constantly driven through the voice of our people and, that whenever possible, strategic decisions take into consideration the satisfaction of our employees in all possible areas.  Implementation: The satisfaction is measured via an online questionnaire with more than 100 questions across the following areas:  Recruitment  Training & Development  Equipment & Facilities  Salaries, Benefits and Incentives  Job and Work environment  Career Path  Appraisal Process  Relationship with the company  Direct Superior  Internal Communication  Senior Leadership  Culture & Values  Personal Attitude  Loyalty  Results: Global satisfaction has increased year-over-year. Furthermore, the large employee responsiveness (above 60% participation), ensures the Group has identified areas of improvement and global, regional and local action plans based on the voice of our employees. II. Fair Treatment & Equal Opportunities Teleperformance Operational Processes  Strategy: Teleperformance is committed to providing services which embrace diversity and which promote equality of opportunity. As one of the larger employers in the world, we are committed to equality and valuing diversity within our workforce. Our goal is to ensure that these commitments, reinforced by our values, are embedded in our day-to-day working practices with all of our customers, colleagues and partners. We demonstrate our commitment by:  promoting equal opportunity and diversity within the communities in which we work and with all our partners and workforce; 8  aiming to build a workforce which reflects our customer base, within the diverse communities in which we work, with the aim of having parity of representation across the workforce;  treating our customers, colleagues and partners fairly and with respect;  promoting an environment free from discrimination, bullying and harassment, and tackling behavior which breaches this;  recognizing and valuing the differences and individual contribution that people make. With more than 138,000 people across 46 countries it is crucial to ensure consistency in the way our managers lead all employees in order to ensure fair treatment from recruitment, through daily work to training, development and career opportunities.  Implementation: TOPS (Teleperformance Operational Processes & Standards) is a daily performance management process: a step-by-step method that enables leaders to spend 80% of their time focused on feedback and coaching. This result is achieved through structured processes that provide leadership with consistent assessment of employees’ results. BEST (Baseline Enterprise Standard for Teleperformance), are manuals that ensure high service quality, consistent and proactive management in recruitment, training and coaching of our employees.  Results: We provide equality of opportunity and do not tolerate discrimination on grounds of gender, gender identity, marital status, sexual orientation, race, color, nationality, religion, age, disability, working pattern, caring responsibilities, trade union activity or political beliefs. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to discriminatory factors. Each job category in the company has a written description stating the salary level and the qualifications required for that job category. Employment advertisements and applicant assessment do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age (unless listed as part of a legal equal opportunities promotion). Over 54% of our employees are women and we employ hundreds of people with disabilities. In all the Teleperformance centers in the world, the salaries, classification, career opportunities and timetables are independent of the gender criterion. This is reflected in a very high rate of female managers: 45% on average within the Group worldwide, without noticeable differences between geographic areas. Teleperformance will launch a code of ethics (“Code of Ethics”) in September 2013 that will be based on two main pillars – diversity and our values, where we state “Understanding, respecting and encouraging the diversity among our employees means that we allow each individual to be himself/herself with their own cultural, religious, political and other personal beliefs. Respect of diversity is part of our values and is present in all dealings with the company”. Before next Communication on Progress report, the group is planning to develop a specific Equal Opportunity Policy to emphasize the extreme importance of fair treatment and equal opportunities that we strongly believe in. 9 Teleperformance Career Management Strategy: At Teleperformance, we do business with people, for people. We want people to be inspired and to be motivated. Our main goal is to make them proud to belong to our Group through job satisfaction and a great work environment. Teleperformance recognizes the importance of career development for both our employees and our company. Continuously upgrading skills and knowledge is vital in an ever changing environment and helps us meet the demands of our clients while growing our workforce skill sets from within.  Implementation: JUMP is a development program created to identify and prepare highpotential employees to take on leadership positions in the company. The objective is to prepare employees to become leaders: from agents to supervisors, from supervisors to coordinators and, finally, from coordinators to managers. The JUMP program is based on a training program that offers technical and behavior training, as well as a personal development plan. The development of this skilled group is a strategic movement for Teleperformance. It guarantees the recognition of our talents, the quality of our leadership and the best possible use of our training methodologies. The program makes clear to all of our employees what the company expects from them and how they can grow with us. The Teleperformance Training and Development teams deliver a range of face-to-face courses and e-learning, designed to our employees across the world to help our people succeed in their current roles and develop their skills for the future.  Results: Teleperformance Institute provides training to all Group managerial staff (supervisors, floor managers, operations managers, etc.), both in the form of 'e-learning and 'one-to-one' lessons. In 2012, 86,750 hours of training were provided through this platform. Moreover, 1,324 hours of training were provided on a 'one-to-one' basis by the Group’s international trainers. In 2012, the Teleperformance Institute shifted its focus towards 4 areas:  Miscellaneous programs pertaining to the Best Place to Work, such as 'creation of team spirit',  Programs on Group operational standards, fostering client success and the efficient performance of its operations,  Quality of training (improving the training of trainers),  More general training sessions, targeting a broader audience, such as training in Microsoft Office® or foreign languages. Teleperformance and its countries purchased in 2012 1,600 licenses for online English courses in 22 countries. III. Working Conditions Teleperformance BEST Workforce Management Strategy: With the type of business that Teleperformance manages, we are in constant contractual relationships with our clients when it comes to planning our employees’ schedules and adhering to Service Level Agreements for our clients. Teleperformance has 10  developed a BEST WFM User Guide describing the general Workforce Management standards and procedures that must be followed by all countries. The Workforce Management (WFM) involves all the activities needed to respect the labor law requirements as well as incorporating individual needs in terms of preferred working hours, days and times. Hence while maintaining productive programs and providing the best service level possible we seek to improve the work life balance of our employees. Implementation: Each country has a WFM department that interacts with practically all other departments to deliver insight and findings from data analysis and to ensure the WFM department maximizes the added value for all parties. The objective of this process is to ensure clear information streams between WFM and other departments geared towards optimization through structured feedback meetings. This facilitates a “matrix method” of working with Business Partners  Results: Teleperformance is fully compliant with all applicable labor laws. As of today (even if not requested by applicable laws), the average working hours per day are 8 hours with a limited maximum number of consecutive days of work and a minimum number of hours of rest. Teleperformance Health & Safety Premises Standard  Strategy: In order to ensure a healthy and pleasant work environment, Teleperformance has developed a Premises Standard that takes into consideration important topics such as lighting, acoustics, IT & Security, Safety, Hands-on-Management/Proximity, Sustainable Development, Cleanliness and Wellbeing. The standard provides blueprints showing in detail the layout in terms of organization of recruitment & training, workplace design and organization of the work area as well as common areas and leisure areas. Furthermore our sites are equipped with strict access control and camera surveillance and in some countries due to local circumstances we provide security guards, dormitories and employee transportation.  Implementation: The Premises Standard is managed by the corporate team “People Engagement & Workplace Development” and implemented via a network of premises experts across all 46 countries. The network consists of 9 regional champions and 64 Subject Matter Experts (“SMEs”). All SMEs receive an in-depth Premises Standard training to fully understand the principles of the standard as well how to assess and measure the adherence to the standard. Furthermore the SMEs receive throughout the year 4 ongoing training & calibration sessions and best practices are shared in a number of webinars throughout the year. All countries are assessed on a yearly basis and each country implements action plans to ensure continuous improvement of the sites. Whenever a new site is planned, the corporate team together with the regional champion works with the local team using a site rating tool to ensure that the best possible site/building is selected to safeguard the principles of the standard and the wellbeing of its employees.  Results: Premises Standard compliance within the Group amounts to 75 %. 11  Teleperformance Anti-Stress Program Strategy: The profession of our employees is not as such physically hazardous. Nevertheless, the Customer Experience Management business is stressful and Teleperformance prioritizes the work place ergonomics (desk, chair, and equipment), the leisure areas (break rooms, TV lounges, internet cafes, cafeterias…), flexible schedules as well as specific anti-stress programs with the sole objective to promote well-being, minimize the stress of our employees and nourish the feeling of belonging.  Implementation: The Anti-Stress program is managed in each of our 46 countries as a joint collaboration between the local Human Resources department and the local internal communication department by setting up a calendar of activities for the year with theme days to celebrate an event or to foster sociability and cohesion. Besides the local activities the Group organizes two global initiatives; the Teleperformance For Fun Festival and the Teleperformance Sports Club. The Teleperformance For Fun Festival is an annual event that recognizes the talents of our employees in art, dance and music. The Teleperformance Sport Club is designed to nourish teamwork through fun and healthy activities. All employees are invited to participate in both initiatives with the aim to stimulate pride and encourage cultural diversity.  Results: In 2012, almost 4,000 employees from over 35 countries submitted more than a thousand video entries highlighting their passion for dance, music or art in the annual global For Fun Festival contest. The number of participating countries increased by 6% as compared to 2011. Since the competition began in 2009, over 15,000 employees have submitted thousands of videos, many of which including all the global winners, can be seen at Teleperformance’s YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/teleperformance. Through a local as well as a global process, 3 finalists or groups of finalists were selected in each of the three categories. Each finalist or group of finalists received a cash prize, their achievements were highlighted in the group intranet and publication of their performances appeared in a video distributed internally as well as externally across the world. For the Sports Club, the group fielded no less than 391 football teams (324 male, 57 female and 10 mixed teams), 107 mixed volleyball teams and 15 basketball teams and a variety of other team sports implemented throughout the world in 2012, an increase of 10% since 2011. In terms of local anti-stress initiatives, barbeque and dining events, beach tours, trekking, sand surfing, anniversaries, employee of the month/year, fitness/gym membership programs, health fairs, nutrition awareness campaigns, family days and massage therapy are just some of the activities that took place. Finally it can be mentioned that the Group has been awarded Great Place to Work® recognition in Brazil, Portugal, Greece, India and China. Teleperformance Physical Security Controls  Strategy: In 2013, Teleperformance has developed 8 new physical security controls with the goal of providing a safer work place for their employees. These controls are in response to horrific world events such as factory fires, political unrest, gun shootings and other events that have caused loss of life or dangerous environments. None of these events have taken place at a Teleperformance facility, however Teleperformance has taken due diligence to 12  protect their employee and make a safer work environment based upon such events throughout the world.  Implementation: These 8 new physical security controls are in addition to the 262 preexisting controls across three categories including; 1 – physical security, 2 – information security and 3 – disaster recovery. The 8 new physical security controls are:  Employee safety fire extinguishers and exits  Employee necessities  Crisis Communication  Employee emergency response team  Facility evacuation  Facility gun and weapon ban  Facility lockdown  Facility preparedness The 8 new physical security controls were delegated to each Teleperformance country in April, 2013. On July, 1st the controls became mandatory meaning physical security compliance scores will reflect field operations compliance with these new controls. These controls are annual controls meaning the all facilities are required to demonstrate compliance with those controls on an annual basis.  Results: As of July 1st about 1/4 of the Groups operations are 100% compliant with the 8 new physical security controls. Most of the remaining locations are in the 50% compliance range with the new controls. We expect most, if not all, of our operations will reach and maintain 100% compliance with these new controls by the end of Q3. 13  Business Conduct & Anti-Corruption Teleperformance Internal Audit  Strategy: In order to ensure (i) compliance with laws and regulations, including among other things, compliance with anti-corruption laws, and (ii) proper functioning of the Group’s internal processes, Teleperformance has defined an internal control system. The internal control system is monitored by the Group Executive Committee in order to ensure that the system is relevant and suited to the Group’s objectives. The Group Executive Committee incorporates the Group’s support functions and regional departments and is supervised by Teleperformance SA’s Board of Directors.  Implementation: Self-assessment questionnaires (ICQ – internal control questionnaires-) adapted to the Group and its business are sent to all Group managers and finance directors for completion. These questionnaires focus on topics related to all finance organizations and key controls to address the main risks related to financial and accounting information control procedures. The aim is to prevent risks of fraud related to these procedures.  Results: Following this self-assessment process, action plans monitored by the Internal Audit Department are put in place. The results of the questionnaires and information on the monitoring of action plans are provided to Group Management and presented to the Audit Committee. The responses given by the main organizations are also reviewed by those operations statutory auditors. In addition to this self-assessment process, audit visits are carried out in the Group or in respect of specific matters by the Internal Audit Department, according to the annual audit plan and priorities set by management during the year. The Internal Audit Department defined action plans with each management, under the supervision of the Group Management, to ensure that internal control procedures are continually improved. Teleperformance Anti-Corruption Policy Strategy: To ensure that business is performed in a legal, transparent and ethical way, Teleperformance developed (in late 2012), an Anti-Corruption Policy that concerns all employees of the Group and all third parties acting on behalf of Teleperformance, such as consultants, business partners and vendors. The Anti-Corruption Policy not only prohibits the corruption of public officials, but also prohibits corruption of non-public entities/persons. Employees are provided with guidelines regarding hospitality, gifts, facilitation payments, bidding, charitable contributions and sponsorship and trading in influence. This provides the knowledge of what they can accept from a third party and how to deal with any situation that may be considered as corruption. The Anti-Corruption Policy 14  provides for a single set of rules applicable in all countries, provided that the compliance to this policy shall not lead to the violation of any applicable local laws.  Implementation: In order to ensure compliance with the anti-corruption laws, the AntiCorruption Policy recommends the insertion of specific provisions in contracts will third parties. Except if legally required, confidentiality and anonymity are ensured in order to encourage employees that directly or indirectly encounter any form of corruption to seek advice from their manager, or the Group if need be. The employees have been informed about the Anti-Corruption Policy and Teleperformance ensured that they understood the purpose and the importance of such a policy. Virtual conferences on anti-corruption have been organized for all managers and a recorded version is available on the Group Intranet.  Results: In 2012, Teleperformance has not been involved in any legal proceedings relating to bribery and corruption. Teleperformance Code of Ethics  Strategy: Our commitment to comply with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws extends to our relationship with our third parties, in particular Clients and Suppliers. We are willing to work with partners that adhere to the same principles. Teleperformance is currently drafting a Code of Ethics aiming at defining the rules, conduct and actions to be followed by Teleperformance in the relationship with the Client, the Employee, the Investors and Stockholders, the Market and Competitors, the Vendors and Partners and the Community.  Implementation: Through the drafting of the Code of Ethics, Teleperformance is willing to promote ethical relationships based, among other things, on integrity, transparency and accuracy. We value fair and ethical competition practices and do not allow dishonest behavior. Teleperformance states in the Code of Ethics its commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws. Teleperformance adheres to its Client’s Code of Conduct or AntiCorruption Certification when it is requested to do so. .  Results: The Teleperformance Code of Ethics will be launched in September 2013. Teleperformance Clean Desk Policy Strategy: Teleperformance employees process personal data such as credit card, health care data, and confidential client data. To protect such data, Teleperformance has developed a clean desk and clear screen policy. As some of this data could be very valuable for outsiders, this policy helps to protect those types of personal corporate and client data assets from being leaking into non-authorized channels.  Implementation: The enforcement of the policy requires time, resources, training and sometimes rebuilding facility infrastructure. Accordingly, Teleperformance has divided the implementation of the clean desk policy into 3 restriction levels. This helps Teleperformance meet client needs and internal security standards as well as respect necessary facility 15  changes and local building codes. The categorization of the 3 levels is based on clients’ contractual requirements and risk of the operations (that has been assessed previously).  Results: As of now no confirmed statistics are available as we are still in the implementation process. We will assess the results before the end of 2013 to ensure we follow the policy. Teleperformance Anti-Fraud Policy  Strategy: Teleperformance introduced an anti-fraud program in 2007. The emphasis of the program was and still is to prevent fraud when possible and detect fraud activity early when prevention is not possible (see further details in 2012 report). Teleperformance is continuing to improve the capabilities of the anti-fraud program. The latest addition to the anti-fraud strategy is technology called EventTrigger. EventTrigger is a technology designed to identify and provide an early warning for potential fraud activity. EventTrigger provides the ability to program Agent CRM use and thresholds and report on when those thresholds have been exceeded. If the Agent were to exceed this threshold EventTrigger would notify the supervisor with details of each transaction. EventTrigger is now used to actively monitor threats discovered within the Fraud Risk Assessment.  Implementation: The implementation or use of EventTrigger will follow the Fraud Risk Assessment process. The Fraud Risk Assessment identifies risks of which the remediation process is always one of two options; 1 – prevent the risk or 2 – early detection of possible fraud based on the identified risk. In cases where early detection is the remediation strategy, EventTrigger will be evaluated as an early detection solution. EventTrigger use is completely dependent on the clients CRM application and integration of the two options. The Security Analyst will determine if EventTrigger is the right solution, and, if it is, the implementation will follow normal project planning, implementation and testing phases. Upon completion, the Security Analyst will train the account manager on the use of EventTrigger so that triggered events are immediately investigated and appropriate actions taken in the event of events confirmed to be fraudulent.  Results: there are no results at the time of this writing as the few EventTrigger projects have not yet completed the implementation phases. 16  Environment Teleperformance Citizen of the Planet Initiative  Strategy: As Teleperformance operates in the services sector from leased facilities, our impact on the environment is mainly indirect through electricity consumption, paper use and air travel. In spite of this, Teleperformance does our best to minimize our environmental footprint. Teleperformance addresses sustainability in its day-to-day operations primarily through our standard operating procedures and our Citizen of the Planet (“COTP”) initiative. COTP is a global Teleperformance corporate initiative, which was implemented in 2008 and is aimed at ensuring we operate in an environmentally friendly and responsible manner through ongoing programs with specific goals, objectives and policies. In this combined effort, we commit to help our planet by improving facilities to create sustainable sites (i.e. water, paper & other waste reductions) and strive for paperless environments” as well as recycling and incentivizing energy & atmosphere Improvements. A key focus area is to track and minimize our overall Carbon Footprint per employee on a worldwide basis by reducing energy consumption, paper use, and air travel. Reducing solid waste generation and water use are two other important areas we focus on. Teleperformance also invests in indoor environmental quality refinements, alternative transportation and employee education and involvement to extend green efforts to our homes and neighborhoods in addition to the work place. Teleperformance attempts to involve all employees, suppliers, leaseholders and clients in COTP efforts. Additional information about COTP may be found at www.teleperformance.com or you may contact cotp@teleperformance.com for further inquiries.  Implementation: The Teleperformance COTP initiative was conceived by and fully sponsored by Daniel Julien, Chairman of the Board. The CSR Committee is responsible for ensuring an environmental policy is implemented and sufficient resources are available to meet the objectives and targets of this policy. Teleperformance Managing Directors and/or CEO’s in each country are responsible for the practical implementation and control of their environmental systems. COTP Coordinators located in each Teleperformance site are responsible for collecting all relevant environmental data and reporting this on a monthly basis. All employees are responsible for meeting the aims and objectives of the COTP initiative within their respective areas. Premises Standards: Through the Teleperformance Premises Standard mentioned in Working Conditions under “Labor Rights & Human Resources” one of the topics covered is sustainable development, incorporating several principles of LEED to create the basics of a green work environment (prioritizing green car/car-pooling, green environment outdoor as well as indoor, recycling, electricity consumption control) and employee wellbeing (design, natural light, air & ventilation). Recycling: Teleperformance actively promotes the re-use and recycling of waste materials through having dedicated recycling points across all sites as law permits. Many 17  Teleperformance sites have actively installed and labeled recycling bins for paper, used batteries, cans and plastic bottles recycling efforts. For just a few examples, our Costa Rica, Teleperformance employees collected a total of 103 ink cartridges which were then sold to a company that destroys them in a friendly manner to the environment. Teleperformance Colombia recycled a total of 207,210 units of paper, 52,556 units of plastic and 29,000 units of Cardboard. Employees in Spain collected 270kg plastic stoppers to raise money to help children who needed a medical treatment that their families could not afford. At the same time, this effort helped to the conserve our environment through the recycling of these plastic stoppers. Energy Consumption / Carbon footprint: Teleperformance has been tracking its global carbon footprint since 2008 as calculated as the total emissions (that are proportional to the use of electricity, paper air travel, and water) per head count. Each country which we operate in has a localized action plan which addresses their unique operating and environmental realized. Depending on each country, individual carbon footprint factor reductions may vary but the overall 0.5% reductions remain constant within the Group. Education & Awareness: We invest in the education of our employees (through CSR New Hire Training, Premises Standard Training, COTP coordinator webinars, etc.) to make them more environmentally aware. This helps them to make better sustainability decisions both at work, in their communities and in their private lives. With these goals and actions, Teleperformance strives to improve our sustainable development performance across the globe.  Results: Teleperformance Colombia became the first country with LEED-certified contact centers, which helped Teleperformance receive the inaugural 2012 Frost & Sullivan Latin America Contact Center Outsourcing Green Excellence Award. Following Colombia’s example, TLS Contact, a subsidiary based in Beijing, China also achieved Gold LEED certification. And Teleperformance United Kingdom and Teleperformance Germany are both ISO 14001 certified. Teleperformance is one of few major contact center outsourcers to track its carbon footprint and does so through closely monitoring and reducing air travel paper and electricity use. Teleperformance also actively educates employees through interactive webinars on environmental responsibility, ensuring they are up to date on our best practices. A monthly Energy Literacy training is delivered by the Global Sustainability Senior Global Advisor & member of the CSR Committee to COTP Coordinators assigned to each country we operate in. Citizen of the Planet initiatives in 2012 included participation by Teleperformance employees World Wide in environmental actions days such as World Water Day, World Environment Day, Earth Hour and Earth Day. 24 Teleperformance countries voluntarily participated in the 2012 Earth Hour action resulting in over 33,883 kWh energy saved thus resulting in 17 tons of CO2 not emitted into the atmosphere during that hour. Hundreds of local COTP projects included helping to clean and beautify parks, gardens and buildings by planting trees, picking up waste, clearing beaches of trash and debris and planting and growing vegetables in community gardens. In 2012, our total Carbon Emissions were 101,787 Metric Tons of CO2e. The carbon emissions breakdown consist of indirect scope 2 emissions (Electricity) of 87,394 Metric Tons of CO2e and indirect scope 3 emissions (air travel and paper waste) of 14,393 Metric Tons of CO2e. Water consumption reported where traceable (as virtually all of our facilities are leased) was 764,216 Cubic Meters. 18 
