Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland Tel +353 (0) 21 452 2100 Fax +353 (0) 21 452 2244 Email group@musgrave.ie Web www.musgravegroup.com 23rd August 2013 Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Group Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that Musgrave Group is committed to continuing its support for the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights the protection of the environment and anti-corruption and to advancing them within our sphere of influence. We are committed to continuing to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to continue to articulate our commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will publicly report on our progress in this regard. Please find attached our Communication on Progress and some general information regarding our company as well as the contact person responsible for contacts with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, ____________________________ Chris Martin Group CEO Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: S. Scally (Chairman), P. J. Musgrave (Vice Chairman), C. N. Martin (Group CEO), D. O’ Flynn, (Secretary), S Buckley, A. Grey, N. Hartery, D. Horgan, N. Keeley, M. Kelleher, T. Kenny, P. Lacy, P. Mackeown, T. Mather, S. Musgrave. Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland Tel +353 (0) 21 452 2100 Fax +353 (0) 21 452 2244 Email group@musgrave.ie Web www.musgravegroup.com 23rd August 2013 Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Group Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Secretary General, Musgrave Group is Ireland’s biggest food and grocery distributor founded by brothers Thomas and Stuart Musgrave in Cork in 1876. We are partner to entrepreneurial food retailers and foodservice professionals serving more than 3,000 stores in Ireland, Great Britain and Spain. Musgrave Group and its retailers together employ more than 55,000 people; in the Republic of Ireland we are the country’s second largest employer, with more than 24,000 employees. Musgrave Group is proud of its reputation for transparency on sustainability issues; we believe that we have an obligation to our stakeholders to report and account for our performance. Our award-winning sustainability reports are public testimony to our sustainability convictions and are a comprehensive record of our performance. In each of our divisions, a board director is responsible for managing and reporting progress towards achieving our sustainability targets. Strategic direction on sustainability is agreed at Group board level, and is directed by the Head of Sustainability, to whom the divisional directors report performance. We have been signatories to the Global Compact since May of 2004 and undertake to continue to respect and promote its ten principles. We attach our 2013 Communication on Progress for your attention. We will also communicate our COP to our stakeholders via our sustainability website www.musgravesustainability.com Yours sincerely, ___________________________ John Curran Head of Sustainability Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: S. Scally (Chairman), P. J. Musgrave (Vice Chairman), C. N. Martin (Group CEO), D. O’ Flynn, (Secretary), S Buckley, A. Grey, N. Hartery, D. Horgan, N. Keeley, M. Kelleher, T. Kenny, P. Lacy, P. Mackeown, T. Mather, S. Musgrave. United Nations s Global Compact Musgra ave Grou up Communicattion on Progress P s 2013 What is the UN Global Com mpact? By doing so, bus siness, as a primaary T Through the imple ementation of driver of globalis sation, can help ensure e consistent c policies s and clear targetts for “The Global Compact asks comp panies to that markets, coommerce, technology every e aspect of th he business, as well w as embrace univerrsal principles and to and finance adva ance in ways thatt benefit mechanisms m to coontinuously meassure partner with th he United Nations. It has economies and s societies everywh here. a and report perform mance, Musgrave e grown to becom me a critical platfform for G Group are ensurin ng that the Global the UN to enga age effectively witth Compact C forms a core part of our enlightened glo obal business.” Musgrave Gro oup: Committe ed to business b strategy. UN Global Compact – UN Secretary y-General Ban Ki--moon unglobalcomp pact.org Musgrave Group p has been a signatory to C Communicatio ons the Global Comp pact for over ninee years; The UN Global Compact is a stra ategic we will continue our commitmentt to the Our 2013 COP willl be communicated to O policy initiative e for businesses that are ten principles, as set out in this our o stakeholders via v our website committed to a aligning their operations Communication on Progress (COP P) for m musgravesustai inability.com – here h and strategies with ten universa ally 2013 and the ac ccompanying statement y you’ll find a wide range of information accepted princiiples in the areas of of support. relating r to our approach to human rights, labour, environm ment and sustainability. s anti-corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 1|Page Human n Rights Principles off the UN Globa al Communication on Progress, und der the O Outcomes Compact terms of Global Compact, since that date. W We adopted the Musgrave M Ethical Principle 1: Bussinesses should support s T Trading 2 Policy in 2004. We ensure e that and respect the e protection of Musgrave requirres that the national laws a Musgrave own-brand products all internationally proclaimed huma an rights; and regulations of the country of c comply E with our Ethical P Sourcing Policy, and employment are e observed, but, asa a a and all suppliers are a required to sign up minimum, that international hum man to t the principles of o that policy. Principle 2: maake sure that they y are not rights and labour law is applied. complicit in humman rights abuse es. Musgrave expects that people wo orking Management systtems are in place to M for our suppliers airly s will be treated fa g guarantee the pro ovenance of the and with respectt. products p we sourc ce and to manage e Actions ethical e issues we identify within ou ur Musgrave is com mmitted to ensuring that s supply chain. Cod des of conduct arre As a responsiblle organisation, Musgrave M all of our supply chain stakeholde ers, d developed that infform and guide trading believes that w we must ensure th hat the regardless of wh here they live or work, w t teams on ethical sourcing s of all goods goods we sourc ce are produced ini a are treated with respect and dign nity and a and services. sustainable way, in the context of are able to live in an environment potential impac cts on the environnment or undamaged as a result of our bus siness There have been no incidences of T societal impactts. activity. We want to ensure that those h human rights violations associatedd with with whom we trade share our our o operations. We underscore ed this commitme ent by principles, are co ommitted to ensu uring signing up to thhe principles of th he United of all workers and human that the rights o Nations Global Compact in 2003 3, and we rights in generall are protected. have publically reported an annual COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 2|Page Labourr Principles off the UN Globa al Actions 4 4. Hours of worrk are in complian nce Compact with the lawss of the country where w The fair exchang ge of goods and services s workers are employed. e Principle 3: Bussinesses should uphold u is increasingly an issue of concern to the the freedom off association and the modern consumer. We want eve eryone 5 5. No forced or compulsory labou ur effective recognition of the rightt to who deals with u us, directly or ind directly, (bonded labo our) will be used. collective bargaaining; to be treated witth respect and dignity. 6 6. Child labour will w not be used. Principle 4: the e elimination of alll forms We also want to ensure that Musgrave 7 7. Discriminatioon in respect of of forced and ccompulsory labour; activities and thee activities of ourr employment and occupation will w not suppliers do not damage the be permitted. Principle 5: the e effective abolitio on of environment. 8. 8 Health, safety and welfare of child labour; an nd employees is s protected. To that end, we have made the following e elimination of Principle 6: the 9 9. No goods will be sourced from m commitments, as part of our Ethiical discrimination in respect of emp ployment oppressive reegimes. Trading Policy: and occupation n. 1 10. Measures are e taken to prevennt 1. All Terms off Trading are fair and damage to th he environment. honest. 1 11. Corruption, inncluding extortion n and 2. The rights oof all workers andd human bribery will not n be tolerated. rights in general are protecte ed. 3. Workers have freedom of association and the right to argaining. collective ba COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 3|Page Outcomes Along with our v values there is another O Our support of ind dependent busine esses, important factorr that makes Musgrave a and the communities they serve, helps h Musgrave cond ducts its business in different and our business strong ger. The build b and sustain vibrant local accordance witth traditional coree values local retailers we e partner value thhe fact e economies througgh the multiplier effect: e which include: that we are a family business tha at f every €1 spent at a local business, for supports other family businesses. It 4 cents is re-invested locally (this 45 s  Long term, stable relations ships makes for a special kind of collabboration contrasts c with a lo ocal re-investmennt of  Not being greedy and trust, a sens se we’re all working only o 15 cents for every €1 spent at a together in the hheart of local c corporate chain).  Honesty communities to a common purpose.  Working hard As an example o of our community y  Achieveme ent involvement and d commitment to good causes, the annu ual combined cha aritable All Group divisiions measure and community support by our re etail performance an nd report quarterrly to the partners in Supe erValu, Centra and Head of Sustain nability. Daybreak is reco orded to be over €5.3 million. There have bee en no recorded in ncidences on, violations of freedom of discriminatio of association/ccollective bargain ning, child labour or forcedd or compulsory labour. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 4|Page Environ nment Principles off the UN Globa al We published ou ur original Corporate We have defined targets W t and reporrting Compact Environmental C Charter in 2000, which w m mechanisms for our o Group facilitiees, and was a first for an ny Irish-based retail and w work closely with our retail partners to Principle 7: Bus sinesses should support s a distribution business. Since then n, our further f our enviroonmental goals as sa precautionary aapproach to environmental a and broader susta ainability business b and at coonsumer level. environmental challenges; strategies have evolved and matured. Our key focus are O eas for the 2008-2 2012 Principle 8: unddertake initiatives s to cycle c were as follo ows: promote greate er environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: enc courage the deve elopment and diffusion of environmentally y friendly CARBON MANAGEMENT PACKAGING & WASTE LOGISTICS CONSUMER CHOICE STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIPS technologies. •Waste •GHG •Road •Sustainable •Communemissions reductio on trransport sourcing ication optimisation •Energy •Packaging •Community •TransActions efficiency optimis sation •Backhaul parency •Health & •Renewable ng •Recyclin •W Warenutrition •Engagem ment Musgrave has llong been a propo onent of energy ho ousing •Plastic bags •Ethical & •Nuisancee doing business sustainably; it was w a •Eco-stores •Crates/totes organic trade reduction n ssion that we sho natural progres ould •Business air •Bio-fuels •Seasonality •Regulatory approach to environmental formalise our a travel compliance •Vehicle •Local management a and public reporting in the em missions late 1990s. •Low carbon products COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 5|Page Outcomes Energy use in o our buildings Looking at normalised values, i.e. L comparing c energy y use on a like-for-like Integration P Programme 2012 es in Ireland are now All of our facilitie basis b in terms of floor f area, energy y use supplied with 10 00% green electricity – decreased d by 9% between 2006 and In late 2011, M Musgrave Group expanded e we have also extended the supply 2011. 2 There was a 40% increase its retail busine ess via the acquis sition of agreement to make green power between b 2011 and d 2012, as a resu ult of 26 Superquinn-branded superm markets available to our staff. acquisitions. a The newly-acquired and one distrib bution centre. The stores, facilities f are largee retail spaces, wh hich which are all mmedium to large Close manageme ent of our perform mance h have an inherently higher energy supermarkets, are in the direct ensures that we are using our res sources d demand than warrehouse or cash and a ownership of th he Group. as efficiently as possible. We sett out to carry c operations. On a square-me etre achieve reductio ons of 5% in enerrgy basis, b supermarke ets typically use up u to We have starte ed the process of merging every year betw ween 2008 and 20 012; we t twice as much energy as a distribu ution environmental practices and detail our perforrmance below and d in the centre. c Overall, this t has impacted d on programmes ac cross the Group, to graphs accompa anying this report, which o on our normalised energy our ensure perform mance against ourr track our perform mance since the p performance. sustainability oobjectives. implementation of our advanced data management systems in 2006. Our newly-acquire O ed stores have Whilst we have e seen a dis-improovement undergone u a full energy-efficiency e in some of averaged Group An additional 10 00,066m2 of retail space r review and the im mplementation of new environmental performance indiicators has been include ed in our propertyye energy control and management for 2012, we arre confident that our holding as a resu ult of the Superquinn m measures is ongoing. We are already initiatives, whicch have proven reesults in acquisition. As a result, energy use u s seeing benefits ac ccruing from the terms of enviro onmental and cos st doubled between n 2011 and 2012, which introduction of a new n Energy Monitoring benefits, will bee fully embedded across is in contrast to a steady reductio on in a and Targeting sys stem. the entire Grou up in the coming years. building energy use between 200 06 and 2011 (there was s a net reduction of 9% Our strategy overr the next number of O New targets ha ave recently been n set for during that perio od). y years will be to coontinue to use the 2013 to 2017 cycle. t technology in paraallel with staff tra aining t further reduce the energy intensity of to our o facilities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 6|Page Logistics Between 2006 and 2012, there has been We achieved an 11% W 1 reduction in CO2e an overall increaase of 4% in fleett emissions e per casse sold between 2006 2 Transportation is a very big part of our kilometres trave elled, related to an a and 2012 (CO2e emissions e were re educed business, and w we recognise the increase in the nnumber and geographical f from 0.220 kilograms of CO2e per case environmental impact of this aspect of spread of our sto ores. Expansion of our s sold in 2006 to 0.196 in 2012). Th he our operations.. We try to avoid d or business and rec cent acquisitions in indicator showed a further 1% minimise journeys wherever we e can. 2012, meant tha at our fleet travelled an improvement from m 2011 to 2012. Our advanced rroute planning an nd additional 3.7 mmillion kilometres scheduling systtems achieve opttimum between 2011 and 2012. W We achieved an 9% 9 reduction in CO C 2e efficiency. We also invest in ongoing emissions e relative e to fleet kilometrres driver training and vehicle main ntenance Despite an incre a ease in our fleet activity, between b 2006 and d 2012 (CO2e programmes to o ensure maximum fuel there has been a decrease of 5% % in CO2 e emissions were reeduced from 0.85 58 efficiency and vvehicle performan nce. fleet emissions oover the same pe eriod k kilograms of CO2e per kilometre (2006 to 2012). We can attribute this travelled t in 2006 to 0.780 in 2012). The We aim to ‘bac ckhaul’ from supp pliers success to techn nical upgrades to our indicator showed a further 2% wherever we ca an this means planning p fleet, as well as strategic backhau ul, improvement from m 2011 to 2012. our collections and deliveries to avoid dynamic scheduling and driver training. trucks returning empty to depotts. After O On the basis of th he normalised flee et delivery to storres, vehicles colle ect goods When examining g normalised fleett CO2 e emissions data (reelative to cases from wholesale e suppliers to max ximise emissions for ou ur business, theree are delivered d and kiloometres driven), wew are capacity on retturn journeys, the ereby two aspects we consider, i.e. flee et seeing s a positive trend year-on-ye ear. In reducing emiss sions by taking su upplier emission versus cases sold (a me easure other o words, we are a travelling grea ater e road. We have also vehicles off the of our business o output), and fleett distances, d but drivving more efficienntly, added ‘double d deck’ trailers to our o fleet, emissions versus s distance travelled. whilst w carrying mo ore goods. which increases s the capacity of each delivery vehiclee by 58%. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 7|Page Packaging and Waste We will identify aareas for improve ement A All of the newly-acquired Superquiinn in terms of the ssources of waste, with a stores s use green-sourced electricitty, Waste avoidanc ce and minimisattion are particular focus on fresh produce, deli w which has a positiive impact on ourr the preferred o options when it co omes to and bakery prod ducts. c carbon footprint profile. p In 2012, our dealing with waaste. For waste which w s stores in Northern n Ireland switchedd to cannot be avoid ded, Musgrave aiims to We have recently extended our oneo green g electricity, which further redduced maximise recov very and recycling. stop-shop region nal waste manage ement our o Group carbon footprint. contracts to include our newly-ac cquired Our advanced w waste minimisatio on and stores. Our ong going planned inte egration O Our normalised ca arbon footprint daata waste managem ment programme es have of Superquinn sttores into the Musgrave lo ooks at total carb bon footprint vers sus delivered positiive results. Our Group G m to improve waste business will aim c cases delivered. We achieved a 35 5% now stands at 83%; that recycling rate n management pe erformance during g 2013r reduction in total CO2e emissions per p is up from 63%% in 2006, but down from 2015. c case sold between n 2006 and 2012 (total 92% in 2012, rreflecting the incrrease in C 2e emissions were CO w reduced from m company-owne ed retail space. 0 0.374 kilograms of o CO2e per case sold in Carbon Footpriint 2 2006 to 0.232 in 2012). The indic cator We achieved a 48% decrease in n the s showed a further 12% improvement total amount off waste generated Between 2006 and 2012, our tota al from f 2011 to 2012. between 2006 and 2011. From 2011 to carbon footprint (taking into acco ount 2012, total wasste generation inc creased buildings, transp port and landfilled d waste) We can conclude that whilst our W from 6,937 tonnnes to 19,812 tonnes, reduced from 70 4 0,102 tonnes to 45,901 b business has expa anded and grown again associateed with the acquis sition of tonnes – that’s a drop of 35%. Between B c considerably betw ween 2006 and 20 012, the Superquinn n supermarkets. 2011 and 2012, our carbon footp print fell w have been suc we ccessful in decoup pling by 2,828 tonnes s. energy e consumption and waste Waste generatiion in the Superq quinn generation g b from business growth. This business is gennerally higher than our This is the resultt of the increased d use of m marks a very signnificant milestone for Group average due to the fact that t retail green electricity, efficiencies in energy M Musgrave Group. space has a higgher total wasteuse in buildings and vehicles and an generating pote ential and lower recycling r improved waste management reg gime. potential than ddistribution warehouses or Cash & Carry y facilities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 8|Page We are also wo orking with our reetail Nutrition, Heallth and Wellbein ng Anti-cor A rruption partners to cha ampion energy effficiency at store level. This has led to electricity We are committed to supporting the savings of 20% % in some stores. wider community by taking part in Sustainable design is now an inttegral health and wellb being initiatives at a local feature of Musg grave new store design d and national leve el. We believe frresh, and store refurrbishments. healthy food sho ould be available to every local comm munity. Across our o P Principles of th he UN Global business we hav ve developed deta ailed Compact C Being a Good Neighbour sourcing policiess for all own-label Principle 10: Businesses should wo P ork products. a against corruptionn in all its forms, It’s important tthat we act as good including extortion and bribery. corporate citize ens to our neighbbours in We make it easier and more affordable the community y we strive to opperate for shoppers to m make healthy and d according to th hese principles: nutritious food cchoices and lead ana A Actions active lifestyle w whatever their age e,  Keep nuisa ance to an absoluute circumstance or budget. We offe er Musgrave is opposed to all forms of M o minimum, before people ev ven think purchasing choic ces based on fressh and corruption, c including extortion and d of complaiining. healthy foods. W We also aim to reeduce bribery. b Musgrave e will not engage in the distance that food is transporrted, such s practices nor will it accept its s  Inform peo ople about our thereby supporting local producers and suppliers s engaging in corrupt activ vities. developme ent plans, so theyy can minimising envirronmental impactt. contribute to them.  We work w with our retail parrtners to As food retailerss, we are subject to O Outcomes share our proactive approach. regular, indepen ndent hygiene inspections. The ere were no incidents of There have been no incidences of T  Cut down on noise, air pollution and non-compliance with regulations or c corruption in Musggrave Group. traffic disrruption caused by y our voluntary codes concerning healtth & vehicles. safety impacts o of our products du uring the reporting pe eriod. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 9|Page Measurring Ourr Perform mance COMMUNICATION ON PROGRES SS 2013 10 0|Page
