Responsible Business Report 2012 Our expertise and commitment to delivering responsible business is recognised by the following standards, awards and memberships ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard All of our operational sites conform to the ISO 14001 environmental standard, an internationally recognised benchmark that endorses our ongoing commitment to manage impacts successfully, ensuring that our actions have a positive and protective effect on the environment wherever possible. BS OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management Standard We operate an Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems which complies with the British Standards Institution BS OHSAS 18001, creating a safe and pleasant physical working environment for our employees. Business In The Community (BITC): March 2012 We participate in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index to measure the effectiveness of our responsible business vision and its implementation. We were proud to be awarded Gold status for achieving 90%. This puts us on par with FTSE 100 companies. Investors in People We are within the top two per cent of all organisations certified by Investors in People. In fact, we achieved Silver status on how we motivate, manage and develop our staff. This is due to our management practice, benefits and employee performance and development framework. Carbon Saver Standard™: March 2012 We have been certified Gold for the reduction in our carbon emissions over a three year period through improving our office and Data Centre efficiencies. The Carbon Saver Standard™ provides a unique tiered approach to rewarding organisations for their efforts to reduce carbon. Connect NonStop Availability Awards: June 2012 We won the Server Availability Award for our Faster Payments Service, available 24x7x365. Connect is the largest user community of HP business technology customers in the world with over 53,000 members worldwide. Young Enterprise Business Award: June 2012 We work to support and inspire young people as part of our Responsible Business Programme. We received this award for “outstanding support for enterprise education in schools.” United Nations Global Compact We are an active participant the UN Global Compact, aligning our operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles and working practices in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Welcome to our 2012 Responsible Business report ‘We process billions of payments in the UK every year. With the ability to connect every personal and business bank account in the UK, we are at the heart of the payments community providing a service to businesses and to consumers paying bills, receiving salaries or withdrawing cash from ATM machines. We strive to achieve industry best practice in everything we do, and to set the standard as an innovative business partner. This includes the way that we think about our own sustainability programme, and the positive impact that we can have in the community. We work to minimise the key social and environmental impacts in order to improve our business sustainability. Through the framework of the UN Global Compact, we also continue our commitment to human rights. In this report you can read about how we track our performance against a number of topical responsibility issues and opportunities. The UK government and our regulators constantly demand higher standards of competitiveness and openness from the banking and payments industry. As the central provider of UK payment services, much of this impacts us directly. We have a pivotal role in working with our stakeholders – banks, consumers, businesses and regulators – in providing the highest quality electronic payment services enabling the economy to function efficiently and sustainably. VocaLink adds significant value to the economy through the provision of innovative, efficient payment services, focussing on connecting the consumer with business and government with ever more convenient and safe ways to pay. Our business strategy is centred on delivering long-term stability and value, not just short-term performance. In five years time there may be no need to write a cheque or pay by cash; every consumer and business will have the opportunity to request or make convenient, instant payments to and from their mobile phones. This kind of sustainable and innovative payment services is our speciality. We are delivering an inclusive payments network, encompassing everyone, with VocaLink technology at the heart of it.’ ’ David Yates Chief Executive Officer About us VocaLink designs, builds and operates bills and almost all state benefits. VocaLink, with its vision and proven world-class payment systems and VocaLink technology powers the Bacs capability, is leading the way in ATM switching platforms. We operate and Direct Debit schemes as well as payments. We provide the the UK national payments connecting the world’s busiest infrastructure for the Faster Payments infrastructure, a national grid for network of over 65,000 ATMs through Service, which helps businesses and payments. the LINK scheme. individuals realise the value and benefit of real-time payments. VocaLink’s innovative, sustainable, Our platforms have made it easier to VocaLink is at the forefront of mobile and highly efficient payment services make payments confidently, securely payments, driving a new era of touch the lives of almost every person and cost effectively. Last year we ultra-convenient commerce. and business in the UK. Through our processed over 10 billion UK systems we process over 90% of UK transactions with a value of £4.9 salaries, more than 70% of household trillion. We consider the key social and environmental impacts that would inhibit our business sustainability. Sustainable and innovative payment services are our speciality. Our values Part of what makes VocaLink a world We encourage a culture of openness All our policies are fair, inclusive and class organisation is our commitment and trust so that any concerns or provide opportunities for all to providing our customers with ideas are raised and discussed. regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, smarter payment solutions by being social background, religion, disability Each member of staff knows their their Smarter Payments Partner. or sexuality. responsibilities and has the Our customer programme, Partner opportunity to have a voice and an Our areas of expertise are diverse Promise, has even led to us winning influence in the way we do business. and spread over several locations. an industry award for customer We celebrate successes through When we identified our values we experience. We engage with our recognition, a simple ‘thank you’ made sure our people were involved stakeholders, respond to feedback for effort brings our company values by inviting representation from each and incorporate their views. to life. area to workshops. It is however, our people who build We know that our credibility relies on We hope that every aspect and effect the successful, ongoing partnerships who we are and how we do business. of our business is positive, and this that we have with our stakeholders, So we are building social and makes us responsible. and that’s why our employees are our environmental consideration into our Our ongoing employee engagement most vital asset. entire decision making process. This campaigns continue to develop our has created mutual benefits for our culture of being Spirited, Smart people, customers and suppliers. and Reliable. Smart Reliable Spirited Headcount by directorate Operations 792 Commercial Services 132 Finance 58 Strategy & Business Development 27 HR&OD 18 Schemes 7 Key Legal 8 100 people Chief Executive Office 2 10 people 76% of VocaLink staff work in Operations Age profile 25.0% 20.0% 15.0% 10.0% 5.0% 0.0% <20 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 +60 The average age of VocaLink permanent employees is 41 years Our responsible business governance Community Our Responsible Business Director of Commercial Services, • Create new payment technologies Programme is sponsored at Board Marc Terry, sponsors our community for maximum market penetration and Executive level and managed by programme and is responsible for and financial inclusion a structured Responsible Business the strategic leadership and • Support and inspire the new Board. Our objective is to deliver development of the company’s generation by bringing young responsible business practice through Commercial Services business. people through education and four interrelated workstreams that into employment locally Key responsibilities include reach every aspect of our business: • Increase exposure and awareness managing VocaLink’s core contracts Community, Environment, of our local community charity for Bacs, LINK, Faster Payments and Marketplace and People. partners through partnership the UK Government. support. Our Responsible Business Board We have found that strengthening have selected the topical Ultimately we aim to create mutual our surrounding communities makes responsibility issues in this report economic value through social us more successful. So working in and you can see how we have tracked benefit by driving a smarter way partnership within the payments our performance against our targets. of working. community, local community and with our charity partners, we: Environment Chief Operating Officer, Ian Our environmental focus is to Ultimately we want to reduce our Gausden, sponsors our environment develop low carbon strategies and operational overheads and negative programme and is responsible for policies in association with the environmental impact, gaining a the company’s IT and Service Carbon Trust, initiatives include: competitive edge in a challenging Operations ensuring VocaLink’s • Recording our company-wide economic climate. service reputation is protected consumption of resource and and enhanced. waste disposal • Influencing and supporting our For an information-led organisation utility and banking customers like ours, environmental management through our ‘paperless billing’ is not just about responsibility; it’s service with its focus on reducing about efficiency. Running our Data carbon footprint. Centres is where the majority of our resource consumption lies, and we make sure that all of our operational sites conform to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard. Marketplace Chief Financial Officer, Claire Hafner, Our marketplace initiatives include: Ultimately we want all the products sponsors our marketplace programme • Directing a proportion of our and services we order to be and is responsible for all aspects of spend locally to support the considered for necessity, price, and the company’s financial management, communities that we work in. quality with a view that considers the including the accounting, commercial, We believe that these kinds of benefits not only to us but for our procurement, and risk and compliance partnerships can create mutual suppliers too. functions. benefit, whether it be on service, Our suppliers are required to delivery, quality or innovation Responsible business doesn’t begin demonstrate the same commitment • Taking environmental and social and end at the company’s doors. to sustainability – environmental, factors into consideration for all social and economic – as we do. Our actions can have indirect investment decisions in consequences, sometimes through partnership with suppliers and supply chain partners. contractors. This creates an active For this reason responsible dialogue throughout the whole procurement is a cornerstone of our supply chain, and ultimately business strategy. We will only enrol influences other companies to be new suppliers who sign up to our more sustainable. Supplier Code of Conduct, based on the universally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact. People Director of Human Resources and We want to retain and value our staff We plan to have invested £900,000 Organisational Development, Debbie so we: in the continual development of our Lombard, sponsors our people • Recognise the importance of a people by the end of 2012 and have programme and is responsible for dedicated skilled permanent a number of staff initiatives and enabling high levels of performance workforce policies in place that promote a amongst employees. • Communicate with our professional, ethical and engaging employees to enable positive working environment. People are our most vital asset and contribution and to encourage that’s why Debbie chairs our Our credibility in the marketplace clearly defined leadership Responsible Business Board. For relies on who we are and how we do responsibilities VocaLink, where we offer specialised business and all of our employees are • Listen to our employees, then payment services, we require our a valuable part of who we are. identify and implement employees to have skills that are improvements to our ways sought after and highly prized in of working. the marketplace. Read on for more information on how we have tracked our performance in these areas. Community Our payments community Our It is hard to imagine any established us. And we also need to make sure economy that does not have efficient that we are involved in initiatives such payments flowing between companies as financial inclusion of the undertransaction and individuals. The changing demographics of UK banked, because this is both important to the economy and drives volumes consumers, including employment and the technology bias of young more payment volumes for our company. people, means that new types of VocaLink is the national grid for Oct 2008 – Sep 2009 payments will naturally emerge. payments, supporting the majority 8.9billion of bank account to bank account There is a risk that consideration is payments in the UK. not given to how different types of payments are coordinated and the In a scenario where payments are not Oct 2009 – Sep 2010 impact of fraudulent behaviour processed on our infrastructure including money laundering and 9.2billion platforms we would lose money. terrorism. This significant issue must be In addition some people could mitigated by the introduction of new become financially excluded from payment technologies such as Faster Oct 2010 – Sep 2011 these new payment types. Payments and Mobile Payments, and 9.5billion as part of this process we need to Our commercial model is based on examine all socio-demographic processing large volume of payments segments to make sure that we – currently 9.6 billion per annum. achieve maximum market penetration Oct 2011 – Sep 2012 We need to make sure that we offer of our products and services. 9.9billion the highest standards of payment security so that our customers continue to place their business with Faster The infrastructure behind the So what’s next? At the beginning of industry’s innovative Faster Payments 2012 the Payments Council Service was designed and built by announced they would be creating a VocaLink and is operated on our Real-Time Payments Platform. platform for all UK banks to provide peer-to-peer mobile payments to Payments One billion pounds of Faster Payments were processed in the first their customers. Following a successful Request for Service three weeks of the service going live. Proposals by VocaLink, it was confirmed that we would be Oct 2008 – Sep 2009 Since its launch in 2008 the VocaLink 261.5million providing the central database at the Real-Time Payments Platform has heart of the Payments Council’s become one of the most revolutionary mobile payments platform. payment infrastructures the UK banking industry has seen in recent VocaLink is in a unique position to Oct 2009 – Sep 2010 decades. It has transformed use existing infrastructure services to consumer banking behaviour and business practice in the UK and rapidly build and operate a ubiquitous mobile payments 329.7million beyond. platform for customers of all banks and building societies in the UK. Oct 2010 – Sep 2011 We processed the two billionth Faster Payment in November 2012 on behalf of the Faster Payments Scheme. Introducing a new industry-wide mobile payments solution not only increases financial inclusion but 502million provides VocaLink with further Oct 2011 – Sep 2012 commercial opportunities in an increasingly competitive banking and payments landscape. 733.6milllion Our local community In 2012, The Princes Trust highlighted We introduced an apprenticeship/ We have also introduced a “growing that one million young people are not trainee scheme and we currently talent pool” for our employees. currently in education, employment have 35 trainees, three apprentices Investing and developing individuals or training. in engineering and nine industrial in lower level roles that show an placements working across aspiration to progress within As a local employer we have already the business. the company. experienced issues with regard to recruitment from local catchment We hope to fill these new positions areas. For this reason we want to and retain these new skills through create exposure to business thinking, training and assessments, gaining cultural awareness and role models valued fresh talent. for young people, with a view to Through these positions we aim to creating new talent for VocaLink. shape and retain a skilled workforce We also want to address the without relying on always having to development of appropriate skills in go to the live market where these young people which assists with particular skills can be scarce. succession planning, critical in We continue to deliver award retaining our vital asset, our people. winning support to our local schools We want to bring young people with a view to support and inspire through education and into young people in education; we employment locally; we improved on recently won a Young Enterprise our target of investing in 15 trainees Business Award for “outstanding by the end of 2012. support for enterprise education in schools.” 3 apprentices (in engineering) 35 9 industrial trainees placements Our work with charities There is an expectation that as a We encourage colleagues to get This resulted in approaches from local employer we support local involved in their local communities, twenty three charities who wanted to charitable organisations as part of take time off for volunteer work and collaborate with us into research our community participation strategy. promote our local charity partners around the benefits of more efficient A great deal of time has been invested through fund-raising activities. payments to charities. in building partnerships with charities. In addition to this we set out mutual We published the results of this There is a risk to our business expectations and achievements research in our ‘Charity Mobile inherent in Government cut backs of through formal charity partnerships Payments’ report in 2011. charitable funding whereby we with our local charity partners: Meanwhile we continue to cannot afford to pick up the funding Watford Mencap, Henshaws and incorporate our work with charities gap ourselves. Keech Hospice Care. This approach into our core business models. brings ‘mutual benefit’ for both Our approach is to work with the parties as we share our expertise and As we expand our payments network charities to introduce better create development opportunities there are new opportunities for commercial thinking and to share for members of staff. collaboration, such as bringing resource so that they can be more together merchants, loyalty schemes, effective at increasing funding from Breakthroughs happened in 2011 and charities into a shared payments new supporters, and finding routes and 2012 when VocaLink sponsored community. to market with their own corporate the Responsible Business propositions. Convention. We contributed to the Whilst at an early stage of inception, debate around how corporates and our new payments propositions A scenario where one of our charity charities could work much more could create valuable revenues for partners collapsed would also impact effectively together. charities and support benefits to company morale, so we want to other companies who are committed increase exposure and awareness of VocaLink discussed the importance to a sustainable business agenda. our local community charity partners of new innovations in payments. through partnership support. Three of our charity partners exhibited at the event and we helped create more effective commercial models for them to do so. Volunteering 34 days paid leave for volunteering were taken in 2012 Environment Our resource consumption Inefficient resource consumption and We have recently signed a contract inefficient waste disposal is a waste with a new energy supplier which of money, and directly impacts the guarantees that our electricity comes price that we have to charge to our from high quality 100% renewable customers. sources, like solar, wind, geothermal and hydro energy. It also damages the environment and creates reputational risk. Procuring Levy Exempt Backed (LEB) electricity means that HM Revenue & Carbon Tax is now levied against the Customs can declare our supply company and the Carbon Reduction exempt from the Government’s Commitment (CRC) publishes league Climate Change Levy (CCL). The tables. equivalent charge is payable to our Ongoing measurement of our energy supplier who invests in resource consumption (power, petrol, additional renewable energy sources. paper) has shown that our costs have Our energy use is now even more been controlled and our product responsible because ‘Green’ pricing and structures remain stable electricity reduces our impact on the due to effective cost management. environment and sustains the future As a result of improving our office of renewable energy. and data centre efficiencies over a In our ongoing commitment to three year period, we saw a reduction sustainable carbon emissions, in our carbon emissions which was VocaLink is now developing further acknowledged by a Carbon Saver improvements to green credentials Standard gold certification. with better energy usage reporting, This achievement will improve our investigating the use of heat position in the Carbon Reduction recycling and renewable energy. Commitment (CRC) league table. Recycling We have increased our current recycling rate of 30.5% to 53% (3% higher than our target) Our e-billing proposition OneVu is a VocaLink business which OneVu has been certified as a offers electronic bill presentment competitive ‘Green paperless billing’ and payment solutions to utility service, evidencing carbon benefits companies and some of the UK’s and attracting new consumer online banks. activations. OneVu has developed a proposition Elimination of paper and postage based on influencing and supporting forms a key component of the OneVu our utility and banking customers proposition and assists our through shared accreditation for customers to substantiate their carbon reduction, measured by the commitment to carbon reduction Carbon Trust. – creating new business for VocaLink whist delivering real sustainable Increased penetration of OneVu benefits through influencing our e-billing will increase the amount of marketplace. Co2e savings year on year. OneVu is now able to promote sign Our ‘cradle to grave’ work with the up to electronic billing with Carbon Trust and a utility company confidence and is measuring the found that every new electronic bill impact in terms of carbon reduction. presented by OneVu saves 86g of CO2e. OneVu CO2e savings year on year: Oct-Sep No of bills CO2e saving (tonnes) 2009 138921 11.947206 2010 223770 19.244220 2011 365408 31.425088 2012 405390 34.863540 The target CO2e savings for the next two years: 2013 500000 43.000 2014 600000 51.600 Marketplace Key supplier relationships We develop our supplier relationships All new suppliers have signed up to as part of the service that we take to our Supplier Code of Conduct. market, for example our critical We actively audit suppliers and those reliance on energy supply companies considered higher risk are asked to which power our payment data participate in an assurance centres. Any reputational issues programme. would negatively impact our market positioning and thereby put revenues All of our business cases consider the at risk. local environment and our impacts on electricity consumption, CO2e Whilst working with suppliers and and waste disposal. partners who take sustainability seriously wil enhance our corporate We will continue to embed the reputation and help to attract new Assurance programme for existing business. Our common risk framework suppliers introduced in 2012 and and criteria across sustainable evaluate energy consumption procurement gives us competitive associated with all technology advantage. investments, in particular programmes relating to our data centres. Local procurement The historic trend of business A positive outcome is that local consolidation has resulted in large businesses mitigate against a risk of scale companies dominating key a smaller pool of potential employees areas of the VocaLink supply chain. for VocaLink because they support the local economy. We recognise that this impacts our local community when smaller This year we are on track to have companies cannot compete. Our increased spend with local learning is that these smaller local businesses to £7.2m, an increase of businesses provide greater levels of 9% over 2011. service and we have made a conscious effort to include them in our supply chain. People Recruitment in a competitive market There is a high reliance on significantly decrease the cost of We plan to further expand and retain specialised contractors to meet our delivering projects for our our skilled workforce by providing workload within projects (c. 35%). customers. This will make us more technical training and career This not only inflates the cost base of competitive and increase the net development opportunities, and the organisation and negatively profitability of the company. offer competitive salaries by impacts our price to market, but also benchmarking pay externally. In 2012 we have managed to convert means that we use people that are 19 of the targeted 25 contractors to The risk of business critical ‘over qualified’ because we do not permanent employees, with a employees leaving the company is have appropriate skills internally. significant cost saving. Seven more mitigated through ongoing We want to convert our contract staff have committed and are taking part succession planning. to permanent employees to in the conversion process. Corporate communication and education Over the last five years we have employee engagement through a scores and will continue to evolve our proved a positive correlation variety of channels including staff approach to internal communications between staff satisfaction and briefings, intranet and employee to improve employee awareness and employee understanding of the forums. We have found that develop our culture. company’s goals, objectives and leadership cascades and team change programmes. Our internal meetings are effective channels for communications campaigns are knowledge transfer. We have focussed on creating higher levels of maintained our staff satisfaction Staff satisfaction measures June 2011 June 2012 Taking everything into account, I am aware of my company’s My last evaluation accurately I am satisfied with VocaLink as a long term goals reflected my performance company to work for Maintained at 89% 76% down from 77% 79% up to 85% I am made aware of matters I receive feedback that is timely I feel motivated in my current job affecting me and constructive 69% down from 70% 79% up to 85% Maintained at 71% Staff satisfaction There is a significant cost in we have a continual focus on In 2012 71% of managers attended recruiting new employees through performance management and courses on Recruitment, Family agencies to replace those employees personal development and offer friendly, Disciplinary and Grievance who have decided to work coaching and mentoring. We also and Absence management elsewhere. There is also a significant encourage a flexible working and a Promoting all aspects of corporate cost and delivery risk to the family friendly environment with wellness and engagement helps us to organisation when employees benefits and policies that support retain the valuable skills that our staff spend time away from their duties staff , creating a productive balance bring to the company, reducing due to sickness, particularly longbetween work and life outside work. costs, recruitment and the term absence. We train our leadership and requirement for contract staff to 73% of our permanent employees management teams so that they are cover absenteeism. have completed a health assessment equipped in their roles as people in 2012. managers and demonstrate the desired skills and behaviours to Placing a high value on the physical create a culture where staff feel and mental health of our employees, valued and supported. Absense rates Absence ratesagainst againstindustry industry average average Apr 2010 – Mar 2011 VocaLink average days per employee 3.98 National average days per employee 6.9 Apr 2011 – Mar 2012 VocaLink average days per employee 4.6 National average days per employee 6.4 Private healthcare uptake Employees Take up % 2009 738 524 71.00% 2010 735 530 72.10% 2011 761 562 73.90% 2012 783 539 68.80% ‘We process billions of payments in the UK every year for people paying bills, receiving salaries or withdrawing cash from an ATM machine. With the ability to connect every personal and business bank account in the UK, we are at the heart of the payments community. We seek to drive beyond industry best practice in everything we do, and set the standard as an innovative business partner. This includes the way that we think about our own sustainability programme, and the positive impact that we can have in communities where people use payments to support their day to day lives.’ Head Office VocaLink Drake House Homestead Road Rickmansworth WD3 1FX United Kingdom +44 (0)870 165 0019 info@vocalink.com 3400190102/0113 www.vocalink.com
