TRANSMODE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION This is Transmode’s second Sustainability Report, providing an overview of our sustainability program and activities. In this report we communicate our sustainability work in relation to the three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. The sustainability report complements the information in our Annual Report. The report content is based upon GRI G3.1 guidelines for reporting on C-level and describes actions taken and achievements concerning employees, environmental responsibility, customers, suppliers and products. This report is also Transmode’s annual communication on how our company fulfills and works with the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles for responsible business. The Sustainability Report is intended primarily to be a key reference point for our stakeholders and also to be available to the general public. A full list of GRI-indicators and UNGC requirements disclosed in this report can be found in the Index on page 29. Since 2011 Transmode supports the UN Global Compact, an initiative that encourages companies’ work on human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. 3 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS About Transmode 4 Openness in a global market 6 Our Way to a Sustainable Digital World 7 Employees Hold the Key to Innovation 10 Environmental Responsibility 15 Products & Technology 21 Customers & Suppliers 24 About Our Sustainability Report 27 GRI & Global Compact Index 29 4 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT TRANSMODE Transmode is a global provider of packet-optical networking solutions that enable fixed line and mobile network operators to cost effectively address the capacity needs created by the rapid growth in video and data traffic. These solutions are important building blocks in next-generation high-speed optical networks that support services such as broadband backhaul, mobile data backhaul, video delivery services and cloud computing. Transmode's solutions are designed to increase the capacity, flexibility and functionality of metro and regional networks and are based on Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) and transport technologies such as Ethernet. Transmode's Native Packet Optical 2.0 architecture gives customers key advantages such as cost efficient Ethernet services, ultra-low latency, low power consumption and future proof network design. Transmode is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden and is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Exchange (TRMO). Since 2000 the company has installed more than 40,000 systems for over 500 fixed and mobile network operators, service providers, large enterprises and public institutions in over 45 countries across the globe. Transmode received several awards in 2012. The company received the Global Telecom Business Innovation Award jointly with UK customer Virgin Media Business, Sweden’s Stora Exportpriset (‘Great Export Prize’), Telekompriset (‘The Telecom Award’) as Technology Vendor of 2011, and Sweden’s Guldmobil (‘Gold Mobile’) in the category Company of the Year. Organizational structure and profile Transmode conducts its operations from its headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, where product development, production, marketing, sales, aftermarket support, logistics, administration and corporate management are located. Transmode also has local resources in the UK, Germany, Poland, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, France, Russia, Malaysia, Finland, Mexico, Thailand and Japan. To strengthen our local service capabilities in the Americas, a support and service center was opened in Dallas, USA in 2012. The company sells directly to endusers and via resellers. Transmode AB is the parent company of the Transmode Group. The parent company owns and manages shares in subsidiaries and also sells certain intra-group services to subsidiaries. The parent company has one directly owned subsidiary, Transmode Systems AB. The indirectly owned subsidiaries are located in Sweden, the UK, the USA, Germany, Singapore, Canada, and Italy. Figure 1. Transmode Systems AB operational structure 2012 5 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Scale of our organization At year-end 2012, Transmode had 269 employees, an increase of 41 compared with the previous year. The company has employees in 14 countries, including Sweden, and more than 500 customers in more than 45 countries worldwide. Sales are carried out through the company’s own sales force and through resellers and partners such as NEC in Japan and Cygate in Sweden. Sales amounted to SEK 1,010.9 m (916.9 m) in 2012, which is an increase of 10.2% (31.1) on 2011. Operating profit increased by 14.5% to SEK 170.7 (149.1*) m and operating margin was 16.9% (16.3%*). Cash flow from operating activities increased to SEK 176.7 (139.4) m. Our stakeholders Transmode’s daily business has impact on, and is influenced by, the company’s stakeholders. Our priority is to address the issues of interest within our different stakeholder groups through our business and sustainability strategy. We strive for high employee and customer satisfaction, as well as high loyalty among our business partners and commitment to all of our stakeholders concerns. In Figure 2 below we have outlined our closest stakeholders, representing the groups with which we have regular direct contact at least once a year. Figure 2. Our stakeholders Customers Local communities Shareholdes & authorities Trade Investors Unions Transmode Industry Employees associations Competitors Suppliers Business partners . *Adjusted operating profit 2011 was SEK 168.2 m and adjusted operating margin was 18.3%. This adjustment was for SEK 19.1 m of expenses related to the company’s IPO on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. 6 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OPENNESS IN A GLOBAL MARKET The increasing demand in the society for fast digital information transfer creates an increasing demand for highspeed data transfer systems. As a supplier of these high-speed packet-optical networking solutions, our most important contribution to a sustainable society is offering products with as low energy consumption as possible. TM Transmode’s Intelligent WDM (iWDM ) technology and Low Power Design are critical in enabling our customers to expand the capacity of their existing networks while at the same time reducing energy consumption. As Transmode expands globally and enters new markets outside northern Europe, ensuring good social conditions, environmental responsibility and an ethical business performance is one of our challenges. Since 2011 Transmode has supported the UN Global Compact and its ten principles for sustainable business, and we will continue this support in the forthcoming years. In 2012 we started the implementation of our Code of Conduct, which defines the environmental, social and ethical principles to which we should adhere. During the year all our employees participated in training to ensure that they understood the content of the Code. An increased demand for openness and transparency, both with respect to financial as well as environmental, social and ethical business performance, is a significant trend in today’s society. Openness has also become increasingly important in our relationship with our customers. Transparency has become a competitive advantage and the lack of an open approach can lead to a loss of customers. For Transmode transparency and openness, both internally and externally, have been important ever since the founding of the company, and openness is one of our core values. We strive to spread this approach in our supply chain and to our partners and resellers. Satisfied customers are crucial to our long-term success and it’s therefore very pleasing that our customer satisfaction index improved in 2012 and we achieved a “world class” result. Also, our employee satisfaction rate remains high, even a little higher than last year. One important reason for this good result is our strong company culture built on core values. In 2012 Transmode joined the Korta Vägen (“Fast Track”) project run by the University of Stockholm, intended to create internships for graduates with non-European backgrounds. Transmode is very satisfied with this project and we will continue our commitment to it in 2013. Another challenge related to our global expansion is to decrease our carbon footprint caused by business travel. In 2012 our CO2 emissions from business travel increased by 17% compared with 2011. We are looking for new ways of working to decrease our travelling, and during 2012 we started to evaluate a videoconferencing solution that will be implemented in 2013. Since it’s not possible to completely eliminate our business travel, only to decrease the traveling in relation to revenue, we climate compensate for our business travel via Plan Vivo, a carbon offset project in Mexico. The journey towards a sustainable digital world has just begun, and we are committed to continuing our sustainability work in order to be among the best performers in our industry. Karl Thedéen, CEO Stockholm 2013 7 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR WAY TO A SUSTAINABLE DIGITAL WORLD Today, people exchange information at an ever-accelerating rate. Methods of communication are also becoming more and more sophisticated. The need to create, distribute, and access information anywhere and at any time is 1 escalating. As an example the traffic in the mobile data network in Sweden has increased by 90% during 2011. 2 During the first six months of 2012 the increase was 73% compared to the same period in 2011 . In order to continue to improve the ways in which we communicate, we need to build data networks with higher traffic capacity. In other words, we need to build the digital highways of a modern information society. Transmode offers solutions that enable a substantial increase in transmission capacity through modern highspeed fiber optical networks. Our most important contribution to sustainable development is the provision of energy-efficient products that facilitate high-speed digital communication and information sharing. Our sustainability strategy Sustainable development is a prerequisite for our business to be successful in the long term. We need to take responsibility for, and meet, today’s needs without jeopardizing the needs of future generations. To ensure sustainable development, three aspects must be considered: economic, social and environmental. By including these dimensions of sustainable development in our day-to-day business and decision-making, we ensure our contribution to sustainable development and a sustainable digital world. Figure 3. Three dimensions of sustainable development 1 The Swedish Post and Telecom Authority (2012) Svensk Telemarknad 2011 2 The Swedish Post and Telecom Authority (2012-11-15) Svensk telemarknad första halvåret 2012 PTS-ER-2012:24 8 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Transmode’s business strategy is based on the three dimensions of sustainable development and on our core values: Competence, Innovation, Openness, Dedication and Business Focus. Figure 4 illustrates our model for sustainable business. Our overall objective is to maintain a profitable and sustainable growth. To achieve this objective we will need to continue to expand our customer base and geographic footprint, develop innovative solutions and work in an efficient and environmentally sound way. These activities will be channeled through four focus areas, each critical to our success: satisfied customers, motivated employees, responsible citizenship and shareholder value. Figure 4. Our model for sustainable business Our overall objectives To reach our overall objective, profitable and sustainable growth, Transmode has goals for all focus areas. Each year these goals are broken down to quantified targets and performance indicators. Transmode’s overall objectives: • To grow faster than the market • To grow profitably • To have very satisfied customers • To be an attractive employer • To contribute to a sustainable society Our Code of Conduct To be able to deliver profitable and sustainable growth, our company is dedicated to meeting the highest level of business ethics, environmental care and social responsibility. Since 2011 Transmode has participated in the “Global Compact Leadership Initiative”, founded on ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Our Code of Conduct, based on Global Compact’s ten principles, was launched in 2012. The purpose of the Code is to define the ethical principles according to which the company should adhere. Transmode’s Code of Conduct replaces our previous Sustainability Policy, which also applied the Global Compact criteria. Together with the Code of Conduct, a “whistleblower” function was launched, enabling employees to report any violations related to the principles. During 2012 all employees were trained in the principles of the Code of Conduct (one hour education). Our Code of Conduct can be found at Transmode’s website. 9 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The standpoint implemented by Transmode throughout the organization supports and respects the protection of internationally established proclaimed human rights, not only in our workplace but also within Transmode’s sphere of influence. In the labor field this includes, for example, respecting the rights of all employees and workers to freely and voluntarily establish and join any legitimate and lawful organizations of their own choice. Furthermore, we need to ensure that no person below the minimum legal age of employment is employed, and that Transmode will not treat employees differently or less favorably because of characteristics unrelated to their merits or the inherent requirements of the job. Anti-corruption is another field that we need to focus on as we expand and enter new geographical areas. Responsibility in the supply chain Ensuring good social conditions, environmental responsibility and ethical business methods in our supply chain is one of our greatest challenges. Transmode’s requirements on critical suppliers and contract manufacturers are described in our Supplier Conduct Principles. Implementation of the principles began in autumn 2011 and continued during 2012. Read more on page 26. Vision Transmode’s vision is to become The Global Optical Star through innovation and efficiency, with the most satisfied customers, the best employees and the most satisfied shareholders. 10 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES HOLD THE KEY TO INNOVATION Our employees are the most important assets in our business – they are the key to innovation. The skills and knowledge they provide to our company are essential for success. Therefore our efforts are focused on developing a working environment in which all of our employees can fulfill their ambitions and hopefully also have fun. We believe that satisfied employees are a prerequisite for satisfied customers – something that our annual employee and customer satisfaction surveys underscore. Transmode is a rapidly growing global company; we are actually growing faster than our market. Our foremost goal is to continue to grow without compromising our employees’ satisfaction. Our Core Values Our core values are Competence, Innovation, Openness, Dedication, and Business Focus (see fig. 5). These values form the basis of building and developing an organization in which employees are satisfied with their work and the working environment. Every year we reward employees who have exemplified the company’s core values in a significant way. The winners are selected annually through an open nomination process in which anyone can suggest a nominee by submitting an individual or group proposal, together with a short description supporting their suggestion. Figure 5. Transmode’s core values Employee satisfaction and Openness In order to continue to grow and develop in the right direction, we have been carrying out a company-wide employee satisfaction survey for a number of years. The survey is based on a global ESI index (Employee Satisfaction Index) method, which is a regular activity to help identify vital areas of improvement. The results demonstrate a high employee satisfaction rate, 77% in 2012. See Figure 6. 11 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Figure 6. Employee satisfaction Index (ESI) 90% 80% 70% 76% 77% 60% 61% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2011 2012 ESI average* * Average for companies similar to Transmode. Source: ZonderaCom. The employee satisfaction survey results indicate that the ESI is high among both managers and employees as a whole. This is underlined by the high response rate, 93%, which also illustrates our approach to achieving an open and dedicated organization. There are mutually open relationships between employees and managers and members of staff feel they can influence their work situation. This is also reflected in our low employee turnover, just 2% in 2012 (6% in 2011). Additionally, we have set a goal in which all employees are to have a formal planning and development review dialogue with their manager at least once a year, introducing, among other things, follow-ups leading to development plans. The purpose of this is to develop respective roles for employees whilst building the organization as a whole. In 2011, 83% of all employees took part in planning and development review dialogues. 3 The outcome for 2012 has not been measured . One improvement area indicated in the employee satisfaction survey results is that employees would appreciate more cooperation between different departments, and during 2013 we will try to increase cross functional work. Furthermore, we strive to create conditions for internal mobility and increased opportunities for employee assignments in other countries. We believe that this approach is especially important to maintain steady business development and satisfied customers abroad, as well as satisfied employees. With so many different nationalities represented among our employees, this approach yields many benefits. Competence and Innovation Learning is essential for innovation, motivation and business development. All our employees have a personal competence development plan based on their unique skills and potential. Therefore we have no company-wide limits or goals regarding hours of training each employee receives per year. The competence development plans are updated every year and the review of the plan is conducted twice a year. In addition to courses and certification training, our employees are encouraged to actively seek alternative ways of learning, such as 3 Follow up of the percentage of planning and development review dialogues conducted each year is measured in connection with the employee satisfaction index survey the subsequent year. From 2013 the ESI survey will be performed once every second year, (no survey in 2013). Consequently the number of performance review dialogues can only be measured using the same intervals. 12 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT attending workshops, seminars, conferences, exhibitions and participating in professional networks or forums on the Internet. We believe that a key factor for our future success is tightly connected to our corporate values and leadership skills. Internal and external training, meetings and discussions on ethics and values are therefore an integral part of our daily business. They are also an important part of the performance reviews. Another important part of competence development and learning is internal workshops and learning activities initiated by employees and managers. The objective is to stimulate cross-functional learning from each other and strengthen the organization by sharing knowledge. This also enables employees to grow within their professional roles. A part of our cross-functional competence development, for instance, could include encouraging engineers to meet customers and participate in customer workshops. Depending on each employee’s individual skills and potential, such activities would be detailed in competence development plans. Our Research and Developing department uses agile working methods, based on iterative and incremental development, where solutions evolve through collaboration within the team. The teams are self-organized and cross functional, with all the competences they need for delivery. The agile methods encourage and promote adaptive planning, evolutional development and delivery, a time-boxed iterative approach and rapid and flexible response to change. Employer branding Work on reinforcing the image of Transmode as an attractive employer intensified in 2012. This included a range of activities at universities and colleges as well as in networking events, which resulted in a number of people being hired. We also met secondary school students ahead of their choice of high school education, to inspire them to choose a technical education program. Dedication and business focus For us, dedication means driving customer satisfaction, but also delivering the highest standards of business ethics, environmental care and social responsibility. Our latest Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) survey affirms our commitment to the needs of our dedicated employees. Our goal is to continue to grow without compromising this high employee commitment. In this process our main priority is maintaining sound systematics in our working methods and project management. Team-building and clarity in work tasks are also part of sustaining the high employee motivation. Transmode is a global company, although the majority of the workforce is located at our headquarters in Sweden. Due to the logistical effects of operating in different time zones, it is a challenge to give our colleagues professional assistance in other regions around the world at short notice, but we strive continuously to improve this valuable support. Employee diversity end equality The average number of full time employees in 2012 was 255, compared with 217 in 2011 (see Table 1). Hiring during the year mainly took place in the product development, sales and supply departments. We consider employee diversity and equality vital in creating a workplace that supports imaginative thinking and innovation. Both social diversity and professional diversity (experience) are invaluable. People with contrasting backgrounds create a dynamic working environment, which stimulates innovation. We are proud to have some 15 different native languages spoken within our organization, spanning a spectrum of employees with very diverse social and professional backgrounds. 13 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2012 Transmode committed itself to the Korta Vägen (“Fast Track”) project run by the University of Stockholm, intended to create internships for graduates with non-European backgrounds. During autumn 2012 one person was given an internship at Transmode and was then employed at the end of 2012. Transmode is very satisfied with the project and we will continue our commitment in 2013. The goal for 2013 is to offer internships to four people. We are committed to maintaining equal opportunities for everyone in our organization. For instance, we regularly follow up employee financial equality. The latest follow-up was conducted in 2011 and indicates that in general we have good gender equality. However, as a result of the findings, we decided to adjust the salaries of three female employees. In addition, we have developed a company-wide gender equality plan, which is updated regularly. Increasing gender diversity is a priority and challenge for us, as it is for the entire industry. Table 1. Average Number of Employees 2012 2011 2010 Total Men Total Men Total Men Sweden 202 78%*** 190 79% 160 81% UK 12 100% 10 100% 8 100% Germany 7 100% 8 100% 6 100% USA 15 87% 8 88% 5 100% Canada 1 100% Italy 1 100% 1 100% 1 100% Spain** 3 Finland** 1 Japan** 2 Mexico** 1 Malaysia** 4 Netherlands** 2 Poland** 3 Russia** 1 Thailand** 1 Group total 255 80% 217 82% 181 83% *All employees are permanent employees. Share of part-time employees in Sweden is 4%. All employees outside Sweden and USA are full-time employees in sales related positions. **Employed in the Swedish company. *** Percentage men include all employees employed in the Swedish company, that is Sweden and all countries marked **. Table 2. Board Members and other Senior Managers 2012 2011 2010 Total Men Total Men Total Men Board members apart from CEO 7* 86% 8* 88% 7 86% Chief Executive Officer and other Senior Managers 8** 88% 8** 88% 8 88% Group total 15 87% 16 88% 15 87% *Age groups 2012; 30-50 years – 1; over 50 years – 6; 2011; – 2; over 50 years 30-50 years – 6 ** Age groups 2012: 30-50 years – 3; over 50 years – 5; 2011; 30-50 years – 4; over 50 years – 4; 14 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Table 3. Number of consultants* 2012 2011 2010 Sweden 30 21 15 Outside Sweden 12 15 10 Group total 42 36 25 *Consultants hired by the end of the year. Health and wellbeing Health and safety at work is critical for building a sustainable business. Many of our employees undertake tasks that require low physical activity. Thus, fortunately accidents rarely occur, during 2010-2012 no accidents were reported and absentee rates were generally low (see Table 4). Nevertheless, in order to be proactive we have a safety committee including representatives amongst employees (5) and management (2). The employee representatives include persons from our largest departments; Research & Development and Operations & Customer services. The percentage of the total workforce, including management, represented in the safety committee is 69%. The committee meets regularly, once per three-month period, in order to discuss progress and status regarding health and safety issues at work. Table 4. Absentee rate* 2012 2011 2010 Men 3% 2% 2% Women 3% 3% 1% Total 3%** 2% 2% *Percentage of absent days in total workdays over a given period. Includes only employees located in Sweden, due to incomparability of accounting absentee days for employees outside Sweden. We measure and report the number of accidents and rate of absenteeism rate according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority’s principles. ** Of which 1,27% long-term illness. Our challenge is also to motivate our employees to partake in an active lifestyle to avoid injury stemming from largely sedentary work. To support this, the majority of our employees have desks with adjustable height, for better ergonomics and to reduce health risks caused by prolonged low physical activity. Further, we offer a benefit package for all of our employees including private health insurance, a wellness grant, disability coverage and parental leave. However the extent of the employee benefits package varies between countries of operation due to differing regulation. Transmode does not give any Christmas gifts to customers or employees. Instead we support “Médecins Sans Frontières”. In 2012 our contribution to the organization was 50 000 SEK. 15 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility is a vital part of our business. In order to provide products with minimal environmental impact, we need to ensure that our processes and methods of working are environmentally safe and sound. We regularly evaluate our products, services and ways of working to identify possibilities for improvement. Environmental goals Transmode has been certified according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 since 2005. In order to actively analyze our own environmental performance, we use environmental indicators. Our overall environmental objectives are: • Reduced overall carbon footprint relative to revenue. Goals for 2012: 1. Percentage increase of CO2-emissions from business travel should not exceed the percentage increase in revenue, compared with 2011. Result: CO2-emissions from business travel increased by 17% while the revenue increased by 10.2%. 2. Percentage increase of waste should not exceed the percentage increase in revenue, compared with 2011. Result: Generated waste decreased by 3.8% while revenue increased by 10.2%. 3. Activity goals for transportation, electricity consumption, paper use and implementation of videoconferencing equipment were set. All activities were implemented except for the implementation of videoconferencing equipment, which will be done in 2013. • Increased awareness of and participation in corporate social responsibility activities. Goals for 2012: Activity goals for communication of our environmental work and implementation of our Code of Conduct were set and implemented. • Minimized environmental impact of our products. Goals for 2012: 1. RoHS-directive* – 90% of our components should be 6/6 compliant, i.e. they should comply with all six of the substance restrictions in the directive. Result: By the end of 2012, 91% of our components were 6/6 RoHS compliant. 2. Product Power consumption – 40% of our products should be measured according to the new standard (ATIS-0600015.2009) for power consumption. Result: By the end of 2012, 40% of our products were measured according to ATIS-0600012.2009. * EU-directive for Restriction of Hazardous Substances, which restricts certain dangerous substances commonly used in electrical and electronic equipment. Restricted substances are lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE). 16 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy and Carbon footprint We measure our energy consumption and CO2 emissions arising from our operations every year. In 2012 our total energy consumption increased by 9% compared with 2011. The increase is mainly related to a cold winter (see Table 5). Table 5. Energy Consumption (MWh) 2012 2011 2010 Direct Fuel Consumption 4 8 5 Diesel 4 8 5 Indirect Energy Consumption 833 762 987 Electricity hydropower 241 235* Electricity mixed sources 108 544 District heating mixed sources 592 350 Heating oil 69 443 Total 837 770 992 * Due to incomplete information on electricity consumption for 2011, the presented data is a little lower than the actual consumption. We estimate the carbon footprint of our business in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol principles. Our total CO2 emissions in 2012 increased compared with 2011, see Table 6. The increase is mainly due to our business travel related to geographical expansion during 2012. CO2 emissions per revenue increased 4% and reached 2,65 g CO2 per SEK revenue in 2012, see Figure 7. However our CO2 emissions per employee decreased 2% in 2012 and reached 10,50 tonnes (10,76 tonnes in 2011). The rapid expansion of our business has led to an increase in business travel, sales activities and transportation of goods. In 2012 business travel corresponded to 84% of our total CO2 emissions and transport of goods 14%. At the same time CO2 emissions from electricity and heating corresponded to 2% of our total CO2 emissions. Since 2011 we purchase electricity only from renewable sources and we use district heating rather than oil-based heating fuel. To save energy, in 2012 we implemented time control of the lighting in our head office. This means that lights turn off automatically at the end of the working day. We also implemented double-sided printing as standard for all our printers. Figure 7. CO2 emissions per revenue (gCO2 per SEK revenue) 2,60 2,64 2,65 2,40 2,55 2,20 2,00 1,80 1,60 1,40 1,20 1,00 2010 2011 2012 17 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Business travel is in many cases the only way in which we can meet our customers, and thus unavoidable. In order to reduce our CO2 emissions from business travel, online meeting tools, including voice, video and audio functionality for internal collaboration within Transmode, are now used. In 2012 we started to evaluate videoconferencing equipment and in 2013 such a system will be set up in our offices in Stockholm and Dallas. Table 6. CO2 emissions (tonnes of CO2) 2012 2011 2010 Direct Fuel Consumption (Scope 1) 1 2 1 Diesel 1 2 1 Indirect Energy Consumption (Scope 2) 41 57 147 Electricity hydro power 0 0 Electricity mixed sources 5 27 District heating 41 33 Heating oil 19 120 Other Indirect Emission Sources (Scope 3) 2636 2275 1695 Business travel (air, car) 2260 1924 1415 Transportation of goods 375 350 279 Copy paper use 1 1 1 Total 2678 2334 1843 Furthermore, in order to reduce the climate impact of our business travel, we have compensated for just over 60% of emissions arising from our business journeys throughout 2012 (1440 tonnes of CO2) via Plan Vivo, a carbon offset project in Mexico. This project generates CO2 emission reductions through a range of land use activities such as afforestation and reforestation, agroforestry, forest restoration and deforestation avoidance. In addition to carbon sequestration, the project delivers a host of environmental and social co-benefits, including biodiversity maintenance and poverty reduction. To reduce CO2 emissions from distribution we prioritize road transport rather than airfreight when possible. Our goal is that no more than 30% of our outbound shipments in Europe should go by airfreight. We reached this goal in 2012, and 30% of our transports went by airfreight. We are also looking at opportunities to consolidate transports in order to improve efficiency and reduce emissions. Due to optimized internal processes, in 2012 we managed to consolidate our transports to the U.S. to only one shipment per week. In 2013 we will continue our 18 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT work to consolidate transports, both outbound and inbound shipments. We are committed to continuing the journey to reduce our relative CO2 emissions (g CO2 per revenue and g CO2 per employee), although there is a lot yet to be done in order to achieve our goal to be among the best performers in our industry. Risks and opportunities due to Climate change Climate change is a global challenge with direct financial implications within the telecom industry. In order to map our risks and opportunities we measure the amount of greenhouse gas emissions arising from our business annually. We strive to be at the forefront in minimizing our own carbon footprint and being proactive when managing risks and opportunities driven by climate change. Transmode is a growing, global company. The physical changes linked to climate change, such as flooding, drought, hurricanes and extremes of temperature, constitute a potential financial risk, as they influence both our company’s and our customers’ ability to grow and conduct business. Climate change mitigation is manifestly essential for sustainable business and development. 4 Furthermore, the regulatory risks associated with climate change pose a potential financial risk to Transmode’s business. Changes in fossil fuel taxation, for example, have led to higher transport and delivery costs. In order to minimize those risks we strive to choose transportation alternatives with the lowest emissions, depending on the local conditions and available options. At the same time the challenges linked to climate change pose significant opportunities because of a potential increase in demand for Transmode’s products. Increasing fossil fuel taxes, for instance, are expected to contribute to an increase in the use of video and online technologies, (rather than reliance on traveling), which leads to increased demand for network capacity, a core business for Transmode. We focus on low power design and functionality in order to create products that contribute to our customers’ successes, today and in the future. Use of our low power design products has the potential to reduce impact on our climate and eases the transitions needed when tackling the effects of climate change. Producer responsibility Transmode has clear design rules to ensure that our products have a low environmental impact and are as energy efficient as possible. These rules were upgraded and clarified in 2012, and we also started measuring the energy consumption of our products according to the ATIS-0600015.2009 standard, which will eventually improve the possibility to compare our energy consumption with that of other vendors. 40% of our products were measured according to ATIS-0600015.2009 and our goal for 2012 was therefore achieved. Electronic waste is the fastest growing type of waste and projections show that, globally, electronic waste will soon reach 50 million tonnes per year. In Sweden, each person uses around 160 kg of electronic equipment per 5 year. Transmode takes the issue of electronic waste and producer responsibility seriously and is committed to meeting the requirements of the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, (WEEE). This directive requires producers of electrical and electronic equipment to finance the take-back for re-use or recycling of their products. In order to collect the equipment for re-use or recycling, we have established the Transmode Recycle Program. Equipment, which is returned to us through this program, will be handled in an environmentally safe manner, using processes that comply with all electronic waste regulations. During 2012, 99 kg of equipment was returned to Transmode (57 kg in 2011 and 2010 respectively) customer returns only. Our 4 The cost of activities and systems to comply with new regulations 5 Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, 2011 19 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 goal is to ensure that all customers receive information about our Recycling Program and instructions regarding the returning of products. Furthermore, we are committed to meeting the requirements set out in the European Union’s Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). The directive regulates the use of six hazardous substances, including lead, mercury and cadmium. Their usage is restricted and substances can occur only in very low concentrations. However, in a few cases exceptions are approved for certain specific products in the telecom industry, due to the lack of viable technical alternatives. Some of Transmode’s products are included in the exceptions, but we strive to comply with all six RoHS criteria. In 2012, 91% of our components complied with all six RoHS criteria, thereby achieving our goal for 2012, which was that 90% of our components would be compliant with all six RoHS critera. All our products are RoHS compliant. In order to provide customers with information regarding our products, we enclose the following information with delivered products: • The sourcing of components of the product or service • Content, including compliance with RoHS, WEEE, NEBS, IEC/EC, FDA, FCC, ELT etc. • Safe usage of the product and service information • Disposal of the product and environmental/safety impacts Materials and Waste In 2012 a total of 95 tonnes of materials were used in our products and 33 tonnes of cardboard and plastic were used in packaging material, see Table 7. The increased material use compared with 2011 is related to our increased sales. During 2012 we replaced some of the product packaging with lighter alternatives, which resulted in a reduction of cardboard use. Contracted global sub-suppliers manufacture all of our hardware products and only the system configuration and quality control takes place at Transmode’s production facility in Stockholm before delivery. Therefore the majority of waste generated in our production facility consists of combustible material and cardboard from packaging materials, see Table 8. In order to reduce transportation bulk, we process waste such as paper and cardboard, (cutting and compressing), before it is transported for recycling. In 2012 our waste decreased significantly. The main reason for the decrease is that fewer products needed to be repacked. As a result of an employee improvement suggestion, separation at source was introduced in our kitchen during 2012. Table 7. Material use (tonnes) Material use 2012 2011 2010 Packaging Plastic 5 4 0 Cardboard 28 30 14 Products Plastic 33 30 22 Metal 62 58 42 Total 128 122 78 6 WEEE Directive and Transmode Recycle Program applies to products sold within the European Union. 20 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Table 8. Waste (kg) Waste 2012 2011 2010 Hazardous waste to recycling Metals 150 1300 343 Electronic waste 800 530 755 Batteries 20 0 5 1 Fluorescent lamps 0 0 22 2 Low energy lamps 0 0 4 Non-hazardous waste to recycling Cardboard 8000 2840 n.a. 3 Paper 1880 950 n.a. Mixed waste to energy recovery 7630 14390 n.a. 4 Plastic 760 0 n.a. 1) 2010 38 florescent lamps disposed, average weight 580 g. 2) 2010 73 low energy lamps disposed, average weight 60 g. 3) 2011 in total 67 containers, 190 L, estimated average weight 14.39 kg. 4) One plastic bag in 2011. 21 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCTS & TECHNOLOGY Increased demand for our products and solutions is being driven by the rapid expansion of traffic on fixed and mobile networks worldwide. Network loads are growing because of greater usage of cloud services and bandwidth-intensive services like video, TV and music. Additionally, more advanced devices like tablets, smartphones, gaming consoles and laptop PCs are also being connected. This increased traffic means that operators need to expand the capacity of their networks – while also needing to keep costs down. Transmode is addressing these challenges by offering a substantial increase in transmission capacity in existing and new optical fiber networks. The use of our products and solutions contributes to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in two ways. Firstly, we design our products for low power consumption. Secondly, our products enable the efficient use of services such as web conferencing and teleconferencing. By employing these services, a contribution to the reduction of global travel and its associated negative environmental impact can be achieved. Technology Transmode delivers packet-optical networking solutions based on WDM (wavelength division multiplexing) and transport technologies, such as Ethernet, for transporting data, voice and video traffic. The technologies’ fundamental benefits are: • WDM substantially increases transmission capacity in fiber by up to 80 times in metro networks. • Parallel transmission of different wavelengths enables different types of traffic to be transmitted in the same fiber using WDM. • Ethernet is a protocol that is optimized for handling the increasing data traffic. • Enterprises and operators use WDM and Ethernet technologies worldwide. Products Transmode’s products address metro networks, where customer needs for data capacity are increasing rapidly. Scalability is a consistent theme of Transmode products, which enable customers to expand capacity and functionality progressively as their needs change. This also means that there is limited initial investment. These products have a modular construction, conferring great flexibility and the ability to tailor functionality to specific customer needs. Another consideration is that products are no more complex than they need to be. Simplicity helps to reduce costs and delivers more reliable operation, with reduced power consumption, resulting in a lower environmental impact. Transmode’s product portfolio consists of four platforms: the TM-Series, TS-Series and TG-Series, plus Enlighten™. 22 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy-efficient products through Low Power Design When developing products, Transmode places a great emphasis on low energy consumption, see case story below. Transmode started measuring energy consumption according to the ATIS-0600015.2009 standard in 2012. This will eventually improve the possibility to compare energy consumption with other vendors’ solutions. Transmode’s Low Power Design offers lower costs and a reduced environmental impact, and the company has clear design rules to ensure that its products are as environmentally friendly and energy efficient as possible. Avoiding CO2 emissions – Case story Let’s look at an example of a triple play broadband backhaul for an operator who wanted a solution for Ethernet transport. The configuration is a Transmode TM-Series solution with a small chassis equipped with a Dual 10G Lite Transponder providing 2x 10 Gbit/s from the node. With a power consumption of less than 20 W for the node, it offers savings of 40-60 W compared to solutions from other leading vendors. Let’s take 50 W as an average saving. As this operator is accessing 400 exchanges, the savings of 50 W become 20,000 W or 175 MWh over one year. With the average price of electricity in Europe at 124 €/MWh (average price for industrial users in 2012), the savings for this operator are 21,700 € annually. At the same time, this solution will reduce the amount of produced CO2 by up to 170 tonnes a year – depending on the energy source used. The reduced need for inbuilding cooling, that can add a further 50 percent, subsequently increased the financial savings to 32,550 € annually and the possible CO2 emissions reduction to 255 tonnes a year. With a 10 year network lifespan, the savings could be 325,500 € (at 2012 energy prices) and a reduction of 2,550 tonnes of CO2 over the entire life of the network. This reduction in CO2 is the same as taking approximately 100 new cars off the road (2012 model average car). R&D Transmode’s product development focuses on five areas: increased capacity and reach, increased flexibility, integrated Ethernet functionality, WDM access, and operation and maintenance systems. In metro networks, the most common transmission speeds of optical fiber are still 1–10 Gbit/s (Gigabits per second) per wavelength. But customer needs are constantly increasing. Transmode is implementing new technology in muxponders, transponders and systems in close collaboration with leading subcontractors. In 2012, Transmode completed development of the first products to enable 40 Gbit/s and 100 Gbit/s per wavelength. Flexibility is crucial for controlling light and data streams, and to enhance the functionality of a network in response to changing needs. In this area, Transmode’s offerings include ROADM products, which enable the remote control of wavelengths. Transmode’s development of Ethernet products is intended to enhance the control of data traffic, and to integrate it into optical networks simply and cost efficiently. This product segment is in high growth, and is a high priority for 23 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Transmode. A new generation of Ethernet muxponders (EMXP) optimized to manage Ethernet traffic was launched in 2012. In the access area, Transmode is developing products for the needs that arise when fiber extends further out in networks. The combination of intelligent access products and cost-efficient optical filters enables higher capacity at a lower price. Helping customers manage and develop their networks efficiently using Transmode’s products means more effective operation and maintenance systems are required. Transmode’s Enlighten™ is in continuous development so customers can benefit from new products and functionality. Research and development expenses amounted to SEK 130.5 m, or 12.9% of the company’s sales. Staff headcount in research and development grew by 20 during the year. About half of the company’s developers work with software development. Effective Development Transmode ensures efficient product development through substantial proprietary development competence, and through close links between its R&D department’s work and production, customers and subcontractors. New requirements from customers are rapidly reflected in the focus of development work, with products tailored right from the start to enable efficient manufacture. By maintaining a close dialogue with subcontractors, Transmode is able to benefit from their R&D capacity, and launch innovative solutions rapidly. This working method is facilitated by the company’s operations largely being concentrated at its Stockholm headquarters, where product development, delivery and logistics units, marketing and sales support, administration and management are all located. As a result, the right products, with the functionality customers demand, are developed quickly. Transmode’s R&D department is using agile working methods based on iterative and incremental development where solutions evolve through collaboration within the team. The agile methods promote adaptive planning, evolutionally development and delivery, a time-boxed iterative approach and encourage rapid and flexible response to change. The highest priority in agile methods is to satisfy the customer by delivery. 24 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS Our business grows through customers and our customers grow through the use of our products and solutions. Together we can build the digital highways for a modern information society. Transmode has a broad customer base, mainly consisting of cable TV operators and alternative operators, as well as mobile operators, traditional/large telecom operators and enterprises. The company has installed more than 40,000 systems for over 500 network operators worldwide. Building long-term relationships with customers We strive to build long-term relationships with our customers. Therefore our product range is complemented by a broad range of services, which are of great significance in maintaining customer relations and customer satisfaction. Transmode’s Technical Assistance Center offers software upgrades, global servicing and support 24 hours a day, seven days a week. A new spare-parts supply system was launched during the year, enabling sparepart delivery lead-times to be cut to just a few hours, regardless of the customer’s location anywhere in the world. This increased level of service is possible because Transmode is building a network of local spare part depots. A pre-staging service, offering the assembly and configuration of equipment by Transmode before delivery, was launched in 2012, enabling faster, simpler installation for the customer. Transmode also offers general and customer-specific training packages in network design, implementation, operation and maintenance. Customer satisfaction We believe that satisfied customers are the proof that we manage our business in the best way. According to our independent customer satisfaction survey, our customers are consistently very satisfied, which is reflected in the fact that many of them regularly purchase equipment from Transmode. More evidence can be found in our annual independent customer satisfaction survey conducted by consulting firm Claes Fornell International (CFI Group). The 2012 survey result showed an improved index figure; 80 on a scale of 0-100, a world class result according to Claes Fornell International (see figure 8). The customer satisfaction survey uses a proven methodology used worldwide, for instance in the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) and the result can therefore be benchmarked. This survey is conducted via an e-mail questionnaire, where our customers rate their satisfaction within different areas of Transmode. They also have the opportunity to provide personal feedback. 25 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Figure 8: Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI)* 79 79 80 65 2010 2011 2012 CSI average* * 2012 average in the Telecom Equipment Industry B2B. Scale for CSI: 0-49 Poor; 50-59 Approved, 60-69 Satisfied; 70-74 Good; 75-80 Very Good; 81< Best in Class. Source: CFI Group. According to the latest survey, our customers are both satisfied and loyal; the likelihood of them recommending Transmode to others is very high. Overall, customers are consistently positive to maintaining future relationships with us. What makes us especially proud is that we significantly improved the results in the two areas that we had highlighted as particular areas for improvement in the 2011 survey. One of these was partner support, where the feedback showed that we needed to strengthen this area. The other was related to the lead times and precision of our deliveries, which had been affected by the natural disasters in Asia. One of our main focus areas and challenges from this year’s results will be to secure a dialogue with our customers regarding improvements and to continue to maintain and secure a high level of customer satisfaction – while we continue to grow. As an appreciation of our customers’ contribution to our survey, we have made a donation to WWF – World Wide Fund for Nature who will plant 888 trees as a part of their tree-planting project. This project intends to plant and restore forests in one of the world's rainforests. The world's forests have a central role for the earth’s climate. 26 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Supplier relations Transmode has a close cooperation with key suppliers to ensure high product quality and delivery performance. Based on purchase amount, our most important suppliers are located in China, the USA and Sweden and the bulk of our suppliers are located in Asia. Our contract manufacturers are located predominantly in Europe. Contracted global suppliers manufacture all of our hardware products. This creates focus and efficiency, while allowing the company to grow without investing significant resources in manufacturing. The development and introduction of new products is carried out in close collaboration with contract manufacturers. To ensure the continued high quality of our products, quality indicators, for example yield, are monitored in real-time at Transmode facility in Stockholm. . Processes are established for qualifying suppliers as well as for monitoring of existing suppliers and contract manufacturers. We apply technical, quality, environmental, social and financial requirements to our suppliers. We also assess their compliance with these requirements. The evaluation scope depends on the type of products supplied. The assessments are based on a dialogue with the supplier or a physical audit. If a supplier does not meet our performance requirements, we develop improvement measures, together with the supplier, in order to encourage and assist them to meet our performance standards. Supplier Conduct Principles Throughout 2012 we continued to implement our Supplier Conduct Principles, the requirements we place on significant suppliers and contract manufacturers. The principles include performance requirements regarding suppliers’ behavior concerning local legislation, human rights, labor rights, discrimination, working conditions, health, safety, and the environment. The principles also highlight issues such as corruption, bribery, money laundering and restrictions on competition. Implementation of the Supplier Conduct Principles began in autumn 2011, and by the end of 2012, 9 out of 22 (41%) of our significant suppliers and contract manufacturers had signed agreements on compliance with our standards. The goal is to have all significant suppliers and contract manufacturers sign our Supplier Conduct Principles by the end of 2013. In 2013 we will also develop and start to communicate our Partner Code of Conduct Principles to our partners and resellers. During 2012 we started to develop a process for evaluation and follow-up of our suppliers’ performance related to our Supplier Conduct Principles. As the development and implementation of the process is ongoing, no follow-ups concerning Supplier Conduct Principles were conducted in 2012. However, no cases of misconduct were reported during 2012. 27 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reporting principles This is our second Sustainability Report, providing an overview of our sustainability program activities and the actions, which have been taken under the United Nations Global Compact principles during the period January 1 – December 31, 2012. This report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (www.globalreporting.org) GRI G3.1 for C-level (see Figure 7 below). The report is self-declared and has therefore not been subjected to third-party review. Our ambition is to publish Sustainability Reports annually to demonstrate our dedication to delivering high levels of business ethics, environmental care and social responsibility. This report covers the Transmode Group’s activities, including subsidiaries outside Sweden. However, the impact of Transmode’s employees’ commuting and suppliers’ environmental, social and financial performance is not covered in this report. The purpose of this report is to serve as a main reference point for information regarding the status and progress of our sustainability work. The content is based upon GRI G3.1 guidelines for reporting on C-level, actions taken on United Nations Global Compact, and achievements concerning employees, environmental responsibility, customers, suppliers and products. This Sustainability Report is intended primarily to be a key reference point for our stakeholders and is also available to the general public. A full list of disclosed GRI G3.1 information and UNGC requirements in this report could be found in the Index on page 29. Figure 9. GRI Guideline’s Application Levels (Source: GRI Gudelines G3.1) Data inventory and specifications Transmode measures and reports the employee statistics, number of accidents, and rate of absenteeism according to the Swedish Work Environment Authority’s principles. Transmode applies Greenhouse Gas Protocol 28 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT principles for estimating the carbon footprint of business operations. Some limitations apply for the following reported indicators: • Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change (EC2) disclosed information includes a narrative description of the potential financial implications and other significant risks and opportunities due to climate change. Transmode has not conducted the quantitative estimate of the potential implications. • Employee diversity (LA13), disclosed information: (i) number of different languages represented in the organization, and (ii) gender. Number of employees in different age groups is not reported due to limited access to data. • Energy-efficient products (EN6), disclosed information: (i) existing initiatives on the energy requirements of major products, (ii) estimated average energy savings, and (iii) a calculation example (case story). • Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products (EN26), disclosed information: (i) reclaiming of products and product packaging for recycling or reuse, (ii) materials use, (iii) emissions, and (iv) toxic materials/compounds. • Significant environmental impacts of transports (EN29), disclosed information includes (i) energy use and CO2 emissions from the use of company vehicles, and (ii) CO2 emissions from transporting goods and products, and business travel. The environmental impact of employee commuting is not disclosed. • In our Sustainability report for 2011, data for age distribution in board and management was inaccurate. That data has been corrected in this report. • Due to a miscalculation, data for the use of packaging material is inaccurate in our Sustainability report for 2011. That data has been corrected in this report. • In our Sustainability report for 2011 data for CO2 emissions related to our business travel by air were inaccurate, some data were not included in the calculation. Consequently data for total CO2 emissions were also inaccurate. This is corrected in this report. Questions regarding this report can be answered by: Lena Båvegård Vice President Quality and Sustainability Transmode Email: lena.bavegard@transmode.com Phone: +46 8 410 88 000 www.transmode.com 29 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI & GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Global Reporting initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) indicators Profile Indicators UNGC Page requirement 1.1 Statement from CEO, about the relevance of sustainability to the • 6 organization and its strategy 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 4, 21-23 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 32 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Sustainability Report page 4 and Transmode 2012 Annual Report www.transmode.com 2.7 Market 4, 21 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization (number of employees, net 4-5 sales or net revenues, quantity of products or services provided). 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Transmode 2012 Annual structure, or ownership Report www.transmode.com 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 4 3.1 Reporting period 27 th 3.2 Date of most recent previous report June 8 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle 27 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 28 3.5 Process for defining report content 27 3.6 Boundary of the report 27 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 27 report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries 27 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 28 reports. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 28 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 29-30 report 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Transmode 2012 Annual 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Report an executive officer www.transmode.com 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Sustainability Report page 8 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body and Transmode 2012 Annual Report www.transmode.com 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 5 engage 30 • TRANSMODE 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Performance Indicators UNGC Page Principle EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Transmode 2012 Annual Report www.transmode.com EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 7 18 organization’s activities due to climate change EN1 Materials used by weight 8 19 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 8 16 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 8 16 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 8, 9 16 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based 8, 9 22 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 17 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 8 17 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 7, 8, 9 15-17 achieved EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 8 20 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 7, 8, 9 15, 17-19, 22 and extent of impact mitigation EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 8 16-17 goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce LA1 Total workforce 13 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 14 temporary or part-time employees LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– 1 14 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 1 14 and total number of work-related fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 6 11 development reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 1, 6 13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and 8 19 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 8 24-25 measuring customer satisfaction. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business 1, 2, 3, 4, 26 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions 5, 6 taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 1, 2, 3,4, 8 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 5, 6 including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 1, 2, 6 No cases SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 10 8 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 10 No cases SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 10 None politicians, and related institutions by country Headquarters Transmode Holding AB P.O Box 42114 SE-126 14 Stockholm, Sweden +46 8 410 88 000 www.transmode.com Visiting address Fredsborgsgatan 24 SE-117 43 Stockholm; Sweden
