SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sustainability is our responsibility Our strategic approach to sustainability and focus on ecological solutions helps us meet emerging regulatory requirements and increasingly stricter product compliance criteria set by customers. Product responsibility therefore is a key piece of our sustainability approach and strategy. Sustainability is our responsibility 4 From our Group CEO 5 About this Report 6 About DyStar 11 Corporate Governance • Ethics and Compliance 15 Stakeholders 18 Management Approach 22 Our Guiding Principles • UNGC • DyStar Core Values • Responsible Care® • SA8000 • DyStar Code of Conduct 25 Product Stewardship • REACH Implementation • Product Safety • Sustainable Products and Services 33 Occupational Health and Safety 35 Environmental Performance • Energy • GHG emissions • Water • Wastewater • Waste 50 Employees 55 Society 57 Economic Performance 58 GRI Content Index 63 UNGC Index From our Group CEO and President Dear Stakeholder, I am pleased to present DyStar Group’s 2nd Annual Sustainability Report Responsible Care®, the chemical industry’s initiative to improve health, which also includes the Group’s carbon footprint report. safety and environmental performance, and SA 8000 standards for social responsibility remain key elements of our sustainability program. Going We are the leading provider of chemicals and colors for the textile and forward, we are keen to align our sustainability approach with the principles of leather industry. Our strength lies in our ability to continuously innovate ISO 26000 Guidance Standards for Social Responsibility. and bring to the market state-of-the-art products and solutions that maximize value for customers while reducing impact on the environment In terms of sustainability performance in 2011, we largely managed and complying with stringent quality and safety regulations and standards. to contain increase in impacts in the key performance areas despite an increase in production volume. We maintained carbon emissions Our vision is to become the world’s most sustainable and responsible intensity per tonne of production at the same level as in the previous supplier of colors, chemicals and services to the global textile industry year. In 2011, we started implementing measures aimed at reducing and environment. Our twofold sustainability strategy is designed to the carbon intensity progressively. We further improved the quality deliver value to customers and the stakeholders as well as to shareholders. of data gathering processes, added new performance indicators and Our market-leading products and sustainable solutions help customers launched a number of initiatives to support our 2020 goals. Our challenge to reduce their environmental impact. Initiatives to reduce social and now is to develop internal capabilities to drive these initiatives across environmental impact in our own operations are resulting in improved the Group effectively. efficiency and lower costs. We recognize that demand for high quality chemicals and colors will continue to rise as the global fashion brands We are also mindful of the challenging economic environment that intensify their efforts to improve sustainability performance of their the world faces today. It is therefore important for us to implement supply chain. We believe our aggressive portfolio of sustainable products a prudent financial strategy that reduces operational costs, improves and services puts us in an advantageous position in the marketplace. return on investment and enables us to drive a profitable revenue growth. We look forward to working with our customers, partners, employ2011 was an exciting year for us. We continued to drive growth in revenue in ees and other stakeholders to deliver better value to shareholders as spite of a challenging economic landscape and market uncertainties. well as to the wider stakeholder’s community. We believe in an open, On the sustainability front, we voluntarily adopted targets to achieve transparent and trusted relationship with our stakeholders. This report 20% reduction in water, waste, energy and carbon emissions by 2020. is one of the many ways we communicate with them. Your feedback We reinforced our commitment to sustainability by signing up to the on the report is always welcome. Also welcome are your suggestions on United Nations Global Compact principles. This year’s report includes what more we can do to maintain DyStar Group’s sustainability leadership. our performance on the ten UNGC principles. We have continued to Please send your feedback/suggestions to: sustainability@dystar.com follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework to report on our sustainability performance. In fact, we have expanded the number of GRI performance indicators included in the report this year to provide more information to our stakeholders. As in the previous year, our carbon footprint report this year is prepared using the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Harry Dobrowolski Protocol standards. Group CEO and President 4 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group About this Report This is DyStar Group’s second annual sustainability report. The report Audience covers our operations in calendar year 2011 and has been prepared This report’s intended audience includes a broad range of our using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines. GRI has stakeholders. Stakeholders are individuals or groups who have the checked the report and has confirmed that the report fulfils the ability to influence, may have an interest in, or may be affected by a requirement of Application Level B. company’s operations. Our main stakeholders include DyStar employees, customers, suppliers and contractors, shareholders, regulatory authorities, The report includes social, environmental and economic performance academics, industry associations, non-governmental organizations, data for all facilities, business units and subsidiaries that are under the peers in the industry, media, and local communities. operational and financial control of the DyStar Group. It excludes third party warehouses and agents. Internationally accepted measurement Assurance units have been used for all data in the report. All financial figures are We currently do not seek external assurance for the sustainability report. reported in US dollars unless otherwise noted. However, a sustainability expert from CSRWorks International, the consulting firm that we hired to assist in preparing this report, tested samples Information presented in the report has been extracted from primary of data for quality, accuracy and consistency. An internal check-andofficial documents and records to ensure accuracy. In a very few balance system has also been created to validate data being reported. instances where complete data was not available estimations have been used and this has been indicated in the report wherever applicable. Availability In line with our environmental policy, we have printed a limited number Reporting process of copies of this report. A PDF version is available online at www.dystar.com The report was prepared under the direction of the DyStar Sustainability Committee, which has representation from the senior executive Contacts management. The report encompasses information relating to all For any questions, comments, suggestions or feedback on this report DyStar activities that have a material impact on society and the environment. please email sustainability@DyStar.com Our Sustainability Committee assessed and determined the sustainability context, scope, boundary, materiality, and prioritization, of the content included in this report. We aim to report annually on our sustainability performance. A cross-functional project team with representation from all production sites and offices was established to gather, verify and report performance data. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact principles. A summarized GRI Content Index is included at the end of this report to identify the location of the standard disclosures. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 5 About DyStar Group DyStar Group, a privately held company, is a global market leader in world, DyStar employs over 2,400 people and has a marketing dyes, dye solutions, performance chemicals, new technologies and network in more than 50 countries. In September 2011, we closed custom-manufacturer of special dyes and pigments. DyStar has a down the Leverkusen site in Germany in an ongoing program to legacy of over 100 years of both product and application innovation improve operational efficiencies and optimise utilization of resources. as a coloration specialist for the textile industry. DyStar offers customers a Products previously manufactured at this plant have been moved to full range of dyes, auxiliaries and services around the world. We provide the other DyStar sites. products and services across the whole value chain in numerous industrial sectors including apparel, hosiery, automotive, carpets, Today, DyStar’s vision is “To become the world’s most sustainable and leather, home textiles, and industrial fabrics. responsible supplier of colors, chemicals and services to the global textile industry.” DyStar started as a joint venture in 1995 between two leading textiles DyStar Group at a glance dyes companies Bayer AG Textile dyes division and Hoechst AG Textile dyes division. In 2000, BASF AG Textile Dyes merged into DyStar. HEADQUARTERS The Group then embarked on an impressive expansion by strategic SINGAPORE acquisitions that were pivotal in transforming the company into a TOTAL EMPLOYEES 2011 solution provider, offering Brands, Retailers and their Industry Partners 2419 70% male 30% female a complete range of colors, chemicals and services. In 2002, DyStar acquired Color Solutions Inc. followed by the acquisition of Yorkshire America Inc. in 2004. DyStar continued to acquire more companies to grow in strategic market segments. This included the 2011 REVENUES: US$ 777.21 $ 2011 REVENUES BY REGION: • Asia (42%) Number of plants: 16 plants million • Europe (32%) in 12 countries acquisitions of Rotta Group in 2005, Boehme Group in 2006 and Texanlab • Americas (26%) in 2007. In February 2010, India-based Kiri Dyes and Chemicals Limited and China-based Longsheng Group jointly acquired assets of DyStar Geographical coverage Group out of insolvency. With this acquisition, DyStar Group shifted its More than 38 offices worldwide business focus towards Asia and established itself in Singapore. Marketing network Agencies in more than 50 countries DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd, a special purpose vehicle company jointly owned by Well Prospering Limited, a subsidiary of DyStar business units Zhejiang Longsheng Co. Ltd., a leading manufacturer of dyes in China, DyStar Group has a strong presence across the textile and leather supply and India’s Kiri Industries Limited, now owns DyStar Group. chain. DyStar products, services and expertise cover dyestuff, raw materials sourcing, color development, sustainable textile processing and textile In 2011, DyStar Group operated 16 production plants in 14 countries testing. Our products are compliant with Restricted Substance List including Germany, Turkey, Portugal, USA, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa, (RSL) requirements of various brands and retailers and are also compliant Japan, Thailand, Indonesia, China, and India. With 38 offices around the with eco-labelling and certification schemes. 6 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Procion® dyes guarantee maximum reproducibility and level dyeing in difficult dyeing conditions. Remazol® dyes offer an extensive range of economical dyes for cellulosic fibers with very good buildup in deep shades. Procion PX dyes are a full range of powder and liquid dyes for reactive printing of cellulosic fibers meeting increasing quality and ecology demands for apparel and home textiles. Direct dyes The Sirius® L sub range meets the high lightfastness requirements for furnishing fabrics and home textiles. Vat dyes DyStar’s main business divisions are as follows: Indanthren® dyes are high quality vat dyes for cellulosic fibers. The main use of Indanthren® dyes is in the areas where high fastness and 1. Colors technical properties are specifically required. We are the world’s leading supplier of textile dyes. We have by far the broadest product range on the market, covering almost all fibers and Retailers and brand requirements for increased fastness in the areas quality specifications. We offer a wide range of dyes for cellulosic, such as leisure and sportswear and home decoration, supports the acrylics, polyamide, wool and silk, polyester, and textile printing. demand for Indanthren® dyes. We have recently introduced an Indanthren® brand hang tag to promote articles having high fastness and excellent Reactive dyes ecological properties. DyStar is a global leader in Reactive Dyes and we take our responsibility for people and the environment very seriously. As a member of The Acid dyes Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Telon® and Isolan® dyes are used on wool and polyamide. Our focus Manufacturers (ETAD®), we apply the same high standards of safety on wool is on differentiated products to meet rising demand for high and ecology worldwide and are committed to the chemical indusfastness dyes. try’s Responsible Care® principles. For polyamide, we offer a full product range and have an outstanding Our well-known reactive dye brands include Levafix®, Procion® and position in the carpet industry and growing sportswear sector. Remazol®. Disperse dyes Levafix® Dyes are versatile, high performance dyes with excellent Disperse dyes are used for polyester dyeing in areas including apparel, reproducibility and fastness properties in pale and very pale shades. sportswear, automotive textiles, carpets and upholstery. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 7 Our disperse dyes brands include Dianix® and Palanil® which fulfill the to helping Brands and Retailers, and their industry partners, implement complicated technical requirements for polyester dyeing market. The sustainable textile production that makes more efficient use of resources. “Dianix® Green Range” from DyStar is a carefully selected range of STS offers four extensive development programs to customers to improve products that complies with the strictest Restricted Substances List sustainability in the textile supply chain. These are: Restricted substances (RSL) requirements of the market. list (RSL) development, Textile Mill efficiency improvement, chemical management improvement and environmental improvement program. 2. Chemicals The STS team has guided many textile manufacturing units in optimizing We offer an extensive range of textile auxiliaries grouped under the production and cost while delivering the same or better quality of following three categories: goods with lower environmental impact. a. SERA® process chemicals which are used in all textile preparation, pretreatment and dyeing processes b. EVO® finishing and effects chemicals, consisting of functional effects chemicals, water-based coating products as well as sizing and yarn lubricants for all kinds of fibers c. LAVA® denim laundry chemicals & effects products to create today’s and tomorrow’s denim jeans fashions 3. Services a) Ecology Solutions: DyStar Ecology Solutions package is designed to help textile producers meet demand for responsible and sustainable production. As part of our econfidence® programme, we advise 4. Leather customers on issues relating to ecology and recommend suitable DyStar makes a compact range of dyes and chemicals for a wide variety products to meet ecological specifications. of applications for the coloration of leather and fur. Our homogeneous b) Testing Solutions: DyStar service centres offer customers eco, dyes can be combined with each other to give level dyeing from pale physical, chemical and color fastness testing using international pastels to deep, brilliant hues. test methods. Texanlab, a DyStar subsidiary, is a leading partner in eco testing, certified to ISO 17025 and an accredited partner for As one of the world’s leading suppliers of processing chemicals and leading international brands and retailers. Our service lab in Frankfurt, dyes, we also offer our customers advice on how to optimize the Germany is also certified to ISO 17025 and offers a wide range of ecological profile of leather production and the application of our analytical and eco testing. products. c) Color Solutions: Color Solutions International, a division of DyStar, is a market leader in providing a variety of color solutions to Brands Our high-quality products and expertise help partners in the industry and Retailers. CSI’s offerings include readymade colors, custom work without banned substances, and meet the wide range of test color matching, design tools and certified color standards for specifications and declarations required. Examples include the SG label textiles, paper, plastics and packaging. for leather produced without toxic chemicals, Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 d) Sustainable Textile Solutions (STS), a division of DyStar, is dedicated and the restricted substance lists issued by various brands. 8 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group DyStar Worldwide Locations • Bangladesh • Indonesia • South Africa Global Headquarters • Brazil • Italy • Spain DyStar Singapore Pte Ltd • China/Hong Kong • Japan • Taiwan 1A International Business Park,#10-01 Singapore 609933 • China/Shanghai • Korea • Thailand +65 66712800 dystar.singapore@dystar.com • Egypt • Mexico • Turkey www.DyStar.com • Germany • Pakistan • USA • India • Portugal 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 9 Memberships, Awards and Recognitions DyStar is a member, and actively participates, in a number of industry 3. Awards and recognitions associations and national and international advocacy organizations. DyStar Group’s sustainability and management practices continue to Membership to these organizations helps DyStar engage with diverse receive recognition from stakeholders. The plant in Wuxi, China continued stakeholders across the globe and stay updated on issues relating to to enjoy the Green Level Enterprise status in 2011, the highest level the industry, sustainability, ecology and corporate responsibility. awarded by the Wuxi Environmental Protection Bureau. The plant in Nanjing, China was recognized as a High Technology Enterprise by the The organizations that we support as a member include: Nanjing government and the site was awarded an advance unit 1. CSR, sustainability and ecology organizations certificate in fire protection ability by the Nanjing Fire Bureau. The Nanjing • United Nations Global Compact plant also received “Peaceful Unit” certificate from the local police bureau • Sustainable Apparel Coalition in 2011. • Textile Exchange • The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and The DyStar site in Gabus, Indonesia received two commendations Organic Pigments Manufacturers (ETAD®) for plant safety and fire protection measures respectively from Bupati • bluesign® Serang, the head of local regency. • Global Apparel, Footwear and Textile Initiative (GAFTI) • Singapore Compact for Corporate Social Responsibility Our site in Cilegon, Indonesia won PROPER Blue Ranking from the • National Committee of Responsible Care®, Indonesia Ministry of Environment under a national award scheme which assesses and recognizes environmental performance of factories. The PROPER 2. Industry associations award scheme has five levelsBlack, Red, Blue, Green and Gold, Gold • Textile and Fashion Federation, Singapore being the highest level. • Brazilian Association of Chemistry, Brazil • Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM), China • China Dyestuff Industry Association, China • Ankleshwar Industries Association, India • Anyer Merak Cilegon Chemical Manufacturer Association, Indonesia • South African Dyers and Finishers Association, South Africa • German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), Germany • Society of Dyers and Colourists • American Association of Textiles Chemists and Colorists (AATCC) • American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA) 10 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Corporate Governance DyStar is a privately held company; however, we believe in transparency management with the help of a senior management team. and have therefore voluntarily adopted management policies and structures that support good corporate governance. The Group CEO and President is responsible for developing strategic plans and policies for approval by the Board of Directors. Other duties DyStar has established a Board of Directors to strengthen corporate include implementing and monitoring business strategy across governance and oversight. The Board of Directors are responsible for business divisions, financial and operational management, ensuring setting broad policies and objectives, long-term business strategy and organizational efficiency, legal compliance, internal and external plans and risk management. They are also responsible for ensuring communications, and promoting a corporate culture that facilitates that adequate financial resources are available, appointment and achieving business goals. compensation of senior management, and legal and ethical compliance. The Group CEO and President is also responsible for communicating Our Board consists of five members including the Chairman. Each ethical business practices and expectations to all employees through board member offers a combination of strong industry expertise, corporate regular communications and periodic company meetings. experience and extensive knowledge of corporate governance issues. DyStar follows an Open Door Policy that gives employees direct access The Board is supported by a number of committees. The Audit Committee to senior management to address concerns or make suggestions for helps the Board by providing an independent review of the effectiveness improvement. Employees can communicate any ethical issues either of the DyStar Group’s accounting and financial reporting process and through contacts points provided by the global compliance officer or material internal controls. by directly approaching the senior management. The company has established an Internal Audit function to assist the DyStar Board of Directors Audit Committee to evaluate the internal controls by performing regular Ruan Weixiang, Chairman audits to ascertain the effectiveness of internal control systems, risk Manish Kiri, Director management processes, and control and governance processes of the Chang Sheng, Director organization. Xu Yalin, Director Amit Mukherjee, Director The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in the review and recommendation of a remuneration framework and specific packages DyStar Senior Management for each Director and the Group CEO and President. The Remuneration Harry Dobrowolski, Group CEO & President Committee ensures that remuneration and Human Resource policies Viktor Leendertz, Group CFO & General Manager DyStar HQ of the company support the strategic objectives of the business and Eric Hopmann, Sales Area Management – Europe enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of employees. Klaus Kadletz, Sales Area Management – TAME (Turkey, Africa & Middle East) Ron Pedemonte, Sales Area Management – Americas The Board meets on a quarterly basis to review business and operational plans and strategic business decisions. They work closely with the Group CEO and President who has the responsibility for the executive 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 11 DyStar sustainability committee structure: Sustainability structure Our commitment to sustainability begins at the very top. The Group CEO and President chairs the Sustainability Committee which has the overall responsibility for directing DyStar’s sustainability strategy. Chairman Group CEO / The sustainability committee includes Head of Sales Area–Americas, President Vice President Global Manufacturing, and Global Sustainability Manager. The committee works closely with a global sustainability project team to drive the sustainability program at all levels. The project team includes heads of production plants and designated sustainability champions in countries. Head of Vice President Global Sales Area Global Sustainability Americas The committee is responsible for setting broad sustainability agenda, Manufacturing Manager selecting GRI performance indicators, identifying sustainability goals and objectives, launching initiatives, and reviewing incoming sustainability data and overall performance. The committee regularly reviews sustainability progress including the principles and performance relating to occupational health and safety, environment management system, Responsible Care®, and ethical code of conduct. The responsibility for gathering data and information for sustainability reporting, reviewing sustainability performance and implementing sustainability initiatives at the site level lies with the global sustainability project team. DyStar’s Global Sustainability Manager coordinates the work of the sustainability committee and the global sustainability project team. Each production site continues to have a Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee and an Environmental Management Systems (EMS) committee for ensuring continuous improvement in occupational safety and environmental performance. 12 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Ethics and Compliance DyStar Code of Conduct DyStar Group is committed to conducting business in an ethical manner 6. Product and service quality: Includes commitment to high standards and in compliance with all applicable regulations. The company has of quality in products and services offered, implemented a comprehensive Code of Conduct that is binding for all 7. Relationships with employees: Sets out the company’s commitment employees and Group companies. The Code of Conduct sets out our to respect rights of employees. This includes policies of nonlegal and ethical principles. discrimination, no child labor and no forced labor, 8. Cooperation with authorities: Describes the company’s commitment Our Code of Conduct, approved and signed by the CEO, has been to maintain a cooperative relationship with all competent legal made available to all employees and has been published on the company authorities while safeguarding rights of the company and those of intranet. All employees are required to regularly consult the Code of DyStar employees. Conduct to ensure their conduct is compliant with it. Detailed DyStar Code of Conduct is available on www.DyStar.com A Compliance Officer, with direct access to the CEO, is available for employees to consult and support with regard to the application of DyStar Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct includes the following principles: 1. Compliance with laws: Requires compliance with prevailing country laws, international public laws and international trade laws. 2. Intellectual property protection: Sets out rules for protecting intellectual property of the company as well as that of customers and others. 3. Fair competition: Sets out commitment to responsible competition and compliance with anti-trust regulations. 4. Separation of private and company affairs: Deals with issues relating to conflict of interest. 5. Safety, health and environmental protection: Includes commitment to set clear corporate goals, promotion of open dialogue, product responsibility and environmental protection. It also covers health and safety at work, plant safety and prevention of accidents and using the same safety and environmental standards for technology transfer. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 13 DyStar compliance management II. Raising the awareness of employees for the adherence of regulations Compliance is an essential element of a good management practice through regular training with the aim to reduce risks and increase efficiency. We have a III. Public image; comprehensive structure and mechanism in place to ensure compliance. • Building reputation of the company • Gaining the trust of customers and authorities in the company Global Compliance & Quality Management (GCQM) is globally responsible IV. Control of the applicable regulations and standards in the company for the organization and coordination of compliance tasks. GCQM conducts periodic compliance audits to identify areas for improvement. Audit We have adopted a management system approach to managing quality reports are reviewed by the senior management. across the Group and all 38 DyStar sites worldwide are ISO 9001 certified. Compliance management includes all measures to support the adherence of processes, rules of actions, laws and standards, social accountability guidelines, code of conduct, company guidelines and management directives by DyStar staff. We believe that effective compliance can result in positive performance, improvement of processes, a higher motivation and reduced cost for the company. DyStar compliance management aims to achieve the following objectives; I. Minimizing risk; • Prevention of breaches of regulations • Avoidance of legal sanctions • Avoidance of possible claims for damages • Loss of image for the company • Avoidance of customer losses • Avoidance of violation of safety regulations (e. g. products, plants, procedures) • Improvement of the rating of the company 14 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Our Stakeholders DyStar is a truly global company. In 2011, we operated production plants in 12 countries spanning four continents. We have more than 25 offices worldwide and agencies in 50 countries. Our global operations bring us in direct or indirect contact with a variety of stakeholders. It’s important for us to build and nurture relationships based on mutual trust and respect. We believe in having open dialogue with stakeholders and have multiple channels of communication to help facilitate engagement. Engaging with stakeholders helps DyStar make sound business decisions and reduce reputational risks. It has also helped us strengthen our sustainability strategies. We have employees, customers and suppliers across the globe. We interact with a number of government agencies and regulators in the countries where we do business. We care for the well-being of neighbouring communities where we have operations. We actively • Presentation on Sustainability and RSLs at SDC Conference in Dhaka, work with the chemicals and textile industries on important issues. We April 2011. also participate in a number of multi-stakeholder initiatives to improve • Conducted Seminar on Ecology and Sustainability for the Textile industry performance. Industry : Karachi, Pakistan, May 2011. • Spoke at Seminar on Ecology, Sustainability and Restricted Sharing knowledge to promote sustainability Substances to SEWA (South East Asia Women Entrepreneurs Texanlab, a DyStar subsidiary in India, actively engages with industry Association) under the aegis of UNEP, June 2011. partners and stakeholders to share its expertise and knowledge of • Organized and presented at Control Union’s GOTS Seminar, Oct 2011. ecological parameters in textiles testing. In 2011 Texanlab hosted, and • Presented at Seminar on Ecology, Sustainability and Restricted participated in, a number of sustainability seminars to promote Substances plus EU Flower organized by CUTS and Texanlab, sustainability practices in the industry. December 2011. • Was Panel Member and Panel Chairman at the Textile Association Some of the events Texanlab participated in are: of India’s Mumbai Annual Conference : Sustainability in Apparel and • Presentation at Sustainability Seminar organized by DyStar in Home Textiles. Singapore, March 2011. • Attended GAFTI Product Safety meetings and holds membership of • Presentation about RSLs to Polo Ralph Lauren® HK office, HK, March 2011. the Product Safety Committee of GAFTI. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 15 ”Maintaining strong relationships with our suppliers is paramount to our continued success. DyStar’s focus on sustainability has helped strengthen our partnerships with the major players in today’s supply chain.” Klaus Kadletz Sales Area Manager – Middle East and Turkey Here is an overview of how we approach stakeholder engagement: Stakeholders Stakeholder expectations Our responsibility How we engage Deliver high quality products that meet Continuously improve quality of products Organize seminars for customers on ecology various compliance requirements.Provide and services. Invest in research and and sustainability. Hold regular meetings product integrity information. Provide development facilities to develop more with customers to exchange information. Customers sustainable products and services that ecological products and services. Attend industry forums and conferences. reduce their environmental impacts. Promptly supply information on products’ Provide information through various compliance with various standards and channels such as our website, product regulations. brochures and updates. Establish long-term relationships. Develop a network of reliable suppliers Ongoing dialogue with our key suppliers Collaborate on supply quality products and work closely with them to source to better understand and explain issues Suppliers and services. Fair selection, and respect high quality products and services. relating to quality, social, and environmental for contractual obligations. Influence them to continuously improve performance. their social and environmental performance. Safe workplace where employees are Encourage an open-door policy to provide In 2011, DyStar signed the Employers’ valued and respected. Reward for employees at all levels access to management Pledge for Fair Employment Practices performance. Opportunities for growth for sharing views and offering feedback. in Singapore. See more in Employees and fair treatment of all. Keep the emphasis on workplace health chapter of this report. Continuously and safety at our production plants. Ensure review HR policies for fairness and relevance. ethical and fair employment practices. Interact with employees in a number Reward and recognize performance. of ways on daily basis. Send all relevant Employees information to employees through the company’s intranet, newsletters, and updates from senior executives including the CEO. Encourage an open climate of trust where employees can feel comfortable to express their views and share ideas for making DyStar a better workplace. Comply with local, state and federal Commitment to operate our business in Work with government agencies to promote regulations. ethical and responsible manner. Provide environmental health and safety practices. Government resources and tools to local management Respond promptly to government requests to ensure compliance with labor, for information. environmental, health and safety and business regulations. 16 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “All of our stakeholders play a key role at DyStar. We work closely with our customers to reduce our overall impact to the environment. Last year, 2011, was an extremely successful year and we were able to complete a number of projects which yielded significant environmental benefits. These efforts continue to be of paramount importance to us and we will take to this to the next level in years to come.” Rajesh Balakrishnan Sales Area Manager South Asia and Country Manager India Stakeholders Stakeholder expectations Our responsibility How we engage Safety from potential hazards of business Stringent plant safety procedures to prevent Establish contacts with local NGOs operations. Prevention of pollution and spills and accidents. Contribute to the directly or by attending conferences contamination. Support for community wellbeing of neighbouring communities. and seminars. Establish dialogue with development. the local community. For example, DyStar Community and NGOs plant management at Gabus, Indonesia meets quarterly with the community leaders from the neighbour village to discuss any pertinent issues. See chapter on Society for more examples. Operate business with social and environmental Communicate our sustainability strategies DyStar became a signatory of the UNGC responsibility. Disclose material information. and programmes. Report on our impacts in 2011. DyStar also joined Singapore and actions being taken. Compact for Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social in 2011. Attend corporate social responsibility Responsibility advocacy seminars and conferences to meet interest groups groups. This report is a key initiative to report on our social and environmental performance and invite feedback from interested groups. Contribute to addressing issues facing Share necessary information and experiences DyStar is a member of several national the industry. to help articulate industry response to and international chemicals and dyestuff social, environmental and economic issues. industry associations worldwide. Our local managers actively participate in Industry associations these groups. Signatory of Responsible Care®, a chemical industry-led initiative to drive continuous improvement in health, safety and environmental performance. Prompt response to questions and Offer information in a timely, efficient Provide regular updates to media outlets enquiries. Information about company and transparent manner. through press releases. Media briefings. Media performance, new products and services. Media interviews with key executives. Reasonable return on investment, Create well informed business strategies. Periodic meetings with key shareholders Sustainable and long-term growth of Implement Strategies effectively. Build to update them on the company Shareholders business. long lasting brand equity. performance and sustainability initiatives. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 17 Sustainability Strategy and Management Approach Our management approach to sustainability is based on identifying material impacts of business and then managing these impacts to Sustainability at DyStar is not an isolated function. Sustainability is maximize societal, environmental and economic value for stakeholders rather deeply embedded in DyStar’s business model which is and shareholders. designed to meet the textile and leather industry’s growing demand for safer chemicals while reducing the impact of own operations. To better understand DyStar’s operational impacts, our sustainability project team carried out a materiality analysis in 2011. The analysis DyStar has a legacy of over hundred years of respect for the environment, gave us a useful insight into the key impacts of DyStar business operations. safety, quality and innovation. In 2011, we adopted a new and more The exercise helped us to assess potential risks and opportunities arising focused approach to drive sustainability through identifying, measuring from aspects of sustainability. More importantly, the analysis enabled and managing material impacts and monitoring and reporting on us to identify and prioritise issues that are most important to our business our performance. This approach has helped us gain new insights as well as to our stakeholders. into the potential impacts that our global operations have and the opportunities for taking our sustainability performance to the next Our management approach to sustainability has been shaped by level. feedback from customers, studies of global trends in sustainability, discussions at various corporate responsibility and industry forums, The renewed drive for sustainability excellence at DyStar started research into emerging issues in the chemicals industry and the textile, with the publication of our first carbon footprint report and the first apparel and leather supply chain, along with valuable input from external sustainability report in 2011. The reporting exercise helped us to consultants and academics. establish base year for key performance indicators and set specific targets for improvement. We have committed to disclosing our carbon We are in the business of manufacturing and supplying dyestuff and footprint and sustainability performance on annual basis. other chemicals used by the textile and leather industry. Our business operations involve the transportation, storage, handling and processing Now that processes for measuring and reporting material impacts of a wide variety of chemicals. We use energy, water, chemicals and are firmly in place, our challenge is to find creative and viable ways other raw material, and generate waste and wastewater. Working with to reduce our key impacts that mainly include energy, carbon dioxide chemicals poses potential health and safety risks. As a constituent of emissions, water, wastewater and waste. A number of initiatives the chemicals industry, DyStar operates in a heavily regulated market are already underway across the Group in these areas and we look requiring compliance with a number of national, regional and international forward to an exciting journey ahead. regulations and standards. Based on the materiality analysis, we have identified energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water, wastewater, and solid waste as the most material environmental issues. Dr. Charu Jain Global Sustainability Manager Plant and chemical safety, spills, accidents and occupational health DyStar Group and safety are considered as the main health and safety concerns. 18 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “Despite encountering some challenging circumstances in 2011, including a price war and short supply of dyes in the market, we have managed to sustain sales and we expect sales growth in 2012. Our global efforts have ensured we continue to hold market share, product quality, solid organization and outstanding technical service.” Sunarto Djuardi Sales Area Manager – South East Asia We employ a diverse workforce worldwide. Managing diversity, ability to attract and retain talent, people development, career growth, job satisfaction, reward and recognition and respect are the most relevant employee issues. Product integrity, appropriate labelling of products, compliance with regulatory requirements on restrictive substances and providing complete product safety information are important to ensure health and safety of the users of DyStar products. Our customers, who largely belong to the textile industry, expect us to continuously innovate and offer eco-friendly products and services with lower environmental impact. Our sustainability approach to various sustainability aspects is outlined below. Economic performance Environment We believe that creating societal and environmental value is integral As a chemicals company, managing environmental impacts is material to sustaining long-term shareholder value. For example, reducing to our sustainability strategy. Continuously improving environmental consumption of energy and waste lowers costs for the company and performance is a key sustainability goal. DyStar facilities have adopted minimizes impact on the environment. We therefore place sustainability an Environmental Management System approach to progressively at the core of our business strategy. minimize the impact of business operations on the environment. Three of our plants have obtained ISO14001 certification and plans for Our approach is to achieve sustained business growth and reasonable other locations are under consideration. return on investments by continuously making our operations efficient, ensuring quality and service excellence, and offering innovative and We are at the heart of the global textile, apparel and leather supply eco-friendly products. chain and the chemicals industry. We produce and market dyes, colors and chemicals needed by the textile, apparel and leather industry for Encouraging local sourcing, integrity and good corporate governance, processing. DyStar in turn needs chemicals as raw materials to produce paying taxes, generating employment opportunities and investing in dyes and colors. the local communities where DyStar operates, are important aspects of our sustainability strategy. Water, a crucial natural resource, and energy, a key source of greenhouse gas emissions, are used to produce dyes and colors. The production processes also generate wastewater and solid waste. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 19 “I am greatly encouraged by our shareholders continued support for our sustainability program. As the leading companies in the apparel and textile industry move towards a more sustainable business model, with the shareholders full support, DyStar continues to strengthen its competitive position, not just by providing sustainable textile products and services, but also by becoming more sustainable in our own operations worldwide.” Dr. John Easton Global Ecology Services Manager As the main consumer of dyes and colors, the textile, apparel and We operate and compete globally with more than 35 offices around leather industry, also uses significant amount of water and energy the world. Our workforce is equally diverse. We rely on our people to while using these products to process fibers and fabrics. We therefore champion our products and services in the marketplace with passion. see twin opportunities and motivations to reduce energy and water We depend on our talented scientists to develop innovative products consumption in our own operations and also in customers’ operations. in DyStar laboratories, and we bank on the production and quality staff Introducing innovative products and services that help our customers to to ensure high quality products. We rely on a host of other employees reduce their water and energy consumption helps us to grow our to provide critical support to run our business. market share of ecological dyes and colors. It also positions the DyStar brand favourably in a market where apparel and textile brands are Investing in people by providing regular training and development continuously looking for ways to make their supply chain more sustainable. opportunities, promoting diversity, ensuring fair employment practices, fostering a culture of merit and performance-based reward system, Our strategic approach to sustainability and focus on ecological solutions and complying with national labor regulations are important aspects helps us meet emerging regulatory requirements and increasingly of our approach to sustainability. stricter product compliance criteria set by customers. Product responsibility therefore is a key piece of our sustainability approach and strategy. Nurturing people and promoting a workplace where people feel safe, valued and respected is the foundation of our sustainability approach We have implemented mechanisms for measuring, tracking and reducing and strategy. In 2010, DyStar’s new management publicly reiterated environmental footprint with particular emphasis on energy, greenhouse commitment to the principles of SA8000. gas emissions, water, waste and wastewater. We have established goals and targets for reducing energy consumption, greenhouse gas Our company fully supports and endorses Responsible Care® Global emissions, waste and wastewater. At the same time, we continue to Charter, the chemical industry’s global initiative that drives continuous invest in developing eco-friendly products and services. improvement in health, safety and environmental (HSE) performance, together with open and transparent communication with stakeholders. Labor practices Our operations involve the handling and processing of chemicals, In 2011 we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact principles. many of them considered hazardous, so safety at our production Singapore-based headquarters of DyStar signed the Employers’ Pledge plants is of paramount importance. Workplace accidents can not only for fair employment, a tri-partite initiative jointly promoted by the cause potentially serious injuries but may also result in lost workdays, government, business and labor. increased medical and compensation costs, lower employee morale and poor corporate image. Minimizing occupational hazards is therefore Human rights crucial for keeping our employees safe and for ensuring uninterrupted Our values, policies and practices are guided by international standards production operations. Stringent safety measures are central to our and principles, which include; plant management system. All DyStar production sites regularly monitor • The International Labor Organization’s (ILO) core labor standards and review occupational health and safety procedures and adherence • Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational to these procedures. Enterprises and Social Policy (MNE Declaration) • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 20 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Society DyStar believes in being a good corporate citizen. Collaborating with industry partners, academic institutions, government agencies, community leaders and NGOs to address societal issues is the foundation of our approach to society. Sharing our technical knowledge and expertise to build strong communities is a key area of our interest. For example, we are supporting practical training and skill development of textile graduates in India to improve their employability. Integrity and ethical conduct in all transactions is part of DyStar’s corporate governance policies and ethical code of conduct. We strongly believe in fair competition and are committed to complying with anti-Competition laws of countries where we operate. All DyStar employees are required to uphold high standards of ethics and integrity in all transactions with all parties. We currently do not • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises formally analyze business units for risks related to corruption. However, • The United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles we follow a zero-tolerance policy toward any kind of unethical conduct • SA8000 Standards including bribery. DyStar has a strict policy to ban child labor, forced and compulsory Product and services labor, and discrimination. Our employment policies respect workers’ DyStar is committed to ensuring necessary transparency and disclosures right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed in advertising and marketing material and materials for products and to identifying potential human rights risks across business operations services. We support and follow industry guidelines for ethical practices and taking necessary measures to prevent violations. in marketing communications. Product information that we provide is guided by a number of national and international regulations and certification standards including REACH, Responsible Care®, the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS), Restricted Substances List requirements, and EU EcolabelFlower among others. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 21 Our Guiding Principles DyStar’s business is based on respect for people and the planet. Our core values, code of conduct, policies and practices are guided by United Nations Global Compact international standards and principles and local regulations relating to In 2011, we became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact human rights, workers’ rights, workplace health and safety, environment (UNGC). DyStar Group’s approach to business has always been based protection and ethics. on respect for employees’ rights, human rights, environment protection and integrity. Endorsing UNGC Ten Principles reaffirms DyStar Group’s Some of the international principles that we are committed to conform ongoing commitment to conducting business with responsibility. to include: • The International Labor Organization’s (ILO) core labor standards As a UNGC signatory, we have committed to embrace, support and and Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational enact, within our sphere of influence, the following UNGC principles: Enterprises and Social Policy (MNE Declaration) Human rights • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • The United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights • SA8000® Standards abuses. • The Responsible Care® Global Charter Labor DyStar Core Values • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association We have adopted a set of seven core values that define our brand and and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; continue to be the cornerstone of our business. DyStar Core Values are • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; our management beliefs that everyone in the company is required to • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and practice in day to day decision making. • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The seven core values that guide and inspire every aspect of our Environment business are: • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach 1. Knowing the brands and retailers: We are creative in delivering to environmental challenges; value into the total supply chain from concept to consumer. We • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental anticipate change and capitalise on the many opportunities that responsibility; and arise. • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of 2. People excellence: Our success is dependent upon the collective environmentally friendly technologies. energy and intelligence of our people. We strive to create a work Anti-corruption environment where they can flourish and succeed to their highest • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its potential. We appreciate efforts and reward results. forms, including extortion and bribery. 3. Product quality: We work together to produce a superior product, To learn more about the UNGC, visit www.unglobalcompact.org to provide superior service, and to maximise the mutual growth of our customers and our company. 22 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 4. Integrity: We do not compromise on integrity. We do what is society. The concerns and suggestions of all stakeholders should ethically and morally correct. form part of this dialogue. Customers, employees and members of the 5. Expertise in application: We continuously look for new ways to public must be kept informed about current trends and developimprove our products, services and processes. We strive for ments in environmental protection and safety at DyStar. flawless execution. 6. Leadership in ecology and environment: Dedicated to lead with Product stewardship effective ecological and environmental management solutions Our products must be safe for humans and the environment during designed to reduce and limit the impact of our operations and our manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal. customers have on the environment. 7. Innovation: A learning environment with extraordinary potential The products are constantly monitored to identify any hazards they for innovation. Constantly challenging conventional ideas to might potentially cause. Preventive measures must be planned to limit remain at the leading edge of the industry. or avoid any hazard. Responsible Care® DyStar advises customers, distributors and freight companies on how Responsible Care® is the chemical industry’s global initiative that to handle, transport, store, use and dispose of the products safely. drives continuous improvement in health, safety and environmental performance, together with open and transparent communication Environmental protection with stakeholders. DyStar fully supports and endorses the Responsible DyStar’s management and employees are responsible for ensuring Care® Global Charter. necessary resources, action, information and organization to ensure environmental protection. We have implemented a detailed programme in line with the principles of Responsible Care®. That involves: Initiatives for environmental protection include: • The safe production, handling, transportation, application and • Complying with laws and regulations in operating production disposal of our products facilities in a manner that ensures safe handling of products and • A responsible attitude to the environment and natural resources waste • Protecting our employees from accidents and health hazards • Using environmentally compatible methods for disposal of waste • Treating employees, customers and suppliers fairly, respecting • Reviewing production processes and reviewing them where people and avoiding discrimination possible to reduce raw material and energy input • Reducing emissions DyStar guidelines for Responsible Care® in environmental • Reducing and, where possible, recycling waste protection and safety • Developing in-process measures to replace end-of-pipe environmental technologies Dialogue Responsible Care® is intended to generate trust. A clear and open dialogue Occupational health and safety should therefore be initiated with all parties involved, including The company must protect its employees from direct and long-term customers, consumers, employees, neighbours and other members of health risks by identifying health hazards and providing information, 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 23 training and suitable protection. • Effective measures must be planned to deal with incidents and limit their impact With the active assistance of its employees, we have implemented an • A detailed hazard prevention plan must be drawn up for all plants occupational health and safety policy covering: • Employees must be trained to handle plant and equipment • Operating procedures • Action to be taken in the event of emergencies and hazardous • Occupational safety situations must be practised • Preventive healthcare • Safe technology Technology transfer • Hazardous substances We apply the same environmental protection and safety principles • Production processes worldwide. The transfer of technology and knowledge within the Group ensures that all DyStar companies are in a position to implement the same environmental protection and safety principles and standards. For more information on Responsible Care®, see www.responsiblecare.org Plant safety and hazard prevention Plants must be designed for safe operation. Hazard potential and risks associated with processes must be identified, assessed and kept to a minimum through the selection of suitable processes. Subcontractors working on DyStar sites are chosen based on their performance with respect to safety, health and environmental protection. Systematic methods must be used to develop safety concepts including the following: • Plant safety must be the subject of continual improvement • Technical standards in plants must be adapted in line with technological advancements • Technical equipment must be inspected regularly and systematically 24 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Product Stewardship For us, product stewardship means responsibility to continuously reduce the Regulation for the various tonnage thresholds. In October 2008, the European our products’ safety, health and environmental impacts. Product Chemical Agency published for the first time a Candidate List of Substances stewardship is DyStar brand’s core strength. of Very High Concern for Consultation under REACH. Since then the list has been updated and amended several times and currently includes Apart from our own research and development efforts to develop new 84 chemicals or chemical groups. We are already in a position to declare products that reduce health, safety and environmental impacts that DyStar products do not intentionally contain any of the 84 substance for customers, our product stewardship program has included compliance groups that have been proposed in the ECHA Candidate List of Substances. with international legislations and standards such as REACH and GHS (the United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification, In Phase-III, registration deadline for produced or traded substances in Labelling and Packaging of Chemicals). quantities of one tonne or more per year is June 1, 2018. REACH Implementation Update DyStar’s strategic planning of new and on-going activities also consider DyStar is well prepared for the 2013 registrations the REACH impact. We proactively contact the European Chemical REACH (the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Agency to submit all relevant information ensuring REACH compliance. Chemicals) is the European Community Regulation on chemicals and We intend to register all individual substances contained in its products their safe use to protect the environment and health, which came into within the respective deadlines. DyStar has successfully completed effect June 1, 2007. REACH continues to be the most demanding many registrations of new chemical substances according to chemical international chemicals legislation. REACH implementation has been a regulations worldwide. We are proud to be the owners of a comprehensive top priority at DyStar from the beginning. archive of toxicological testing reports on a large number of dyes. We successfully completed the REACH registration Phase-I in 2010. REACH and DyStar customers DyStar is now concentrating on Phase-II of REACH, tonnage band REACH has placed greater responsibility on textile producers for all 100 – 1000 t/a, a range where the registration of a significantly higher stages in their supply chain. Non-European manufacturers and their number of dyes will have to be managed before mid-2013. DyStar is importers who export to the EU are required to comply with REACH. well prepared to meet the deadline of May 31, 2013. In the course of implementation, supply chain communication is one of the major challenges of REACH. DyStar has taken steps to strengthen The REACH Regulation places greater responsibility on the industry to communication with customers and offer necessary support. DyStar manage the risks from chemicals and to provide safety information on has launched an online service portal for customers where they can the substances. The regulation requires manufacturers and importers inform the company of their intended uses and to enable them to to gather information on the properties of their chemical substances, report on applications currently not covered. By using our products, to facilitate their safe handling, and to register the information in a customers can have confidence that textiles imported into Europe are central database run by the European Chemicals Agency. Dyes and REACH-compliant. chemical suppliers face an enormous task in complying with REACH. The legislation requires all suppliers of dyes and chemicals who produce DyStar R&D inside the European Economic Area, or import into Europe, to pre-register Research and Development (R&D) is one of the core values at DyStar and then register the substances within the deadlines laid down in and is part of the corporate DNA. We have an active Research & Development 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 25 Sustainability is a key focus for DyStar in R&D and Ecology. Our research leads us to new products with outstanding application technological properties, highest synthesis yields, reduced amounts of impurities and optimized production conditions. Based on such new products, our customers will be able to save chemicals, energy, water and other resources, which results in a significant reduction of their environmental impact.” Dr. Clemens Grund Vice President, Technology Department tasked with inventing new dyestuffs and processes for classification and labelling systems in different countries by one global synthesis and application to support our leading position in the textile system. GHS sets rules for classification and labelling of chemicals so dyes and auxiliaries industry. We have a rich heritage of more than that hazardous chemicals will be labelled according to the same rules 150 years of R&D including intellectual property inheritance from BASF, using the same pictograms, hazard phrases and precautionary phrases Hoechst, Bayer, Mitsui, Mitsubishi and Zeneca. The R&D results, new world-wide. Safety Data Sheets will have to be harmonized as well. products and technologies designed and developed in R&D and multidisciplinary teams are protected in more than 1,700 patents and Almost all major countries have already implemented the GHS. Our experts patent applications. have successfully implemented GHS in those countries where already required and will be able to supply in time GHS labels and Material Safety Data Through focused R&D efforts including strategic collaborations with Sheets (MSDS) for those countries which are still in the transition phase. customers, industry partners, and institutes and universities, we continue For more information on DyStar’s REACH compliance, visit www.DyStar.com to meet, and successfully anticipate, customers’ needs. We offer innovative For more information on the REACH regulation, visit www.echa.europa.eu solutions for contemporary, complex issues in the textile value chain. These primarily refer to high performance textile dyes and auxiliaries of Product safety improved ecological profile and consistently high quality that enable The marketing of textile dyes and auxiliaries is influenced not only by optimized coloration technologies of superior technical, environmental our customers’ requirements, but also by the need to conform to the and economic performance. One of the key innovation goals for DyStar’s R&D requirements of national and international chemicals legislation and is to help customers to achieve new milestones in terms of product environmental regulations. DyStar has implemented a comprehensive and process excellence, including shorter or more economical dyeing control system to ensure that only the products that meet the applicable procedures, reduced water and energy consumption and lower waste safety and environmental regulations are supplied to the market. The water and polluting effects. system monitors products before as well as during marketing for safety and environmental compliance. This control system has been in place for We have also globalized our R&D footprint to gain market proximity many years and is now an integral part of our approach to the market and and insight, and to be closer to our customers in Asia-Pacific, and carries the brand name econfidence® which is a worldwide registered have opened a new R&D centre in Singapore. Here scientists graduated trademark of DyStar. from top universities around the world are working together with internal and external experts to invent new sustainable solutions for Our product safety system enables the effective marketability of our all the major textile fibers (conventional and new developed fibers), products by taking into account hazard warning labels, shipping classification, as well as to develop customized solutions to solve existing technical generation of material safety data sheets, codification of products and problems of major customers. regulatory requirements. Our technical specialists work closely with customers on the use of our products and advise them on compliance DyStar and GHS with safety and environmental regulations relating to these products. Besides REACH, the United Nations’ Globally Harmonized System of Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Chemicals (GHS) is one of A robust product safety and ecology policy framework and system the most important issues for the chemicals industry. GHS is an ensure uninterrupted marketability of our products and protect internationally accepted system and is designed to replace different DyStar’s environmental reputation. 26 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Sustainable Products and Services DyStar’s commitment to inventing and delivering sustainable Unhappy Customers lead to lost business products and services to Brands, Retailers and their Industry Consumer demands for higher quality at lower prices are Partners has become part of our daily work culture and is unrivaled pressuring Brands & Retailers. Customers are seeking functional in the industry. garments that are designed to be low impact on the environment and long-lasting. Even one unhappy customer can have a To deliver this commitment, each new product and service that significant impact through Facebook®, Twitter®, and other social we develop must eliminate or minimize the three common failures media avenues. The lengthy, multi-national and fragmented that we recognize in today’s supply chain. supply chains challenge the ability of Brands & Retailers to meet these quality demand and price points. Returns are common and Wrong Color leads to lost sales can be attributed to light-fastness, perspiration light-fastness, wet Color is failing in today’s supply chain and, as a result, the color rubbing fastness and color loss after multiple washes. Even more in the store is in many cases far from the designer’s inspiration. alarming is the presence of restricted substances on the fabrics It’s the wrong color. How does this happen? It’s caused by a failure and garments. If these failures reach the consumer, confidence to communicate the color properly from designer to vendor and value is lost in the Brand. and textile mill. Color failures cost time and money, which result in compromised time-lines and delays that produce costly late charges for everyone in the supply chain. Consumers expect to buy that perfect color at the best price. To meet these demands, there is no room for color failures. Ron Pedemonte Sales Area Management Damage to Brand Integrity leads to value loss of the Brand Americas Identifying and protecting your Brand Integrity in the 21st century has become a daunting task. The manufacturing and sourcing of fabrics and garments is dynamic and multi-national. The supply chain is lengthy, fragmented and not transparent. NGOs and public groups are voicing concern regarding corporate social responsibility, environmental issues and chemicals in consumer products. The communication of these issues spreads rapidly through social media platforms. As a result, Brand Integrity is under siege and the potential for damage and value loss to investors and shareholders is paramount. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 27 “Our products are of high quality and sustainable . Our product portfolios are continuously screened for eco-compliance and we never compromise in this respect. We strive to offer the best products, for tomorrow’s requirements.” Fanny Vermandel Marketing Director, DyStar Coloration Business We believe our commitment to sustainability has played an important Low impact dyes role in making DyStar a dominant player in the market. We are pioneers Reactive dyes are one of the most important dye classes for coloration in offering eco-friendly dyes and services for the textile and leather of textiles. The requirements for these dyes are challenging and industry ahead of competition. Eco-friendly products and ecology services diverse. High color fastness performance, very high rates of Right First continue to be a key growth driver for DyStar. Time (RFT) dyeing, high fixation levels, low salt requirement, and easy wash off behaviour are frequently demanded by dyehouses. Additionally, To us, sustainability means being able to continuously innovate and requests from Brands & Retailers regarding compliance with their introduce eco-friendly dyes, services and solutions in the market. Restricted Substance Lists (RSL’s) and generally for more sustainable This translates into working closely with brands, retailers and their coloration processes are increasing. DyStar developed three new suppliers to develop solutions that help them reduce their reactive dyes in the range of Levafix® CA dyes in 2011 which support environmental impact. Creating awareness about eco-friendly products greater sustainability and have improved product performance. and solutions and educating the supply chain in the use of such products is also an important part of our shared responsibility. We do so by Levafix® CA reactive dyes organizing seminars, regular meetings with customers and by offering Like diamonds, almost all Levafix® CA dyes are characterised by their information through a variety of communication channels. ‘single molecule’ structure. Using multiple reactive groups they have been designed to deliver superior fastness qualities, outstanding dyeing Sustainable products behaviour and a fixation level above 80%. We offer a range of sustainable products for the textile industry, which help promote sustainability across the supply chain. In most cases reactive dyes within the Levafix® CA range represent the Best Available Technology regarding challenging fastness requirements. GOTS approved dyes & chemicals for Organic Textiles Because of their impressive ecological profile, (e.g. all are free of AOX), DyStar offers a wide range of colorants and auxiliaries that have been Levafix® CA dyes are also in compliance with important Brand & Respecifically approved for use on organic textiles by certification tailer RSL’s and most of them are approved for bluesign® and GOTS. organizations such as Control Union Certifications (CU) and the Institute for Marketecology (IMO), the first approved body to offer certification Two years ago, DyStar launched a new Levafix® Brilliant Red CA with under the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS). good light and excellent oxidative detergent fastness properties. Levafix® Dark Blue CA was launched in 2011 closing the techno-commercial We were one of the first companies to have its dyestuffs approved by gap between common (low light fast / low cost) navies and expensive GOTS for organic textiles. DyStar now offers an extensive range of dyes (but high light fast) copper formazan based blues. The launch of the and auxiliaries, which are approved under GOTS version 3.0. DyStar Levafix® CA range created a milestone on the journey towards economic dyeing of cellulosic fibers combined with improved ecological DyStar experts in cotton processing have defined how to use GOTSperformance. All Levafix® CA dyes are characterised by their homogeneous approved products to achieve sustainable and optimized results in dyeing behaviour. Their outstanding combinability and their low organic cotton processing using Best Available Technology in presensitivity to small changes in the dyeing parameter leads to high treatment, dyeing and finishing. RFT rates. 28 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “DyStar Japan continues to receive a number of requests to release the ecological certification of our products. These requests are increasingly coming from our customers who are becoming more concerned with our approach to ecological issues. Our contact Testing Solution continues to be a reliable partner to our ecological mission and adds value and integrity to our brands, as well as the traders of finished garments.” Takase Koji Sales Area Manager – North East Asia DyStar’s newly launched Levafix® Amber, Scarlet and Red CA-N dyes Color Solutions demonstrates our continuing commitment to supporting ecological Color Solutions International (CSI) is the leading provider of color and economical wet processing of textiles. standards and color communication tools for sustainable color communication services. Sustainability services DyStar Textile Services (DTS), a DyStar division , offers a number of services As a constituent of the DyStar group, CSI supports brands and retailers that are aimed at improving sustainability performance of customers by providing color tools, building color palettes, engineering colors across the supply chain. DTS helps brands, retailers and their partners and standards, and distribution to brands, retailers or industry partners. – textile mills, dye-houses, laundries, printers and tanneries to improve The following sustainable solutions from CSI facilitate making the environmental performance. DTS has four business units Color right chemical decisions at color design stage. The benefits include Solutions, Ecology Solutions, Testing Solutions, and Sustainable reduction in paper used, and reduction in the number of shipments Textile Solutions. Each business unit has its own sustainable solutions of samples. to deal with the three most common failures in the textile and apparel industry. Color inspiration Inspiration for color comes from many sources. CSI produces trend inspirations in the form of regular updates to its customers. These trend inspirations are the result of our own evaluation of color trends in the market based on the professional trend services and the input of our customer’s needs. With the CSI color inspirations the designer can simply specify the Ecology Solutions color required by referencing the desired seasonal trend inspiration DyStar Ecology Solutions package is designed to help textile producers and CSI can immediately send the color and color standards for use. meet the demand for responsible and sustainable production. As part This helps reduce the costly and wasteful process of lab dipping and of its econfidence® program, DyStar advises customers on issues relating color approval for each new color. to ecology and recommends suitable products to meet ecological specifications. Color palette During the design process, there is often the need to reproduce The econfidence® program is designed to provide assurance to our palettes or display groups of colors. To assist in the visual use of color, textile customers that the dyes and chemicals we supply comply with CSI provides fabric based design tools. These design tools can be used legal and retailer RSL (Restrictive Substance List) requirements. It is an in creating the color palette during the design process. The CSI design assurance that our products are in full compliance with chemical and tools are reusable and therefore a sustainable option to printing on paper. environmental legislation in every market in which they are sold. CSI also offers its customers a website in which they can search for CSI The econfidence® program allows us to build partnerships with the colors that they want to display in their virtual color palette, providing textile supply chain to foster more sustainable textile production. for an additional option to be more sustainable and reducing their 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 29 footprint at the color palette stage. Sustainable Textile Solutions Sustainable Textile Solutions (STS) is dedicated to helping brands and Certified color standards retailers, and their industry partners, implement sustainable textile Once the colors are chosen and the color palettes created, CSI offers production that makes more efficient use of resources. certified color standards that can be used in communicating the color to all involved. Many leading brands and retailers use ready-made The STS team has guided a number of textile manufacturing units in CSI ColorWall™ or customized, dye-to-match or tailor-made, certified optimizing production and cost while delivering the same or better color standards as these meet the both the quality and environmental quality of goods with lower environmental impact. specifications. Restricted substances list (RSL) development All CSI certified color standards use sustainable products of DyStar. The DyStar’s deep insight into global chemical legislations and the requirements DyStar dyes carry the econfidence® logo which assures customers of of the textile and apparel industry enables the company to assist in the the highest possible levels of product quality and environmental development of RSLs for brands and retailers, and to provide advice responsibility and is backed up by the most extensive eco testing program and guidance on suitability of dyes and chemicals. In addition, advice of any textile chemical supplier. is offered on test methods and procedures in order to help brands, retailers and industry partners effectively monitor chemicals along the The commitment of DyStar and the use of CSI certified color standards textile and apparel supply chain. give brands, retailers and their industry partners a head-start in being more sustainable and in reducing footprint in design, development Mill efficiency improvement and production stage. STS’s mill efficiency program’s objective is to support textile mills, dye-houses, printers and laundries in eliminating waste by reducing Color management the use of energy, water and chemicals used. This STS program Working with color could result in a lot of waste. To eliminate waste in assesses the current textile processing practices and offers suggescolor management, CSI has developed two commercial web-based tions to improve productivity and efficiency levels. infrastructures. Chemical management improvement CSI PaletteBuilder™ allows for searching and display of customized The STS chemical management improvement program is designed to colors, and supports design in creation of virtual color palettes. CSI assess compliance of identified suppliers to a brand and retailer RSL by ColorFlow™ is a system that tracks color from inspiration to garment communicating, creating awareness, evaluating and monitoring the by distribution of color information, communication of color decisions recommendations and improvements over multiple visits. and management of color process. Moreover it allows for all color activity information to sit in one place, facilitating transparency. Environmental improvement The STS team measures textile mills’ current processes using a set of For more information on Color Solutions International please visit key performance indicators, such as ecology load and water consumption, www.csicolors.com and compares them with an ideal process to discover the possibilities for reduction of the environmental footprint. 30 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “Texanlab has been engaged in assisting Brands and Retailers achieve their goals of sustainability through testing of restricted chemical substances on the products they buy as well as helping them and their supply chains understand the maze of current requirements through education and awareness.” Rahul Bhajekar Managing Director – Texanlab Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. Testing Solutions Dyes industry as well as for the Processing Industry to GOTS Standards. DyStar has always taken the environmental impacts of its products Since 2007, Texanlab has tested over 2800 samples for compliance to very seriously and understands the requirements of testing the GOTS standards. Texanlab works closely with leading certification restricted substances in textiles and their raw materials before they agencies to organize seminars to build awareness about GOTS reach the end consumer. The acquisition of Texanlab Laboratories Pvt standards and organic cotton. Ltd in India demonstrates our commitment towards environmental compliance through testing for eco parameters in textiles. b) RSL (Restricted Substances List) testing RSL testing is probably one of the most complex fields of analytical Texanlab, a fully owned, but independently run DyStar subsidiary in India, chemistry because of the need for isolation and determination of is an example of how sustainability is at the centre of our business substances at parts per million levels. strategy. Texanlab plays an important role in promoting ecology and sustainability in the textile industry by offering cutting-edge testing c) REACH testing services for the presence of restricted chemicals. Texanlab is ISO 17025 Our fully equipped Texanlab testing laboratory understands the testing certified and has built an immense expertise in the areas of routine requirements arising from textile manufacturers and exporters to fulfil and eco testing for textiles. the REACH requirements as per EU legislations and offers testing facilities for the relevant SVHC’s considered restricted as per REACH legislations. Set up in April 1984, Texanlab was the first laboratory in India to offer Texanlab is continuously working on increasing their capability and testing service for the detection of banned amines as specified in the facility to test other SVHC’S mentioned in REACH. German regulation. Texanlab worked closely with leading institutes in Germany during the development of the test method for banned d) CPSIA (Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act) amines, which was subsequently standardized and published. Texanlab Texanlab is a CPSC approved laboratory for the testing of Lead and now has the experience of over 100,000 samples tested for eco parameters. Phthalates as per the CPSIA 2008. Texanlab helps the textile industry to comply with US legislations by providing complete testing solutions. Texanlab has conducted numerous seminars for customers to educate their staff, their dyers, printers and processors on eco-parameters. The e) EU Eco label Flower seminars help them to implement definitive strategies to conform to The voluntary EU Eco label is applicable to all textile products including new regulations and requirements of ecology and sustainability. Using textile clothing and accessories fibers, yarns and fabrics and interior internationally accepted testing procedures and those recommended textiles except wall and floor coverings. The EU Flower has detailed by buyers, Texanlab now offers tests for a number of eco-parameters criteria for all the textile products to be tested at various stages of the required by eco-textile regulations and standards. textile manufacturing. Texanlab is one of the few laboratories with the capability to test for requirements of this label. In addition to testing, Texanlab’s main testing services include the following: Texanlab offers customers advice and guidance on the application procedures and detailed requirements for the Flower. a) Testing for GOTS – organic textiles Texanlab is one of the few laboratories that has capabilities of testing For more information on Texanlab, see www.Texanlab.com Dyes, Chemicals and Auxiliaries for the Textile Chemicals, Auxiliary and 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 31 Sustainable Production Our approach to production is to deliver products that exceed The chapters ahead present an account of our performance in customers’ expectations in terms of quality, safety, reliability and the areas of occupational health, safety and environment and delivery while minimizing the operational impact on the what we are doing to make our production operations more environment and ensuring the safety of our employees and the sustainable. neighboring communities. Our plants are located in 12 countries across Asia, Europe and the Americas where we produce a wide variety of chemicals and colors for the textile and leather industry. Production plants employ 57% of our total workforce. Gerald Talhoff Vice President, Global Manufacturing DyStar Group Most of our environmental impact comes from the production operations. For example, production plants accounted for 96% of the total carbon emissions and 99% for the total water use in 2011. Production operations also generate waste and wastewater. We store and process a large number of chemicals as raw materials and finished products. Many of them are potentially hazardous and require careful handling to prevent accidents and spills. The equipment and manufacturing processes that we use in our plants require strict safety procedures to be followed by our personnel. Ensuring employee safety therefore is a top priority for us. We recognize that our production plants have to play the key role in reducing the company’s social and environmental impact. In 2011, we launched several initiatives aimed at reducing energy consumption, water use, wastewater and waste. We are also working towards finding ways to increase the amount of recycling energy and material wherever possible. Reductions in energy, water, wastewater and waste and recycling not only lower the impact on the environment, but also result in savings making the operations more cost effective and competitive. 32 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Occupational Health and Safety Workplace safety is a core value at DyStar. The production of dyes involves developed and implemented a detailed hazard prevention plan. Regular handling a variety of chemicals, including hazardous substances with training is provided to employees to enable them to handle plant and potential health and safety hazards. Employee safety therefore is a top equipment in a safe manner. A thorough emergency response plan priority for us. has been put in place at each plant to effectively handle accidents and hazardous situations. Potential health and safety risks in a chemical plant may emerge from handling of hazardous materials, hazards of pressure vessels, hazardous Employees participate in safety committees set up at the plant level to chemical reactions, flammable gases, vapours and dust hazards. Other regularly review, discuss and take measures for continues improvement in potential hazards include heat stress, accidental escapes or spills of safety performance. Safety committees meet at least once a month to hazardous material, hazards due to corrosion, work in confined spaces, review safety matters. Monthly safety inspections are also carried out slips, trips and falls, working with pipelines, plant repair, instrument at each plant. failures, exposure to harmful substances and disposal of waste. We regularly track occupational health and safety performance. In Common injuries include chemical burns, skin irritation, respiratory 2011, there were only eight recordable incidents of workplace injuries irritation, back ache and other musculoskeletal injuries, eye injury and across 16 DyStar plants worldwide as compared to 13 incidents in slip, trip and fall. 2010. All the eight incidents involved male employees. There were no recordable incidents of injury in 14 plants, an improvement from 2010 We have integrated the Responsible Care program into our occupational when only 10 plants reported no recordable injuries. In total, 34 workdays health and safety policies. This includes a commitment to protecting were lost on account of workplace injuries as against 490 days in 2010. company employees from direct and long-term health risks by identifying health hazards and providing information, training and suitable protection. One of the unfortunate incidents of injury which took place in the Pietermaritzburg plant in South Africa in November 2011 was reported Occupational health and safety policies that DyStar has implemented in the local media. An employee involved in the incident sustained cover: chemical burns when he was in the process of making a new trial • Operating procedures product for a customer. A sudden chemical reaction occurred before • Occupational safety he could secure the lid of the vessel, this resulted in splashing of chemicals • Preventive healthcare on his body. He was immediately rushed to hospital to receive treatment. • Safe technology He has since fully recovered and has resumed work. • Hazardous substances • Production processes The plant management has introduced new measures after a thorough investigation of the incident to prevent recurrence. The plant management We are continuously improving our approach to plant safety. Technical also partnered with the customer to provide Hazard & Operability standards in plants are adapted in line with technological advancements. Analysis (HAZOP) training for the manufacturing of new products to Production and other equipment is inspected regularly and systematically all operators. for safety. Detailed procedures have been implemented in plants to deal with incidents and to limit their impact. Each DyStar plant has There were no incidents involving fatality in 2011 as was the case in 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 33 “Health and Safety and respect for our employees is the top priority at DyStar! Our main goal is to achieve zero reportable accidents at our site. We have many proven tools of security work and want to support the intensive and open dialogue between employees and managers.” Dr. Andreas-Johann Schmidt Production Plant Head Ludwigshafen Germany 2010. There were no reported incidents of occupational diseases in awareness and cultivating a safety culture are all part of our efforts to 2011 as against three cases in 2010. improve safety in DyStar plants. DyStar’s recordable occupational injury and illness incidence rate in 2011 was 0.57, lower than 0.67 in 2010. This is not only an improvement on own performance, it also compares well with the 0.85 rate reported by Responsible Care companies in the US in 2011 and significantly lower than the rate of 4.4 for the US manufacturing sector as a whole 2010 2011 2010 2011 in 2010.1 Our lost workday rate in 2011 was 0.57, compared with 0.52 in 2010. This is significantly lower than 4.57 reported by the global chemical industry 13 8 0.67 0.57 through International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) in 2008, the latest available benchmark data at the time of writing this report.2 Recordable incidents Injury and illness incidence rate Our zero fatality rate, based on the number of cases per 100,000 employees, in 2010 compares favorably with 1.74 reported by The European Chemical Industry Council for the year 2008 based on data from 21 countries, the latest available data at the time of writing this 2010 2011 report.3 Each incident of occupational injuries and diseases is carefully analyzed by our health and safety personnel to identify root causes for the incidents. 38.00 4.00 This helps DyStar production plants to take effective measures to reduce the rate of incidence. Severity rate Plant personnel are provided with all necessary personal protective equipment (PPE) such as safety shoes, gloves, safety eye glasses, respiratory masks and hard-top hats to ensure safety of our employees at work. We enforce a strict policy for mandatory use of appropriate PPE by employees at work. Lifting equipment has been installed to prevent musculoskeletal disorders on account of lifting weights in DyStar plants. Ongoing training in safe work practices, use of PPE, handling of chemicals, regular health campaigns, periodic employee check up and building 34 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 1 American Chemistry Council, performance results, workers safety 2011 (http://responsiblecare.americanchemistry.com/Performance-Results/Safety), accessed on 25 Aug 2012 2 ICCA Review 2010 3 The European Chemical Industry Council, (http://www.cefi c.org/Responsible-Care/Performance/Health-andSafety-at-Work), accessed on 25 Aug 2012 Environmental Performance Environmental responsibility is one of the most important pillars of follow DyStar’s strict environmental management system framework. DyStar Group’s sustainability strategy. We believe that ability to manage environmental impacts effectively is crucial for maintaining our Our Environmental Management System requires identifying, evaluating, competitiveness. prioritizing and managing environmental aspects in the following areas: • Design and development We are a leading producer and supplier of dyes and specialty chemicals • Manufacturing for the global textile and leather industry. Dyes and chemicals are • Storage, packaging and transportation crucial to producing clothing and textile that meet consumers’ needs • Environmental performance, practices of contractors and suppliers for comfort, colors and fashion. However, the production and use of • Waste management dyes and chemicals and the disposal of waste products pose potential • Use and distribution of raw materials and natural resources environmental risks. It’s important to manage these risks responsibly • Distribution, use and end-of-life of products at each stage of the product’s life cycle. Manufacturing of dyes and • Biodiversity chemicals uses energy, water and input chemicals and other resources, and generates carbon emissions, wastewater and waste. Reducing Major environmental impacts that DyStar plants actively monitor and these impacts can lower our costs and make our operations cleaner manage include: and greener. • Emission to air • Release to water The application of dyes and chemicals by the textile and leather processing • Land contamination industry also has potential to impact the environment. Textile and • Energy and resource consumption leather processing consumes energy and generates wastewater and • Noise and vibration waste. In recent years, pressure has increased on the textile industry to • Dust and odour reduce its environmental impact and switch to more eco-friendly and • Waste, disposal, by-products safe dyes and chemicals. DyStar’s stringent environmental approach • Heat and radiation makes the company’s products attractive for the textile and leather • Transportation manufacturing industry and fashion brands. • Direct or indirect impacts at the customer end Our environmental commitment is to reduce own impact and help Our environmental management system enables each plant to take a our customers to reduce their impact. To learn more about how our systematic approach to managing environmental impacts. Main steps products can reduce customers’ environmental impact, please read include: the Product Stewardship section of this report. • Identify and assess environmental impacts and risks • Establish objectives and, wherever possible, quantitative targets Most of DyStar’s environmental impact results from manufacturing to for continual improvement in environmental performance. operations. We have therefore implemented a rigorous environmental Provide necessary training to employees management system at each DyStar plant aimed at continuous improvement. • Review the objectives and the progress periodically Our facilities in Nanjing and Wuxi (China) and in Pietermaritzburg • Ensure all sub-contractors operate in line with the principles of our (South Africa) continue to be certified to ISO 14001. Other facilities environmental policy 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 35 • Comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and, wherever In 2011, DyStar Group spent USD14.09 million on environment protection possible, go beyond these requirements measures. In last year’s report, we had reported USD7.99 million • Co-operate and communicate with our neighbours, the public, environmental expenditure for the year 2010. The 2011 amount is government, regulatory authorities and other stakeholders towards higher partially because DyStar facilities improved their systems to the shared goal of improving the environment identify and collect relevant data. We continue to refine our data systems • Conduct regular monitoring and auditing programs to ensure and improve data coverage that will enable us to gather environmental compliance with continual environmental improvement expenses more comprehensively. • Communicate environmental performance to employees and stakeholders Treatment of waste and wastewater accounted for 86.2% of the environmental expenses. Other expenses included maintenance of DyStar’s key environmental goals are: environmental equipment, equipment depreciation, environmental • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions research and development, environment management personnel, • Reduce energy consumption environmental services, certifications, and employee training. • Reduce water use, reuse or recycle water • Reduce waste, reuse or recycle waste Spill cleanup and remediation expenses accounted for only 0.1%, • Design all new products / processes to minimize their environmental against 0.25% in 2010, of environmental expenses as good environment impact in use management practices ensured there were no major spills. • Modify existing products and processes wherever possible to reduce their environmental impact in use The amount spent on environmental research and development by • Provide advice/ information to all its customers on its products to plants for improving their performance was USD 84,000 in 2011, up ensure safe use and disposal from USD 71,000 in 2010. In 2011, DyStar voluntarily established aggressive reduction targets. The Group plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, energy, waste $USD $USD and wastewater by 20% by 2020 from the base year 2010. This report contains DyStar Group’s performance in the following en2010 2011 2010 2011 vironmental areas: energy, greenhouse gas emissions, spills, water, wastewater and waste. Environmental expenses 7.99m 14.09m 71,000 84,000 How much we spent on environment protection DyStar Group spends a substantial sum on efforts aimed at minimizing Environmental Environmental research & development the environmental impact that includes meeting reduction targets protection expenditure spend and complying with local environmental regulations. 36 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “Our technological innovations have helped us reduce our emission intensity in 2011. Our environmental integrity is integrated through the whole of our supply chain and our production colleagues are also increasing their environmental consciousness. As a result of these efforts our production costs are reducing and we are able to manage our production more effectively.” Mr. Chen KeKe Deputy Manager, Process Technology Development Wuxi China Environmental expenditure break up 2011 Environmental Initiatives in 2011 Other expenses Our facilities worldwide launched a number of initiatives in 2011 aimed at improving environmental performance by reducing energy consumption, water use, waste and other resource. % .80 Key initiatives included: 13 • Implement a direct heating process for the spray driers at our Gabus plant, Indonesia, to reduce heat losses and to save energy. Waste and wastewater 86.20% • Build a new waste water treatment plant at our Reidsville plant, treatment USA, to reduce waste water pollutants. • Continuously improve cleaning procedures for product changes at all production sites to reduce the amount of waste water and pollutants generated. • Continuously work on yield improvement with regard to physical Environmental fines and sanctions and chemical production processes to reduce waste, waste water We are committed to complying with all applicable environmental and energy consumption per unit of product. laws and regulations wherever we operate. • Apply a wastewater recycling process wherever possible to increase the rate of water reuse at all production sites. In 2011, there were no identified incidents of significant environmental • Increase employee awareness and change employee behaviour fines or non-monetary sanctions. There was however one unfortunate at all manufacturing sites to save energy and water and to reduce incident of a third-party truck accident in Brazil that resulted in chemical waste water generation. products spilling onto the road. The truck was carrying chemical products • Re-use waste material whenever possible inside the plants and to from at least two other companies in addition to the products from identify other industries which can safely re-use DyStar’s waste DyStar. material rather than disposing it through land fill or incineration. Develop systems for ensuring controlled, safe and sustainable Pursuant to a standard procedure, the local authorities have asked DySre-use of waste material. tar to pay 24,000 Euros in fine. However, DyStar has appealed against • Work on low energy waste gas treatment processing instead of the fine and is still awaiting a final decision from the authorities at the time thermal oxidization to reduce the consumption of natural gas and of writing this report. DyStar’s position is that the company’s products thus, the emission of carbon dioxide. classified as hazardous met the legal packaging requirements and did • Review the car policy at major production sites to reduce the not spill during the accident. Some of the DyStar products that leaked consumption of fuel and the emission of carbon dioxide. in the accident were not classified products. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 37 Energy Our plants use both direct and indirect energy. Purchased electricity Energy consumption has a direct bearing on the level of greenhouse and steam are the main forms of indirect energy used at DyStar plants gas emissions and the cost of manufacturing goods in our plants. and offices. Direct energy used in our operations mainly includes natural Therefore, energy efficiency is a crucial area of focus within DyStar. Reducing gas, Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG), Liquified Natural Gas (LNG), Compressed energy consumption would not only lower our greenhouse gas emissions, Natural Gas (CNG), diesel and petrol. it would also save costs on energy bills. In 2011, DyStar consumed 265 million kilowatt hours (kWh) indirect Energy is also consumed when our customers use our products such energy. Production plants accounted for 96% of the total indirect energy as dyestuff for textile processing. We see this as an opportunity to develop consumption. In absolute terms, the indirect energy consumption in products that save energy for our customers as well. 2011 was slightly higher than the 252 million in 2010. This was largely due to three factors. Firstly, our Leverkusen-based plant operated for Our approach is to continuously improve energy efficiency in own nine months in 2011 as against six months in 2011. Second, our production plants as well as invest in developing products and services that lower volume was a little higher in 2011 than in 2010. Finally, the product mix our customers’ energy consumption. Our customers, for example, have was different in 2011 compared to the previous year. benefitted from DyStar’s Sera® Eco Wash process that helps them save water and energy. Indirect energy intensity per tonne of product was 2,722 kWh in 2011 as against 2605 kWh in 2010. Improving overall energy consumption in our plants presents challenges unique to the dyestuff industry. Challenges arise from a complex product CNG remained the main source of direct energy, primarily used in our mix that we are required to produce to meet our customers’ needs. production plants. Other sources of indirect energy included natural The amount of energy required to produce different dyes varies gas, LPG, LNG, petrol, diesel and ethanol. Overall consumption of direct significantly from product to product. energy in 2011 was 14.6 million gigajoules, down from 15 million gigajoules in 2010. Since demand for textile and apparel products is influenced by fashion trends, the product mix that we may be required to produce to meet We first started collecting global energy data in 2011 for the year 2010. market demand varies from year to year. This in turn may affect the Now with 2011 data available, we have a better view of our energy use overall amount of energy consumed by DyStar plants. and complexities involved. 2011 was also the year when we started launching more focused energy efficiency programs that are likely to At DyStar, production plants account for the bulk of the total energy use. start producing results from 2012. Energy is needed to run processing equipment in our plants such as mixers, reactors, pumps, dispersers, spray dryers, milling lines, blenders, Some of our plants have already started seeing results of these initiatives. boilers, incinerators and wastewater treatment plants. Energy is also For example, the DyStar site in Wuxi, China managed to reduce electricity used for general lighting and air-conditioning in production plants, consumption per tonne of product in 2011 by 11% from the 2010 level. laboratories, the corporate headquarters and our offices around the The facility achieved this by restructuring the manufacturing process world, as well as for running the vehicles owned or leased by the company. in the dry mixing section by reducing the number of process steps involved, and by further optimizing the wet milling process towards a 38 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “We are firmly committed to reduce utilities consumption in the Apiúna Site. We are aware this needs to be a team effort and all employees are called upon to promote environmental protection. Staff have the skills and knowledge to operate production facilities in a manner that ensures energy input reduction such as Process Water, Liquefied Petroleum Gas and Electricity.” Dimas Teixeira Production Plant Head Apuina Brazil more efficient grinding effect while reducing the process time. kWh Gigajoules Our goal is to continue to drive down energy intensity to maintain cost efficiency and establish sustainability leadership in the dyestuff 909,271 954,950 industry. 252m 265m Industry Energy Efficiency Improvement Project The DyStar plant in South Africa is participating in an Industry Energy Efficiency Improvement (IEE) Project, a collaborative initiative 2010 2011 2010 2011 launched by National Cleaner Production center of South Africa (NCPC-SA), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization Indirect Indirect (UNIDO), South Africa government’s Department of Trade and Industry energy consumption energy consumption and the Department of Energy, the Swiss Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), the UK Department for International Development (DFID), and the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in South Africa. % kWh The IEE project focuses on the following: 14.6m • Promoting energy management systems and standards to provide 3% 4% companies with a platform to sustain energy-efficient practices 97% 96% 15m • Promoting energy systems optimization in order to unlock the energy savings potential of priority industrial sectors in South Africa • Training energy experts and practitioners to transfer skills to industry 2010 2011 2010 2011 • Running projects to demonstrate the impact of energy efficiency practices on local industries Indirect energy Direct consumption break up Offices Production Plants energy consumption Last year, the DyStar plant in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa participated in an extensive energy audit under the project. The audit report will pave the way for further action plan to improve energy efficiency in Sources of direct energy 2011(Gigajoules) the plant. Natural gas 2% The Project currently focuses on five key industry sectors that have Others the potential to bring about significant reductions in the overall energy consumption of the country. These include Agro-processCNG 1% ing; Chemicals and Liquid Fuels; Metals Processing and Engineering; Automotives; and Mining. The project aims to contribute to the 97% national energy efficiency target of 15% for industry, and 12% for the entire economy by 2015. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 39 Based on the activity data collected, DyStar Group’s global carbon footprint for 2011 was calculated to be 168,133 metric tonnes of CO2e. This was slightly more than 160,993 metric tonnes of CO2e in 2010 largely due to higher production volume, and improved coverage of activity data as we further streamlined the data collection processes and methods. However, our emission intensity per tonne of production remained unchanged at 1.7. Emission intensity per million dollars of turnover was 216 in 2011, down from 235 in 2010. This report is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), a global reporting framework jointly developed by the World Resource Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Emissions data presented in this report were collected from DyStar production sites, laboratories, and offices worldwide including our Greenhouse gas emissions headquarters in Singapore. Setting an industry leadership example DyStar published its first annual Carbon Footprint Report in 2011. Our first report was based on data A key purpose of tracking organizational carbon emissions is to identify for 2010, when the company began an extensive, company-wide opportunities to reduce emissions by deploying reduction strategies. global exercise to identify the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions DyStar Group remains committed to collecting relevant data across and started gathering activity data. DyStar has since committed to disclosing the company to be able to annually report on greenhouse gas emissions. the Group’s carbon footprint annually. This is in line with our overall sustainability strategy to continuously reduce operational impact on the environment. This report presents DyStar Group’s carbon dioxide inventory for the reporting year of 1st January 2011 to 31st December 2011. DyStar Group’s carbon emissions can be mainly attributed to the use of purchased electricity and steam, natural gas, CNG, LPG, diesel and In 2011, our data gathering mechanism was further strengthened and petrol. a monthly monitoring of emissions was introduced to gain greater insight into the sources of emissions. Our efforts during the year helped us Most of DyStar’s direct emissions (scope 1 emissions) come from emission grow our understanding of the sources of emissions and challenges sources at production facilities. DyStar’s indirect emissions (scope 2 involved in reducing these emissions. We are in the midst of implementing emissions) are based on purchased electricity and steam. In 2011, DyStar measures aimed at making DyStar Group more carbon efficient. production facilities accounted for 96% of the total emissions, a small improvement over the 97% figure in 2010. As in the previous year, DyStar Group continued to focus on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions in 2011. 40 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Key emissions figures are presented in the tables below. Overall summary of emissions 82% Table 1 81% Emissions summary CO2e tonnes 2010 2011 Emission sources 2010 % 2011 % Scope 1 30,548 19% 31,019 18% 19% 18% Scope 2 130,445 81% 137,114 82% Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2 emissions 160,993 168,133 160,993 168,133 Scope 1 Scope 2 Summary of emissions from production and non-production activities 97% 96% Table 2 Emissions summary CO2e tonnes Emission sources 2010 % 2011 % 2010 2011 Total emissions from production sites 155,795 97% 161,265 96% 3% 4% Total emissions from offices and laboratories 5,198 3% 6,868 4% Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2 emissions 160,993 168,133 160,993 168,133 Total emissions from production sites Total emissions from non-production sites 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 41 Detailed summary of sources of emissions Table 3 81% 82% 19% Break up of emissions CO2e tonnes 18% 6% 6% Emission sources 2010 % 2011 % Scope 1 2010 94% 2011 94% Stationary combustion 28,591 94% 29,095 94% Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Mobile combustion 1,957 6% 1,924 6% 160,993 168,133 Total Scope 1 emissions 30,548 31,019 Scope 2 Scope 1 Purchased electricity 130,445 137,114 Stationary combustion Total Scope 2 emissions 130,445 137,114 Mobile combustion Total CO2 emissions 160,993 168,133 Scope 2 Purchased electricity CO2 emissions intensity Carbon intensity is a measure of carbon usage by a company in relation to business performance during the same year. Based on the emissions and production figures and sales turnover during the same period, we calculated carbon intensity of our operations. Emissions intensity in terms of production remained unchanged in 2011 at 1.7 as compared with 2010. Carbon emissions intensity figures are presented in Table 4. 1.7 1.7 235 216 CO2 emissions intensity per tonne of production and per $million turnover Table 4 CO2 emissions intensity statement 2010 2011 2010 2011 tCO2e per tonne of production 1.7 1.7 tCO2e per $ million turnover 235 216 tCO2e per tonne of production tCO2e per $ million turnover 42 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Notes 1. Greenhouse gases Indirect emissions under scope 2 include: All greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions figures are in metric tonnes of carbon • All purchased electricity, heat and steam at grid average carbon intensity dioxide equivalents (CO2e) and include all six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide 6. Geographic scope (N2O), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and sulfur CO2 emissions that fall within the organizational and operational boundaries hexafluoride (SF6) emissions. have been reported for all worldwide operations. 2. In view of gathering consistent and reliable data for previous years owing 7. Conversion factors to several changes in the organization in recent years, 2010 has been determined As electricity fuel mix and associated carbon intensity differs from one country to be our base year for reporting GHG emissions. to another we have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and International Energy Agency (IEA) conversion factors. National or plant specific emissions 3. Reporting Principles factors have been used wherever available. Our carbon footprint report is based on the below-mentioned Reporting Principles advocated by the GHG Protocol Initiative. For fuel use, we have used the most recent conversion factors published by The GHG accounting and reporting shall be based on the following principles: the UK Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs. • Relevance: Ensure the GHG inventory appropriately reflects the GHG emissions of the 8. Emissions adjustments company and serves the decision-making needs of users — both internal We may develop improved calculation methodologies and tools as our and external to the company. knowledge, understanding and experience in carbon dioxide inventory • Completeness: development grows. In such an event, previous years reported emissions Account for and report all GHG emissions sources and activities within the may be adjusted in line with the new methodology. chosen inventory boundary. Disclose and justify any specific exclusion. • Consistency: Adjustments to previous years’ emissions may also be made when more Use consistent methodologies to allow meaningful comparison of emissions updated emission factors or more accurate activity data become available over time. Transparently document any changes to the data, inventory to more accurately and consistently reflect actual emissions from year to boundary, methods, or any other relevant factors in the time series. year. Readjustments will also be made when there are significant structural • Transparency: changes in the organization. Emissions, including the base year emissions Address all relevant issues in a factual and coherent manner, based on a may also be adjusted upon discovery of significant errors, or a number of clear audit trail. Disclose any relevant assumptions and make appropriate cumulative errors, that are collectively significant in line with the guidance references to the accounting and calculation methodologies and data provided by the GHG Protocol. sources used. • Accuracy: However, if adjustments are relatively insignificant or do not reflect a Ensure that the quantification of GHG emissions is systematically neither change in calculation methodology, recalculations will not be performed over nor under true emissions, as far as can be judged, and that uncertainties for previous years’ emissions. are reduced as far as practicable. Achieve sufficient accuracy to enable users to make decisions with reasonable assurance as to the integrity of the This year’s report includes adjusted figures for 2010. The adjustment was reported information. (Source: GHG Protocol) felt necessary as more updated emission factors became available a well as improvements in our internal data collection methods made it possible 4. Organizational boundary to obtain more accurate activity data in some instances. On account of the GHG Protocol allows a company to define the organizational boundaries for readjustment, our emissions for 2010 have been revised to 160,993 tonnes, carbon reporting according to definitions of ‘equity share’, ‘financial control’ slightly lower than the originally reported 164,035 tonnes. or ‘operational control’. We have also changed the currency from Euro to US dollar for the purpose To give the most representative footprint, DyStar group defines its of reporting emissions intensity per $ million turnover as we converted our organizational boundaries using the operational control approach as accounting system from German GAAP to IFRS and changed the Group defined in the GHG Protocol. The emissions of all operations over which the representation currency from EUR to USD. Our previous carbon emissions company has operational control and all owned and leased facilities and report calculated emissions intensity per million dollars of turnover based vehicles that the company occupies or operates are included in the report. on 12 months emissions data and 11 months revenue data. This year, we Emissions are based on measurements or on estimations or extrapolations have readjusted this figure by calculating the intensity based on 11 months where no measured data is available. figures for emissions and turnover to make the figures comparable year on year. We have reported on the emissions associated with energy that we buy or generate worldwide. 9. Verification Our carbon emissions report is a voluntary initiative and as such we currently We have not reported for offices with less than 20 employees as emissions do not seek third party verification of emissions data reported. However, from these offices is estimated to be insignificant while data gathering carbon emissions experts from CSRWorks International, the sustainability would have required significant administrative and financial resources. consulting firm we hired to assist in preparing the carbon emissions report, evaluated the data gathering methods and carried out quality checks for 5. Operational boundary the sampled data. In addition, we have implemented an internal check and Our report this year includes direct emissions under scope 1 and indirect balance mechanism to improve quality and accuracy of data collected and emissions under scope 2. reported. Direct emissions under scope 1 include: • Emissions from combustion of fuel in stationary sources • Emissions from combustion of fuel in company-owned and leased mobile combustion sources Fugitive emissions from refrigeration and air-conditioning are currently not reported as such emissions have been determined to be less than 5% of our overall emissions and considered not significant. Water monitor water use and gain a deeper insight into water use patterns. According to the United Nations Water program, water scarcity has This year’s our data has been gathered from all 16 production plants become one of the biggest challenges the world faces. It is estimated and 25 office or laboratory locations worldwide. that nearly two billion people could face water shortages in less than twenty years. Our direct water footprint in 2011 was calculated to be 9.27 million cubic meters, slightly higher than the figure of 9 million in 2010 on UN agencies estimate that by 2025, 1.8 billion people will be living in account of increased production volumes and changed product mix. countries or regions with absolute water scarcity, and two-thirds of the Production plants accounted for 99% of the total water use. world’s population could be living under water stressed conditions. Main sources of water included surface water (62.8%) and water purchased It is estimated that almost half the world’s population will be living in from utilities (35%). Ground water accounted for just 2.1%. The bulk areas of high water stress by 2030. At the same time, demand for water of the water we used was for cooling (73%) and production processes is projected to outstrip supply by a staggering 40 percent by 2030. (20%). Domestic use of water such as general washing was at 6%. The volume of water drawn from various sources and consumption patterns At DyStar, water responsibility is an integral part of our sustainability were about the same as in 2010. program. Water is an important input resource for producing chemicals, dyestuffs and pigments. A significant amount of water is also used by Water intensity or water use per tonne of production was 95 cubic the textile, apparel and leather industry and the end users of our products. meters, slightly up from 93 cubic meters in 2010. For us, water responsibility means continuously looking for ways to Our production plants recycled 1.78 million cubic meters of water in optimize use of water in our operations and investing in research to 2011, up from 1.72 million cubic meters in 2010. This mainly included develop products that reduce water use for our customers. Our plants water recovered from steam condensate, evaporation of wastewater, also recycle water where possible to reduce demand for fresh water. and vessel washings. Recycled water was used for cooling, equipment washing, production processes and gardening. Water is mainly used at our plants to produce dyestuffs. Common uses of water include adding water directly to product for dissolution, dilution The actual volume of fresh water avoided due to recycling of water of concentrate materials, washing of product at various stages of production, is estimated to be much more than 1.78 million cubic meters if the washing of vessels, cooling systems and for directly controlling the amount of demand satisfied is taken into account. However, we currently temperature to enable safe reactions. do not calculate the demand satisfied. Managing water in our industry is not without complexities. For example, DyStar production plants continue to look for ways to increase water water use can significantly vary with products. A change in product reuse or recycling. However, making wastewater recyclable or reusable mix in a given year can potentially decrease or increase water use. is an energy intensive process that can potentially push up an entity’s carbon footprint as well as cost of operations. Our challenge therefore We started measuring our global water footprint in 2011 covering is to achieve a balance between energy use and water treatment for consumption data for 2010. In 2011, we continued to gather data to recycling. 44 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “Through proper and effective production planning, in 2011 we increased the plant capacity and performance, reducing manufacturing costs and doing more efficient use of water and energy in our processes”. Antonio Huerta Production & Plant Manager Naucalpan Mexico Improving production processes to make them more water efficient, Water consumption reducing the amount of input water by creative solutions, preventing 2010 2011 leakage and wastage, and employee training and awareness remain Volume of water used (cubic meters) 9,007,209 9,269,530 key areas that we are focussed on. To learn more about how our products help our customers to reduce Water intensity per tonne of production their water use, please read the Product Stewardship section of this 2010 2011 report. Water consumption per tonne of production 93 95 DyStar Water Initiatives Water drawn from sources 2011 Water use in 2011 Our production site in Apiuna, Brazil has been harvesting rainwater successfully since 2009. This has helped the site to reduce use Others Drinking of freshwater from 1.08 cubic meters per tonne of production in 0.4% 2009 to 0.76 cubic meters in 2011. 0.1% Utilities Domestic 6% Production The DyStar plant in Corlu, Turkey found creative uses % of steam condensate that reduced consumption of fresh water. 35.0% 20 Steam condensate is high temperature water left after steam has 62.8% 73% Others been supplied to a process application. The plant developed a 0.43% system to collect the condensate and use it for washing and boiling 2.1% of vessels and in certain production processes. The plant not only saves costs otherwise needed for cooling of condensate before Ground water Surface water Cooling safe disposal, it requires less water from fresh water sources. Using steam condensate to boil vessels also lowers energy consumption and the cost as lower energy is required to bring the water in cubic meters the vessel to boiling point. In 2011, the plant managed to reuse 2,860 tonnes of steam condensate, reducing consumption of 1,720,000 1,780,000 fresh water by the same volume. The DyStar facility in Naucalpan, Mexico reduced water consumption per tonne of production from an earlier 1.83 cubic meters to 1.62 cubic meters in 2011. 2010 2011 Water recycled 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 45 Wastewater for 73% of the total water use in DyStar. The issue of polluted wastewater in the textile industry has received global attention in the past couple of years. Influential activist NGOs In 2011, our plants discharged 1.79 million cubic meters of wastewater such as Greenpeace®, have launched campaigns against the polluters compared with 1.75 million cubic meters in 2010. Discharge per tonne in China and elsewhere. Law enforcement to contain toxic discharge of production was at 18.4 in 2011 against 18.05 in 2010. from textile factories has intensified notably in China and India. In 2011, emissions of organic substances to water measured as the DyStar’s wastewater strategy places the company favorably in a toughening chemical oxygen demand (COD) were 3,735 tonnes or 0.0363 tonnes regulatory regime and with increasing awareness of the issue due to of COD per tonne of production, a minor increase over 2010. activists’ campaigns. While we manage our own wastewater responsibly, we also continue to invest in developing products and processes that The slight increase in wastewater and COD in 2011 is attributed to reduce wastewater emissions in our customers’ operations. higher production volume and a change in product-mix that included higher proportion of synthesized intermediates and final product Wastewater discharge from dyestuff production may contain significant stages. Another reason for increase is that DyStar plant in Leverkusen, amounts of chemical compounds, intermediate products and in some Germany operated for nine months in 2011 against six months in 2010. cases dyes, presenting an opportunity to recover these materials from the wastewater for reuse and thereby reduce the pollutant load of the DyStar Wastewater Initiatives final discharge. Our production plants continuously look for creative solutions to reduce wastewater discharge or the toxicity levels. For example, We have a strict policy to comply with applicable national regulations the DyStar plant in Apiuna, Brazil has been improving the process governing wastewater discharge. Whilst we do some pre-treatment of for washing vessels and production area and has managed to wastewater at a number of our sites, most of our wastewater is channelled reduce wastewater from 255 litres per tonne of production in into licensed third party wastewater treatment plants for further treatment. 2009 to 204 litres in 2010 and 133 litres in 2011. The composition of wastewater from the production of dyes can vary The plant in Hangzhou, China recycles water from washing of depending on the product mix. In other words, wastewater discharge vessels to reduce wastewater. The plant in Nanjing recycles high volume may differ from year to year if the proportion of products concentration mother liquor for the next batch of production. changes. At the plant in Wuxi, China, improvements made in the method Wastewater is generated during the production of dyes in our plants, for cleaning filter bags, reuse of water from equipment washings, and as a result of washing of vessels and other equipment. In 2011, and better production planning to reduce equipment cleaning production processes accounted for 20% of the overall water consumption. has resulted in huge reductions in wastewater. The plant managed to reduce wastewater per tonne of production from 5.77 cubic A significant portion of our total water use is for cooling purpose meters in 2008 to 3.57 cubic meters at the end of 2011. where water does not come into direct contact with chemicals and hence does not get contaminated. In 2011, cooling systems accounted 46 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group “In 2011 the Reidsville plant successfully evaluated all aspects of production. This detailed analysis and evaluation of our technology was done to help improve cycle times and reduce cost. We are committed to maintaining these successes and I look forward to how our initiatives help to improve production in 2012 and beyond.” Marc Bumberger Production Plant Head Reidsville USA Wastewater DyStar plants in Ankleshwar, India and Gabus, Indonesia are zero-wastewater discharge facilities. At our Ankleshwar facility, 2010 2011 the entire volume of wastewater is treated by a Reverse Osmosis Total wastewater discharged (m3) 1,749,333 1,792,395 plant for reuse resulting in zero discharge to the environment. Wastewater intensity per t of production 18.05 18.40 Treated water is reused within the facility further reducing COD discharged (t) 3,038 3,537 demand for fresh water. Remaining concentrate is disposed COD intensity per t of production 0.0313 0.0363 through licensed contractors. In 2011, the plant treated 510 cubic meters of wastewater that yielded 460 cubic meters clean water for reuse. In Gabus we try to minimize, collect and recycle as much as possible of the cleaning water from the finishing plant. Synthesis 1,749,333 1,792,395 related waste water and the remaining washing water from the 18.05 18.40 finishing section is concentrated via internal evaporation and the concentrate is spray dried. At the end, all water is evaporated and the solid material is collected and sent to a licensed waste 2010 2011 2010 2011 management contractor for final disposal. Total wastewater discharged Wastewater intensity per In 2011, the Gabus plant generated over 55,000 cubic meters of (m3) (t) of production wastewater, all of which was evaporated resulting in zero liquid discharge to the environment. Our facility in Reidsville, USA is adding a Dissolved Air Floatation (DAF) unit which will reduce the oil and grease concentration in the wastewater and enable the plant to reuse some of the 3,038 3,537 0.0313 0.0363 wastewater. The unit is expected to be operational by early 2012. 2010 2011 2010 2011 COD intensity per COD discharged (t) (t) of production 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 47 Waste Waste generated in 2011 was slightly higher than in 2010 because DyStar’s environmental management system includes extensive policies a major production plant in Leverkusen, Germany operated for nine and procedures for managing waste effectively. months in 2011 as against six months in 2010. Overall production was also slightly higher in 2011 than in 2010. More significantly, the Our approach to managing waste is simple: reduce, reuse and recycle product mix was different in 2011 involving higher proportion of as much as possible to minimize the impact on the environment. synthesized intermediates and final product stages resulting in Reduction in waste directly translates into cost savings on account of increased amount of wastewater. reduced input. Reusing or recycling waste has obvious financial incentives as it reduces consumption of fresh material and maximizes value for Our plants currently do not have hazardous waste treatment facility. the organization. Therefore, hazardous waste needs to be transported to the third-party treatment plants. In 2011, hazardous waste amounting to 5,783 tonnes Waste that cannot be reused or recycled is safely disposed of through was transported out of DyStar sites worldwide for treatment and disposal. licensed waste management contractors in compliance with local regulations. Hazardous waste is incinerated by licensed contractors to DyStar plants worldwide recycled or reused 2,263 tonnes of waste in reduce the volume of waste sent to landfill. Non-hazardous waste is 2011, up from 565 tonnes in 2010. Recycling or reusing waste continues sent to designated landfills through licensed contractors. to be a focus area for our production plants in managing waste to minimize impact on the environment. Major sources of hazardous wastes at our production plants include sludge from filtration, evaporation, and wastewater treatment, process Reusing waste residues, rejected batches, and packaging residues. While DyStar production plants recycle waste whenever possible, some of our waste is reused by other industries as input. For example, Some of the common approaches used by our production plants to the plant in Ludwigshafen, Germany has been selling ammonia water reduce waste include reusing by-products in other processes, reusing from waste gas system to an external organization which produces wastewater from equipment washing for subsequent batches of ammonia gas from that waste. In this way, 11,647 tonnes and 11,052 production and reducing the amount of off-specification products tonnes ammonia water in 2010 and 2011 respectively was reused. by stricter quality control. Common approaches also involves the reworking off-specification products wherever possible, reducing the The DyStar facility in Gabus, Indonesia sends its waste to cement amount of wastewater to reduce sludge, and proper labelling and manufacturers who reuse the waste. In 2011, the facility sent 1924 storage of hazardous substances in an isolated and secure area. tonnes of waste in this way, up from 1320 tonnes in 2010. In 2011, DyStar plants generated 9,161 tonnes of waste or 0.094 tonnes per tonne of production. Hazardous waste accounted for 63% of the total waste or 0.059 tonnes per tonne of production. Non-hazardous waste was at 3,378 tonnes or 0.035 tonnes per tonne of production. 48 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Significant spills Waste There were no significant spills recorded in 2011. However, there were 2010 2011 26 minor incidents of accidental escapes from primary containment. Hazardous waste 4,805 5,783 On 11 out of 16 production facilities where we operate, there were no Non-hazardous waste 3,534 3,378 incidents of any spills in 2011. Total waste 8,339 9,161 Hazardous waste per t of production 0.050 0.059 Except in one case, all spills took place within the plant premises. The Non-hazardous waste per t of production 0.036 0.035 only incident that occurred outside a DyStar plant was in Brazil when Overall waste per t of production 0.068 0.094 a truck carrying finished goods met with an accident spilling nine Hazardous waste transported out 4,805 5,783 tonnes of chemicals on the road. The spill was immediately cleaned Waste recycled and reused 565 2,263 up and remediated with no significant impact. All other spills were thoroughly investigated to identify the root cause Total waste generated in 2011 and to assess the impact. Clean up and remediation steps were taken Non-hazardous waste immediately in all cases. The spills in most cases caused some loss of raw materials or finished product other than clean up costs. Measures were taken to prevent recurrence. Steps included re-training 37% of operators, changes in standard operating procedures, more rigorous 63% plant maintenance, and installing monitoring devices to prevent overflow of material. Hazardous waste 5,783 4,805 3,378 3,534 2010 2011 2010 2011 Total waste Total waste 8,339 9,161 565 2,263 Hazardous waste Waste recycled Waste Non-hazardous and reused (t) waste 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 49 Employees Our employees are one of our greatest assets. Our people drive Workforce distribution 2011 innovation, quality and service excellence – attributes that give DyStar a competitive edge in the global market. Offices Research and development has been one of our key strengths for many years. Our chemists and scientists ensure DyStar enjoys a continuous pipeline 43% of innovative products and stays a strong player in the industry. 57% Our employees in production plants not only ensure stringent quality and timely deliveries of products to meet customers’ requirements, they also play a crucial role in our quest for continuously improving Production plant cost-efficiency and making operations cleaner and greener. Employees by country 2011 The sales teams develop business, build relationships with customers and solve their problems. Administrative, technical and support staff Others China members in DyStar offices laboratories and offices worldwide ensure 16% operations run in a smooth and efficient manner. Singapore 4% % We value each employee’s contribution and recognize their role in Turkey 3% 25 18% making DyStar a strong and successful company. 4% Keeping employees engaged, respecting diversity, recognizing their USA 3% Germany contributions, treating each one of them fairly, ensuring a safe and secure workplace, creating opportunities for growth and learning and Brazil 9% 19% facilitating their career aspirations are all integral parts of DyStar’s work India culture. Indonesia We were one of the first chemical manufacturing companies to adopt towards their communities. SA8000 standards for social responsibility, and have recently become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Principles. DyStar Responsibility toward employees is one of the important aspects of human resources policies are aligned with both SA8000 standards and DyStar’s sustainability framework. We closely monitor, and disclose, the UNGC Principles. company performance on employee related indicators. As the employer of more than 2,400 people around the world, DyStar DyStar had 2,419 employees as of end of December 2011. Of these, has a responsibility for their health and safety in the workplace, in providing 57% were employed in our production plants. The head office in Singapore, good and equal opportunities, and in acting responsibly and constructively country offices and laboratories worldwide accounted for the remaining 50 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 43% employees. The number of managers and supervisors was at 536. Employees by category 2011 Permanent employees accounted for 91% of job positions. Contract workers, temporary and part-time employees constituted the rest. Major jobs locations included China, Germany, Indonesia and India. Admin, technical and support staff formed 55% of the total workforce 91% 2% Part-time & temp followed by supervised production workers (25%), mid-level management 7% (15%) and senior management (5%). Contract Age, gender and diversity Permanent Men accounted for 70% of DyStar employees while women held 30% of the jobs. Men formed the bulk of the workforce (83%) in production Employees by gender 2011 plants, a common trend in chemicals manufacturing industry. However, we had a better gender balance in offices, including headquarters, where women were 46% of the workforce. Female Employees in the age group of 30-50 years accounted for 71% of the 30% 70% workforce followed by employees in the ‘less than 30 years’ age group (16%) and those more than 50 years age (13%). Female representation in the three age groups we tracked was as follows: 41% in ‘less than 30 years’, 30% in the age group of 30-50 years, and Male 26% in the group consisting employees above 50 years of age.Women held 49% of admin, technical and support jobs. Their share in senior Employees by gender in management and mid-level management was 13% and 28% respectively. production plant 2011 Ethnic diversity We respect the diversity of all cultures and values. DyStar’s policy is to offer equal opportunities for employment and growth to people based 17% Female on merit. Globally we employed more than 35 nationalities indicating a rich 83% diversity of our workforce. Disability We employed 15 persons with some form of physical disability in 2011. Three of these were women. Male 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 51 Employee training Employees by gender in offices 2011 DyStar believes in ongoing training. Training opportunities are provided to enable our employees to do their job more effectively and facilitate their career growth. In 2011, DyStar employees collectively received Female more than 7,000 hours of training, which equates to 2.9 hours per employee. Training topics included Hazardous Chemicals management, Protection 46% from occupational disease, Operating pressure vessels, team building, Occupational safety, Compliance, REACH, Sales management, Problem 54% solving and Decision making, Apply workplace safety and health practices, English language and Sustainability. Male There is ongoing informal on-the-job training, briefings and mentoring across DyStar, data for which is currently not maintained. Employees by age group 2011 Employee performance management Less than All permanent DyStar employees are covered by an extensive 30 years performance management system. We have implemented a global % performance appraisal system that takes into account employee 16 performance, career development and professional progress. 13% Performance appraisal is used for determining promotion, training and learning needs and potential career growth opportunities. 71% More than 50 years DyStar global HR policy also includes a reward and recognition scheme 30-50 years aimed at rewarding exceptional performance. Human rights DyStar conducts business in conformance with internationally accepted 70% 74% 59% 41% human rights norms. We were one of the first chemical sector companies to endorse SA8000 standards that include standards relating to human 30% 26% rights. The company is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact principles for corporate social responsibility which includes respecting human rights. Less than 30-50 More than 30 years years 50 years We apply the following human rights principles to our operations Employees by age group and gender worldwide: Male Female 52 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Child labor Employees by category 2011 We do not support or tolerate child labor within our area of responsibility. DyStar does not expose children or young workers to situations in Production staff or outside of the workplace that are hazardous, unsafe or unhealthy. However, we do not currently evaluate suppliers for identifying potential % 25 55% 15%5% risks of child labor in their operations. Forced labor Senior DyStar does not engage in or support the use of forced labor. Personnel management are not required to lodge deposits or identity papers upon commencing employment with the company. We do not evaluate suppliers for Admin, Technical Mid-level identifying potential risks of forced labor in their operations. & Support management Freedom of Association, Right to Collective Bargaining We respect the right of all personnel to form and join trade unions and 99% 87% to bargain collectively. 72% 51% We ensure that the representatives of trade unions are not the subject 49% of discrimination and that they have access to their members in the 28% workplace. However, we do not evaluate suppliers for identifying potential 13% 1% risks of violation of freedom of association in their operations. Senior Mid-level Admin, Technical Production management management & Support staff Discrimination DyStar does not tolerate discrimination based on race, ethnic origin, Employees by category and gender 2011 gender, religion, philosophy, political affiliation or union membership, Male Female disability, age or sexual orientation. We do not tolerate behaviour that is sexually coercive or threatening. There were no reported incidents of discrimination in 2011. Disciplinary Practices We do not engage in or support the use of corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion and verbal abuse of its employees. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 53 Employees training by category DyStar signs Employers Pledge for Fair Employment Practices in hours 2011 DyStar signed the Employers’ Pledge with the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP) in Singapore in 2011. Production TAFEP’s shared vision is for Singapore to be one of the best places in the world to work; a place where every worker is given an equal 1518 staff 3512 opportunity for employment, rewarded according to his or her merit, treated fairly and with respect, and given the opportunity to optimize his or her unique talents; a place where businesses 2004 are able to attract, develop and retain valued employees, and Senior & mid-level create a harmonious and inclusive work environment, where Admin, Technical management & Support employees are highly motivated and contribute to their fullest to their organizations and the economy. With a view to achieving this vision, the tripartite partners – the Singapore National Employers Federation, Singapore Business Federation, the National Trades Union Congress and the Ministry of Manpower have unanimously endorsed the 5 key principles of fair employment practices for implementation: • Recruit and select employees on the basis of merit, such as skills, experience and ability, regardless of age, race, gender, religion or family status. • Treat employees fairly and with respect and implement progressive human resource management systems. • Provide employees with equal opportunities for training and development based on their strengths and needs, to help them achieve their full potential. • Reward employees fairly based on their ability, performance, contribution and experience. • Abide by labor laws and adopt Tripartite Guidelines which promote fair employment practices. 54 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Society DyStar is committed to being a good corporate citizen by contributing for-profit academy in India to identify, train and retain talent within to community development in a meaningful way. Technical knowledge the industry. and expertise in the area of textile chemicals is our key strength. We believe we can use our core strength to make a difference in society. The Advanced Academy for Development of Textile Technologists This is why DyStar has identified technical education as a key area of (AADTT), as the institute is called, has been established as a charitable community investment. trust. Investing in promoting technical education enables the beneficiaries AADTT has signed memorandum of understanding (MOU) with more to gain knowledge and skills that are in demand. The textile industry than ten premium institutes across the country, the Society of Dyers on the other hand gains from availability of trained manpower. and Colorists (SDC), American Association of Textile Chemist and Colorist (AATCC), ASTM and others to back the initiative. One of the first initiatives we started was in India where we collaborated with industry partners to open an academy in 2010. AADTT’s vision is to create a unique knowledge and technologically advanced platform for identification, skill enhancement and career development of resources especially for the textile industry. AADTT recruits B.Tech and M.Tech students from across the country, offers them accommodation, transport, stipend and trains them for a period of one year in DyStar and Alok facilities by carefully selected internal and external faculty members. The academy provides quality training, practical knowledge, innovative technology, skills of entrepreneurship and leadership. Interested textile industry companies can hire these students after they complete the training. Equipped with the latest practical knowledge and skills, the academy’s students can look forward to relatively higher remuneration package. Academy for developing textile technologists in India Collaboration with the American Association of Textile Chemists and In India, the industry faces shortage of textile technologists with the Colorists (AATCC) has enabled the academy to include AATCC’s right skills. A key reason is that curriculum in several textile technology internationally accepted standards of textile testing in the syllabus. schools has not been able to keep pace with rapid development of Students get to learn standard methods of testing dyed and chemically new technology in the textile sector. treated fibers and fabrics to measure and evaluate such performance characteristics as color fastness to light and washing, durable press, To address the issue, DyStar and India’s largest fully integrated textile soil release, shrinkage, water resistance and the many other conditions company Alok Industries Limited have joined hands to set up a notto which textiles may be subjected. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 55 AADTT is also a Student Chapter member of AATCC. Students of 2011DyStar Indonesia offers scholarships to needy students from local 12 batch of AADTT have presented papers in AATCC Conference held elementary schools. In 2011, 36 students were given the scholarship. in the U.S. DyStar Indonesia helped members of local community in Gabus, During 2010 and 2011, a total of 32 students were enrolled under the where we operate a plant, to establish a cooperative to run a cleaning scheme. service business. Then, DyStar plant hired their cleaning services for the plant. DyStar plant management in Gabus, Indonesia arranges a quarterly liaison meeting with local community leaders. DyStar Singapore contributed to Singapore Children Society by purchasing their merchandise to be given away as gifts during one of the employee engagement events. Community work We support philanthropic activities around the globe and in 2011 DyStar offices worldwide supported a number of community projects. For example, DyStar Turkey joined other companies in the Corlu region to send aid to Van earthquake victims. DyStar Brazil has been donating money to Associação de Pais e Amigos dos Excepcionais (Association of Fathers and Friends of Special people), a special school for people with physical disability. DyStar Mexico donated two computers and one overhead projector to a public school in Mexico suburban area. In another initiative, DyStar donated food to orphanage in an impoverished urban area of Mexico City. 56 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Economic Performance DyStar is a privately held company and hence is not required to disclose Revenue by region 2011 financial performance reports publicly. Our senior management is accountable directly to the company’s owners. Americas However, we are pleased to share our financial performance during 26% 2010 and 2011 as follows. DyStar Group revenue for the calendar year 2011 was at USD777.2 million, up from USD613.2 million in 2010. In 42% 2011, Asia accounted for 42% of the revenue generated followed by Europe (32%) and the Americas (26%). Employee wages and benefits 32% in 2011 amounted to USD131 million. DyStar paid USD6.7 million in Asia government taxes worldwide. Europe Supporting local suppliers DyStar is committed to contributing to the development of local economies where the company has operations. For example, we buy $USD from local suppliers as much as possible. Suppliers are selected based million on a number of criteria that include quality, price, reliability, timely delivery, service and environmental performance. Within these parameters we prefer sourcing from local suppliers. 2010 2011 In terms of value, purchase of raw material and packaging constitute the bulk of our purchases. Raw materials mainly include chemicals. In 613.2 777.2 some countries it is difficult to find locally produced quality chemicals. In such cases we have no choice but to import materials from foreign suppliers. Revenue DyStar production plants account for the significant portion of all the purchases made. In 2011, we started collecting supplier data for locations where we have significant operations to track purchases from local suppliers. In China where we have three production plants, local suppliers accounted for 92% of the total purchase. In India, Germany and Brazil, the share of local suppliers was 92%, 83% and 74%. We are committed to continue to improve and expand collection of purchase data to better report our performance in coming years. 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 57 Global Reporting Initiative Index G3.1 GRI Application Level B STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Page Profile Disclosure Description 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4, 17-20 2. Organizational Profile Page Profile Disclosure Description 2.1 Name of the organization. 5, 9 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 6-8, 28-31 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 6-8, 11 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 9 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 6, 9 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 11 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 6, 9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6, 57 (97,429 metric tonnes of production in 2011) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 6 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 10 3. Report Parameters Page Profile Disclosure Description 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 5,18 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 5 3.5 Process for defining report content. 5, 18-21 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 5 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 5 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 5 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 5 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 43 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 58-62 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 5 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Page Profile Disclosure Description 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 11, 12 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 11 58 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Profile Disclosure Description 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 11 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 11 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 11 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 11, 13 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 11 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 13, 14, 22, 23 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 11, 12 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 11 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 11, 13, 22, 23 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, organization subscribes or endorses. 40, 50, 54 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 15-17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 15-17 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 15-17 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 15-17, 18-21 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3 DMA Description DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Page Aspects Economic performance 19, 57 Market presence 9, 18, 19-21 Indirect economic impacts 19,57 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Page Aspects Energy 19-20, 38 Water 19-20, 44-45 Emissions, effluents and waste 19-20, 40-43, 46-49 Products and services 21, 27-31 Compliance 35-37 Overall 19-20, 35 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Page Aspects Employment 20, 50-54 Occupational health and safety 20, 33-34 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 59 Training and education 20, 52 Diversity and equal opportunity 20, 51 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Page Aspects Non-discrimination 20-21, 53 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 20-21, 53 Child labor 20-21, 53 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor 20-21, 53 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Page Aspects Corruption 21 Anti-competitive behavior 21 Compliance 21 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Page Aspects Product and service labelling 21, 26 Compliance 21, 25, 26, 28, 31 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Economic Page Performance Indicator Description Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 57 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 4, 19-20 Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 57 Environmental Page Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 38, 39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 38 ,39 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 30 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 44-45 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 44 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 40-43 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 46, 47 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 48, 49 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 49 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 48 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 28, 29 60 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 37 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 36, 37 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Page Performance Indicator Description Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 50, 51, 52, 53 Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. 33, 34 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 52, 54 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 52 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 51, 52 Social: Human Rights Page Performance Indicator Description Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 53 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 53 Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 53 Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 53 Social: Society Page Performance Indicator Description Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 11, 13, 14, 21 Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 21 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 37 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 61 Social: Product Responsibility Page Performance Indicator Description Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 21, 25, 26 62 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group UN Global Compact Index DyStar committed to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in 2011. This report includes our first Communication on Progress, a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact which the signatory companies are required to issue annually. Our reporting against the ten UNGC principles is part of the content of this report. The below index indicates the location of the relevant content within our Sustainability Report 2011. UNGC Principle Description Page 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 13, 20-21, 52-53 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses 13, 52-53 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 20-21, 53 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 13, 20-21, 53 5 Support effective abolition of child labor 13, 20-21, 53 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 13, 20-21, 53 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 19-20, 35-36 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 19-20, 35-49 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 19-20, 29, 30, 39, 45, 46-47 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 21, 22 2011 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 63 Sustainability is our responsibility. At DyStar, our products and services help customers worldwide reduce costs, shorten lead times and meet stringent quality and ecological specifications. Frankfurt Ludwigshafen Bangladesh DyStar Singapore Pte. Ltd. (Liaison Office) House No. 257 (2nd Floor, B2) Navana Ville Akbar, Road No :19/A Marcq en Baroeul New DOHS, Mohakhali, Dhaka-1206 Milan Tel: + 88 02 875 16 40 Porto Istanbul Kyunggi-do Fax: + 88 02 875 16 41 Reidsville, NC Mem Martins Barcelona Osaka Charlotte, NC Corlu Nanjing Wuxi DyStar.Bangladesh@DyStar.com Ankleshwar Omuta Cairo Shanghai Karachi Hangzhou Naucalpan Taipei Brazil Mexico City Navi Mumbai Dhaka Hong Kong Samutprakarn DyStar Indústria e Comércio de Produtos Químicos Ltda. Singapore Av. Eng° Luis Carlos Berrini, 1645 Jakarta 11° andar, Cidade Monções CEP 04571-011. São Paulo / SP Gabus Tel: +55 11 55 08 36 84 São Paulo Fax: +55 11 55 08 36 23 Apiúna DyStar.Brazil@DyStar.com Pietermaritzburg China/Hong Kong DyStar China Ltd. Room 2503, 9 Chong Yip Street Global Headquarters Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong DyStar Office Tel: +852 29 55 33 88 Key Production Site Fax: +852 29 55 11 88 Agencies in 50 other countries DyStar.China@DyStar.com China/Shanghai Italy DyStar (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. DyStar Italia S.r.l. 6F, Building No. 20 Via delle Groane 126 201 Min Yi Road, Songjiang District 20024 Garbagnate Milanese (MI) Thailand Shanghai 201612 Tel: +39 02 99 44 01 Portugal / Spain DyStar Thai Ltd. Tel: +86 21 37 74 63 38 Fax: +39 02 99 02 83 91 DyStar Iberica 150 Moo 8, Soi Praekasar Fax: +86 21 37 74 63 39 DyStar.Italy@DyStar.com Unipessoal, Lda. Sukhumvit Road DyStar.China@DyStar.com Rua Manuel Pinto de Azevedo, 626 T. Taiban, A. Muang Japan 4100-320 Porto Samutprakarn 10280 Egypt DyStar Japan Ltd. Tel: +351 22 615 31 80 Tel: +66 2 701 48 05-8 DyStar Kimya Sanayi Ve Ticaret Ltd. 7-20, Azuchimachi I-chrome Fax: +351 22 615 31 90 Fax: +66 2 701 32 59, 701 48 09 8, Abdel Rahman Ibn Ouf Str Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-0052 DyStar.Portugal@DyStar.com DyStar.Thai@DyStar.com Heliopolis, Cairo Tel: +81 6 62 63 66 72 Tel: +20 2 26 24 35 78 Fax: +81 6 62 63 66 91 South Africa Turkey Fax: +20 2 26 24 35 81 DyStar.Japan@DyStar.com DyStar Boehme Africa (Pty) Ltd. DyStar Kimya San. Tic. Ltd. Sti. DyStar.Egypt@DyStar.com 27 Sheffield Road Mecidiye Mahallesi Korea Willowton, Pietermaritzburg, 3201 Cenap Sahabettin Sok. No.24 Germany / North Central Europe DyStar Korea Ltd. P.O. Box 1845, Pietermaritzburg, 3200 34718 Kosuyolu Kadıköy / Istanbul DyStar Colours Distribution GmbH Jin Wha Bldg. 2nd and 3rd fl. Tel: +27 33 390 81 00 Tel: +90 216 544 15 00 Industriepark Hoechst, Bldg. B 598 #756-1, Gojan-dong Danwon-gu Fax: +27 33 390 23 18 Fax: +90 216 339 90 61 65926 Frankfurt am Main Ansan City Kyunggi-do, South Korea DyStar.Boehme.Africa@DyStar.com DyStar.Turkey@DyStar.com Tel: +49 69 21 09 0 Tel: +82 2 34 52 78 78 Fax: +49 69 21 09 20 00 Fax: +82 2 34 52 78 76 Taiwan USA DyStar.Germany@DyStar.com DyStar.Korea@DyStar.com DyStar Taiwan Ltd. DyStar L.P. 5th Fl., No. 196, Sec. 2 9844-A Southern Pine Boulevard India Mexico Chien Kuo N. Road, 104 Taipei Charlotte, NC 28273 DyStar India Pvt. Ltd. DyStar de México S. de R.L. de C.V. Tel: +886 2 25 16 37 77 Tel: +1 704 561 30 00 Plot No. R-855 Av. Insurgentes Sur 1685 Fax: + 886 2 25 16 81 99 Fax: +1 704 561 30 05 TTC Industrial Area Int. 501-504 Col. Guadalupe Inn DyStar.Taiwan@DyStar.com DyStar.USA@DyStar.com Rabale, P.O. Ghansoli Del Alvaro Obregón CP Navi Mumbai 400 701 01020 México D.F. Tel: +91 22 61 41 90 00 Tel: +52 55 53 22 51 00 Fax: +91 22 61 41 90 10 Fax: +52 55 56 62 56 18 Information and our technical advice whether verbal, in writing or by way DyStar.India@DyStar.com DyStar.Mexico@DyStar.com of trials are given in good faith but without warranty, and this also applies where proprietary rights of third parties are involved. Our advice does not Indonesia Pakistan release you from the obligation to check its validity and to test our products PT DyStar Colours Indonesia DyStar Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd. Menara Global Building 22nd Floor 217, Dehli Mercantile Co-operative as to their suitability for the intended processes and uses. The application, Jl. Jend. Gatot Subroto Kav. 27 Housing Society, Sirajudulla Road use and processing of our products and the products manufactured by you Jakarta 12930, Indonesia Karachi – 74800 on the basis of our technical advice are beyond our control and, therefore, Tel: +62 21 527 05 50 Tel: +92 21 34 55 69 95-7 entirely your own responsibility. Our products are sold in accordance with Fax: +62 21 527 05 20 Fax: +92 21 34 55 57 58 our General Conditions of Sale and Delivery. DyStar.Indonesia@DyStar.com DyStar.Pakistan@DyStar.com bluesign is a trade mark of bluesign technologies ag, Oeko-Tex is a trade mark of Forschungsinstitut Hohenstein, Responsible Care is a trade mark of European Chemical Industry Council, GRI is a trade mark of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative, Polo Ralph Lauren is a trade mark of The Polo/ Lauren Co. L.P., Greenpeace is a trade mark of Stichting Greenpeace Council, Facebook is a trade mark of Facebook Inc., Twitter is a trade mark of Global Headquarters Singapore Twitter, Inc., ETAD is a trade mark of The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Manufacturers. DyStar Singapore Pte Ltd Dianix /Levafix / Telon / Isolan / Remazol / Procion / Sera / Evo / Lava are trade marks of DyStar Colours Distribution GmbH 1A International Business Park #10-01, Singapore 609933 Tel: +65 66 71 28 00 09.0916-00.1212 Fax: +65 66 59 13 28 DyStar.Singapore@DyStar.com www.DyStar.com
