UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary NIRAS was founded in Denmark in 1956. engineering and consultancy company. Today, NIRAS is an international consultancy company with 1500 consultants and We provide sustainable technical solutions specialist. We have permanent offices in for global challenges within construction, more than 10 countries in Europe, Asia and infrastructure, environment, water, wastewaAfrica, and we have completed projects in ter, energy, natural resources and developmore than 180 countries all over the world. ment consulting. Our special trademark is an inter-disciplinary and innovative approach to We are independent of contractors, projects, and we take pride in transforming manufacturers and suppliers. clients’ visions and challenges into sustainable solutions. NIRAS is a member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Carsten Toft Boesen Chief Executive Officer At NIRAS we have a strong commitment to However our biggest potential is when we be a responsible, trusted and attractive help clients and societies all over the world employer and business partner. Both as an with their improvements. That is e.g. the employer and a business partner we have case when we implement the latest climate worked with our responsibility towards adaption technologies in design and societies, individuals and the environment for renovation of buildings and infrastructure, many years. Our support of Global Compact when we integrate environmentally friendly is hence a natural part of doing business. demolition principles in structures for wind turbine foundations or bridges or when we In all aspect of our business we are dependassess the environmental impact of new off ent on our employees. They are our source shore wind farms. of knowledge and our solutions towards clients are provided by our employees. Many We are proud, but yet humble, to be able to of our continued efforts involves how we take part in improving social and environrecruit, train and develop our employees to mental issues for our customers and societies act responsible. around the world. Our commitment towards acting responsible is founded in our mission, vision and values. We are working systematically to secure that these become deeply rooted within all parts Carsten T. Boesen of our organisation. We call this programme Chief Executive Officer NIRAS Fundamentals. In 2012 we continued and improved the corporate responsibility activities initiated in the previous years. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES We have developed our fundamentals 1. Businesses should support and respect further by defining a code of conduct for the the protection of internationally way we act and interact in order to live up to proclaimed human rights. our mission and values. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The performance and targets for 2012 have been met at satisfactory levels. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME Especially when working in developing REFERENCE TO POLICIES countries, our project managers on internaNIRAS supports the United Nations Universal tional projects are specifically informed about Declaration of Human Rights. NIRAS’ participation in the United Nations Global Compact, its principles and the NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, implications of this participation. making space for “the whole person”. Our aim is to be reflected in the way in which we During 2012 we continued our participation relate to and act towards one another. Thus, in the campaign “World’s Best News” where our values encompass the following: UN, Danish International Development Agency and a number of Danish aid –– We are human, receptive and dedicated, organizations are focusing on the positive as well as committed to our work and results of helping the development countries open towards our colleagues. and call on further action in order to reach the UN 2015-goals. –– Job satisfaction and good cooperation permeate our daily lives. NIRAS believes that an open and trusting relationship between managers and –– We have a great degree of freedom and employees is the best way to secure personal we take responsibility for the interests of growth and, hence, the growth of our our colleagues, the client and the company. We encourage this in many company. 4 different ways on a continual basis. LABOUR PRINCIPLES REFERENCE TO POLICIES 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Employment Conditions association and the effective recognition NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into of the right to collective bargaining. associations and to enter into collective 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination bargaining with management. All NIRAS of all forms of forced and compulsory employees have individual contracts, and the labour. employment conditions comply with current 5. Businesses should uphold the effective national legislation and requirements. abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination Occupational health and safety of discrimination in respect of employNIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, ment and occupation. where employees have good job satisfaction and good potential for development. ACTIONS AND OUTCOME During 2012 NIRAS have continued impleActivities related to NIRAS’ projects and mentation of information, guidelines, in-house operations must be performed such principles etc. for employees and managers. that the health, safety and welfare of the The target is to continuously improve easy affected human beings are ensured to the access to relevant information for all greatest possible degree. employees in NIRAS. Diversity and discrimination We are focusing on work-life balance by NIRAS considers diversity to be a business being flexible and supporting the needs of advantage that ensures our customers a the individual in order to ensure that all our better quality of service and promotes employees can achieve their potential and inspiration in-house. reach their goals. NIRAS ensures all present and future In 2012 we continued our internal manageemployees equal opportunities, regardless of ment training programs in order to provide gender, age, race, religion, nationality, ethnic our managers with the sufficient tools and and social origin, disability, political or sexual knowledge to ensure and enhance the orientation and family status. motivation, well-being and job-satisfaction of our employees. By the end of 2012 approxiThe culture and values at NIRAS are based on mately 60 % of the managers have particirespect for the individual and this also implies pated in the program, that will continue in acceptance and tolerance of diversity among 2013. colleagues and clients. We are open minded and welcome employees and business NIRAS does not employ children who are partners with different cultural, political and under age. religious backgrounds. The performance and targets for 2012 have been met at satisfactory levels. 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES In developing countries, NIRAS provides 7. Businesses should support a precautiontechnical assistance regarding the environary approach to environmental chalment, climate change, natural resource lenges. management, land management, water 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to supply, sanitation and health. promote greater environmental responsibility. In January 2012 we relocated our Danish 9. Businesses should encourage the head office to a more climate friendly development and diffusion of environbuilding powered partly by solar energy. mentally friendly technologies. Recently our Swedish head office relocated and integrated a new and flexible workplace ACTIONS AND OUTCOME design that reduces the required office space. NIRAS develops sustainable and environmentally sound solutions for both our clients and The performance and targets for 2012 have our self. been met at satisfactory levels. We integrate environmentally friendly REFERENCE TO POLICIES technologies into an increasing number of NIRAS accepts responsibility for the society client projects relating to buildings, construcand the environment. tion in general and industry as well as water, energy and wastewater systems. NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with clients and stakeholders and seeks solutions That is e.g. the case when we help our client that are compatible with the principles of account for and reduce their carbon sustainable development. footprint, when we integrate the latest climate adaption technologies in design and NIRAS supports the International Federation renovation of buildings and infrastructure of Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommenand when we assess the environmental dations on the environment and sustainable impact of future off shore wind farms. development. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE REFERENCE TO POLICIES 10. Businesses should work against corrupNIRAS has a Business Integrity Policy as well tion in all its forms, including extortion as an internal Business Integrity Management and bribery. System, which is a tool for the prevention of corrupt behaviour and the promotion of ACTIONS AND OUTCOME integrity. Requirements for compliance with NIRAS’ Business Integrity Policy are strongly NIRAS agrees with and has adopted the emphasised in all contracts with employees, Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct as managers, sub-consultants and agents. defined by the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). NIRAS’ Business Integrity Policies are also emphasised whenever NIRAS expand its business through joint ventures or acquisition of companies and activities anywhere in the world. The performance and targets for 2012 have been met at satisfactory levels. 7 OFFICES AND PROJECTS AROUND THE WORLD NIRAS A/S Bulgaria Finland Mozambique Tanzania Sortemosevej 19 www.niras.bg www.niras.fi www.niras.com www.niras.com 3450 Allerød, Denmark Denmark Germany Norway United Kingdom T +45 4810 4200 www.niras.dk www.niras.de www.nirasnorge.no www.niras.com/uk F +45 4810 4300 Estonia Greenland Poland Vietnam www.niras.ee www.niras.gl www.niras.pl www.rcee.org.vn Ethiopia Kenya Sweden Zambia www.niras.com www.niras.com www.niras.se www.niras.com www.niras.com
