UNGLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress www.ngahr.com TABLE OF CONTENTS STATEMENT OF SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ............................................... 3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2012/13 .......................................................................... 3 NGA-DELIVERING HUMAN RESOURCES EXCELLENCE ............................................................... 4 NGA AT A GLANCE.............................................................................................................. 5 GLOBAL SERVICES LOCAL DELIVERY .............................................................................. 6 GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS ................................................................................................. 6 THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES .................................................................................... 7 GOVERNANCE ................................................................................................................................. 8 GOING GLOBAL ............................................................................................................................... 8 ACT NOW ......................................................................................................................................... 9 ENGAGEMENT WITH EMPLOYEES................................................................................................. 9 EMPLOYMENT & DIVERSITY......................................................................................................... 10 Recruitment ........................................................................................................................ 11 Learning & Development Opportunities ............................................................................... 12 ENGAGEMENT WITH CUSTOMERS .............................................................................................. 14 The Pulse Check Survey ..................................................................................................... 14 NGA Customer Conferences ............................................................................................... 14 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT ........................................................................................................ 15 Share and Care – Joy of Giving........................................................................................... 15 ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR SUPPLY CHAIN .................................................................................. 16 ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE SERVICES .......................................................................... 17 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION............................................................................... 18 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES .................................................................................................. 19 Key Performance Indicators, Actions. Commentary ............................................................. 20 MORE INFORMATION .................................................................................................................... 24 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 2 Article I. Statement of Support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that NGA Human Resources (formerly NorthgateArinso) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In our Communications on Progress, we describe actions completed this past year to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders through our annual report, CSR initiatives, and other channels of communication. Adel Al-Saleh Chief Executive Officer NGA Human Resources Article II. Corporate Responsibility Review 2013 As a global business operating in 35 countries, NGA is committed to sustainable growth which promotes social, economic and environmental improvement. We aim to conduct our business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which we operate, to minimise our impact on the environment and to respect the needs of employees, customers and other stakeholders. Developing strong partnerships which generate growth and business success and deliver value are the pillars on which our corporate responsibility strategy and practice are based. Our task is two-fold:  To create business success for our commercial customers through more effective processes and the intelligent use of people and technology  To create wider value through innovation in service delivery to all of our clients and building better services for local communities for less Improving organisational performance is at the core of what we do – at work, at home, in school and within the community. Combating climate change is integral to developing sustainable services for NGA’s customers in all sectors. Environmental sustainability is fully embedded into service delivery methodology, with a focus on reducing the number of assets required and the environmental impact of the procurement of such assets, as well as favouring energy-efficient energy consumption models. Assets are reused wherever possible and where they are beyond economical repair, they are recycled in accordance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE). We also help our customers to reduce their emissions through the introduction of mobile technologies and flexible working. We are committed to ensuring that the services that we buy are sustainable. Sustainability considerations are integrated into our entire procurement process: in the identification of needs, evaluation of options, evaluation of tenders and in post-contract management. This approach is applied globally to all new and existing major suppliers. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 3 We have integrated corporate responsibility criteria into group-wide procurement. Last year, we reached our target to survey all new suppliers on their corporate responsibility practice. We are now moving to extend this approach to all existing major suppliers. Through NGA’s ActNow programme, every employee can do something to help deliver value, and build sustainable and healthy communities, while embracing sustainability, community involvement and engagement. Some examples of the employee initiatives include: Through an initiative called Share and Care, our Mumbai team helped support the India National Association for the Blind (NAB), by collecting donations and raising money to purchase items for the local NAB rehabilitation centre, which works to improve the skills and place visually impaired people into employment. UK offices participated in fund raising activities for Red Nose Day in support of the national Comic Relief charity which helps disadvantaged people throughout the world. Employees at our Jacksonville, Florida location host annual charitable giving campaigns for their local United Way, a non-profit organisation that disperses funds in the most impactful ways to improve education, health and income in the community. In addition to raising thousands of dollars each year, many employees volunteer for local United Way agencies. Most recently, hundreds of employees wrote letters of encouragement for graduating students to help motivate them to continue down their current path of success. In our St. John’s, Newfoundland location in Canada, employees recently ran a campaign that generated $10,000 in donations for the only Children’s Hospital in their community. In addition to their donations, many also volunteered for the hospital’s annual telethon to help manage the phone calls and collection of funds. Throughout all regions, employees found ways to give back to their communities, including mentoring, reading, and donations to their favourite charities. Northgate has continued to support the Young Apprentice scheme in the UK, with the last year seeing 43 Young Apprentices working across a range of services and clients, while gaining accreditations in ICT, Customer Service or Business Administration. Six of these young people have gone on to Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 4 become permanent employees of the company and several others have used the skills and experience they have gained to obtain permanent jobs with other organisations. Across our operations, Northgate hired in excess of 180 trainees, graduates and apprentices in a variety of roles. By enhancing employability through these schemes, Northgate is addressing shortages of skilled staff, gender issues and supply chain issues, creating a skilled future workforce which will benefit IT sector growth. Through our Flexible Benefits scheme our people are able to choose benefits that best support their lifestyle. In the UK, 91 charities benefit from employees using payroll giving, the carbon offsetting programme supports four separate projects in Africa, China, India and Thailand, where employees can participate in the cycle to work scheme, resulting in 134 tonnes of carbon offset credits. NGA: Let’s Make HR Work Better Our many years of experience with HR systems and processes benefit our clients in different ways. Globally, we understand the business of HR and the role it plays within an organisation. It is this understanding, combined with our technology expertise and superior service delivery that ensures we deliver the greatest impact for our clients. NGA has three Premium Service Centres which do the “heavy lifting” involved in global data collection, processing and management. Our nine Strategic Delivery Centres in key locations around the world coordinate global and regional services, and 19 Local Support Offices provide local-market consulting, compliance training and service delivery. This global consistency and efficiency, combined with in-depth local knowledge and service delivery, is unique among global HR and payroll services firms. Additionally, we are able to give clients a single point of contact for a global HR services relationship — streamlining everything from managing business agreements to addressing service needs anywhere around the world. At the same time, our local presence around the world ensures that our clients and their employees are served by people who not only know what it means to live and work in a region, but who have deep knowledge of local laws and compliance requirements. Our knowledge and experience span more than 100 countries, thereby allowing us to develop solutions which are unmatched by even our largest competitors. Global experience and best practices combined with local knowledge and service delivery — and the flexibility to capitalise on both — is how NGA’s experience and insight make a measurable difference for our clients outsourcing services. Section 2.01 NGA Human Resources at a Glance  Offices in 35 countries on five continents  Deliver HR & Payroll services in over 100 countries  Network of 20 Service Delivery Centres  8,500+ staff globally  Largest SAP Human Capital Management (HCM) consultancy practice, with over 1,500 experienced SAP HCM consultants  Over 20% of Global Fortune 500® companies serviced Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 5  Over 20 million employees administered worldwide  Over 40% of UK working population are paid by NGA’s solutions  Over 2 million employees serviced through HR Outsourcing Section 2.02 Global Services Local Delivery Article III. Section 3.01 Global Headquarters NGA Human Resources NGA Human Resources PeopleBuilding 2 6625 The Corners Parkway Maylands Avenue Suite 400 Hemel Hempstead Norcross GA 30092 United Kingdom United States Europe & LatAm HQ North America HQ Asia Pacific, Middle East NGA Human Resources NGA Human Resources & Africa The Crescent Brussels 8000 Baymeadows Way NGA Human Resources Lenniksebaan 451 Jacksonville Tokio Marine Centre 1070 Brussels FL 32256-7520 20 McCallum Street #16-01 Belgium Singapore 0690-46 United States Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 6 Article IV. The Ten Global Compact Principles At NGA we are committed to sustainable growth and working to integrate the Ten Global Compact Principles which promote social, economic and environmental improvement into our business as usual. We recognize that companies have a positive role to play in developing a society that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Our mission is to develop sustainable, efficient and effective organizations in the markets in which we operate, to support progressive public services which break down inequalities and to reach out to those most disadvantaged in our communities. Our objectives are to:  Embed responsibility into the way we govern, manage and perform as a business  To achieve the highest standards of integrity, ethical behaviour and corporate governance  To conduct our business in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible  To develop solutions that increase business productivity and competitiveness  To contribute to well-being through supporting services to the public that promote social justice This document describes NGA’s practical and policy response to the ten principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 7 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery Article V. Governance We aim to conduct our business in a socially responsible manner, contributing to the communities in which we operate, while minimising our impact on the environment. The Corporate Responsibility Group (CRG) which has representation from all members of the Northgate groups’ businesses, takes direct responsibility for: setting the group’s corporate responsibility policy framework, establishing the parameters of governance, identifying and implementing group performance indicators and receiving progress reports from the businesses on corporate responsibility matters. Governance and Financial Matters Each of our businesses faces different challenges, and pursues its own corporate responsibility agenda within the overall framework set by the Corporate Responsibility Group (CRG). Sponsored by Adel Al-Saleh and including representation from across the organisation, the CRG advises the Group Board on CR policy and practices and is responsible for driving these initiatives within the business NGA will:  Comply with all laws, rules and government regulations applicable to the company in all regions  Maintain accurate business records following best practice in all respects  Maintain financial statements and accounts in a manner that is: accurate, accountable and publicly available NGA is committed to meeting its contractual commitments and builds relationships with suppliers, agents, service providers and customers based on excellent delivery and mutual trust. All members of staff are expected to understand and comply with the terms of contracts for which they have responsibility. The businesses manage their corporate responsibility operational plans to ensure that corporate responsibility is embedded into day-to-day practice. This involves engaging with employees directly and through the Employees’ Consultation Groups which are consulted on all major business initiatives taken under their programs. Corporate responsibility is integrated into the risk management process. This means that it has become more closely aligned to business needs and imperatives and forms part of the mainstream of managerial and operational activities. Article VI. Going Global As a growing, global company NGA has to ensure that the policy framework is capable of responding to the particular legislative and cultural requirements at a countrywide level while supporting and sustaining best practice on a group basis. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 8 In 2011, NGA developed a plan to move away from an individual country approach to corporate responsibility to delivering a robust global framework for action. As a first step, a global action plan has been created. This is initially focused on ensuring best practice in Group CR policy, on measuring carbon emissions, on promoting product innovation and establishing a global framework for community engagement. A global action group consisting of representatives from all the key country locations of the business is being established as part of the action plan. This follows a global survey of country managers and employees to gather information about country initiatives. To enhance communications, a dedicated website has been established to take the global program to its next phase and plans have been put in place to introduce a process for measuring energy emissions across NGA’s largest global locations. Article VII. Act Now Northgate Group’s Act Now program seeks to embed sustainable practice into the company’s day-today activities through proactive communications and initiatives designed to strengthen our response to the sustainability challenge. Act Now is a program that believes each one of us can do something now, however small, to help deliver value and build sustainable and healthy communities. Act Now initiatives embrace sustainability, community involvement and engagement, partnership and policy making. Article VIII. Engagement with Employees At NGA, we firmly believe our employees are our greatest asset and an integral part of our success. We work hard to make sure we attract, develop, retain and motivate our people to ensure that they are inspired by our company and leadership. NGA provides a range of flexible working and leave arrangements, to meet business needs and employees’ needs in balancing work and home responsibilities. Employees working under these arrangements are treated fairly and consistently in comparison to full time, permanent employees and are provided with the same opportunities for development. The HR department is responsible for monitoring compliance with this policy and any incidents or complaints of harassment, discrimination or bullying. Employees have recourse to a comprehensive grievance procedure which is available on the company intranet or through an internal helpdesk service. The company aims to build an environment that promotes effective two-way communication with its team. We ensure employees understand the company’s vision and purpose; are clear on their responsibilities; have the right information to execute their role effectively; are given the opportunity to give feedback and submit ideas to drive ongoing improvement. There are a variety of ways that the company encourages two-way communication; including regular team and site meetings, manager cascades, e-bulletins, access to the company intranet, senior leadership video / email broadcasts and access to ongoing feedback forums including; focus groups and pulse surveys. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 9 The company also conducts a bi-annual employee survey through a professional employee opinion consultancy. The survey facilitates employee dialogue and is a tool to assess the levels of employee engagement. The results are used as part of a process of continuous improvement. The Your Say survey was conducted this year closing on October 2013. We are proud to have achieved 82% completion rate throughout NGA and the results will be available later in the year. The results when complete will be reviewed by the Senior Leadership Team and action plans will be created and cascaded through the Management teams to drive change in any areas where we feel we have not achieved results that we were hoping for. Improvement measures have been introduced in recent years in response to employee feedback including increased access to learning and development, an enhanced performance management process and an imminent launch of an updated employee suggestion scheme. NGA takes the results very seriously and ensures feedback is listened to and acted upon via action planning and reporting throughout the year. Regular pulse surveys are also distributed across the business to take a temperature check on engagement levels and assess progress against action plans. Employment & Diversity NGA aspires to be the employer of choice, for people from different backgrounds and communities. Through our comprehensive policy on equality and diversity we promote and implement respect for the individual and equality of opportunity. NGA is committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity. Our aim is that our workforce represents all sections of the wider community in the catchment areas surrounding the various NGA sites across the world and each employee feels respected and able to give of their best. Within NGA there is respect for, the promotion and protection of each individual’s human rights. The Company promotes being at ease with all aspects of diversity, built on fairness and respect for all. NGA recognizes that such a policy is not only good management practice, but that it also makes good business sense. Our commitment to diversity and equality and the elimination of discrimination, harassment and bullying also applies throughout the employment relationship and to all aspects which applies to selection, recruitment, training, promotion, transfers, pay and benefits, terms and conditions of employment, performance appraisals, termination and all other aspects of the employment relationship. At NGA we pride ourselves on our diverse workforce and believe that we have a great gender diversity split in all regions globally. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 10 Section 8.01 Recruitment NGA’s recruits staff based solely on the necessary and justifiable job requirements and the individual’s ability and fitness for the work. When posts are advertised externally, consideration is given to the most appropriate outlets to ensure that a wide range of potentially suitable applicants have the opportunity to apply. Selection methods, including interviews and job and personality tests are conducted in accordance with documented and standardized procedures to ensure that our recruitment is free from any form of undesirable discrimination. Each appointment is made on the basis of selecting the most suitable candidate for the post. It is Northgate's policy to not discriminate against its workers on the basis of their gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, religion or belief, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, disability or age, pregnancy or trade union membership or the fact that they are a part-time worker or a fixed-term employee Full and fair consideration is given to all applications for employment including disabled persons where adjustments are made to the recruitment process, the job or the workplace for candidates as required. NGA actively encourages and assists in the employment, training, retraining and career development of all our employees. NGA regularly reviews its recruitment and selection practices to identify and remove barriers to the Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 11 establishment of a diverse workforce and uses the following sourcing methods for candidates for our open positions across the globe. Section 8.02 Learning & Development Opportunities Learning and development is an important factor leading to opportunities at work. Learning and development is intended to develop employees and improve their skills. All employees are eligible to participate in appropriate learning and development programs. NGA ensures that all employees have opportunities for regular learning and development and monitors the level of employee attendance. We are a diverse organization, geographically and culturally and we celebrate our different talents and skills with personalized development plans for each of our employees around the world. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 12 All employees of NGA are requested to complete NGA compliance training as part of their onboarding process into the organization. For the year, 96% of the employees globally had completed this training. Through its performance review and appraisal schemes, NGA ensures that employees are given an opportunity to take part in both job specific training and have individual performance plans designed to promote their opportunities and career advancements. The performance management process is carried out in accordance with clear and laid down criteria to ensure that its application is free from discrimination at every stage. For the last performance review cycle, we were at 96.3% completion rate against our target of 100% HR monitors employee diversity every two years, and in some locations annually, and carries out a comprehensive survey: All employees, workers and job applicants will be asked to complete an anonymous form denoting their sex, sexuality, religion, race, ethnic origin, age and any disabilities. This form is used only for the purpose of monitoring the effectiveness of the company’s Diversity policy. Where such analysis indicates that a particular area or department has a disproportional representation from a particular group, the circumstances of this will be investigated. Working together with local social plans NGA ensures that we are compliant in all areas of diversity necessary in every company that we have representatives working in. NGA recognizes the right to collective bargaining and censures all forms of forced, child or compulsory labor practices. NGA takes a very serious view of any and all discrimination, bullying or harassment and breaches of policy are deemed as misconduct. Any such actions will be investigated in accordance the company’s disciplinary procedure and where an allegation is upheld, will often result in dismissal. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 13 Article IX. Engagement with Customers NGA puts its customers at the heart of everything we do. Customer feedback is absolutely essential to help us understand and exceed expectations. NGA engages with customers in a number of different ways to improve on our products, services and sustainability by asking for feedback at our events and through communications such as the annual CSR report. NGA’s customers have a nominated individual through which all customer contact is managed. Larger customers have dedicated account managers, or teams that focus directly on customer needs. A number of active user groups are in place where customers can provide feedback on product performance, future requirements and issues of strategic significance. Section 9.01 The Pulse Check Survey To improve the customer experience NGA has introduced Pulse Check; an online satisfaction survey open quarterly to customers. Through Pulse Check customers are able to rate NGA’s performance in regard to performance, relationship, expertise, products and services. To provide a balanced view; NGA client managers are also asked to complete the survey in relation to the customer’s experience. The Pulse Check creates transparency and provides a customer communication channel that quantifies and formalizes the customer’s communication with NGA. Based on the results of this survey, NGA is able to react quickly on any outstanding issues and put action plans in place to address customer needs. NGA is deeply committed to create a better overall customer experience for each customer. Section 9.02 NGA Customer Conferences NGA runs an annual user conference in the UK for customers. During the conference there are ample opportunities for customers to engage with their peers, NGA employees and business partners. The conference provides opportunities for customers to provide feedback on the company and the products and learn about new developments at NGA. The conference is popular with customers who use the two days as an opportunity to meet and exchange ideas with their peer group. The conference is sponsored by NGA and managed by an independent user group committee. The conference is well attended; this year over 30 delegates joined NGA for the event in the UK. In addition to the UK conference: NGA provides regular opportunities for customers to engage either by attending one of the Special Interest Groups (SIGs) which are held regularly throughout the year. Or by logging their requirements on the NGA support portal and accessing NGA’s extensive support network. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 14 Article X. Community Engagement Through the Act Now program every employee can do something now, however small, to help deliver value and build sustainable and healthy communities. The program’s initiatives embrace sustainability, community involvement and engagement. We work with a range of local and national partners to strengthen our corporate responsibility. Through our volunteering activities our employees have taken part in painting, renovation and gardening activities in local schools and organisations. Through our Young Apprentice programme there are currently over 80 apprentices working across the group delivering a range of services and learning new skills. Section 10.01 Share and Care – Joy of Giving As part of its giving back to the society initiative, NGA’s Hyderabad HR service center, with the support of a leading Camp (Aarohi Blood Bank) organised a Blood Donation Drive on 12 July 2013. With its ‘It’s in your blood to save lives’ slogan, the entire Hyderabad team came forward to donate blood. Women employees also participated in big numbers in the blood donation campaign to make it a huge success. The recent blood donation drive is just one ‘strand’ of Hyderabad center's CSR activities. Making a contribution to our society is far reaching and much fulfilling. Hyderabad Center strives to make a constructive contribution to the society through meaningful initiatives. The Blood Donation drive is one such activity under its CSR program which was organized to create a culture of 'giving back. Hyderabad Center strongly believes that serving our community is not only integral to running a business successfully; it is part of our individual responsibilities as citizens of the world. And after all what can be more noble than saving someone's life? Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 15 Article XI. Engagement with our Supply Chain It is a fundamental element of policy that NGA always behaves ethically and with integrity in all its activities. We seek to improve our performance through effective supply management. We use our influence and our buying power positively to encourage our suppliers to carry out socially responsible practices and use energy and resources efficiently. We aim to introduce sustainable procurement practices gradually throughout our procurement operations. NGA avoids using companies that exploit child or sweat shop labour, that disregard basic health and safety provisions, that ‘pirate’ the intellectual property of others, or that wilfully and avoidably damage the environment or otherwise act in contravention of applicable laws. NGA requires that suppliers shall not engage in or condone the use of child labour and shall conform to the provisions of:  SA8000 (a standard relating to the social accountability developed by Social Accountability International)  International Labour Organisation Convention 138  And be consistent with the United Nation’s Convention on the Rights of the Child NGA prefers to work with suppliers that share a commitment to preserving world natural resources. As far as is reasonably practicable, procurement choices will favour products showing clear environmental advantages and NGA seeks to use suppliers having similar policies and practices. NGA procurement intends to further integrate sustainable procurement criteria into its activities on an on-going basis. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 16 Article XII. Environment and Sustainable Services NGA has chosen to focus their environmental activities in two areas: NGA’s own operations that provide products and services to deliver HR & payroll and creating products and services that can deliver HR & payroll in a way that reduces the organizations environmental impacts. Sustainable Services NGA places a strong focus on improving our customers’ environmental performance by providing them with opportunities to grow their businesses whilst reducing or mitigating their environmental impacts. This includes comprehensive solutions that embrace HR & payroll delivery and solutions that provide innovative ways of delivering software such as fully hosted or Cloud services. Environmental sustainability is fully embedded into service delivery methodology. There is a clear focus both on reducing the number of assets required and reducing the environmental impact of the procurement of such assets, as well as ensuring that the energy consumption of such assets is considered favoring energy efficient models. Further reductions are gained by encouraging more flexible forms of working and mobile working. Assets are reused wherever possible and where assets are beyond economical repair, they are recycled in accordance with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE). NGA has introduced a number of initiatives designed to reduce carbon emissions and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of HR systems. These include online pay slips, recycled pay slips, selfservice HR and the development of a carbon emissions calculator that enables employees to calculate their CO2 emissions for business travel. The Hyde Group Housing Association has saved 95,000 sheets of paper annually, resulting in reduced environmental impact and costs through the implementation of paperless HR by using self service and online payslips. Environment NGA is an Information Technology Solutions Provider and as such the executive recognizes that its activities will have an influence on the environment. NGA has implemented an environmental policy to ensure its employees and all those who may be affected by NGA’s activities observe and adhere to the policy which is designed to reduce NGA’s environmental impact. Environmental Policy in brief:  NGA will meet all the relevant statutory requirements related to environmental legislation  Recycle as much of NGA’s waste products as practically and economically possible  Discourage the use of non-renewable resources and dispose of waste that cannot be recycled in accordance with legislation and the policy  Ensure competent advisors are available to provide guidance on environmental issues  Carry out risk assessments in accordance with legislation and this policy.  Provide relevant training and instruction to all employees on environmental issues and the policy requirement  Record and investigate all environmental incidents  Ensure that Approved Suppliers comply with NGA’s policy and procedures Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 17 NGA expects that all employees behave responsibly and observe the policy and its requirements. Article XXll. Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption NGA maintains the highest standards of ethics, professionalism and business conduct and ensures that we act in compliance with the law at all times globally across our business. We will not tolerate any behavior or practice that compromises the company’s integrity and honesty. All decisions will be fair and based on transparent processes. All customer-facing staff across the company’s global operation received mandatory training on the Bribery Act and its implications. This has been supplemented by an ongoing training program for all employees on data compliance and information security. Compliance The company maintains high ethical standards in carrying out its business activities, practices of any sort that are incompatible with NGA’s principles and policies will not be tolerated. Strict adherence to these supporting policies is a condition of employment and employees undergo an annual rigorous training program to ensure they understand their responsibility and the consequences of noncompliance. Responsibility for compliance is with individuals and at board level. Independence and Objectivity All NGA staff are required to act in a way that is unbiased, and must not be subject to any influence financial or otherwise which may lead them to act in a way that favors any particular person or organization. Other than the salary paid by NGA employees may not directly or indirectly accept any form of payment or material benefit from third parties for services they perform on behalf of NGA. Unethical Behavior and Whistle Blowing The company promotes a working environment which encourages all members of our team to express their concerns about behavior or decisions which they perceive to be unethical without fear of reprisal and victimization. Any member of staff who needs guidance or advice on business ethics can speak to their manager or any level above. Employment Policies NGA is committed to maintaining the highest standards of employment practice and to be recognized as an employer of choice to attract and retain talented individuals. It is committed to communicating its strategy and objectives to employees and acting on employee feedback received as to how the company can continuously improve. We support and promote the ethos and principles of equal opportunities and diversity in employment striving to create a culture where every member of our team is treated fairly with access to development and opportunity. Suppliers and Agents NGA insists on ethical standards from its suppliers, and in turn NGA must exhibit the highest ethical standards itself. Procurement activities must not only be fair and above board, but avoid any conduct which may be perceived as influencing judgement or impartiality or is capable of having an adverse interpretation put on it. NGA aims to develop mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers and agents based on mutual trust and fair dealings. Balancing Transparency with Confidentiality NGA acts with transparency in all of its operations except where it is constrained by issues of confidentiality. NGA complies with the provisions of the Data Protection Act in the UK and equivalent legislation worldwide. NGA has procedures and policies to ensure data security for internal and client Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 18 data and maintains ISO27001 certification. The company strives to communicate clearly and succinctly in order to minimize complexity in our business dealings and communicate our strategy. Article XIII. Measurement of Outcomes NGA has selected Key Performance Indicators material to its business that will be of interest to stakeholders. NGA is refining their global approach to the Ten Principles of the UNGlobal Compact. As part of this process, NGA has chosen their KPI’s and outlined some immediate actions. Section 13.01 Key Performance Indicators Economic Performance  EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. Market Presence  EC6: Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation  EC7: Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Environmental Performance: Energy  EN3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy source  EN6: Initiatives to provide energy efficient based products and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives –  EN7: Initiatives to reduce direct energy consumption and reductions achieved – Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators  LA1: Total Workforce by employment type, employment contract and region broken down by gender –  LA5: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements  LA10: Average hours of training per year per employee  LA12: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 19 Key Performance Indicators, Actions and commentary Economic Performance – EC1NGA Human Resources continued to add significant economic value within the period, generating revenue of £523.0m and £104.4m EBITDA worldwide. As a Group Northgate continue to invest capital in the business and invested £55.1m during the period. Over 8,500+ staff are employed by NGA across 35 countries. Market Presence – EC-6 – NGA does practice utilizing local based suppliers at significant locations of our operations. There are many areas where local suppliers are used. Some examples of the areas where local based suppliers are used globally where NGA provides services are: Hospitality, Office Supplies, Real Estate and facilities, with a total spend of £13.8m. EC7 – Within NGA, almost 20% of our open roles are filled by internal applicants, to ensure future development of our employees where possible. The other 80% of our open roles are sourced locally as our policy is not to transfer any of our local hires, therefore they would remain in their locality. The graph below shows the number of filled roles for this year and also the source of the candidates for filling these roles. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 20 Environmental Performance – Energy – EN3/7– The following initiatives are set to reduce consumption of utilities in the UK:  Introduced new lighting technology  installed energy efficient gas central heating boilers  Partnered with Bristol Water to reduce consumption, NGA strives to provide energy efficient based products and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result. Two major locations in the US occupied 167,696 sq. ft. of office space in 2011. During 2012-13, NGA vacated 76,574 sq. ft. of office space, which reduced the monthly usage of lighting and utility requirement for offices in Cincinnati, Ohio and Jacksonville, Florida. EN6Initiatives to provide energy efficient based products and services and reductions in energy requirements is critical to NGA’s future. This year 15 HVAC units were replaced to improve energy use and savings. It is determined that the new units can account up to 40% efficiency improvement and reduced emissions by as much as 10 tonnes. Labor practices and Decent work performance Indicators – LA1 NGA has a global diverse workforce split into 6 regions, the graphs below show the split of workforce, by type and gender in each of the regions that make up NGAs global presence. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 21 LA5 – NGA operates at a Global level and has HR Managers operating in each of the 6 regions. As an organisation we are governed by local laws in each of the countries where we have employee presence, and ensure that we abide by the local laws concerning notice periods. LA10 – All employees have access to SkillSoft which is our Learning and Development website. Employees are able to sign up for training that they feel they need to participate in for their future development. Below are some graphs that outline the courses that are available for all employees and the split by Region for participation. There are over 2800 courses that employees across the region have signed up to take part in and on average employees completed around 5 days training each per annum. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 22 Compliance training is mandatory for new employees and it is a request that this is completed within the first few weeks of joining NGA. LA12 – All employees at NGA are required to participate in the yearly performance development review with their manager. We aim for 100% completion for this program and this year 96.3% of employees received a performance review rating and had a performance and development conversation with tie manager. The small percentage of employees who did not complete this program, have various reasons for non-completion, such as long term sick, maternity leave or they have joined NGA after the start date for the program. Actions For The Future Here is an overview of some of the actions that NGA will be taking over the next year to implement the principles of the UNGlobal Compact:  NGA will demonstrate our commitment to the UNGlobal Compact and continue to show support Human Rights. Demonstrate our commitment through adhering to our values and incorporating principles support Human Rights throughout our organization. Focus attention on the same Key Performance Indicators as 2012-13 and continue to document improved progress for the Key Performance each year. Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 23 Article XIV. More information Please refer to the Northgate Information Solutions Annual Report online at http://www.northgateis.com/ for more information on the Northgate Group and NGA:  Economic, financial performance and organisational strategy  Operational structure of the organization: main divisions and group structure  Financial report: Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments and information concerning ownership and investment For more information regarding NGA and the contents of this report, please contact: Michael Custers Vice President Marketing NGA E: Michael.custers@ngahr.com T: +1 770 595 7897 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 24 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 25 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 26 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 27 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 28 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 29 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 30 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 31 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 32 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 33 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 34 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 35 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 36 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 37 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 38 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 39 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 40 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 41 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 42 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 43 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 44 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 45 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 46 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 47 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 48 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 49 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 50 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 51 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 52 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 53 Proprietary and Confidential to NGA Human Resources 54 NGA Human Resources is a global leader in helping organizations transform their business-critical HR operations to deliver more effective and efficient people-critical services. We help our clients become better employers through smarter, more streamlined business processes — to save money, manage employee life cycles, and support globally connected, agile organizations. This is how NGA makes HR work. What sets us apart is The NGA Advantage. It’s a combination of deep HR experience and insight, advanced technology platforms and applications and a global portfolio of flexible service delivery options. www.ngahr.com
