UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 RØRBÆK MØLLER OG RØRBÆK OG MØLLER ARKITEKTER APS Communiction in Progress 2013 2 About Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we work to is up to speed with the latest developments influence and develop the built environment. in this area, and take part in developmental Our projects and buildings shall offer daily project concerning, for example energy joy and inspiration, both now and in the renovation and Cradle 2 Cradle building. future, while working in harmony with their surroundings and history of which they are a Throughout the last year three of our architects part. We work hard to maintain a sustainable have taken the education as DGNB consultants growth, all the while developing our project (certification system for sustainable building), competencies, as well as establishing strategic and the running project “Skovskolen in partnerships, both inside and outside Denmark. Nødebo” is projected according to the DGNBcertification system. Development Trust Innovation, by its broadest definition, is a central tenet of the firm. It is of great Mutual trust between a client and us as a importance that every member of staff is company is a central element of our success part of a professional environment that through more than 60 years. Many of our works on development and improvement in projects are completed for clients with whom relation to changes in the society and the we have, over many years, developed a very profession. Our core skills within planning close relationship. As well as demanding high and building are constantly being improved, standards in building and building technique, through a continued systematic evaluation we concentrate on speedy and effective of our work. Responsibility for strategic skills decision making processes. We are very aware within intelligent design, building and material of the responsibility controlling budgets involve techniques, as well as sustainability, is and offer the creative and visionary sparring handled by individuals that ensure this our clients are entitled to. knowledge is an integral part of any project Qualified staff group. We are, over and above this, extremely involved in employing new, young, talented Rørbæk og Møller are a core group of skilled, staff of where they can gain experience, and experienced staff that ensure quality and utilize us as a learning platform. continuity in the services we offer. The staff make up is balanced around a range of Sustainability professional experience levels, and project The latest knowledge within sustainability is groups are composed in reference to the integrated into all our projects. Our staff is skill sets our clients request. As well as our aware that the architectonic essentials have regular staff, we can also draw on a network a fundamental influence on sustainability in of freelance staff that ensures flexibility in the building. Key members of staff ensure the firm staffing of our projects. Communiction in Progress 2013 3 Statement of continued support 23. august 2013 Dear Mr. Secretary-General Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter joined the Global Compact in October 2009 because we believe that a joint corporate social responsibility is vital to ensure better conditions for all. Therefore, we would like to express our continued support to the United Nations Global Compact initiative, and are pleased to hand in our first COP. We have addressed all 10 principles, but our main emphasis is on principles 7, 8 and 9. When designing buildings we make an effort to incorporate the most environmentally friendly solutions in order to create holistic buildings that consider both indoor climate, environment, sustainability and energy consumption. All of which are linked to the architectural quality of the building as well as the general function. We also make a great effort to transform existing buildings for future use by incorporating sustainable solutions, and thereby utilising the massive resources represented in the existing buildings, and offsetting the huge amount of resources required to replace them. Throughout the last year three of our architects have taken the education as DGNB (certification system for sustainable building) consultants, and the running project “Skovskolen in Nødebo” is projected according to the DGNB-certificationsystem. Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter are proud to be part of the Global Compact initiative and are committed to continue working with and promoting the ten principles. Sincerely yours Nicolai Overgaard Anders Wesley Hansen CEO and Partner Partner Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter Communiction in Progress 2013 4 Human rights Principles 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Our Commitment Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Actions taken We operate in Denmark and comply with the Danish National Legislation, which meets the international conventions. A major part of our staff works with accessibility on a daily basis as most of our projects have to live up to strict accessibility standards as defined by UN’s Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. One employee has attended relevant courses/ seminars in order to keep our practise updated on the latest accessibility measures. Future Actions We will continue to respect and uphold the human rights principles. Accessibility for all will continuously have our focus, and we will make sure our staff is updated on the latest accessibility measures. Communiction in Progress 2013 5 Labour Principles Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter gives equal 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of opportunities to all present and future association and the effective recognition of employees, regardless of gender, age, race, the right to collective bargaining. religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political or sexual orientation and 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and family status. compulsory labour. When we hire a new employee his/her 5 The effective abolition of child labour workplace is checked by an occupational therapist to minimize the risk of occupational 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect injuries. of employment and occupation. A number of our employes have taken further education in precaution in the building projects Our Commitment to assure the safest working environment at the site. Rørbæk og Møller supports the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Rørbæk og Møller Arkiteker do not employ Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. children under age. Actions taken We use a job appraisal review tool that ensures At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we respect all that all employees get a professional job employees right to enter into associations and appraisal review and a development plan. The recognize the right to collective bargaining. tool facilitates the review and the follow-up process. The reviews are held once a year. All employees have individual contracts stating terms, conditions of service and notice of Future actions leave. We intend to keep up with all our good intensions. Communiction in Progress 2013 6 ENVIRONMENT Principles In terms of our building projects we 7 Business should support a precautionary implemented an environmental policy almost approach to environmental challenges. 20 years ago, and we make an effort to advise our clients to choose environmentally friendly 8 Business should undertake initiatives solutions instead of standard solutions. Not all to promote greater environmental environmentally friendly solutions are feasible, responsibility. but we aim at setting new standards regarding sustainable architecture. Therefore, a group of 9 Business should encourage the three employees are continuously retrained and development and diffusion of oversee all projects to guarantee a continuous environmentally friendly technologies. development of our firm within this area. Rørbæk and Møller Architects latest large Our Commitment construktion, various projects at DTU, Technical University of Denmark, are all projected Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The Rio according to the 2015 Buildingprocedure with Declaration on Environment and Development. extra high standards on low energi. At Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter we believe that We have made several transformation quality architecture and sustainability are two projects in the year that has passed sides of the same coin. One does not work where we have successfully incorporated without the other. sustainable solutions, for example laboratories Buildings in the future require a strong for Geogenetics, study facilities for the sustainability strategy. But most important Farmaceutical Institute of The University of all is to have a holistic perspective on the of Copenhagen, Gefion Gymnasium. human being in the centre, because we make Transformation is an area we are very buildings for people. What makes the building interested in because it possible to incorporate usable and durable and thereby sustainable sustainable solutions and thereby utilising the is the indoor climate, the indoor environment, massive resources represented in existing the outdoor environment, the daylight, the buildings, and offsetting the huge amount architectural design, the social relations, the resources it requires to replace them. energy flow and functionality. Due to our interest in environmentally friendly Through general building approaches such as projects, we have ventured into the ESCO location and orientation of the building, use area together with a contractor, and have just of daylight, reducing material consumption, been shortlisted to participate in two ESCO money and time, we are making energy tenders. ESCO is an ”energy service company” saving architecture by using simple classical that plans and executes energy-efficient architectural principles. savings. The idea is to make improvements and investments in the building mass that are In order to meet the present environmental financed by the gained energy savings. It is a challenges we constantly have to keep fast growing area in Denmark. ourselves up to date with the latest technologies within the building industry. Furthermore, Rørbæk og Møller has been participating in the innovation forum Gate 21, Actions taken in the subgroup Plan C (ended in june 2013). Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter make proactive Gate 21 is a partnership of municipalities, efforts to minimize the environmental effects of trade and industry and knowledge institutions our building projects and in the daily operation that develops, tests and demonstrates future of our two offices. climate change solutions and energy solutions. In a cooperation across the partners entities Communiction in Progress 2013 7 Gate 21 create public-private innovation The studio/office has lately split up in minor within building, use of buildings, transport units in order to assure the employes the and energy supply. The projects generate new shortest and most Eco-frinedly transport and solutions, knowledge sharing, networking reduce transportation by car. Futhermore we and skills development with emphasis on are close to our clients so it is posiible to walk, practical action. See www.gate21.dk for more bike and use public transportation to and from information. meetings/building sites etc. Plan C was a unique partner project that Furthermore, half of our staff still cycle to work, focused on energy-efficient renovation of and once again we participated in the public public housing/non-profit rental housing and campaign “We cycle to work”. public buildings. In Plan C we worked on new methods to improve the building process within Future Actions renovation of public housing. Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter will continue to participate actively in Gate 21 to further In September 2011 Gate 21 was nominated develop and promote sustainable, energy the CSR Awards 2011 in the category CSR saving and environmentally friendly Climate Partnership. CSR Climate Partnership architectural solutions. is awarded to a partnership between Danish companies, private as well as public institutions Internally in the office we will work on and organisations that are involved in a formal reducing our energy consumption by using partnership in order to create new concepts less electricity, using less paper per employee or co-operation models able to reduce CO2 and go through our office supplies to see if emissions. The partnership may involve a we can substitute some of them with more foreign partner. The prize cannot be awarded to environmentally friendly ones. any energy company. All the bulbs have throughout the last year Archiving digitally is now standard on all new been changed to low energi light bulbs. projects in the office, and it has reduced our We have implementing green printing and paper consumption significantly. copying solutions using, as far as possible, recycled paper. Communiction in Progress 2013 8 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects DTU Life Science & Bioengineering Client : DTU, Technical University of DK Location : Lyngby Denmark Year : During the design Area : 38.800 m2 Oceanographers, Food Scientists and The purpose is to create synergy between Veterinary Researchers can look foreward the three instituts through a vital environment to move into new facilties, when DTU brings that promotes the formation of networks both AQUA, the Food Institute and the Vetenarian internal and across the research areas. Institute together at Lyngby Campus in the new building for Life Science and Bioengineering. Furthermore the new buillding will contribute to minimize DTU’s climateand environmental The purpose with the construction is to create impact and is a “State of the Art” exampel of a research area of international standard the sustainable construction. building consist mainly of laboratories and resarch offices. Furthermore the building Rørbæk and Møller Architects latest large houses Pharmacological Pilot Plant plus wet construktion, various projects at DTU, Technical and dry animal stables with associated section University of Denmark, are all projected rooms. The building contains a large amount of according to the 2015 Buildingprocedure with GMO 2, BSL 2 and BSL 3 facilities. extra high standards on low energi. Scientists and students from the three instituts kan futhermore welcome that they will move into a building that works as a social dynamo. Communiction in Progress 2013 9 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects DTU Agora Client : DTU, Technical University of DK Location : Lyngby Denmark Year : 2014 2015 Area : 2.865 m2 (reconstruction) 1.848 m2 (new building) The aim with the projekt is to create a setting for partly unique experimental facilities in PowerlabDK with a dynamic and open place for teamwork among researchers, students and engineers, and partly, in synergy with this, an ambitious place for learning at a topprofessionel and competitive level. The project is designed according to the DGNB system that is characterized by looking at all the sustainable aspects both social, economical and environmental, which means that both low energi consumption, materials, indoor environment, art and comfort are thought into the project. The project is placed in a new building between three existing buildings and will in that way be the natural meetingpoint for the three sections that AGORA is a part of. The new building includes two large study rooms for experimantal education and two large labs, all with large glass parts so that the research and education are visible and present. Communiction in Progress 2013 10 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects N. Zahles Gymnasium – Expansion Client : N. Zahles Skoler Location : Nørre Voldgade, Copenhagen Year : 2010 2012 Area : 1.000 m2 Rørbæk og Møller Architects have been responsible of the expansion of N. Zahles Gymnasium that was opened in April 2012. The expansion makes through its design and characteristic exterior sunscreen made of aluminum a beautiful and receptive framework for the High Schools daily work. With a new expansion on the roof of the main building near Nørreport Station the high school has taken a step towards new and updated teaching facilities in a visionary and sustainable building. The annex contains classrooms, study area, canteen and a common rooftop terrace from where you have a total view of Copenhagen. Through several passive actions, partly by urban densification and by building on the roof of an exciting building where the loss of energy is biggest, and partly by isolating the new annex, the high school reduces the total use of energy considerably. Rørbæk og Møller Architects have recently received the ALU Prize 2012 for the expansion of N. Zahles Gymnasieskole. The prize is assigned in recognition of “Intelligent and innovative use of aluminum that promotes sustainable construction in 2012”. Communiction in Progress 2013 11 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Geogenetics Client : The Danish University and Property Agency Location : Sølvtorvskomplekset, Copenhagen Year : 2010 11 Area : 900 m2 The new laboratories house the internationally recognized research in geogenetics. The laboratories are fitted into a full floor in one of the University of Copenhagen’s buildings in Copenhagen. The building was erected in the 20th century. The floor has been completely rebuilt. The layout of the laboratories is completely up-todate and characterized by daylight, a good indoor climate and a clear identity. Apparatus rooms are located in the dark zones. All laboratories are executed as GMO Class 1. The furniture has been developed in cooperation with Sorø Møbler. The density of the rooms has been a focus area during the detailed design in order to comply with the high demands for process ventilation. Communiction in Progress 2013 12 Examples of Energy-efficient Projects Skovskolen, nødebo, DK Client : Faculty of Life Sciences University of Copenhagen Location : Nødebovej 77A 3480 Fredensborg Year : During the design At Skovskolen various educations witin Furthermore a new wing for students staying forestry, landscaping, garden and park area over night for one or more nights is being are implemented and developed. A new established. The building has effortless building for education is meant to support accessibility and the simple spirit that both guidance of each student as well as characterizes the other studenthouses at the traditional studies both in groups and Skovskolen will be passed on to the new selfstudies. The vision is to create a building buildings main concept. There will be focused for education where students and teachers on integration of sustainability in use of long can meet, work and reside through out the life materials, few requirements to maintanence year both night and day and move smoothly and reduction of heat loss. Fresh air, natural between the use of educationand common ventilation and optimized use of natural light stay. A building where the professionel are also fundamental parameters in the design preoccupation is in the center through of the new building. teaching facilities and access to knowledge and inspiration. Communiction in Progress 2013 13 Anti-corruption Principles 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Commitment Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter support The United Nations Convention Against corruption and fully comply with Danish and international legislation. Actions taken Rørbæk and Møller Arkitekter only operate in Denmark and have never been involved in any kind of corruption. According to The 2010 Corruption Perceptions Index Denmark has the lowest rate of corruption together with Singapore and New Zealand. Future Actions Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter will continuously uphold Danish and international legislation. Our COP will be available both on the United Nations Global Compact website and our own website and intranet. Contact information Rørbæk og Møller Arkitekter ApS Jægersborg Allé 1A 2920 Charlottenlund +45 39 40 10 11 www.r-m.dk Nicolai Overgaard CEO, partner no@r-m.dk
