BIPE and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 © BIPE 2013 0 BIPE – Communication on Progress 2012 Contents I. INTRODUCTION 1. Statement of continued support by the CEO of BIPE for the UN Global Compact 2. Presentation of BIPE 3. BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development II. APPLICATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES BY BIPE 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 2 1.1 BIPE – Communication on Progress 2012 I. INTRODUCTION 1. Statement of continued support by the CEO of BIPE for the UN Global Compact 2. Presentation of BIPE 3. BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development II. APPLICATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES BY BIPE 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 3 1.1 BIPE – Communication on Progress 2012 Introduction Declaration and support of President of BIPE I am pleased to confirm that BIPE supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect for human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals Yours sincerely Pascal Le Merrer, President of BIPE 4 1.2 BIPE – Communication on Progress 2012 I. INTRODUCTION 1. Statement of continued support by the CEO of BIPE for the UN Global Compact 2. Presentation of BIPE 3. BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development II. APPLICATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES BY BIPE 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption III. ANNEXES © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 5 1.2 Introduction Presentation of BIPE Strategic Economic Consulting in multiple sectors since 1958 Main activities Strategy consulting “Help executives to plan and drive their strategy, providing economic Forward-looking Public policy economic Strategic marketing outlooks and independent guidance.” evaluation BtB, BtC analysis Prospective Core-Values  Sophisticated economic modeling and in-house quantitative tools “Understand the economical  Transversal multi-sectors expertise dynamism of the pass, the current and  Objective and independent guidance the future”  Mature and flexible platform for intelligence exchange among clients Private clients 75% Public clients 25%  Large European Companies  Ministries “Accompany the clients through their  International group branches based in  Local governments marketing and strategy projects in Europe  National Agencies France and abroad”  Professional federations © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 6 1.2 Introduction Presentation of BIPE 50 years history in Economic forecast and consulting  Created in 1958 on behalf of public authorities and major companies executives, to produce economic studies and strategic forecasts. It was previously held by the French public financial institution, CDC (Caisse des Dépôts et de Consignations)  Today entirely private and independent  One of the leading European provider of forward-looking economic analyses and strategy consulting, for private companies executives and public authorities:  25 consultancy Observatories  Almost 100 assignments by year in our sector  98% of CAC 40 Index companies are clients  The team consists of qualified economists, econometricians and financial analysts. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 7 1.2 Introduction Presentation of BIPE 25 Observatories in different sectors, for a multisectorial expertise Consumption, Distribution & Marketing Macroeconomics Consumption Observatory (1991) Overall and Emerging Countries Economic Media Observatory (2003) Outlook Observatory (1958) Automotive Distribution Network Industries Dynamics Observatory (2000) Development Observatory (2012) Construction & Property Mobility & transports Construction Observatory (1971) Observatory of Aeronautics Observatory for Condominiums & Space industry (2011) Energy Efficiency Improvement (2011) Province Airports Observatory (2011) Observatory of Mobility & Automotive Arbitrage (2009) Energy & Environment 2/3 Wheelers Observatory (2012) Enviroscope (1990) Observatory for Condominiums Energy Efficiency Improvment (2011) Health Care New Energies in Land Transport Observatory (2006) Pharmacy Conjuncture Observatory (1995) Electric Vehicles Infrastructures Observatory (2011) Health Insurance Observatory (1999) Industries & Automobile Financial Services Purchasing & Commodities Observatory (1985) Observatory of Savings & Credit Retail Observatory of Industrial Services (1990) Markets (1998) Europe and France Automotive Observatory (1976) Observatory of Companies Investment and Funding (2011) Trucks & Transport Observatory (1982) Observatory of Automotive Credit (2012) © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 8 1.3 BIPE – Communication on Progress 2012 I. INTRODUCTION 1. Statement of continued support by the CEO of BIPE for the UN Global Compact 2. Presentation of BIPE 3. BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development II. APPLICATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES BY BIPE 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 9 1.3 Introduction BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development  BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development was formalized in 2009 with a first version of an Official Sustainability Charter developed in consultation between management and employee groups.  This document is an update of this first release, and is intended to express concisely BIPE strategic objectives in terms of sustainable development.  BIPE joined the UN Global Compact in 2011, and is committed to respect for universal principles related to :  Human Rights  Labor  Environment  Anti-corruption  This Communication on Progress illustrates how BIPE applied the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in 2012 © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 10 2 BIPE – Communication on Progress 2012 I. INTRODUCTION 1. Statement of continued support by the CEO of BIPE for the UN Global Compact 2. Presentation of BIPE 3. BIPE’s engagements in sustainable development II. APPLICATION OF THE TEN PRINCIPLES BY BIPE 1. Human Rights 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-Corruption © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 11 2.1 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Human Rights HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the P1 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure they are not P2 complicit in human rights abuses © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 12 2.1 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Human Rights  The BIPE respects and protects the human rights especially in the aspect of providing equal working opportunities to different nationalities, sexes, ages, and religions.  The group has since 2011, employed diverse nationalities such as Moroccans, Chinese, Russians, and Vietnamese people. And the company has accompanied them in their administrative process to obtain the working visa in France.  The BIPE believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion.  This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups : The bi-monthly staffing and development conference are held as a channel for the management group to better understand the employees’ working situations and then optimise the project management. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 13 2.1 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Human Rights  The BIPE has assured its profitability in its business by:  Building up a reasonable and transparent pricing system.  Bringing to our clients complete consulting service which meet clients own requirements.  Making sure of our purchasing traceability and the supplier guarantee. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 14 2.2 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Labour LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of P3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Businesses should uphold the elimination of P4 all forms of forced and compulsory labour Businesses should uphold the effective P5 abolition of child labour Businesses should uphold the elimination P6 of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 15 2.2 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Labour Improving team dynamism  The BIPE respect strictly the working contract of all the collaborators. Promotion and salary augmentation are based on collaborators’ business performance.  The performance level is at first auto-evaluated by the collaborators themselves according to their own judgements and then evaluated by the management group. The BIPE believes the combination of the two could help the employee in their career development.  The BIPE has made efforts to build up its own group spirit and dynamism.  The integration training is organised to help new employees to integrate into the group culture and working environment.  The company holds annual teambuilding trip to facilitate the communications and to open dialogue about the group strategy and business development plan. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 16 2.2 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Labour Increasing carrer development  The company provides great working opportunities to young collaborators by offering them important responsibility in business development.  The BIPE believes that new generation brings great intelligence and insightful new ideas, which are the key values for the group.  Young collaborators are nominated as project manager with relative complete responsibility in project development.  The BIPE has invested in collaborators competence development.  The collaborators are proposed to participate the conference, seminars, and specific training program related to their major working subject. The BIPE offers this opportunity, in hoping to improve the collaborators core-competence, as well as to help them discover diverse capacities. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 17 2.2 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Labour Instauring a good working environment  For BIPE, the quality of working environment is a major component in the wellbeing of the employees.  Long term contract (CDI) for all the BIPE collaborators  BIPE provides professional laptops and cellphone  Every collaborator has his own desk and working materials Encouraging personal activities  The BIPE accompanies also in the employees’ leisure time and encourages their cultural activities.  The Company Committee reimburses partially the employees expenses in their cultural activities including music, theatre, film and etc. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 18 2.3 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Environment ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary P7 approach to environmental challenges Businesses should undertake initiatives to P8 promote greater environmental responsibility Businesses should encourage the P9 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 19 2.3 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Environment Contributing to a preserved environment  BIPE’s engagement in TARA Expeditions with its great concerns in Environment and Global climate change.  Tara Expeditions is a French non-profit organization active since 2003 in favor of the environment.  Tara is the platform for high-level scientific research missions concerning climate change, ecological crisis of the world’s oceans.  The BIPE has engaged in the Tara Expeditions with its great concerns in Environment and Global climate change. No only to realise high-level scientific studies, Tara Expeditions also helps raise the environmental awareness of the general public and young people, and encourage policy makers to take action towards preserving the Environment.  The BIPE has introduced to our clients the Tara Expeditions, both private companies and public authorities. http://oceans.taraexpeditions.org/ © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 20 2.3 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Environment  Through its activities, BIPE encourages the improvement of economical, social and environmental situations in France. Externally :  The Environment Department  Created 20 years ago  Helping the communities and private operators to improve their water management, waste management, pollutant reduction policy, and to optimize the energy performance of buildings. Internally :  Two reports on the initiative of BIPE  “New trade-offs in favor of sustainable development” in the prospective study “What version of France in 2035 ? Making you own choices today.”  Long term prospective study (30 years) of sustainable development in France : « Visions à 30 ans d’une France engagée dans le Développement Durable » © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 21 2.3 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Environment  The environmental considerations are essential in BIPE. We make efforts to reduce the energy consumption and carbon footprint in our daily exercises.  Low energy solutions regards to office lighting :  Buying energy efficient light bulbs.  Lighting and computers are turned off for night and weekends.  Installation of thermostat in the office to optimise the air conditioning function  Low energy imprint solution is taken by every employee :  Documents are printed by defaut in black-white and two-sided format.  We have also utilised low-energy method to communicate with our clients :  Documents and reports sent by USB,  On-line database in place of paper version.  Employees are proposed to utilise their own water cups for drinking and the plastic cup are reutilised in the office.  The BIPE encourage its employees to take the common transport for work. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 22 2.4 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Anti-Corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption P10 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 23 2.4 Application of the Ten Principles by BIPE BIPE’s approach of the Ten Principles Anti-Corruption  Complete independence and transparency of the BIPE in its financial management  As a private group held by the president, the BIPE has total independence and transparency in its financial management.  The intern-audit is executed to supervise the financial management.  In practical, every expense and income related to working affaires should be noted and traced according to different project :  An internal system named Akuiteo is installed and applied for every employee to report their affaire expenses, client’s payments and etc.  Every employee in BIPE has the access to consult this database, making the project cash-flow management very transparent. © BIPE 2013 – Communication on Progress 2012 24 www.bipe.com
