Sustainability Review 2012 ”Skanska office Väla Gård, Sweden. More information on page 76.” Skanska is one of the world’s leading project development and construction groups, concentrated on selected home markets in the Nordic region, Other European countries and in the Americas. Making the most of global trends in urbanization, demo­graphics and energy, with a focus on green construction, ethics, occupational health and safety, Skanska offers competitive solutions even for the most complex assign­ments. Skanska’s business model generates value for Skanska’s shareholders through the interaction of its • construction and Byggverksamhet, 89% • project development operations. Byggverksamhet, 63% • Bostadsutveckling, 6% • Bostadsutveckling, 0% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 5% • Kommersiell fastighetsutveckling, 26% •2012 Infrastrukturutveckling, 0% Revenue • Infrastrukturutveckling, Operating income 11% Key ratios SEK M EUR M USD M Revenue 131,931 15,156 3 19,483 3 Operating income 4,605 529 3 680 3 Income after financial items 4,371 502 3 645 3 Earnings per share, SEK/EUR/USD 1 8.00 0.92 1.18 Return on equity, % 17.5 17.5 17.5 Order bookings 2 120,081 13,795 3 17,733 3 Order backlog 2 146,681 17,081 4 22,514 4 Employees, number 56,618 56,618 56,618 • Construction, 89% • Construction, 63% 1 Earnings for the period attributable to equity holders divided by the average number of shares • Residential Development, 6% • Residential Development, 0% outstanding. • Commercial Property Development, 5% • Commercial Property Development, 26% 2 Refers to Construction operations. 3 Average exchange rates: EUR = SEK 8.70, USD = SEK 6.77. • Infrastructure Development, 0% • Infrastructure Development, 11% 4 Exchange rates on balance sheet day: EUR 1 = SEK 8.59, USD 1 = SEK 6.52. Comments by the President and CEO The year 2012 was characterized by continued turbulence in the global economy. Despite these conditions, we are able to report strong results for most of our units and increasing revenues for construction and for Skanska as a whole. We have also advanced our positions within project development – we increased our presence in commercial property markets in several cities in Poland and the U.S., and took a vital step in the U.S. market for PPP projects. ” Our business model has proven to be efficient despite the fairly weak conditions of the general economic situation. We have continued to invest in project development, a total of SEK 15 billion in 2012, which is a historically high level. We have divested own developed residential units, offices, roads and hospitals amounting to SEK 16 billion, at a total profit of just over SEK 2 billion. The past year has formed a gloomy backdrop to our operations. The uncerNorwegian economy, which has continued to create strong demand. In tainties that followed the European economic crisis have spread to even both Oslo and Stavanger, buyers have been queuing overnight in anticipamore markets and growth in most sectors was generally low or subdued. tion of our sales launches. The demand for BoKlok homes continues to be Against this background, it is satisfying to be able to report increased strong in Sweden and there is also a strong interest in Finland, following earnings in several construction units and in commercial property develour launch of BoKlok there. opment. At the same time, we have had unacceptably low profitability in In residential development a strong focus is on enhancing efficiency residential development and in construction in Latin America. We are now to pave the way for sustained profitability by linking the construction and working intensively to, as soon as possible, restore profitability to acceptable residential units closer together and thus reducing overheads. We are also levels in these operations. adapting our landbank to the prevailing market situation. Our business model has proven to be efficient despite the fairly weak We have also gained a foothold for residential development in Poland conditions of the general economic situation. We have continued to invest and the UK. The homes, which are customized to selected customer segin project development, a total of SEK 15 billion in 2012, which is a historiments in these markets, are now beginning to take shape. We are noticing cally high level. The interest from investors and our successful divestments that buyers are attracted to both our green profile and our strong brand. shows that we have the right products. We have divested residential units, We had excellent leverage from our investments in commercial property offices, roads and hospitals developed by Skanska amounting to SEK 16 billion, development. We have started 13 new projects and are now on location in at a total profit of SEK 2 billion. 20 growth cities, and we have sold 8 projects at a healthy profit. If we look at our construction operations, Skanska secured a number of In Poland, we have strengthened our market presence for commercial major new construction contracts in the U.S. and some larger contracts in property development. In addition to Warsaw, we now have projects in the Nordic region. These markets performed strongly, while the markets in four regional cities: Wrocław, Łodz, Poznań and Kraków. We have also the Czech Republic and U.K. remained weak. Nevertheless, we secured a established ourselves in the Romanian capital of Bucharest, where there is couple of considerably large contracts in the UK. an increasing demand for modern offices for international companies. By acquiring well-managed construction companies in 2011 that were In the space of two years, we have established our property developintegrated in 2012, we strengthened our competitiveness in Finland, Poland ment operations in four cities in the U.S.; Washington, D.C., Boston, Seattle and, particularly, the U.S., where we have acquired substantial expertise in and Houston. Our first U.S. project, 10th and G Street in Washington, D.C., the energy and industrial project sector through our new unit, Industrial was sold at an excellent profit. This is a textbook example of capitalizing on Contractors Skanska. the economic trend. We utilized our strengths and entered the market at The increasing competition means greater pressure on margins, which is the start of the recession, and we are now able to begin reaping the profits. especially noticeable in Central Europe. We have turned the curves upward New ground has also been captured within our infrastructure developand improved earnings in Norway and Finland. Performance is strong in ment, meaning our Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects. I am mainly both the U.S. and Sweden. However, we have made writedowns in our referring to the major road and tunnel project, Elizabeth River Tunnels, Latin American operations, which impacted the margin for construction (formerly known as the Midtown Tunnel) in Virginia, which represents the as a whole. The writedowns primarily pertained to ongoing projects, as well first vital step in PPP for the U.S. market. This project has taken several years as to receivables in two completed projects. to develop, but when it is finalized, the payoff for our efforts will take the The pace of residential development has slowed down. General ecoform of an investment from which we can expect a healthy return, as well nomic uncertainties and increasing unemployment have generally reduced as a major construction project for SEK 4.4 billion. the demand in the residential markets. The exception to this is the strong 4 Comments by the President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2012 Johan Karlström, Skanska’s President and CEO, in dialog with participants at the annual Future Days (Framtidsdagarna) in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The event is a Skanska initiative where Skanska experts meet students and politicians to discuss the needs of society and the improvements that Skanska can contribute in this respect. The PPP market is developing relatively slowly and achieving success in this Uncertainty continues to dominate the outlook for 2013. After years of the area requires perseverance and broad expertise. We have what is needed European economic crisis, the double-dip and triple-dip recessions and the and I am convinced that PPPs will be an important form of future contracts fiscal cliff, few analysts are venturing to predict an impending improvement in and offer an excellent solution to a range of community needs in several of the world economy. However, there are some indications that a cautious our domestic markets. recovery may come about later in the year. While we readily subscribe to this The divestment of four PPP hospitals in the UK is clear evidence that belief, our industry is subject to a lag in the business cycle and consequently, our business model is functioning in all respects – we are succeeding all there may be a delay in its impact on our operations. the way from tender to production and divestment. In Sweden, we are In the course of our first 125 years, we have not only experienced many demonstrating our capabilities through the New Karolinska Solna (NKS), crises, but emerged stronger. The key to our success lies with our employees. where construction is proceeding according to plan and a first building – Now, as before, we owe our success to their efforts in both good and bad times. a multilevel car park for hospital visitors and employees was placed in And there certainly are growth opportunities for us in our selected home operation in December. markets. We have not yet maximized our capacity in these markets. The Stockholm is one of Europe’s fastest growing cities and in particular, the strong urbanization trend creates a demand for infrastructure and energy. traffic situation requires prompt measures for dealing with rising demands. One specific opportunity is the booming shale gas and oil sector in the U.S. Consequently, we have drafted a solution for an eastern connection, also which also will drive industrial construction. Growing in our home markets known as the Eastern Link, between central Stockholm and Nacka, southmeans significantly lower financial and ethical risks for us compared to east of the city center. Our proposal is a coordinated tunnel project for entering some of the emerging markets. both road and subway. We can implement the project considerably faster With our expertise, we can contribute to the betterment of our commuby using a PPP solution, without needing to impact taxpayers directly with nities. We have the people and the business models required. We generate the cost for the new link. value for our owners and customers, as well as the community in general, Everyone who has followed Skanska in recent years already knows while simultaneously offering our employees opportunities for development. that we take environmental issues very seriously and work continuously to reduce the negative environmental impact of our operations. Wind power and energy-efficient properties are among our contribuSolna, February 2013 tions to the deceleration of global warming. In 2012, our Sjisjka wind farm began producing green electricity and we are on the cutting edge in terms of future-proofing our properties to meet the increasing demands of reduced climate impact. For example, our new property project, Stone34 in Seattle, has been fast-tracked in the permit process due to its high environmental standards. One of our greatest challenges is work-site safety. We are yet to achieve our zero work-site accidents vision despite many years of systematic and targeted efforts. While we have certainly made progress in this area, we cannot rest until everyone involved in our projects comes home from Johan Karlström work unharmed. President and CEO Skanska Annual Report 2012 Comments by the President and CEO 5 Strategy  T  o focus on its core business in construction and project develop­ment in selected home markets.  T  o focus on recruiting, developing and retaining competent employees and to take steps to achieve increased diversity.  To be a leader in identifying and systematically managing risks.  To be an industry leader in sustainable development, particu­larly in occupational health and safety, the environment and ethics.  To take advantage of financial synergies in the Group by investing the cash flow from construction operations in project develop­ment.  To utilize potential efficiency gains found in greater industrialization of the construction process and coordination of procurement. Heron Tower and Swiss Re Building, London, U.K. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Mission, vision and strategy 7 Business model Projects are the core of Skanska’s operations. Value is generated in the thousands of projects the Group executes each year. The goal is for every project to be profitable while being executed in line with Skanska’s goal of being an industry leader in occupational health and safety, risk management, employee development, green construction and ethics. In the Skanska Group multiple synergies generate Construction increased value for shareholders. The main synergies This business stream includes residential and non-residential are operational and financial. construction as well as civil construction, and is Skanska’s Operational synergies largest business stream, in terms of revenue and the number of employees. Skanska generates operational synergies mainly by taking advantage of the local specialized expertise Residential Development found globally in various business segments. Shared Skanska initiates, develops and invests in residential projects purchasing activities in procurement and production for divestment, primarily to individual consumers. development also boost efficiency and promote greater synergies in the organization. Commercial Property Development Skanska initiates, develops, invests in, leases and divests Financial synergies commercial property projects, primarily office space, Skanska’s construction business stream operates with shopping malls and logistics properties. free working capital and generates a positive cash flow. This cash flow is invested in the Group’s project develInfrastructure Development opment operations, which generate an excellent return Skanska develops, invests in, manages and divests on invested capital. These investments also enable privately financed infrastructure projects, such as highConstruction to obtain new assignments that generate a ways, hospitals, schools and power plants. profit for the operations. Refer to the illustration below. Free working capital in Construction enables the financing of investments in project development. ◀ Construction Investment opportunities ◀ Project development Revenue from external customers ◀ Revenue with associated Development gains are generated, ◀ construction profit. Internal construction which are realized upon divestment. contracts generated by Revenue from project development the investments in project operations: development Residential Development: SEK 5 billion Commercial Property ◀ Operating margin target 3.5–4.0% ◀ Return on capital employed Development: SEK 3 billion target 10–15% Infrastructure Development: SEK 8 billion Operating profit, internal construction contracts: approximately SEK 1 billion Advance payments: approximately SEK 7 billion ◀ ◀ Return on capital employed in project development operations including these synergies: Return on equity target 18–20% 15 percent, 9 percent excluding synergies. Performance target in project development excludes synergies while the target for return on equity includes synergies. Dividend policy 40–70% of profit 8 Business model Skanska Annual Report 2012 ” Skanska offers its customers global know-how and an international construction and project development business with strong local roots. Collaboration creates leverage meet the demands of customers. Only a few companies The Skanska Group’s business units specialize in project can compete for the type of projects where price, comdevelopment or construction and often collaborate in prehensive solutions and life-cycle costs are of critical specific projects. This reinforces their customer focus importance. The Group’s size and international profile and creates the prerequisites for sharing best practices are also attractive qualities in the recruitment of while ensuring efficient utilization of the Group’s colnew employees. lective competence and financial resources. Both a local and a global player Collaboration in clusters boosts strength The Group’s operations are based on local business Clustered collaboration between various units is another units, which have good knowledge of their respective method of strengthening the synergies in the Group. markets, customers and suppliers. These local units are Operations in various countries or regions establish backed by Skanska’s brand and financial strength as geographic clusters to share resources and expertise. well as Group-wide expertise and values. Consequently, Skanska is both a local company with global strength Size provides competitive advantages and an international construction and project develBy being a market leader, Skanska is well positioned in opment business with strong local roots. The Group’s relation to the most demanding customers. Skanska’s size extensive network enables Skanska to offer its global gives it an advantage in the most complex assignments, know-how to customers at the local level. where it uses its collective experience and know-how to Skanska’s business model functions in practice: Bassängkajen, Malmö, Sweden –– Leasable space: 16,000 square meters –– Construction period: 2009–2012 Investment: SEK 480 M –– Environmental standard: LEED Platinum –– Tenants: Malmö University, Visma and Awapatent –– Buyer: Vasakronan ◀ Revenue from internal construction contract: Divestment price: Internal SEK 400 M ◀ SEK 400 M construction contracts: SEK 650 M ◀ Operating margin ◀ Total return ◀ ◀ Total return Dividend Skanska Annual Report 2012 Business model 9 Skanska’s role in the community Skanska develops and builds homes, workplaces, schools, hospitals, highways — environments for people, built by people. This obligates to think long-term and responsibly, for sustainability, while remaining open to the views of everyone impacted by the operations. Skanska endeavors to act responsibly in the communities Safety – contribute knowledge in the area of safety, and where it has operations and to consequently strengthen support safe workplace initiatives. relationships in home markets and create a sense of Green know-how – support local green education pride among both internal and external stakeholders. initiatives connected with the built environment. Being a responsible and appreciated member of the Technical know-how – actively spread technical knowcommunity encompasses both the manner in which to ledge to enable smart solutions for the community. execute projects and the manner in which to contribute Skanska can also participate in other types of comto the community in general. In the home markets, munity activities requested by local community groups, Skanska contributes with the expertise by increasing provided that education have first been offered but knowledge about safety, the environment and technology. declined. Skanska also supports other local community initiatives Skanska’s community involvement should not be that are in line with the local operations and the Code confused with sponsorship, which is a marketing activity of Conduct. connected to business operations and regulated by a separate sponsorship policy. Policy for Skanska’s role in the community CCI entails active involvement, by the Company and Skanska’s Corporate Community Involvement (CCI) its employees. Participation must be based on Skanska’s policy is part of the Company’s social action plan within core competence and be in line with the Code of Conduct. Skanska’s Sustainability Agenda. The policy will create Particular emphasis is placed on potential partners also the framework for uniform and consistent actions maintaining high ethical standards. throughout the entire company, with a focus on our The community activities are coordinated by local home markets. business units in the home markets and supported by Skanska’s community initiatives are primarily directed a Group-wide network for exchanging experience. toward education in three areas by sharing know-how and experience, that can promote positive social development. Operations impact social development Customers and users Shareholders Employees Suppliers and Skanska’s earnings are achieved through A financially strong and sound company Skanska’s success is highly dependent on subcontractors well-executed projects that are profitable is the foundation for capital market its employees. Offering a secure, healthy Skanska’s supplier relationships reflect for the Company, as well as for customers confidence in Skanska. Through financial and stimulating job environment based a high level of integrity and business and users. Skanska continuously builds synergies, good control systems and on mutual respect is vital for attractethics. Skanska also expects its business up knowledge of its customers by mainrisk management procedures, Skanska ing, developing and retaining the best partners to live up to the principles of taining a presence in selected markets. creates the prerequisites for a positive employees. the Group’s Code of Conduct. return to its owners. 16 Skanska’s role in the community Skanska Annual Report 2012 More than SEK 100 is returned to the community. billion After the public sector, the construction industry is one of the largest employers in most countries. The public sector’s investment in buildings and infrastructure contributes to the establishment and development of communities and also creates jobs and monetary streams at a local level. In its operations, Skanska engages a considerable number of people – both employees and suppliers. For the past five years, an average of more than SEK 100 billion of Skanska’s revenues has been returned to the community every year. The column on the right indicates the distribution of these revenues. An efficient way to achieve social improvements – such as employee rights, increased diversity and zero tolerance for corruption and child labor – is through suppliers. • Lever • Anstä • Balan • Utde • Skatt Percentage of revenue 75% Suppliers A major part of Skanska’s revenues flow back out to the supplier chain. In the supplier chain, this leads to job opportunities, taxation and financial benefits such as pensions and healthcare insurance that create a steady flow of cash back into the community. 20% Employees The salaries of the approximately 57,000 people employed by Skanska also form a major percentage of the revenues. The salaries lead to taxation and benefits and thus the return of funds to the community. 5% Other Profit, dividend, etc. Profit and dividend are both subject to taxation, and thus In the London area schools of Bexleyheath and Welling, the return of funds to the community. 3,600 students were provided a stimulating scholastic The Group’s tax rate in 2012 was environment with light, airy and healthy classrooms 24 percent. equipped for networking. Construction included a library, sports center and cafeteria. National, regional and local Media and general public Local communities Nonprofit organizations government agencies Skanska’s communication with the media Skanska strives for smooth collaboration Skanska maintains a continuous dialog Skanska complies with applicable laws and the general public is characterized with the communities in which it operates with various interest organizations, and regulations in all the countries where by openness. Questions are answered and promotes their development, for for example, those in connection with it has operations. Skanska also endeavor and information is communicated in example, through donations and construction projects. This may concern to maintain an open dialog with those who a transparent manner and within a volunteer work. issues related to the environment, as well are directly affected by our operations. reasonable time frame. as social issues. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Skanska’s role in the community 17 100 of thousands of people get involved. For the eighth consecutive year, a Skanska Safety Week Continued focus on work site safety was organized in the autumn. It is the world’s largest investment in occupational health and safety implemented by a single company. Hundreds of thousands of people are involved at work sites in 18 countries. This year’s theme highlighted everyone’s responsibility in achieving Skanska’s target – zero work site accidents. The activities with a focus on improved safety were not only directed at Skanska employees, but at suppliers, customers and other business partners. Skanska Norway dealt with risks and safety measures in connection with operating a crane at a meeting of 120 persons, among whom were representatives of occupational health and safety authorities. An online forum for discussing safety issues was also launched on Skanska’s intranet. Skanska UK’s many activities included a family day to enable the children and spouses of employees to gain an insight into their work. In the London office’s inner courtyard, a “mission room” was also set up. The walls of the four-by-four-meter room functioned as screens on which movies and images could be displayed in a 360-degree format, thus transporting viewers right into the center of a project and enabling them to practice, discover and take measures against risks in their work. Östra länken (Eastern link) – Skanska’s road and subway proposal Road tunnels Subway tunnels A proposal drafted by Skanska and Sweco may provide Stockholm and Nacka with the missing link that will complete a ring road around Stockholm. Östra länken is a combined road and subway tunnel Stockholm system that will solve two problems with a single action. The extension of the subway line from central Stockholm to the center of Nacka is significantly less expensive to build than proposed alternatives. If the project were also executed as a public-private partnership (PPP), Skanska would be able to finance and implement construction over a significantly shorter Nacka time frame than through traditional contracts and without using taxpayer funds. The proposed design and construction of a road and subway link is also in line with current government policies. 18 Skanska’s role in the community Skanska Annual Report 2012 A rewarding meeting at the New Karolinska Solna It was a special summer’s day for several children and parents from play therapy at the Astrid Lindgren Children’s Hospital at the Karolinska University Hospital in Solna, when they were invited to visit the work site at the New Karolinska Solna (NKS). It is impossible for anybody to miss the forest of cranes at Europe’s largest and most environmentally responsible hospital construction site and the children were given the opportunity to watch construction activities up close. They were also able to get a feel for power tools, try out a tractor and to ride in a construction elevator. “It was a tremendously positive experience and heartwarming to meet the children,” said Janne Sedvall, who was one of the Skanska employees who showed the children around the work site. “It meant a lot for these children to come here and it was exciting, even for the parents,” said Lena Ulander, who is a play therapist. “I will never forget this day,” said one of the children. Play therapy is a place for children who need to defuse the trauma of hospital visits. It is not very usual for the children to go on an excursion. In collaboration with the Karolinska University hospital, all proceeds generated from guided tours of the NKS showroom go to its play therapy unit. 700 buildings repaired in one week. Aid to hurricane victims Skanska established an independent fund managed by a third-party administrator to provide aid to the victims of Hurricane Sandy. Skanska launched the fund by donating USD 100,000 and encouraging employees to contribute on a voluntary basis. The collected funds were distributed to people who had lost their homes to the ravaging storm. Hurricane Sandy hit the eastern U.S. in the autumn, causing thousands of people to become homeless and hundreds of thousands to be without electricity or water for shorter or longer periods of time. Any funds that were not used by year-end were donated to the Red Cross. More than 220 Skanska employees were also involved in the city of New York’s emergency relief task force, the NYC Rapid Repairs. In the course of a week, inspections and the most vital repairs were performed on approximately 700 buildings in the Brooklyn area, including a building with 74 apartments. Priority was given to restoring electricity, heating and the water supply. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Skanska’s role in the community 19 Sustainable development Sustainable development can be described as that which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. In order to endure over time, companies must find ways to contribute to economic development while being socially and environmentally responsible. This is often referred to as the three pillars of sustainability. In short, sustainability is about maximizing positive impacts on humans, the planet and the economy, and minimizing negative ones. Sustainability thinking should permeate all of Skanska’s activities, from its operations to its customer offering. Human Resources* Community Social Agenda Business Ethics Health & Safety Involvement* Skanska Sustainability Agenda Environmental Energy Carbon Materials Water Local Impacts Agenda Skanska Color Palette™ Economic Value Added Agenda Project Selection* Supply Chain to Society* Together the marked boxes = Green Business *Sections dealt with elsewhere in this Annual Report. Skanska aims to be an industry leader in sustainable Skanska Sustainability Agenda business practices. Consequently, the ambitions of the 2015 Business Plan focus on the potential gains from In any given year about 57,000 colleagues and 200,000 subbeing a leader in People Development, Safety, Risk contractors are carrying out some 10,000 projects for Management, Green Construction and Ethics. There customers in Skanska’s home markets. Skanska has a sigare major opportunities for Skanska to be a responsible nificant impact on the world around it. A sustainability member of the communities around its operations. agenda is required, because with Skanska’s size and impact There remains a long way to go in terms of making comes an important responsibility. The construction Skanska’s business truly sustainable, but considerable industry is facing some serious challenges. The construcprogress has been made in this regard. Skanska contintion sector, the built environment, and the supply chain ues to work hard to maximize its positive impact and to that feeds them, together, rely heavily on natural resources. reduce the negative. Collectively, they cause pollution to air, soil and water, and have a serious impact on business ethics, labor and safety issues. This presents Skanska with some major challenges, but at the same time, the opportunity to address them and to drive change in a positive direction. 72 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2012 Arbetsrelaterade olyckor med frånvaro (LTAR) 2005 –2012 Antal arbetsrelaterade olyckor med frånvaro multiplicerat med 1 miljon arbetade timmar delat med totalt antal arbetade timmar. We care about our people 8 7 6 5 4  Programs 3 for a safe and healthy work site 2 Skanska Safety Road Map 1 Global Safety Stand Down 0 E2005 xecutive2006 Site Safety2007Visits 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Global Safety Leadership Team Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) 2005 –2012 Number of lost time accidents times 1,000,000 hours divided by total labor hours. 8 7 6 5 4 3 Safety Week is the world’s largest workplace safety event organized by a company 2 and takes place on all Skanska work sites across 18 countries. An opportunity to force 1 ourselves to think differently – we cannot just do more of the same. The picture shows Skanska Executive Vice President, Roman Wieczorek, at Safety Week in Poland. The 0 mirror is a reminder – safety starts with yourself. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Our Social Agenda Despite these efforts, accidents still occur and Skanska continues to take steps to eliminate these. Following a serious accident, a rigorous investigation is undertaken Health and Safety and the findings and key lessons are communicated Skanska is committed to becoming a global leader in across the Company. After a work-related fatal accident, safety and to providing a healthy and safe working a Global Safety Stand Down is initiated to pay respect environment, not only for its own employees, but also to our colleague as well as to ensure that the lessons are for the more than 200,000 people who work at Skanska communicated to all Skanska jobsites worldwide. Any jobsites daily, including subcontractors and others. knowledge gained is openly shared and communicated Skanska endeavors to create a working environment with clients, joint venture partners and subcontractors. in which everyone at every Skanska location has the Skanska also recognizes the value of transferring responsibility and opportunity to influence the safety knowledge and learning in helping to eliminate these of their workplace. Skanska works with supply chain occurrences. During 2012 this was facilitated through partners, designers, competitors, clients and regulators stronger links between business units, temporary transto improve the safety of all construction activities in its fer of individuals and the use of senior mentors to accelhome markets. erate change. This personal contact has brought about The target is to achieve zero accidents in all home markets quicker and more sustainable change. Peer reviews of by 2015. To help realize this, the key focus areas in 2012 business units’ safety operations have also enabled a have been leadership, learning culture and improving two-way transfer of knowledge between the unit and the skills. The Company has also developed a series of visiting team. 12 Global Safety Standards that apply to all work sites Following the launch of the Skanska Safety Road Map in order to deliver consistent safety performance. in 2011, all business units have been implementing their It is Skanska’s policy that leadership in safety is necesimprovement plans. The key focus areas have been the sary to deliver zero accidents and, during 2012, senior advancement of the skills and knowledge of both line managers including the Senior Executive Team, Business and safety specialists and the development of leadership Unit Presidents and senior business unit executives skills throughout the organization. Skanska continues attended workshops on safety leadership. In addition, to make good progress with the reduction in lost time Skanska Safety Week 2012 focused on the safety accidents with its lowest ever recorded LTA (Lost Time leadership roles at the project with workshop modules Accident) frequency. being held throughout the Company. At Skanska Czech Despite the improvements made across Skanska, durRepublic, more than 4,000 employees and subcontracing 2012 there were two work-related fatalities involving tors attended the “Hour for Life” workshops, helping a subcontractor and a supplier. These are tragic events, to instill the safety culture required to achieve zero and Skanska is making every effort to ensure this canaccidents. not happen in the future. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Sustainable development 73 We play fair Skanska Czech Republic was honored with the AmCham Wings Award for efforts to improve business ethics. The AmCham Wings Award is presented by the American Chamber of Commerce. Lucie Nováková, Head of Communications, and Dan Ťok, President of Skanska in the Czech and Slovak Republics received the award. Businesses are under increasing pressure to conduct their operations in an ethical manner. This shift is driven in part by new legislation, society’s changing expectations and increasing transparency. Business ethics encouraged throughout Skanska – issues can often be Unethical business conduct has serious consequences resolved in this manner. There is also an independent – among many things, it hinders fair market structures Code of Conduct Hotline available, to ensure that any and distorts competition. This can adversely impact not ethical dilemma can be flagged anonymously. only on Skanska, but the communities in which it has To realize its goals, Skanska also collaborates with operations. For a company such as Skanska, this could and supports like-minded organizations to share best result in wasted tender expenses, increased project costs practices and influence the construction and infraand reputational risk. To remain a trusted and successstructure sector. In Poland Skanska took part in the ful company, Skanska is determined to become a leader Responsible Business Forum’s Good Practices Report in Ethics by 2015. Regular training is an effective way launch event, where examples of the company’s best to embed this commitment in Skanska’s operations. All practices in ethics, safety and environmental issues employees receive Code of Conduct training every two were presented. Skanska leads the Transparency Group years, with new employees being trained within three within the Nordic Chamber of Commerce in the Czech months of recruitment. Republic. As part of this role, Skanska is currently preIn 2012 Skanska launched a new Skanska Leaderparing a manual for fellow members, focused on issues ship Profile, which includes clear requirements on the of transparency, compliance and ethics. Skanska is company’s Living Our Values philosophy. Leaders are also the only construction company to be a member of evaluated, selected and developed based upon their the Czech Republic’s Platform for Transparent Public adherence to the company’s values and beliefs, with an Procurement. emphasis on the role of leadership in proactively preventing breaches of the company’s ethical standards. Each home market has its own Ethics Committee with the purpose of identifying and propagating best practices and reviewing issues. Open dialogue is 74 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2012 We use natural resources with care Skanska Color Palette™ Introduced in 2010 as part of the framework for Skanska’s Journey to Deep GreenTM, the Skanska Color PaletteTM provides a measure of progress on the journey. Since its inception, it has become an important tool for visualizing, measuring and reporting project performance. Vanilla – The construction process and product performance is in compliance with law, regulations, codes and standards. Green – The construction process or product performance is beyond compliance but not yet at a point where what is constructed and how it’s constructed can be considered to have near-zero impact. Green can be characterized by voluntary classification systems such as EU GreenBuilding, LEED, BREEAM and CEEQUAL. Deep Green – The construction process and product performance has a near-zero impact on the environment and thereby future-proofs projects. Deep Green is the ultimate destination for the projects that Skanska carries out on behalf of forward-looking, visionary customers, taking projects beyond voluntary certification systems. Deep Green targets for Skanska projects Deep Green is defined by six zeros that relate to the priority opportunities for reduction of the environmental impact of Skanska projects. They are: Net Zero primary energy for Buildings and net positive primary energy for Civil/Infrastructure Near Zero carbon in construction Zero waste Zero unsustainable materials Zero hazardous materials Net Zero water for buildings and Zero potable water for construction Successful reduction of environmental impact is not Our Environmental Agenda solely dependent on Skanska – collaboration is required with dedicated clients, suppliers and other partners. Skanska strives to contribute to building a green society − a place where projects and construction have a Skanska Color PaletteTM near-zero environmental impact. Skanska’s proactive The Skanska Color PaletteTM is the strategic framework approach to environmental responsibility applies both to measure and communicate Skanska’s performance to environmental management (how Skanska builds) and along the way. The Palette ranges from Vanilla – the to our customer offering, Green Business (what Skanska construction and product is in compliance with current builds). Skanska’s environmental agenda covers both. laws and regulations – to Deep Green – a construction process where product performance is future-proofed Skanska uses natural resources with care and has a near-zero environmental impact. Deep Green Skanska is determined to lower the environmental is the ultimate destination for the projects undertaken impact of its operations, as well as the impact of the on behalf of Skanska’s forward-thinking customers. projects implemented on behalf of our clients. Being the leading green project developer and contractor is a focus area in Skanska’s business plan, Profitable Growth 2015. The biggest opportunity to lower the environmental impact of Skanska and of its Green Business lies in the efficient and careful use of natural resources. This entails being smarter about the materials and water that is used, lowering carbon emissions and using less and cleaner energy. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Sustainable development 75 Skanska’s own offices represent some of the greenest buildings in each of the company’s operating regions, as confirmed by independent green building ratings. Nordic countries Finland Skanska Talo, Helsinki LEED Platinum* Väla Gård, Helsingborg, Sweden Sweden Entré Lindhagen, Stockholm LEED Platinum* Väla Gård is Skanska’s greenest office project to date and the first to achieve Sweden Gårda, Gothenburg LEED Platinum Deep Green on the Skanska Color Palette™. Through the use of roof-mounted solar Photo Voltaic energy arrays and investment in off-site wind power, Sweden Väla Gård, Helsingborg Skanska Deep Green* the building’s energy consumption is net zero. Surplus electricity generated Sweden Uppsala LEED CI Gold during the summer will be sold, and any winter shortfall made up by the Sweden Österport, Malmö LEED EB:OM Platinum wind generator, with projections suggesting that Väla Gård could achieve Other European countries Sweden’s lowest energy consumption for any office built to date. Czech Republic City Green Court, Prague LEED Platinum Czech Republic Three pre-fabrication facilities ISO 50 001 Hungary CDE offices LEED CI Gold Poland Atrium, Warsaw LEED Platinum* United Kingdom Hollywood House, Woking LEED CI Platinum The Americas United States Empire State Building, New York LEED CI Platinum United States Atlanta LEED CI Gold United States Seattle LEED CI Gold United States New Haven LEED CI Silver United States Orlando LEED CI Gold United States Bulova Buildings, New York LEED Platinum* United States New Jersey Solar power generation system *designed to achieve Energy Skanska’s Nordic Commercial Development Unit is Fossil fuels will continue to dominate energy generation working in its Nordic home markets to meet its ambition until at least 2050. The relationship between fossil fuels to ensure that 50 percent of projects started in 2015 are and CO2 is well understood, as their impact on climate. Deep Green. In Sweden, by incorporating solutions such Therefore, Skanska aims to reduce the amount of energy as Deep Green Cooling™ into a new station for the Police consumed by its projects and wherever possible to source in Skåne, Skanska scored the highest points in the tender that energy from low-carbon sources. evaluation and won the project, even though it was not The ultimate goal of Skanska’s Color Palette™ – zero net the lowest cost bid. The technology has also been impleuse of primary energy – will be achieved at a different pace, mented at Skanska’s new headquarters at Entré Lindhadepending upon market economies and geographic factors. gen, Stockholm, designed to achieve LEED Platinum, Renewable energy provides Skanska with an opporreducing energy consumption by 50 percent compared tunity to reduce the carbon footprint of its own offices, to a typical new Swedish office building. Skanska UK through collaboration with renewable energy suppliers was also able to deliver savings at Coldharbour Lane, and also by installing its own renewable energy generation London, an energy-efficient affordable housing developsystems, such as the 7989 sq. m (86,000 sq. ft.) solar array ment consuming almost 50 percent less energy than curat Skanska Koch (Carteret, New Jersey, United States). rent U.K. building regulations stipulate. Elsewhere in the U.S., Skanska USA Civils’ solar farm in In order to deliver savings for clients both now and in Cortez, Colorado, generates more than 500,000 kWh of future, Skanska has undertaken several projects with electricity. Surplus power is fed back to the grid. In Sweden energy performance guarantees. Earlier in 2012, the Skanska has invested in a 78MW wind farm in Sjisjka to Clarion Hotel in Trondheim was completed to energy supply 43,000 households with electricity each year, and classification A, which could save the owner up to an 80MW wind park in Mullberg to supply approximately 350,000 kWh of electricity per year, compared to build45,000 homes. ing regulation requirements. The construction of a new wind farm, El Arrayan in As a signatory to the World Business Council for Chile, by Skanska Latin America, is underway. It will be Sustainable Development’s Energy Efficiency in Buildone of the country’s largest wind power plants and is the ings manifesto, Skanska is mapping the energy used first Skanska Latin America project to have its carbon footby its own head offices and regional offices. From this print calculated. baseline, energy and CO2 reductions will be established In Norway, the Powerhouse Alliance, of which Skanska and publicly reported. One of the offices, Skanska UK’s is a member, has been working on the development of recently refurbished Hollywood House, is now benefitenergy-positive buildings. Powerhouse One, Norway’s first ting from significant improvements in energy efficiency. energy-positive office block at Brattørkaia in Trondheim The building is currently the highest scoring Leadership and scheduled for completion in 2014, will ultimately proin Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum duce more energy than it consumes. The Alliance is also for Commercial Interiors (CI) for a U.K. fit out and now planning its first refurbishment project at Kjørbo, Oslo, uses 56 percent less energy than before. which will fully refurbish two 1980s office blocks to transform them into energy-positive buildings. 76 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2012 Carbon footprinting is applied more widely than ever: The number of Skanska Project Carbon Footprints 2008–2012 Throughout 2012, special tools have been introduced and their use has 60 increased. Project carbon footprinting is now used more widely than ever across the organization and life cycle cost optioneering is now being applied 36 to more projects, to help everyone involved understand more about performance optimization, particularly at the early design phase of buildings 4 and infrastructure projects. Projects are 1 2008 3 2009 2010 2011 2012 also benefitting more from the use of Building Information Modeling (BIM) and Energy modeling. Carbon tocol. Launched in 2012, and endorsed by the GHG ProThe occupation and use of buildings account for tocol owner the World Resources Institute, the protocol approximately 40 percent of global energy use and more aims to establish good practice and guide the constructhan one-third of global greenhouse gas emissions. tion sector on how it can measure and report its Scope 1 Carbon reduction efforts have traditionally focused on and 2 greenhouse gas emissions more effectively. operational carbon, which typically accounts for about During 2012, Skanska Commercial Property Develop80 percent of a building’s carbon footprint. However, as ment USA measured the carbon footprint of its 733 10th building occupancy and operation becomes more enerand G project in Washington D.C. This was the first cargy efficient, there is a change emerging in these ratios, bon footprint of its kind in the U.S., providing Skanska leading to a growing interest in the measurement and with a U.S. benchmark to guide, analyze and improve reduction of embodied carbon. To realize carbon savthe carbon performance of future projects. Footprintings throughout the lifecycle of a project, Skanska has ing also helps to identify low-carbon project options. developed and is implementing tools, including carbon Working as part of National Grid’s South East Electricfootprinting. This helps customers and supply chain ity Substation Alliance (SEESA) to upgrade its electricity partners understand potential environmental impacts transmission network, Skanska UK conducted carbon and opportunities and also mitigate the impacts. footprinting that helped to realize savings of about The measurement and management of carbon, for SEK 300,000 on individual projects. In Scandinavia, example through the use of innovative design tools, the Norwegian government’s carbon calculation tool adoption of better building practice and supply chain was used by Skanska in the construction of the Telemark education, are important to Skanska. Each year, the Rehabilitation Center, measuring its lifecycle carbon Company reports to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure footprint as more than 46 percent less than the reference Project) and, for the third consecutive year, Skanska design model for the building. The use of low-carbon conwas the highest scoring construction company in the struction materials was an initiative that helped to reduce Nordic 260 Climate Change Report 2012. Independent the embodied carbon of this project. benchmarking of participating companies’ responses By working closely with clients and suppliers to betalso showed that Skanska’s disclosure score, quality and ter understand carbon impacts, Skanska has begun to completeness of response and performance band surpass deliver significant carbon savings on certain projects. the CDP’s supply chain average. Scope 1 emissions for During the Glasbruket 1 construction of roads and 2012 were 371,158 tonnes, a reduction of 15 percent on drains in Malmö, Sweden, the project team substituted previous year. Scope 2 emissions were 59,563 tonnes, a polyethylene pipes for conventional concrete drainage reduction of 22 percent on previous year. Reductions were pipes, thereby reducing lifecycle carbon emissions by due to a mix of proactive changes to reduce carbon intenaround 40 percent. sity in some of Skanska’s processes, increased reporting As part of the Anglian Water Alliance, Skanska UK’s accuracy and changes in project mix. performance is measured in terms of successful reducSkanska was co-author of the ENCORD (European tion of embodied and operational carbon. This novel Network of Construction Companies for Research and business model sees Alliance members rewarded for Development) Construction CO2e Measurement Prodelivering carbon savings on projects. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Sustainable development 77 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Waste Skanska’s targets for waste from materials brought onto work sites: Total average amount of waste diverted from landfill 2008–2012 Percentage of waste diverted from landfill 2008–2012. Target for 2012 was to reach 92%. < 10% % of waste at projects going to landfill by end 2011 100 90 < 8% of waste at end 2012 80 70 60 < 6% of waste at end of 2013 50 40 < 4% of waste at end of 2014 30 20 10 < 2% of waste at end of 2015 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Materials project Stone 34, a mixed use retail and office building The Skanska Color Palette™ challenges projects to generate in Seattle, Washington, is designed to capture almost all zero waste through planning and design, to increase matewater used on site. Its fully integrated green systems include rial efficiency, reuse and recycle materials and products. rainwater and grey water storage and treatment facilities This key priority is complemented with two other targets: where filtered water from sinks and showers is reused for zero unsustainable materials and zero hazardous materials, irrigation on site. Skanska designed the building to perform targeting the three priorities of material use that pose chalbeyond the LEED Platinum rating, and is currently particilenges and opportunities within the construction sector. pating in the Seattle Deep Green Program, which assists Applying the Skanska Color Palette™ commitments to projects attempting to meet Living Building Challenge the Adjutantti residential development project in Finland, (LBC) design guidelines and requirements. all materials used exceeded the voluntary Finnish M1 In northern Chile, water scarcity is a major issue. To tackstandards for low emissions. More than 95 percent of the le this problem during the construction of the Antofagasta waste construction materials avoided landfill. Materials Highway, Skanska used a new technology to reduce water were thoroughly sorted, and combustible waste was sent use by 50 percent. It also capitalized on the project’s close to a local cogeneration power plant. proximity to the Pacific, by utilizing sea water, wherever Skanska also worked to ensure the use of sustainable possible, in appropriate processes. materials for the Norra Länken highway in Stockholm, As part of Skanska’s commitment to increasing the water Sweden’s largest road construction project to date. To efficiency of its projects, this year it has delivered Poland’s achieve a maintenance-free result, the main junction is first LEED certified school building. The new Arts and to be built using stainless steel reinforcement bars. These Sports building constructed for the American School of were specified at the project’s initial design stages by the Warsaw is designed to use 50 percent less water than the Swedish Transport Administration (STA), to help avoid LEED baseline, by harvesting rainwater for toilet flushing expensive repairs due to corrosion caused by de-icing and effectively managing storm water on site. Another Polish salts and the resulting disruption to traffic. In Argentina, project, Atrium I in Warsaw, features grey and storm water Skanska Latin America undertakes waste treatment and management systems, reducing water consumption 70 permaterials recycling with its hydrocarbon recovery process. cent compared to similar buildings. Slop oil accumulated in the storage vessels and equipAnother example of efficiency measures to reuse and ment used in oil production fields are treated so that waste recycle water is Skanska House, Finland, designed to water and oil are separated. Oil recovery helps to make the achieve LEED Core & Shell Platinum and EU GreenBuildprocess more efficient and minimizes the amount of coning certification. The office building uses 50 percent less taminated water produced. water than the LEED baseline for the building. And in Prague, Czech Republic, the Milíčov development is one Water of the city’s first neighborhoods to have a dual storm water Wherever possible, Skanska works to replace potable management system for street and building run-off. water with alternative quality grades and to reduce, reuse and recycle water. The commercial property development 78 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2012 We choose likeminded partners TELUS TELUS, a major Canadian telecoms company, set out to renew its data center to make it more reliable and robust, incorporating greener and more efficient features. Skanska was selected to help TELUS, delivering new technology to reduce the energy and water required to cool the centers by 80 percent. The company has a long-term “improvement guarantee” with TELUS, requiring the center to deliver guaranteed savings and to become progressively more efficient. The data center saves TELUS USD 1 M per year due to its efficiency and has received a LEED Gold rating. “Skanska has provided TELUS with required flexibility in a constantly changing IT world – we can optimize capital deployment and minimize total cost of ownership while ensuring required reliability, security and scalability all in an incredibly efficient design,” says Lloyd Switzer, SVP Network Transformation, TELUS . ISO14001 större avvikelser Major Non-Conformances, (MNC) identifierade Frekvens av MNC under 2005–2012. Antal 10 15 Skanska respects the local environment ers and other partners, local residents, government agencies 9 Construction is fundamentally a local activity. Done well, and other key stakeholders, and thus create value to benefit 8 10it adds value and leaves a positive legacy. Done badly, it both shareholders and society in general. 7 can become a nuisance or worse, leading to harm and 6 destruction. Supply Chain – Skanska chooses likeminded partners 5 5 Skanska has chosen to address local impact in order to Skanska recognizes that many successes and failures are intrin4 minimize its footprint. All Skanska’s operations have been sically linked to its supply chain relationships, with around 75 3 0certified globally to the ISO14001 Environmental Manpercent of its revenue flowing through more than 100,000 sup2 2005 System agement 2007 since 2006 (EMS) 2008 2000,2009representing 2010 approxi2011 2012 pliers and subcontractors globally. In order to encourage the 1 mately För 95 percent mer information seof the93–94. sidan Company’s revenue. This internadevelopment, sharing and uptake of innovative solutions and 0 tionally recognized EMS provides a consistent framework initiatives across its supply chain, Skanska UK ran its Supply 2005 20 for continuous monitoring and improvement across all Chain Green Solution Award for the third year running. The business units and markets. All local impacts are managed 2012 winner is a waterless on-site wheel cleaning system which in this way. is already in use at Skanska’s HMP Grampian prison project, Scotland, saving around SEK 700,000 per year. Also in the 10 ISO14001 Major Non-Conformances (MNCs) identified U.K. in 2012, Skanska collaborated with others in the construc9 tion industry to found the Supply Chain Sustainability School, 8 The frequency of MNCs in 2005–2012. Number a virtual learning environment aiming to help construction 7 suppliers and subcontractors develop their sustainability 6 15 5 knowledge and competence. The School represents a com4 mon approach to addressing sustainability within the supply 3 10 chain, helping to further address the challenges faced by the 2 1 industry. 0 5 Skanska Nordic Procurement Unit’s (NPU) preferred 200 supplier program focuses initially on prequalification, as part of long-term contract framework agreements with 0 suppliers and subcontractors. This is followed by a perfor2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 mance evaluation that considers aspects such as quality, For more information, refer to page 93-94. För mer information se sidan 93–94. cost, environment, safety and delivery to establish Skanska’s procurement standard with suppliers. In order to support any suppliers that fail to fulfill these Our Economic Agenda requirements, the NPU has also introduced a supplier development program, aimed at improving the supply Skanska endeavors to balance the need for sustained sharechain’s performance baseline. Suppliers are educated on the holder return with wider stakeholder benefits. Skanska’s Skanska Color PaletteTM and encouraged to attend training philosophy is to do right by customers, employees, supplievents on green aspects of procurement. Skanska Annual Report 2012 Sustainable development 79 Global leadership Recognition   Skanska UK’s civil project at the Olympic Park awarded the highest ever CEEQUAL assessment Eko-design specialister score: 98.3 percent. The project was the only one to Antalet LEED APs, BREEAM och CEEQUAL eko-design specialister. 650 score 100 percent for carbon, thanks to cost effec600 tive and innovative biodiesel use in road vehicles. Skanska 550 has been a supporter of the UN Global Compact for over a decade. 500 Skanska’s Communication on Progress  For the third year in a row, Skanska is the only 450 is uploaded annually to the UNGC website construction company in the Forest Footprint 400 as a public statement of its commitment. Disclosure (FFD), a global review of the impact of 350 large companies on forests based on their use of A300 United Nations Global Compact supporter five commodities including timber and biofuels. For more than a decade, Skanska has been a supporter of the United 250 Nations Global Compact (UNGC). It is also a sponsor of the United Nations 200 Environment Program’s (UNEP) Sustainable Buildings and Climate Initiative. In 2012, Skanska extended its support to UNEP 150  Skanska Czech Republic was awarded the by providing a chairman for its taskforce on Greening the Building Sector 100 Supply Chain. TOP Responsible Large Company 2012 for its 50 comprehensive attitude to sustainability, which A Green Building Councils member Skanska 0 is also an active member of many Green Building Councils the company publicly reports and monitors. (GBC)2004 throughout2005 the regions 2006 2007 in which 2008 it operates 2009 and it2011 2010 was 2012 instrumental in establishing a number of these. The Company is also a sponsor of the forthcoming World Green Building Council review, Business Case for Green Buildings, and a Skanska USA For the third consecutive year, Skanska was Senior Vice President chaired the US-GBC in 2012. the highest scoring construction company in the Nordic 260 Climate Change Report of the Eco Design professionals Carbon Disclosure Project. Number of LEED APs, BREEAM and CEEQUAL eco-design professionals. 650 600  Skanska Commercial Development Europe was 550 recognized at the CEEQA Industry Awards for 500 commitment to developing new projects accord450 ing to the principles of sustainable development 400 as well as promoting green development. It won 350 the Green Leadership Award and the title Real 300 Green Developer of the year. 250 200  Skanska Sweden won four of the seven Swedish 150 Transport Administration safety awards in 2012, 100 thanks to systematic safety programs to create 50 safe work sites. 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 80 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2012 Skanska AB www.skanska.com/group Råsundavägen 2 SE-169 83 Solna Tel: +46 10 448 00 00 Fax: +46 8 755 12 56
