Annual Report 2012 Thinking sustainably, driving change Key Data € million Q4 2011 Q4 2012 Change % 2011 2012 Change % Sales 2,123 2,123 0.0 8,775 9,094 3.6 EBITDA pre exceptionals 174 239 37.4 1,146 1,225 6.9 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 8.2% 11.3% 13.1% 13.5% EBITDA 144 228 58.3 1,101 1,188 7.9 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 87 137 57.5 826 849 2.8 Operating result (EBIT) 52 126 >100 776 810 4.4 EBIT margin 2.4% 5.9% 8.8% 8.9% Net income 5 51 >100 506 514 1.6 Earnings per share (€) 0.06 0.62 >100 6.08 6.18 1.6 Dividend per share (€) 0.85 1.00 17.6 ROCE 17.2% 15.6% Cash flow from operating activities 261 414 58.6 672 838 24.7 Depreciation and amortization 92 102 10.9 325 378 16.3 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 354 315 (11.0) 679 696 2.5 Total assets 6,878 7,519 9.3 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 2,074 2,331 12.4 Equity ratio 30.2% 31.0% Pension provisions 679 892 31.4 Net financial liabilities 1,515 1,483 (2.1) Employees (as of December 31) 16,390 17,177 4.8 Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,244 1,392 11.9 Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 2.7 3.4 Energy consumption (petajoules) 54.51) 56.0 2.8 Total water consumption (in million cubic meters) 292 309 5.8 Emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents in thousand tons) 1,9371) 1,913 (1.2) Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand tons) 7.8 7.6 (2.6) Total waste (in thousand tons) 267 283 6.0 Total wastewater (in million cubic meters) 33 34 3.0 1) Figure restated Sales by Region Employees by Region (as of December 31) % % 24.2 27.8 14.5 20.0 Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) 9.5 Latin America 13.0 9.0 Latin America North America 17.3 Germany 17.7 47.0 North America Germany This annual report contains forward-looking statements based on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or performance of the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to conform them to future events or developments. Performance Polymers Market Position Performance Indicators The Performance Polymers segment brings together all the activities € million 2011 2012 Change % of the LANXESS Group in the production of rubber and plastics. Our Sales 5,059 5,176 2.3 technologies give us a strong position in the global market. For example, LANXESS is among the leading manufacturers of butyl and polybuta­ Proportion of Group sales 57.7% 56.9% diene rubber, used mainly for the production of car and truck tires. Our EBITDA1) 768 817 6.4 high-tech plastics Durethan® and Pocan® are strong brands with significant potential for growth and innovation in the field of lightweight autoEBITDA margin 1) 15.2% 15.8% motive components. Cash outflows for capital expenditures 437 434 (0.7) Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 4,977 5,348 7.5 • Butyl Rubber (BTR) 1) Pre exceptionals • Performance Butadiene Rubbers (PBR) • High Performance Elastomers (HPE)1) • Keltan Elastomers (KEL)1) • High Performance Materials (HPM) 1) Since January 1, 2013 Advanced Intermediates Market Position Performance Indicators The operations that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Intermediates € million 2011 2012 Change % segment make it one of the world’s main suppliers of basic and fine Sales 1,545 1,674 8.3 chemicals. Our core competencies lie in the production and marketing of industrial and fine chemicals, and in research and development in Proportion of Group sales 17.6% 18.4% these fields. Many years of experience, successful brands and a highly EBITDA1) 264 305 15.5 efficient integrated aromatics production network give LANXESS leader­ship posi­tions in the global market. EBITDA margin 1) 17.1% 18.2% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 107 92 (14.0) Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 2,883 2,841 (1.5) 1) Pre exceptionals • Advanced Industrial Intermediates (AII) • Saltigo (SGO) Performance Chemicals Market Position Performance Indicators LANXESS’s Performance Chemicals segment combines all the G ­ roup’s € million 2011 2012 Change % application-oriented activities in the field of process and functional Sales 2,130 2,203 3.4 chem­icals. With strong brands, we rank among the world’s lead­ing producers. For example, we hold a leadership position in the field of Proportion of Group sales 24.2% 24.2% ­or­ganic colorants for plastics. Our major strengths include a global EBITDA1) 289 281 (2.8) sales and service network, outstanding product quality, high innovative ­capability and patent protection for our company’s technologies. EBITDA margin 1) 13.6% 12.8% Cash outflows for capital expenditures 112 135 20.5 Business Units Employees (as of Dec. 31) 5,819 6,031 3.6 • Material Protection Products (MPP) 1) Pre exceptionals • Inorganic Pigments (IPG) • Functional Chemicals (FCC) • Leather (LEA) • Rhein Chemie (RCH) • Rubber Chemicals (RUC) • Ion Exchange Resins (ION) 2012 – LANXESS Year of Green Mobility Throughout the world, more and more people seek increased mobility. The only way to counter the resulting burden on the environment is to come up with new, sustainable solutions. As a technology leader in specialty chemicals, we develop applications that can make mobility more environmentally compatible. One of our most important green mobility products is white at the start of its life cycle: synthetic highperformance rubber. This product is the main component in modern green tires, simultaneously reducing their rolling resistance, increasing their durability and improving their braking behavior. However, our portfolio includes many other innovative solutions for green mobility. Our high-tech plastics, for example, reduce the weight of components for cars and other vehicles, cutting their fuel consumption without compromising safety performance. And our stabilizers make it possible to produce fuels from renewable raw materials. With innovative premium products, first-class technical expertise and inventiveness, LANXESS contributes to its customers’ success around the globe. We are a specialty chemicals company with businesses that hold leading market positions worldwide. Resource efficiency and environmentally friendly solutions form the key to our sustainable growth. In 2012 we set a further mid-term earnings target. Building on our established strategy combining organic and external growth, we aim to raise our key financial indicator – EBITDA pre exceptionals – to €1.8 billion by 2018. To this end, we are systematically aligning our product portfolio to four of the main global megatrends and expanding our local presence in growth regions. Contents 4 Letter to Stockholders 8 Management 34 Corporate Responsibility 66 Investor Information 10 Strategy 18 Segments 76 Financial Information 79 Combined Management Report 136 Corporate Governance 144 Report of the Supervisory Board 148 Consolidated Financial Statements 200 Responsibility Statement 201 Auditor’s Report 202 About this Report 203 GRI Statement 204 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report 206 GRI Content Index 212 Glossary 214 Index 215 Graphics and Tables 216 Financial Calendar/Contact 4 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 When LANXESS became an independent company eight years ago, few people believed it would have a successful future. That is why I can look back on the 2012 fiscal year with particular pride. There is hardly any other year in our history that demonstrates more clearly just how successful we have become since 2005, despite many predictions to the contrary. With an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.225 billion, we achieved the company’s best result to date in 2012, in an increasingly demanding economic environment. Our net income, which came to €514 million, also reached a new high. On behalf of the entire Board of Management, I would like to give special thanks to the employees of LANXESS for these achievements. Their tireless efforts for the company have made this success possible. Together, we will make the company a continuing success going forward and rise to every challenge. One highlight for us all in 2012 was LANXESS’s admission to the DAX 30 in September. I was very moved by this special endorsement of our hard work in the past years and the successful transformation of our company. To be listed in Germany’s leading stock index is an honor for us – and a motivation to become even better. Consistent with this is the fact that we set a new mid-term growth target last year: we aim to achieve an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.8 billion in 2018. Our existing goal for 2015 is an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.4 billion and we now intend to reach this already in 2014. The excellent results we posted last year are an important step in this direction. However, please don’t let them make you think that 2012 was an easy year for LANXESS. We had to work incredibly hard for our success until the last day. The deteriorating economic conditions in the second half of the year were the main reason for this. The eurozone debt crisis was no longer the only drag on the European economy. Weaker growth in many parts of Asia and sluggish economic momentum in Latin America had a negative impact as well. For our businesses, ongoing volatility in raw material prices and rising energy prices also made matters difficult. That the fourth-quarter operating results were still positive is largely attributable to fewer one-time effects compared to the previous year. 2013 is not going to make life any easier for us. Thus far, there are no signs of a fundamental improvement in the economic climate. Even if the initial measures are working, dealing with the impact of the debt crisis will still be a formidable challenge for the world economy and businesses. Important political and economic questions remain to be answered, sweeping reforms have yet to be introduced. But we will not alter our growth strategy because of this. We are experienced in handling turbulent times and will be able to weather future storms, too. The long-term drivers of our businesses remain intact. Going forward, LANXESS and its technology-based products will continue to profit from the focus on growth regions and from the global megatrends. Letter to Stockholders 5 ﻿ 6 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 As an example, our business in advanced intermediates for agrochemicals, with which we serve the agriculture megatrend, developed very positively. Our products support the more efficient use of arable land and help safeguard crop yields. In this way, we are making an important contribution to addressing the increasing demand for food from an ever-growing world population. We will strengthen the area of agrochemicals in the years ahead, enabling us to meet the growing demand for our products. The global rise in mobility will also drive our development. Today there are more than 800 million vehicles on the road worldwide. That figure is expected to reach two billion by 2035. We are profiting from this trend. Our high-performance rubber products and high-tech plastics are making it possible to significantly reduce vehicle emissions and fuel consumption, thus helping counteract the growing impact on the environment associated with increasing mobility. For us, 2012 was the year of green mobility. Our strength in this field delivered good results for the company, with green mobility products accounting for 17 percent of our total sales last year, or €1.6 billion. Our goal is to increase our total revenues in this area to €2.7 billion by 2015. Last year, we pursued the growth this requires by again making smart long-term investments in key markets. In September, we broke ground in Singapore for the world’s largest production facility for neodymium-based performance butadiene rubber. This high-performance polymer is vital to the manufacture of fuel-saving, emission-reducing green tires – a fast-growing market. Our high-tech plastics represent another group of products with which we are very successfully making a contribution to green mobility. Here, too, we were able to strengthen our leadership position. In September 2012, we acquired Bond-Laminates, a company that specializes in making customized plastic composite sheets for the automotive industry. Compared to metal parts, these are easier to process, have excellent mechanical properties and weigh less, which makes it possible to reduce vehicle emissions and fuel consumption. We are currently building the world’s largest plant for EPDM synthetic rubber in Changzou, China. The facility will use the state-of-the-art Keltan ACE technology, which reduces energy requirements in comparison to conventional technologies. We are committed to innovations and state-of-the-art technologies. One of our strengths is taking new approaches to ensure our company’s future success. We did just that on several occasions in the year under review. For example, we presented a concept tire at our inaugural Mobility Day in the United States, which took place in September. This tire is among the first to have earned a double-A rating under the E.U.’s new tire labeling regulations, which is reserved for tires that demonstrate exceptional braking behavior on wet surfaces, particularly high fuel economy and low emissions. Since November 2012, all tires sold within the E.U. must be labeled to indicate their fuel economy, wet grip and rolling noise. Similar legislation is now in effect in South Korea and is being considered in other countries. For consumers, the new regulation provides a better basis for making tire buying decisions. Tires may look the same, but they often differ greatly in terms of how they impact fuel consumption, emissions and safety. Green tires receive excellent ratings in these areas. Obviously, we have no intention of competing with our customers in the tire industry. However, our concept tire is proof of our extraordinary competence in the area of mobility and will offer our customers true added value. We can now offer them materials that have already been subjected to rigorous testing, reducing their time to market for new tires and thereby enhancing their competitive position. Letter to Stockholders 7 ﻿ We celebrated a further premiere in September with the launch of our fuel-savings app. This marks the first time we have directly addressed the people who use the products made from our materials. To date, the fuel-savings calculator has been used by around 180,000 consumers. The primary purpose of our initiative is to provide a valuable tool that helps in the purchase of new tires. How much money can you save with green tires? How long does it take for the investment to pay off? By how much are CO2 emissions reduced? Just a few clicks clearly demonstrate the benefits of green tires to the consumer and the environment. Our claim to promote the sustainability of the global economy through the exercise of entrepreneurial responsibility was underscored in 2012 when we reaffirmed our commitment to the principles of the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative, the Global Compact. Our products make a valuable contribution in this regard. Naturally, we also attach great importance to making the underlying production processes as environmentally friendly as possible. We use cutting-edge technologies in our plants to save energy and water, for example. And each new production plant must meet strict environmental protection standards. Experts rated the success of our efforts again last year and gave us a top grade. For instance, we were included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index of the world’s leading climate protection initiative for the first time. This means we ranked in the top ten percent of the 350 companies surveyed in Germany, Austria and Switzerland which are characterized by particularly transparent reporting about climate protection. However, at LANXESS, sustainability means more than responsible stewardship of the environment. I firmly believe that companies that want to remain successful in the future must be sustainable in every aspect of their operations. For us, this includes promoting equal opportunity in our company and recognizing that people’s diverse life experiences are a source of valuable knowledge. As part of the Board of Management’s Diversity & Inclusion initiative, we translated this understanding of sustainability into two projects last year. Through our Senior Trainee Program, which is unique in Germany, we enabled 13 highly qualified women and one man to return to employment after a long period spent raising a family. At the same time, we set a global corporate target for the medium term in respect of the proportion of women in mid-level and upper management: by 2020, we want around 20 percent of these positions to be held by women. The figure currently stands at just under 15 percent. With our ambitious target, we are aiming to help more highly qualified women advance their careers within the company and thereby make a contribution to equal opportunity. Dear stockholders, commercial success and sustainable business practices go hand in hand at LANXESS. The capital market also acknowledged this last year. Our stock posted one of the largest increases in value in the DAX 30. On behalf of the entire Board of Management, I want to express my deep gratitude for your many years of trust. 2013 may be a challenging year for LANXESS, but that will only motivate us to maintain our successful course. I hope that you will continue to accompany us on this journey. Best regards, 8 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Management Dr. Rainier van Roessel Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Member of the Board of Management (Industrial Relations Director) Chairman of the Board of Management Performance Chemicals, Human Resources, Information Technology Corporate Communications, Corporate Development, Executive Human Resources, Internal Auditing Rainier van Roessel was born in 1957 in Oisterwijk in the Netherlands. He Axel C. Heitmann was born in Hamburg in 1959. After graduating in chemstudied business administration at the University of Cologne, where he also istry from Hamburg University and Southampton University, United Kingdom, obtained his doctorate, and joined Bayer AG in 1988. When the LANXESS and obtaining his doctorate, he joined Bayer AG in 1989. In the subsequent organization was set up in 2004, he became Head of the Rubber Chemicals years, he held a succession of roles at Bayer, which included a number of business unit, and in June 2006 he was additionally appointed Managing international assignments in the United Kingdom and China. Axel C. ­Heitmann Director of LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium. Rainier van Roessel was was appointed Chairman of the LANXESS AG Board of Management on ­appointed to the LANXESS AG Board of Management on January 1, 2007. September 16, 2004. Management 9 ﻿ Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Dr. Werner Breuers Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Accounting, Corporate Controlling, Investor Relations, Law & Intellectual Performance Polymers, Advanced Intermediates, ­Aliseca, Global ProcureProperty, Mergers & Acquisitions, Tax, Treasury ment & Logistics, Innovation & Technology, Industrial & Environmental Affairs Bernhard Düttmann was born in Düsseldorf in 1959. He studied business Werner Breuers was born in Mönchengladbach in 1958. He studied ­chemistry administration at the University of Cologne, where he also obtained his doctorand obtained his doctorate from Aachen Technical University before ­beginning ate. In 1989 he joined Beiersdorf AG in Hamburg, where he was latterly the his career in the Research and Development Division of Hoechst AG in Executive Board Member responsible for Finance/Human Resources and held 1989. After holding managerial positions at various companies in Germany regional responsibility for the Middle East, Africa and Turkey. Bernhard Düttmann and abroad, he latterly worked for the Basell Group as President of Basell was appointed by the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG on February 3, Polyolefins Europe. Werner Breuers was appointed to the Board of Management 2011, to become Chief Financial Officer of the specialty chemicals company. of LANXESS AG effective May 14, 2007. StrategY A driving force for new ideas David Hardy, Technical Marketing Manager for the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit, discusses the further potential of our rubber grades for green tires with high-viscosity technology expert Dr. Jochen Kroll, polymer chemist Dr. Christopher Kohl and organic synthesis specialist Dr. Nadine Vogl, who work in the LANXESS Innovation & Technology Group Function. We generate ideas and development projects through close collaboration between our business units – their Technical Marketing Managers serving as the direct interface with the market – and Innovation & Technology. This group function, established in 2009, pools our expertise and drives innovation projects to safeguard the company’s long-term success. This is also where the development of our high-performance rubbers for green tires started. Our scientists’ expertise enabled us to balance the conflicting tire properties defined in the “magic triangle” of tire technology, combining low rolling resistance, good wet grip and durability. This work demonstrates our commitment to addressing the major technical challenge of making mobility environmentally friendly. In light of the steadily growing number of vehicles worldwide and the associated environmental impact, it is one of the most important tasks facing society. Our ideas and developments are protected by patents wherever this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2012, we submitted 90 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2012, the full LANXESS patent portfolio included approximately 1,100 patent families covering around 7,600 individual property rights. 12 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 A new target with Ideally positioned at the core of the chemical industry an unchanged focus As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies, we are positioned at the core of the chemical industry. Our specialist expertise, our applications know-how and our capacity for innovation are demonstrated by our three segments: Performance Polymers, Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals. Since the start of 2013, our business operations have been grouped in 14 business units within these segments. In response to the growing significance As a highly innovative supplier of premium of the global EPDM rubber business, we divided the Technical Rubber Products business unit in the Performance Polymers segment into two products, LANXESS is one of the world’s independent units. The new Keltan Elastomers business unit will focus leading specialty chemicals companies. on the production and marketing of EPDM. The remaining Technical Rubber Products portfolio, which includes a large number of highIn 2012 we set a further mid-term growth performance rubbers and specialties for a wide range of applications, target. Building on our established strathas been renamed the High Performance Elastomers business unit. egy combining organic and external Our business units have global responsibility for their operations and growth, our goal is to raise our key financial manage their activities autonomously as “entrepreneurs within the enterprise.” This ensures short communication lines, flat hierarchies indicator – EBITDA pre exceptionals – to and motivated employees – all of which are crucial in ensuring that €1.8 billion by 2018. we can respond quickly to specific customer requirements and to changes in market and regulatory conditions. LANXESS Focuses on the Core of the Chemical Industry Pharma Agro Performance Specialty chemicals Chemicals • Here we can perfectly leverage our expertise in Performance Polymers ­chemicals and our applications know-how. Polymers Advanced • We have excellent and long-standing customer relations. Intermediates Intermediates • We see a lot of room for maneuver in these three Bulk plastics segments. Petrochemicals • Our balanced portfolio in these segments reduces the volatility of our business. Feedstocks, gas und oil Strategy 13 Our aim is to position all our businesses at the forefront of their respecour Innovation & Technology Group Function is an efficient central tive markets. Our main markets are the tire, automotive, consumer organizational unit that coordinates all research and development goods, chemical manufacturing, agrochemical and construction inactivities within the Group and handles cross-business unit projects. dustries. Other important sectors to which we supply products include electronics, water treatment, medical supplies, coatings, printing techThe high significance of innovation for our company can also be nology and packaging. This diversification reduces our dependence demonstrated by some figures: in 2012 alone we increased our R&D on the momentum in specific industries and on individual customspending by 33 percent and created more than 100 new jobs in this ers. In 2012 our ten biggest customers accounted for only around area of activity. 26 percent of our business. Our global profile, which we have steadily improved in recent years, … to ensure sustainability also plays a key role in the stability of our business performance. We have invested selectively in the key growth regions of Asia and Latin In our business activities we are committed to taking account of the America, and now have an effective modern production network there, demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. “Good which we will continue to expand in the future. for business, good for society.” This short sentence perfectly sums up our approach to business. It reflects our conviction that our products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development can make a Innovative thinking … significant contribution to supporting our customers, protecting the environment and improving the quality of life of people everywhere. Through targeted additions to our product portfolio and our distinctive innovation culture, we are increasingly becoming a high-tech supplier, The greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility (CR) activities are reliably delivering premium-quality products, actively supporting our achieved if they are balanced with our entrepreneurial and, especially, customers’ innovation processes and thus adding measurable value economic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core busifor them. This strengthens customer loyalty and enables us to differness or to our available expertise. entiate ourselves clearly from our competitors. Further information about our commitment to sustainability can be Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs found in the “Corporate Responsibility” section starting on page 36 of the market and our customers. Each business unit therefore has of this Annual Report. its own research and development capacity. Over and above this, ­L ANXESS Acts Sustainably Good for Business Good for Society • Strengthening the reputation and positive image • Protection of climate/environment of the company • Social responsibility Corporate • Training and education • Transparency, trust and good partnership Responsibility with stakeholder groups • Culture • Satisfied employees and stakeholders • Safety and security • Increasing awareness among customers and public • Neighborhood 14 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 LANXESS Plans to Continue its Successful Growth Course ~1,800 EBITDA1) € million ~1,400 1,225 Announced Additional Announced Additional 1,146 projects organic projects organic 918 and external and external growth growth 2010 2011 2012 2014 2018 Ongoing: development of product portfolio, price-before-volume strategy and efficiency improvements 1) Pre exceptionals New mid-term growth target future-oriented concepts for replacing metals with high-tech plastics that reduce vehicle weight and improve fuel efficiency. By 2015 we As a company, we are well-positioned to continue our growth course aim to generate sales of around €2.7 billion with products for green in the years ahead. Against this background, we communicated a mobility. new mid-term earnings target in September 2012. We aim to grow LANXESS’s key financial indicator – EBITDA pre exceptionals – to Agriculture Rapid growth in the world’s population is significantly €1.8 billion by 2018. We now intend to achieve our previous target increasing global demand for food. At the same time, eating habits of €1.4 billion EBITDA pre exceptionals by 2014, one year earlier worldwide are changing – with an increase in meat consumption in than originally planned. particular – and there is growing use of crops as alternative energy sources. Our Saltigo and Advanced Industrial Intermediates business The following elements form the basis for our dual-track strategy of units already market a wide range of products to help boost agricultural organic and external growth: productivity and protect crops. Urbanization Throughout the world, people are relocating from rural Participation in global megatrends areas to cities. The United Nations forecasts that the proportion of citydwellers in the world population will increase from slightly more than We are systematically aligning our product portfolio – and consequently 50 percent at present to just under 70 percent by 2050. All these peoour research and development activities – to four of the most important ple will need homes, offices and an efficient infrastructure. These are the global megatrends, where we anticipate steady, above-average growth applications of our products for the construction sector, for example the in the coming years. inorganic pigments produced by our Inorganic Pigments business unit. Mobility The growing desire for mobility, particularly in the emerging Water Population growth and climate change are steadily increasmarkets and especially in China and India, together with the need to ing the importance of water as a valuable resource. Studies predict improve the environmental compatibility of mobility throughout the that demand for clean water will exceed the current supply by about world, opens up excellent perspectives for LANXESS. As the world’s 40 percent by 2030. We aim to make a significant contribution to closleading supplier of high-quality synthetic rubber, we stand to benefit ing that gap. Products and processes marketed by our business units, from rising demand for high-performance tires. In addition, our High especially Ion Exchange Resins, are playing an increasingly important Performance Materials business unit offers the automotive industry role in the treatment of drinking water, wastewater and process water. Strategy 15 A stronger presence in emerging markets Focus on organic growth We consider a local presence in emerging markets to be a further straWe aim to generate about two-thirds of our future growth organically – tegic success factor. Since 2005, LANXESS has more than doubled by expanding existing production facilities and increasing investment sales in the emerging markets to around €3.4 billion. In regional terms, in new state-of-the-art sites, through product innovations and, last but we therefore intend to continue concentrating principally on expanding not least, through further improvements in process efficiency. Clear our business and production capacities in these booming economies, rules have been defined for all growth projects: they must generate with the focus remaining on the BRICS countries, especially Brazil, a return that is at least equivalent to LANXESS’s return on capital India and China. employed (ROCE). In fiscal 2012, cash-relevant capital expenditures totaled €696 milContinuation of the price-before-volume strategy lion. Around two-thirds of this was for measures to expand capacities and raise efficiency. We have also budgeted capital expenditures of Ensuring that our added value is visible to customers is a basic pre€650 million to €700 million for 2013. A large part of this will be condition in the successful implementation of our proven price-beforeallocated to the Performance Polymers segment. However, our other volume strategy. In line with this, we refrain from business if we cannot two segments also have attractive growth prospects for which we obtain acceptable prices for our products. initiated a number of promising projects. Antwerp New facility, capacity expansion (HPM) Dormagen Capacity expansion Geleen Lipetsk (HPE) Technology New facility (RCH) conversion (KEL) Port Jérôme Capacity expansion (PBR) Leverkusen Changzhou Capacity New facilities expansion (AII) (KEL, LEA) Ningbo New facility (IPG) Singapore New facilities (BTR, PBR) Porto Feliz New facilities (HPM, RCH) We have initiated major capital expenditure projects in all our regions in order to achieve further ­organic growth. 1) The map shows projects announced in 2012 and projects still in implementation at the closing date. 16 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Performance Polymers segment • In Lipetsk, Russia, the Rhein Chemie business unit is constructing LANXESS’s first production facility in that country to supply • The Butyl Rubber business unit is constructing a state-of-the-art additives and release agents to the rubber processing and tire butyl rubber facility in Singapore. Costing some €400 million, this industries there. is the largest investment project in the history of LANXESS. Hot•R  hein Chemie is also building a production plant for high-quality commissioning will start in the first quarter of 2013. curing bladders and rubber additives in Porto Feliz, Brazil, which • Close by, the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit is should start operating in the second quarter of 2013. investing some €200 million in a new production plant for Nd-PBR. This plant is scheduled to come on stream in the first Further information about these projects and the activities successhalf of 2015. fully completed before the editorial deadline for this Annual Report • In Changzhou, China, the Keltan Elastomers business unit is can be found in the segment sections starting on page 20. investing €235 million in the world’s largest production plant for EPDM rubber. This is also scheduled to start up in 2015. • To strengthen the High Performance Materials business unit's Targeted acquisitions to expand our market position high-tech plastics activities, a new world-scale facility for ­polyamide plastics is under construction at our site in Antwerp, Belgium. This We also intend to continue generating growth through acquisitions. is scheduled for completion in the first quarter of 2014. Additional Our focus remains on small to mid-sized enterprises that optimize and production capacities for glass fibers will also be available in complement our existing portfolio. Stringent strategic and financial Antwerp in spring 2013. criteria are used to evaluate potential acquisition targets. For example, • A new compounding plant in Porto Feliz, Brazil, will enable our the businesses acquired must make a positive contribution to earnings High Performance Materials business unit to supply high-tech within three years. plastics to the Latin American market. Our M&A record shows that we understand how to grow our leadership positions through selective acquisitions. Since 2006, we have Advanced Intermediates segment added many activities to our portfolio. All these acquisitions have had a positive impact on earnings per share within just a short time, thanks • Through 2013, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business to the new business and cost synergies generated. unit will be expanding production capacities for the high-quality intermediate cresol at the site in Leverkusen, Germany. A major focus in 2012 was the successful integration of the elastomers business that we acquired from Dutch company Royal DSM N.V. in 2011. In addition, we made two smaller acquisitions to strengthen Performance Chemicals segment our portfolio. •W  ith the construction of a new facility at Ningbo, China, the By acquiring U.S. company Tire Curing Bladders, LLC (TCB), a leading Inorganic Pigments business unit will significantly expand capacimanufacturer of vulcanization bladders, we have further expanded our ties for its range of light-colored iron oxide red pigments. This is position as a premium supplier to the tire industry. This acquisition expected to come on stream in the first quarter of 2015. enables our Rhein Chemie business unit to make the strategically • Starting in the first half of 2013, the Leather business unit will be important move into the manufacture of curing bladders for the tires supplying premium products to China, the world’s largest market of trucks, agricultural vehicles, off-road vehicles and construction for leather chemicals, from a new facility in Changzhou, China. ­machinery. • Also, by the end of 2013, a new CO2 concentration plant will make the Leather business unit independent of external suppliers at its site in Newcastle, South Africa, and pave the way for the future expansion of sodium dichromate production. Strategy 17 Successful Implementation of LANXESS Acquisition Strategy Acquisitions Darmex Gwalior Bond-Laminates Unitex Petroflex MP Jiangsu DSM Syngenta CISA Jinzhuo Elastomers TCB Verichem 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Emerging markets Complement portfolio Strengthen portfolio Technology Acquisitions must be a good cultural fit, strengthening and expanding LANXESS’s competencies The purchase of Bond-Laminates GmbH, based in Brilon, Germany, Outlook for 2013 complements the portfolio of our High Performance Materials business unit with the addition of innovative materials for lightweight construction With our product portfolio, we are successfully positioned in the in the automotive sector. Bond-Laminates specializes in developing ­relevant markets and we will be further expanding our presence in and manufacturing customized plastic composites. the world’s growth regions. Further information about these transactions can be found in the segAs global economic momentum is expected to stay slow, we are caument sections starting on page 20 of this Annual Report. tiously optimistic for 2013. Compared with 2012, we believe the most dynamic development will come from the growth markets in Asia. Thanks to our long-term financing and farsighted risk management, our While demand from customers is forecast to remain at a low level in liquidity reserves at year-end 2012 amounted to around €2.3 billion the first quarter of 2013, as it was at the end of 2012, we expect it in the form of cash and cash equivalents and undrawn credit lines. to pick up successively in the second half of the year. This gives us sufficient financial headroom for acquisitions to support our growth strategy in the future. In 2012 already, we introduced successful measures to counter the impact of a slowdown in demand. These include flexible plant management and high cost discipline. In light of the anticipated economic challenges, we will be continuing these measures in 2013. In addition, we believe that all our segments are well-positioned to benefit from an improvement in business conditions during the year. Against this background, we are confident of continuing to grow over the coming years and of achieving our mid-term target of €1.4 billion EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2014. Segments Trying out ideas in the test tube Xia Dong prepares a new rubber compound in the LANXESS laboratory in Leverkusen. She is studying polymer processing at the Qingdao University of Science and Technology in China and, together with her fellow student Genhai Liu, won the LANXESS Student Rubber Award in 2012. We rewarded her outstanding performance with a four-week internship at our Technical Rubber Products business unit. LANXESS has been cooperating closely with Qingdao University since 2007. Most of our basic research is conducted in collaboration with universities and research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way is not only far more efficient and cost-effective than maintaining our own resources; it also gives young scientists the opportunity to acquire practical experience with a global enterprise. In 2012, we had a total of 203 (2011: 145) major research and development alliances, 78 (2011: 50) of which were with universities, 66 (2011: 55) with suppliers or customers, and 59 (2011: 40) with research institutes. Advanced scientific work is done by our larger research and development units at the sites in Leverkusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada; and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. There we develop and test high-performance rubber products for energy-saving green tires, for example. Our total research and development expenses in 2012 increased by 33 percent on the prior year to €192 million, or 2.1 percent of sales (2011: €144 million, or 1.6 percent of sales). 20 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Performance Polymers The Performance Polymers segment brings together all our polymer activities and comprises the Butyl Rubber, Performance Butadiene Rubbers, Keltan Elastomers, High Performance Elastomers and High Performance Materials business units. They all hold leadership positions in their respective markets. Electromobility is another highly interesting technology in the area of green mobility – for LANXESS as well. Lightweight components made from our high-tech plastics can help offset the high battery weight – up to 250 kilograms – and thus extend the range of electric vehicles, which is one of the factors critical to their success. Segments 21 Performance Polymers Overview of the business units higher consumption of resources. Making mobility environmentally friendly is therefore one of the greatest technical challenges of our The Butyl Rubber business unit produces high-quality butyl and halotime. Thanks to our pioneering technologies, our business units in the butyl rubbers for the tire and rubber industries. A key advantage of Performance Polymers segment enable us to significantly contribute these products is their high impermeability to gas and moisture. The toward mastering this challenge in two areas. Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit produces synthetic rubbers that meet the most stringent requirements, including various polybutadiene rubber (PBR) grades, solution styrene-butadiene rubber The future belongs to green tires (S-SBR) and emulsion styrene-butadiene rubber (E-SBR). Neodymiumbased performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) and S-SBR are used Legislators around the world have identified private transport, i.e. especially for manufacturing modern, fuel-efficient high-performance cars and trucks, as a key focus of their initiatives to increase energy tires. However, the products of Performance Butadiene Rubbers are efficiency and thereby significantly reduce harmful CO2 emissions. also an indispensable component of many everyday items such as The European Union, for example, has stipulated that European car shoes, yogurt pots and golf balls. manufacturers must reduce average fleet emissions from their current level of 120 grams per kilometer to 95 grams by 2020. Since Effective January 1, 2013, we have reorganized the activities of our around one quarter of a car’s fuel consumption is accounted for by former Technical Rubber Products business unit. The newly created its tires’ rolling resistance, improving the energy efficiency of tires is Keltan Elastomers business unit will focus exclusively on manufacturing the primary strategy for achieving this target. synthetic ethylene-propylene-diene rubber (EPDM). This move reflects the increased significance of this business for LANXESS since our As the market leader in high-performance rubbers, we make it posacquisition in 2011 of the EPDM activities of Dutch-based Royal DSM sible to optimize the conflicting tire properties defined in the “magic N.V. EPDM is used above all in the automotive industry for door seals triangle” of tire technology, combining low rolling resistance, good and high-quality weather-stable dampers. It is also used as a modifier wet grip and durability. If all the vehicles in the world were fitted with for plastics, in the manufacture of oil additives and in the wire and cable these modern high-performance tires, annual fuel savings of some and construction industries. The remaining Technical Rubber Products 20 billion liters could be achieved and CO2 emissions reduced by portfolio, which includes a large number of high-performance rubbers around 50 million tons each year. The success of electric mobility, too, and specialties for a wide range of applications, has been renamed will depend crucially on the extent to which tires with optimized rolling the High Performance Elastomers business unit. The new structure resistance can extend the still very limited range of electric vehicles. offers both business units the opportunity to achieve further growth by focusing even more specifically on the particular needs of their markets. Legislators have also recognized the huge potential of these tires and introduced corresponding regulations. Since November 1, 2012, all The High Performance Materials business unit (formerly Semi-Crysnew vehicle tires sold in the European Union have to be labeled to talline Products) is successful with the high-tech plastics Durethan® show their fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions. However, the and Pocan® and their key strategic feedstocks. These products are European Union is not alone in its efforts. In December 2012, South used primarily for lightweight construction solutions in automotive Korea introduced mandatory tire labeling based on the E.U. model. engineering and in the electronics industry. Japanese tire manufacturers voluntarily introduced a comparable labeling system at the start of 2010. From November 2016, all tires imported to Brazil or manufactured there for the local market will have Mobility megatrend is main growth driver to be labeled in this way, too. Similar legislation is also being discussed in both the United States and China. With economic growth and rising prosperity, particularly in emerging nations and developing countries, our world is becoming increasingly As a key supplier to leading tire manufacturers, LANXESS will benefit mobile. LMC Automotive, a market research company specializing from these initiatives, which will result in significant and, above all, in the automotive industry, forecasts that the number of cars in use sustainable growth potential. This is because they will translate into worldwide will increase by more than 60 percent in the next 15 years. an increase in demand for green tires, which can only be produced However, this growth goes hand in hand with increased emissions and with high-tech synthetic rubber and additives. We expect more than 22 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 2 billion tires to leave the production lines in 2017 – some 28 percent Selective capacity expansions in Europe and the United States The more than today. Over the same period, the proportion of green tires ongoing development of our existing sites is a further important factor in is likely to increase from around 35 percent at present to just under expanding our leading position in synthetic high-performance rubbers. 50 percent. To satisfy this growing demand, we are making selective investments in the global expansion of our production capacities. Through 2015, we will be investing some €30 million to strengthen the production site in Port Jérôme, France, where our Performance Key investments in the growth market of Asia Four major investment Butadiene Rubbers business unit produces the high-performance projects are at various stages of implementation in Asia. rubbers Nd-PBR and S-SBR, and also lithium butadiene rubber (LiBR) for the plastics industry. This investment project is aimed at maintainHot commissioning of our new, high-tech butyl rubber plant in Singaing the plant assets and improving productivity and energy efficiency. pore will begin on schedule in the first quarter of 2013. Costing around We expect to reduce specific energy consumption by 20 to 25 per€400 million, it is our largest investment project to date. Regular cent, while increasing productivity by around 5 percent. Successful production is scheduled to start in the third quarter of 2013 to meet conclusion of the second expansion phase of Nd-PBR capacities at the growing demand for butyl rubber in Asia. The plant has an annual our site in Orange, United States, also resulted indirectly in increased capacity of up to 100,000 tons. It is also setting new standards in capacities for S-SBR in Port Jérôme. With an investment volume of terms of environmental protection, with 10 percent of the investment €10 million, this project was completed in the third quarter of 2012. going into technologies that will cut energy and water consumption The expansion in Orange enables us to strengthen our focus on the and reduce emissions. State-of-the-art waste gas purification units production of S-SBR in Port Jérôme, thereby increasing total output have been installed and measures implemented to recover process at the French site. water and heat of condensation. As part of the successful integration of the elastomers business In September 2012, we laid the foundation stone for a new production acquired from Royal DSM N.V. in 2011, we are making the site at facility for Nd-PBR, also in Singapore. Costing around €200 million, Geleen, Netherlands, that we acquired with the transaction into the this facility will be the largest of its kind in the world with an annual headquarters of our new Keltan Elastomers business unit and an incapacity of 140,000 tons. It will supply the growing market for green novation center within the global LANXESS network. A new administratires, especially in Asia, and is scheduled to come on stream in the first tion building accommodating up to 120 employees was completed at half of 2015. With this investment, we are creating around 100 new the start of 2013. During 2013, we also plan to invest €12 million in jobs. As was the case for the butyl rubber plant, the key arguments in converting the largest of the three production lines – and therefore half favor of the Singapore site were the good supply of raw materials, the the site’s capacities of 160,000 tons a year – to the aforementioned excellent infrastructure, the availability of highly skilled employees, the Keltan ACE technology. large port and the proximity to our growth markets in Asia. In 2012, we made good progress with three major projects at the Our project to build a new plant to manufacture EPDM rubber in sites where our High Performance Elastomers business unit operates. Changzhou in Jiangsu province, which is scheduled to start operating in 2015, represents our largest investment in China to date at around At our site in Dormagen, Germany, we are investing €17 million in €235 million. With an annual capacity of 160,000 tons, the plant the expansion of our production capacities for the polychloroprene will be the largest of its kind in the world. Up to 200 employees will solid rubber Baypren®. This project is scheduled for completion in the use sustainable Keltan ACE technology to produce various premium second half of 2013 and will increase production by 10 percent. The EPDM grades tailored to the needs of our Asian customers. Compared expansion work will also see the deployment of a new technology that to conventional technologies, ACE reduces the energy costs in the will boost the energy efficiency of production by 20 percent. manufacture of EPDM and, at the same time, increases the range of applications for these rubber products. In light of the considerable increase in global demand for our synthetic high-performance rubber Therban®, we expanded production In May 2012, we opened our new facility for the manufacture of NBR capacities at our sites in Leverkusen, Germany, and Orange, United rubber in Nantong, northwest of Shanghai, in the key growth market States, by 40 percent each. This investment was in the low-single-digit of China. In a joint venture with the Taiwanese TSRC Corporation, we million euro range. invested around €40 million in the facility, which started with an annual capacity of 30,000 tons. Some 100 new jobs have been created at We also significantly expanded EVM capactities at our site in Dormathe most modern production facility of its kind in Asia. China is the gen, Germany, to meet the steady rise in demand for special elastoworld’s largest and fastest-growing market for NBR, with an average mers. €9 million was invested to increase production by 30 percent annual growth rate of around 10 percent. to 15,000 tons each year. Segments 23 Performance Polymers Rolling resistance/ Noise emissions/ fuel efficiency external rolling noise Wet grip/ braking performance The E.U. tire labeling regulation aims to ensure greater transparency for consumers and support their tire-buying decisions with a system similar to the one already used for domestic appliances. Classes range from A (best performance) to G (worst performance). The rolling resistance of category A tires is around 40 percent lower than that of category G tires, which translates into a fuel saving of around 10 percent. Concept tires underscore innovative strength In 2012, we under1. How much money can be saved by using high-quality fuel-efficient scored our role as the innovation leader in the field of synthetic rubber tires? 2. How long does it take to amortize their purchase? 3. How by introducing a concept tire developed in-house on the basis of our high is the reduction in a vehicle’s CO2 emissions? We developed the synthetic rubber portfolio. This tire was one of the first to be awarded software in collaboration with the Technical University of Munich. It has a double-A rating for fuel efficiency and wet grip in accordance with been tested and certified by the TÜV Rheinland inspection agency. the new E.U. tire labeling regulation. Thanks to our expertise in assessing the impact of different grades of synthetic rubber on the running For some years now, we have been fully committed to the developproperties of tires, which we acquired during the development process, ment of sustainable technologies and processes for making synthetic we will in future be able to offer materials that have been pre-evaluated rubber. In 2012, we once again made some significant progress in in stringent tests. This represents real added value for our customers this respect. because it will enable them to shorten the time to market for new tires and strengthen their competitive position. At our site in Triunfo, Brazil, we started industrial-scale production of the world’s first bio-based EPDM rubber, which we market under the A tire with an A rating for wet grip takes around 20 meters less than name Keltan® Eco. This material is made of ethylene derived from one with an F rating to come to a standstill from a speed of around sugar cane. In terms of quality, it is on a par with conventionally pro80 kilometers per hour. Because their fuel consumption is 5 to 7 perduced ethylene. cent lower, green tires are one of the fuel-saving technologies in cars that amortize soonest. Moreover, they currently offer car drivers the We are currently testing an environmentally friendly and resourcehighest potential for reducing CO2 emissions per euro spent. saving production process for butyl rubber in two pilot plants at our site in Zwijndrecht, Belgium. The manufacture of butyl rubber is highly We are also demonstrating the benefits of green tires to the general complex and involves process steps at temperatures ranging from public with a new fuel savings calculator that has been available free of minus 95 to plus 200 degrees Celsius. We expect the technology charge as an app and on the Internet since September 2012. The softintroduced for the first time on an industrial scale in Zwijndrecht to ware provides quick and simple answers to three important questions: result in tangible resource savings. 24 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The housing for a passenger airbag module that we have developed as part of a joint advanced engineering project with several partners demonstrates that high-tech plastics offer an alternative not only to metals in automotive applications, but also to plastic structures made in the conventional way by injection molding. The use of plastic composites cuts the weight of the housing by over 30 percent compared with a current series-produced version made of polyamide 6. Lightweight construction is also an interesting alternative under the hood. Made from polyamide 66, the new oil pan for turbo gasoline engines – including those in Audi’s A3, A4 and A6 families and in the VW Passat – weighs around one kilogram less than the equivalent steel component. Compared with an aluminum variant, it weighs 50 percent less. As this weight saving is in the area of the front axle, there is also an improvement in driving dynamics. Developed in cooperation with ZF Friedrichshafen AG, our brake pedal based on a plastic composite is around half the weight of conventional steel brake pedals but has the same mechanical load-bearing capacity. Weighing just 355 grams, this concept component is the Lightweight construction world’s first car brake pedal made of polyamide reinforced innovations in2012 with continuous glass fibers that is suitable for large-scale series production. Production is scheduled to start at the end of 2013. Segments 25 Performance Polymers Lightweight construction – Our HiAnt® solutions make us the preferred partner to many wella market with a promising future known companies in the automotive industry, including Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz. Our high-tech plastics are already used in more The second important starting point for environmentally friendly mobilthan 100 vehicle models worldwide. As a result, we too are benefiting ity is the substitution of traditional materials, such as steel or aluminum, from the rising demand for cars, particularly in the BRICS countries. with innovative high-tech plastics and intelligent composites. In 2010, Overall, we expect global demand for high-tech plastics to grow anmodern vehicles contained an average of around 14 kilograms of nually by around 5 percent through 2017. In Asia, and especially in high-tech plastics. By 2017, this is likely to have increased to around China, growth rates are likely to be slightly higher. 22 kilograms. There are good reasons for this. Plastics and fiber composites are easier to process than metal components. They also have We will adapt our capacities to this market growth with a total investoutstanding mechanical properties and weigh up to 50 percent less ment volume of €125 million through 2014. than their metal counterparts. Expansion of the global plastics production network The construction By using our high-tech plastics, the automotive industry can therefore of a new world-scale plant for polyamide is an important part of our lower production costs, increase design freedom and improve vehicle growth strategy and a significant commitment to our site in Antwerp, safety in one single step. Other advantages include significant enviBelgium, as the central location for producing the key intermediates ronmental benefits, because lighter cars consume less fuel, which for our high-tech plastics. Costing around €75 million, the plant is also results in lower emissions. Our products can also play a key role designed for an annual capacity of around 90,000 tons and is schedin making electromobility a technology for the masses because every uled to come on stream in the first quarter of 2014. Together with the kilogram saved will increase the range of electric vehicles, which is nearby production facility for the key precursor caprolactam, we are still perceived by many consumers to be inadequate. thus creating a group of highly productive plants in Antwerp to supply our global network of compounding facilities with high-quality polyAll our know-how relating to innovative and customized high-tech amide plastics. Our glass fiber production operations are also based plastics is combined in the High Performance Materials business unit in Antwerp and capacity is currently being expanded by 10 percent. (formerly Semi-Crystalline Products). We offer far more than just the production and supply of materials. Our HiAnt® brand consolidates In addition, we continued expanding our global production network in our engineering expertise to provide our customers and partners the past fiscal year. We opened our first production facility for high-tech with the best possible support in developing innovative components. plastics in the United States in Gastonia, North Carolina, in September Our services range from material selection and complex simulation 2012. This site is located close to the “auto belt” in the southern calculations to mold construction, part testing and assistance with the United States. Many automakers – including a number of German transition to series production. companies – and automotive suppliers are located there. In the United States, the world’s largest market for high-tech plastics, demand is In March 2012, a new Material Testing Center for HiAnt® solutions being driven in particular by stricter fuel consumption standards for opened at our site in Dormagen, Germany. The state-of-the-art testing cars and light commercial vehicles. The plant, which cost around equipment installed there can be used to determine the material data €15 million, has an initial annual capacity of 20,000 tons and crefor the most important load scenarios for thermoplastic materials, such ated 45 new jobs. We are investing a similar amount in constructing a as their fatigue, crash and creep properties. In December 2012, we facility of comparable size in Porto Feliz, Brazil, which is scheduled for also opened a development center for high-tech plastics in Hong Kong completion in mid-2013. This will reinforce development of the site as to strengthen our relations with automakers in the Asia-Pacific growth our production center for cutting-edge technologies in Latin America. region. Driven by strong domestic demand and the growing purchasing power of an expanding middle class, China has now become the In light of growing global demand for polybutylene terephthalate (PBT), world’s largest market for the automotive industry. we doubled capacity at the compounding facility in Hamm-Uentrop, Germany, owned jointly with U.S. chemicals group DuPont. This project Our takeover of Bond-Laminates GmbH in Brilon, Germany, in Septemrepresented an investment of around €10 million. ber 2012 is also helping to enhance our expertise and thus strengthen our position as a premium supplier of lightweight construction technologies for green mobility. The company has around 80 employees and specializes in developing and manufacturing customized continuous fiber-based composite sheets, which are marketed under the name TEPEX®. Our successful cooperation with Bond-Laminates in projects for the automotive industry dates back to 2006. 26 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Advanced Intermediates The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises our businesses with basic and fine chemicals. The Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit produces a wide range of high-quality industrial chemicals, while Saltigo operates on the custom synthesis market, specializing in tailored solutions for customers in the agrochemical and pharmaceutical sectors. Both business units are leading suppliers in Europe and are consistently expanding their positions in other regions, too. Another approach in green mobility is the manufacture of carbon-neutral fuels from renewable raw materials. These fuels can only be put to practical use if biodiesel stabilizers like Baynox® plus from LANXESS are added to prolong their shelf life. Segments 27 Advanced Intermediates Segment benefits from agriculture megatrend from natural raw materials remains stable and can therefore be used for longer. Baynox® Solution 50% is another innovation from the Baynox® The steadily growing global population is probably the key driver of product family that has been awarded “no-harm” certification from the agriculture megatrend. According to the United Nations, it will Arbeitsgemeinschaft Qualitätsmanagement Biodiesel e.V. (AGQM). rise to around 9.3 billion by 2050. The increasing number of people This product meets the demand from countless biodiesel producers is also driving world demand for food. For example, the demand for for a liquid stabilizer with a high active ingredient content that can cereals is expected to grow by 1.5 percent each year through 2025. also be metered easily. Also, eating habits worldwide are changing and there is growing use of crops as alternative energy sources. At the same time, however, Antioxidants also play a key role in protecting animal feed from spoiling. climate change and increasing industrialization are likely to actually They prevent the unsaturated fatty acids in the feed from becoming decrease the amount of land available for agriculture, thus necessitating rancid and thus also toxic or even carcinogenic. Since 2012, we have a considerable improvement in the efficiency of cultivation. been marketing our proven antioxidant butylhydroxytoluene (BHT) as a feed additive under the new brand name Rovelox®. Certified to the The product portfolios of our Advanced Industrial Intermediates and internationally standardized FAMI-QS system, this product perfectly Saltigo business units include many key intermediates for synthecomplements our preservative Rovelan®, which has already established sizing agrochemicals that can help farmers protect their plants and us as a premium supplier to the animal feed industry. increase yields. Saltigo – customized premium quality Advanced Industrial Intermediates expands aromatics network In 2012, our Saltigo business unit raised its strategic profile significantly by sharpening its focus on the agrochemical sector. In the pharmaThe high-quality intermediate cresol is used in agrochemicals and ceutical sector, Saltigo will be concentrating on the demanding late in the manufacture of vitamin E, resins and flame retardants. We will development phases, which is where the business unit’s strengths in be increasing production capacity at our Leverkusen site by around tailoring end-to-end solutions can be best applied. 20 percent through mid-2013. This investment of some €20 million is a further clear commitment to Germany as a production location With the start of the marketing campaign for the insecticide Saltidin® and to our globally unique aromatics network. in Asia, Saltigo also continued its initiative to strengthen its market position for multi-customer products in the year under review. Given Comprising a total of seven large-scale facilities, primarily at the the tropical climate in many parts of Asia, the region offers excellent Leverkusen site, this network is equipped with cutting-edge technolomarket opportunities for this premium product, which is highly rated gies that enable us to use, process or market almost all the a­ romatic by consumer organizations and has been recommended by the World compounds it produces. With its low waste levels, low transport Health Organization (WHO) as the substance of choice for malaria ­requirements and high energy efficiency, the aromatics network is an prophylaxis. Yet Saltidin® is not only of interest to the manufacturers of outstanding example of sustainable chemical production. insecticides but also to the producers of cosmetics and pharmaceutical formulations who wish to give their products – such as sun creams – a In 2012 we were able to double our production capacities for synthetic valuable additional benefit. These customers can apply for a license to menthol at the Krefeld-Uerdingen site as planned. Working together use the basic formula and, once registered, can produce and market with a producer of fragrances and flavorings, we are one of the world’s the preparation under their own brand name. leading manufacturers of synthetic menthol and thymol. Our output is coordinated with this contractual partner and its processes. This capital For the second time, Saltigo has been honored by Syngenta, one of the investment project has also significantly improved process efficiency. world’s leading manufacturers of seeds and crop protection agents. For example, the expanded plant uses a highly efficient catalyst we At the Syngenta Supplier Conference, the business unit received the developed ourselves. In connection with the expansion of production Global Sourcing Award of Recognition 2012 in the “Partnership” capacities, measures were also implemented that significantly reduce category. Special mention was made of Saltigo’s ability to produce specific energy consumption. new products quickly and efficiently and to continuously improve processes. Particular praise was given to the generally high product Baynox®, the first biodiesel stabilizer to be approved by German oil and service quality, future-focused approach and rapid response to companies, has already become a near-classic in our portfolio of green unexpected changes in order volumes. products. An effective antioxidant, it ensures that the biofuel obtained 28 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Performance Chemicals The Performance Chemicals segment groups together our seven application-oriented business units in the field of process and functional chemicals: Material Protection Products, Inorganic Pigments, Functional Chemicals, Leather, Rhein Chemie, Rubber Chemicals and Ion Exchange Resins. They are all among the top suppliers worldwide in their respective markets. Green mobility is not just about road vehicles. Innovative products from the LANXESS portfolio are also used in modern passenger aircraft. For example, our X-Lite technology makes it possible to produce particularly lightweight leather for the seats – with positive effects on fuel consumption and payload capacity. Segments 29 Performance Chemicals Overview of the business units Construction work at LANXESS’s first production plant on Russian soil is also proceeding to schedule. Starting in the first half of 2013, Rhein The Material Protection Products business unit is one of the leading Chemie will use the new production facility in Lipetsk to manufacture global manufacturers of preservatives and biocidal active ingredients. rubber additives and release agents above all to serve the auto­motive Inorganic Pigments is the biggest producer and supplier of iron oxide and tire industries in Russia and the other CIS countries. The total and chrome oxide pigments for a wide range of applications. Functional investment for the project amounts to approximately €5 million. Chemicals provides the plastics industry and many other industries with plastics additives, phosphorus-based and specialty chemicals, The systematic expansion of Rhein Chemie’s portfolio with innovative and organic and inorganic colorants. As one of the few suppliers to solutions has also been recognized by international experts from the the leather industry, the Leather business unit offers all the products tire industry, the automotive sector and the scientific community. At needed to manufacture leather together with chrome chemical and the Tire Technology Expo – one of the world’s most important events chrome ore specialties worldwide. The Rhein Chemie business unit for tire technologies – the business unit was named “Tire Industry produces chemical specialties for the rubber, plastics and lubricant Supplier of the Year.” industries. Rubber Chemicals is among the world’s main suppliers of high-quality rubber chemicals. In recent years, the Ion Exchange Rhein Chemie also won first prize in the Responsible Care 2012 Resins business unit has become a provider of end-to-end solutions competition organized by the German Chemical Industry Association for water treatment. (VCI) for an innovative process to recover the key raw material phenol from mixed wastewater streams generated during the manufacture Thanks to their broad portfolio of innovative and increasingly susof a plastics additive. The solution developed by a team of laboratory, tainable premium products, the business units of the Performance production and applications technology experts enables us to reduce Chemicals segment participate in several of the megatrends that are the amount of phenol disposed of by around 150 tons each year and the focus of our activities. the volume of hazardous liquid waste by an even larger amount. Our Rubber Chemicals business unit also embarked on some innovaPortfolio expansion in response to mobility megatrend tive product developments in 2012. As part of the work to develop the rubber additive Vulkalink®, which improves the rolling resistance The Rubber Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units of the Perof green tires, selected global tire manufacturers have been given a formance Chemicals segment are benefiting most from the mobility first-time opportunity to subject what we consider to be the four most megatrend. promising laboratory substances to rigorous testing and provide detailed assessments at a very early stage. This novel form of cooperation Following the acquisition of the Argentina-based Darmex group in in the industry represents a classic win-win situation. We gain a good 2011, Rhein Chemie gained access to a further business area: the maridea of the market appeal and likely success of Vulkalink® early on, ket for vulcanization bladders, which is worth an estimated €300 million. which significantly reduces the time to market. And our customers Bladders are used in the production or vulcanization of tires to give them have the opportunity to contribute their specific product requirements their final shape. Growth prospects in this business are driven above in subsequent stages of the development process. In the second all by the trend among an increasing number of tire manufacturers quarter of 2013, we will be providing our customers with a variant of to outsource the production of vulcanization bladders to specialists. Vulkalink® optimized in line with their requirements for further testing. We have now made the strategically important move into the manufacture of vulcanization bladders for the tires of trucks, agricultural vehicles Broad range of services for urbanization megatrend and construction machinery with the takeover of Tire Curing Bladders, LLC (TCB) in the United States. Based in Little Rock, Arkansas, TCB With urbanization continuing unabated, the United Nations estimates is one of the world’s leading vulcanization bladder manufacturers with that just under 70 percent of the world’s population will live in cities an annual capacity of more than 400,000 bladders. The company by 2050, compared to “only” just over 50 percent today. The urbanprimarily serves the North American market. This acquisition further ization trend is most evident in emerging and developing countries. expands Rhein Chemie’s market position as a manufacturer of highIt is predicted that eleven new megacities – cities with more than quality vulcanization bladders. 10 million inhabitants – will develop in China and India alone before the end of this decade. Our products are used in a large number of In line with our dual-track growth strategy, we are also facilitating the customer industries that are benefiting from increasing urbanization. organic expansion of this business. The plant we have built at our Brazilian site in Porto Feliz at a cost of around €10 million will start manufacturing high-performance vulcanization bladders in the second quarter of 2013. And we increased our production capacities at the Burzaco site in Argentina by 40 percent in the year under review. 30 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The inorganic pigments supplied by our Inorganic Pigments business unit do more than just create color accents. Iron oxides from the Bayoxide® line, for example, are an important component in state-of-the-art lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. Pigments for greener living With the construction of a new facility at Ningbo in Zhejiang province in eastern China, we significantly expanded our range of light-colored The demand for sustainable transport concepts is especially high in the Bayferrox® iron oxide red pigments, which are used especially by the steadily growing urban conurbations. Electric cars have the potential coatings industry. Designed to meet the latest environmental standards, to master the balancing act between high individual mobility and the facility will initially have an annual capacity of 25,000 metric tons. sustainability. However, consumer acceptance can only be achieved Construction is scheduled to start in the second quarter of 2013 and if the total costs of electric mobility are reasonable – and the service start-up is planned in the first quarter of 2015. The facility will use life and range of the batteries used play a vital role in this respect. the Penniman process that has been optimized by LANXESS and is characterized by its particularly high energy efficiency. Optimized water The Bayoxide® product range marketed by our Inorganic Pigments treatment and waste gas cleaning will ensure the high environmental business unit includes several iron oxides for manufacturing the cathcompatibility of the new facility. Our €55 million investment will create odes used in state-of-the-art lithium-ion batteries. Our latest develaround 150 new jobs. opment is the engineered iron oxide Bayoxide® E B 90. It enables manufacturers to produce high-performance batteries for electric We have also invested €1.6 million in modernizing and expanding cars that can significantly reduce CO2 emissions per kilometer driven. the water treatment unit at the world’s largest facility for the producAccording to estimates, the global market volume for batteries for tion of iron oxide and chrome oxide pigments in Krefeld-Uerdingen. electromobility could grow to around €20 billion by 2020. As one of Wastewater streams generated during production are treated using the world’s leading manufacturers of iron oxide pigments, we have the sustainable boiling process to recover iron oxide pigments from the capacities to reliably serve this growing demand. the process water. Not only is the process water we return to the Rhine far cleaner than when we originally removed it, we also simultaneInorganic Pigments is also playing a pioneering role in developing ously improve our pigment yield. At the same time, the capacity for environmentally compatible pigment manufacturing processes. synthesizing Bayferrox® black and red pigments has been increased. Segments 31 Performance Chemicals Flame retardants for improved safety Successful introduction of membrane filtration elements Another way in which we are responding to the urbanization megatrend is with products from our Functional Chemicals business unit, includWhen we commissioned a production plant for reverse osmosis ing a wide range of flame retardants for the polyurethane industry. membrane technology at the Bitterfeld site in 2011, we became an For example, our Levagard® flame retardants combine the unrivaled end-to-end supplier for water treatment. Complementing our proven heat-insulating properties of rigid polyurethane foams with the ability Lewatit® ion exchange resins, the Lewabrane® membrane elements to comply with increasingly stringent fire safety requirements. Coating produced there make it possible to remove even minute particles polyurethane insulating panels with Bayfomox® in a single production from water, along with other undesirable substances such as nitrates, operation gives them not one but three vital properties that previously pesticides, viruses and bacteria. At present, our products are mainly required several separate work steps – good thermal insulation, a high used to purify brackish water, a process that is needed in many inlevel of fire resistance and excellent soundproofing. LANXESS products dustrial applications including the treatment of circulating water and can often be found in the floors, walls and roofs of energy-efficient steam in power stations and the production of ultra pure water for buildings that meet high safety standards. the microelectronics industry. The membrane elements are manufactured using state-of-the-art technology, which we developed and implemented in part ourselves together with the Fraunhofer Institute Water megatrend offers excellent growth potential for Factory Operation and Automation (IFF) in Magdeburg. Usable water is one of the most valuable of all raw materials. Even in The market launch of our Lewabrane® membrane elements was a key areas where it is available in sufficient quantities, water often cannot be event in 2012. The global membrane market is currently estimated used due to high levels of contamination. State-of-the-art industrial proto have a volume of around €1 billion, and this figure is set to rise cesses like those used to generate electricity cannot be implemented further still. At present, we offer our customers seven universally safely and economically without ultra pure water. Population growth, applicable element types with features such as a very high rejection environmental pollution and climate change will greatly exacerbate capacity or a high flow rate. We will systematically add new prodthe supply situation in the decades ahead. Studies suggest that the ucts to our portfolio. In future, the membrane elements will also be demand for clean water in 2030 will exceed current supply levels by used to produce drinking water from brackish water or seawater. We around 40 percent. For this reason, water treatment products are expect to obtain the relevant authorization in the course of 2013. steadily gaining significance – and with them the activities of our Ion Our portfolio for industrial water treatment is complemented by our Exchange Resins business unit. new LewaPlus™ design software for effective support in planning complete water treatment systems incorporating our ion exchange resins and membrane elements. With its ion exchange resins and membrane filtration elements, our Ion Exchange Resins business unit is a major end-to-end supplier of water treatment products – a market characterized by dynamic growth worldwide. 32 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Further measures in the international As well as optimizing the facility’s capacity utilization, this project also production network lays the foundation for future production expansions. By capturing the waste air from steam generation at the facility and using it to cover our Two major investment projects in our Leather business unit are paving CO2 requirements, we will be able to reduce the site’s CO2 emissions the way for its future growth in the BRICS states in particular. by around a quarter, despite the higher capacity utilization. China is the world’s largest market for leather chemicals. A new facilOur Functional Chemicals business unit has increased the capacity of ity in Changzhou in Jiangsu province is scheduled to start producing its production network for phosphorus chemicals at the Leverkusen premium leather chemicals such as Tanigan®, Isoderm®, Euderm® site by 10 percent. One of the largest of its kind in the world, this netand Levotan® in the first half of 2013. Equipped with cutting-edge work ensures efficient production, global availability and high delivery technologies, this facility will have an annual capacity of up to 50,000 reliability. Our investment of around €5 million has also enabled us to tons. We are also placing particular emphasis on the use of environimprove the logistics concepts for filling operations, which has resulted mentally friendly processes at the facility. For example, it is designed to in greater flexibility. minimize wastewater and will be powered in part by renewable energy from geothermal sources and solar cells. Our €30 million investment will create around 100 new jobs. Green chemistry in many facets At our South African site in Newcastle, we are investing €40 million Our Material Protection Products business unit has identified an imporin the construction of a treatment plant for highly concentrated CO2 at tant new potential application for its proven product Velcorin®. Midway our state-of-the-art production facility for sodium dichromate, which is through 2012, the European Union approved the use of Velcorin® used to manufacture, for example, products such as chrome tanning in wines with a sugar content of less than five grams per liter, which agents for the global leather industry. Work began in the first quarter means it can now also be used in classic dry wines. ­Velcorin® protects of 2012 and start-up is scheduled for the second half of 2013. This wine from contamination with microorganisms during production investment means we will no longer need to rely on the supply capaand thus prevents spoilage – without affecting the wine’s sensory bility of the external vendors who currently still provide us with CO2. properties, aroma or color. Velcorin® has been successfully used as an Segments 33 Performance Chemicals Our Leather business unit is one of the most innovative suppliers of leather chemicals in the market. Two major investment projects in China and South Africa are now paving the way for the business unit’s future growth. oenological process in a wide range of applications in the New World fossil raw materials. As part of our commitment to green chemistry, wine-growing countries outside the European Union for many years. the Functional Chemicals business unit has developed a range of new Other important applications include fruit juice beverages, iced tea, phthalate-free plasticizers based on BioAmber’s succinic acid that is flavored water and isotonic sports drinks. produced from the waste from agriculture and sugar cane production. Four test products distributed to more than 200 customers in variAs one of the few renewable energy sources that can be stored, biogas ous industries in 2012 met with great interest and generated a large has a key role to play in the energy transition. In its unpurified form, number of specific customer projects. We expect to be able to market however, it contains toxic, strong-smelling and corrosive hydrogen sulour new plasticizer in commercial quantities soon after completion of fide. The highly effective synthetic iron oxide Bayoxide® E 16 marketed the Sarnia facility. by Inorganic Pigments is a cost-efficient and sustainable alternative for desulfurizing biogas. Iron oxide is neither a hazardous material nor As part of its pioneering Sustainable Leather Management initiative, a water contaminant, and it can be handled using simple equipment our Leather business unit has made significant progress with the and without expensive metering systems. Moreover, it does not cause new broad-spectrum fungicide Preventol® U-Tec G. Even low doses any corrosion damage to the plant. Bayoxide® E 16 removes hydrogen of this product reliably preserve leather tanned using our new X-Tan® sulfide in the fermentation reactor so effectively that the resulting biogas ­technology. The organically tanned hides and skins, known as X-Whites, in most cases can be used directly. The desulfurization residues – iron can therefore be stored much longer than before without being damsulfide and sulfur – are substances that occur naturally in soil and aged by harmful microorganisms – especially mold. Entirely in keeping can be combined with the fermentation residue to use as fertilizers. with the philosophy of Sustainable Leather Management, Preventol® U-Tec G is readily biodegradable in wastewater treatment plants. We have taken our strategic partnership with BioAmber Inc. in the United States to the next level by acquiring a 3.4 percent minority interest. BioAmber is currently building a facility to produce succinic acid from renewable raw materials in Sarnia, Canada. The fermentation process used to produce the acid requires less energy, is more cost-effective and emits less CO2 than the conventional process using Corporate Responsibility Stringent testing Karl-Josef Stühler, Head of Rheology at the LANXESS TechOur customers benefit particularly from our considerable nical Service Center in Leverkusen, prepares a rubber test testing expertise. This year, we introduced a concept tire we strip. He was involved in developing the tear analyzer, which developed in-house on the basis of our synthetic rubbers. is used to test the tensile strength of rubber samples. This This tire was one of the first to be awarded a double-A apparatus is now in use around the world. rating for fuel efficiency and wet grip in accordance with the new E.U. tire labeling regulation. Thanks to our expertise in We apply more than 400 different methods, including assessing the impact of different grades of synthetic rubber mechanical, dynamic mechanical and extremal tests, to on the running properties of tires, which we acquired during evaluate our rubber products and their properties. Our the development process, we will in future be able to offer testing facilities in Germany, the Netherlands, China and materials that have been pre-evaluated in stringent tests. Canada produced around 11,000 rubber compounds in This represents real added value for our customers because 2012, each of which was extensively tested. Our physicists it will enable them to shorten the time to market for new tires and chemists are also working systematically to optimize and strengthen their competitive position. existing tests and develop new methods. 36 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Corporate As of April 28, 2012, our matrix certificate covered 41 companies with 79 sites in 22 countries. At the end of 2012, the site we acquired Responsibility from DSM in Geleen, Netherlands, our facilities in Liyang, China, the headquarters of the Butyl Rubber business unit in Singapore and the sites assigned to Rhein Chemie that were acquired from Darmex in Burzaco and Merlo, Argentina, and Colonia, Uruguay, were included in the certificate, thus making it one of the most comprehensive industrial certificates in the world. For our sites in the United States, we also received certification to RC14001 (RC = Responsible Care®). In As an international specialty chemicals 2013, we plan to integrate our new butyl rubber facility in Singapore, our production sites in Greensboro, Gastonia and Neville Island in the group, we bear a major responsibility United States and the site acquired from DSM in Triunfo, Brazil, into toward people and the environment. Our the matrix certificate. entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense HSEQ (health, safety, environmental protection and quality) manageof responsibility, which is also a key comment is an important part of our integrated management system. We have aligned our HSEQ management system toward ensuring ponent of our strategy. Safety, environuniform standards and reference bases for all our sites worldwide. mental protection, social responsibility, The key performance indicators (KPIs) required for this purpose are recorded electronically, thus enabling us to systematically determine quality and commercial efficiency are all and analyze performance in each business unit and at each site and key corporate goals at LANXESS. to develop this sustainably in the future. Clearly defined responsibilities We have established various committees to ensure compliance with and the ongoing development of our CR strategy and the rules and Integrated management system drives success standards defined in our management systems. We have established a globally integrated management system to The CR Committee, which is made up of representatives from several breathe life into the concept of sustainable development in our everyday group functions, is responsible for developing our CR strategy and business. In addition to internal directives and operating procedures, ensures that all LANXESS’s CR activities are in line with this strategy. strict quality and environmental standards in line with ISO 9001 and In its capacity as an interdisciplinary competence center, it advises ISO 14001 apply worldwide. Our central management system proboth the Board of Management and the business units on all matvides the necessary global structures to ensure responsible commercial ters relating to sustainability. It is also responsible for collecting and practices. With this toolbox, we have created a transparent framework maintaining reliable data that comply with current market standards of values and rules that unites management and employees across for use in our external CR communications. national borders. The HSEQ Committee, comprising LANXESS’s senior executives under In 2007, we started integrating the different management systems in the direction of Board of Management member Dr. Werner Breuers, place around the world – each with their own documentation, guideis tasked with ensuring worldwide compliance with uniformly high lines and audit certificates – into a single management system for quality management, safety, environmental and climate protection all sites, thus creating the basis for considerably more efficient manstandards. The committee has responsibility for initiating and moniagement structures and workflows. External, independent experts toring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ guidelines, regularly audit the progress of system integration at new sites and the strategies and programs, as well as for defining our HSEQ objectives performance of our management system worldwide. Confirmation and monitoring their achievement. It also defines the global strategy of our compliance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 takes the form of for our integrated quality and environmental management system in a global matrix certificate. In 2012, we successfully completed the accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. recertification audit, which must take place every three years. Corporate Responsibility 37 The Compliance Committee, which is made up of representatives from in the applicable legislation. In this context, we have also signed the a range of specialist backgrounds, handles all referrals concerning U.N. Global Compact, and recognize the principles it sets forth as compliance violations, with the goal of countering illegal or unethical inalienable rights. We consider the stated principle of legality and conduct by LANXESS employees at an early stage and introducing ethical behavior to be more than just compliance issues. Instead, we suitable measures to prevent improprieties. see them as inextricable aspects of our corporate responsibility and sustainability culture. Comprehensive values system established We have established a Compliance Management System to implement our clear commitment to compliance in our daily business activities. All management systems are based on values and guidelines that This system supports and guides decision-makers and other company provide a clear framework for a company’s management and employemployees in their actions. In this way, we eliminate any potential ees. Our system is based on established global standards and on our uncertainties relating to our compliance principles. These range from company’s own basic rules, which are subject to ongoing amendment. basic questions such as the extent to which all laws must be obeyed in countries where the rule of law is limited, to specific questions such Compliance LANXESS considers compliance with laws and ethical as whether issuing invitations to business partners can be considered principles to be the basis for sustainable corporate governance. Our to be corruption. employees’ integrity and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success of our company. The “Code for Legal CompliCompliance Management System The LANXESS Compliance Manance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS,” which is applicable agement System (CMS) is described in our CMS statutes and was throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and gives our externally audited by Deloitte & Touche GmbH in 2012. The global employees advice and guidance on complying with these standards. audit covered the largest possible scope (design, suitability and effectiveness). It was not limited to defined risks but focused on the ten As a global enterprise, we are committed in all our markets to promain compliance risks identified in the course of our analysis. The audit moting respect for human rights at all times and preventing child and was completed without observation – i.e. no significant weakness was forced labor. Our code also covers issues such as anti-competitive identified – and with an unqualified audit opinion. behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupational, product and plant safety and environmental protection. To take sufficient account The CMS principles we apply are based on a comprehensive frameof the individual circumstances – particularly with respect to legislawork for company-wide risk management (COSO II). The basic eletion – in specific countries or business areas, there are also many ments of our CMS include: specific guidelines on the aforementioned issues. All globally appli•C ompliance culture cable LANXESS directives and guidelines are contained in a system •C ompliance objectives that is accessible to every employee. Our Compliance Code can also •C ompliance risks (identification, evaluation and measures) be found in the “Values & Visions” section of the “About LANXESS” •C ompliance program menu on our website at www.lanxess.com. •C ompliance organization •C ompliance communication “The company respects applicable law and requires its employees •C ompliance monitoring and improvement and business partners to do likewise.” This is the key statement of our Compliance Code and expresses our basic guiding principle – that At the top, our compliance culture is shaped by the responsibility and each of our decisions and activities must satisfy this premise, irrespeccommitment of our Board of Management and Supervisory Board. If tive of the aims we are pursuing or the conditions we face. it is to permeate the entire company, the process of living and communicating our compliance culture must also be an essential aspect In the first instance, we define applicable law as any applicable interof the leadership role at every subsequent decision-making level. At national or national legislation in the jurisdictions in which LANXESS LANXESS, responsibility for compliance and for business activities operates. Moreover, human rights and ethical principles are considgo hand in hand. ered to take precedence in all cases, even if they are not stipulated 38 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Our compliance objective is to avoid any violations. It is based on the Legal, HSE and Internal Auditing in particular. The responsibility for principle outlined above that compliance represents the fundamental ensuring legally compliant behavior, however, always rests with the condition for every decision and action taken by our company. respective decision-maker. We therefore view compliance primarily as a key leadership task within the company. Compliance risks are regularly analyzed by the Compliance Committee and presented to the Board of Management for discussion. They Our compliance communication involves both top-down and bottom-up are evaluated according to the likelihood of occurrence and damage processes in equal measure. Information events and training courses potential. Risk exposure is analyzed both for business areas and counenable our employees to fulfill their tasks correctly and in compliance tries, and Risk Officers are appointed accordingly. Wherever possible, with the law. Our communication activities include the “Compliance” early-warning indicators and monitoring instruments are defined and section on the LANXESS intranet, coupled with e-learning programs. countermeasures initiated to reduce the risks identified. From a bottom-up point of view, compliance issues and problems are reported to local compliance officers and on to the central CompliThe principal risk exposures we have identified relate to antitrust law ance Committee. The global Compliance Officer reports significant (horizontal), competition law (vertical), anti-corruption, export control, developments, findings and measures to the Board of Management environmental and safety regulations, data protection, product liability, and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on a regular basis. insider trading, discrimination, accounting law and – being closely There is an obligation to report ad hoc to the Board of Management related to compliance – fraud (against the company). and the Supervisory Board in the event of wide-reaching compliance violations. However, there has been no need to do so as yet. Our compliance program includes all of the “classical” CMS elements, such as issuing a compliance code and specific guidelines and work Compliance monitoring is performed by means of general audits and instructions, and establishing guidance systems, information and traindedicated audit programs conducted by Internal Auditing and a central ing. We ensure compliance in the broader sense by clearly assigning HSE department. Since Internal Auditing is itself part of the CMS frameresponsibilities within our structural and process organizations, and work, we have this organizational unit regularly audited by independent by implementing a functioning internal control system and suitable third parties. The status of compliance at LANXESS is also subject to auditing and monitoring activities. regular review by the auditor of the financial statements. The compliance organization includes a global Compliance ComGlobal Compact We are committed to the established principles of mittee, a global Compliance Officer drawn from this body and lothe world’s largest corporate social responsibility initiative, the U.N. cal compliance officers and/or committees in every country where a Global Compact. Since we signed up in 2011, we have continued LANXESS company operates. Various group functions also assume to raise our sustainability profile. You can find more information about support and/or monitoring roles in the compliance system, for example the Global Compact at www.unglobalcompact.org. The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Area Principle Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2) Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4) Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5) Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6) Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8) Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9) Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Responsibility 39 The Most Important CR Issues Perceived by the Stakeholder Groups Surveyed Capital market Customers Employees NGOs Politics Suppliers • Transparency • Supply chain • Diversity • Environmental • Renewable energy • Sustainability in the • Sustainability in the transparency • Health and safety protection sources supply chain supply chain • CR strategy • Work-life balance • Social standards in • Sustainability in the the supply chain supply chain Responsible Care® Transparency and improved public dialogue are sites, and representatives of politics, public authorities and NGOs is among the stated objectives of the Responsible Care® Global Charter to identify topics that we consider to be significant in terms of our corlaunched by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). porate responsibility. At the same time, we seek to encourage mutual This is the only way to build confidence and trust in an industry that understanding and build trust through open and constructive dialogue. plays a crucial role in improving people’s living standards and quality of life. We have supported this initiative since 2006, when we also became one of the signatories to the ICCA charter. For us, applySecond stakeholder survey yields positive results ing the Responsible Care® Global Charter to our business means working consistently to improve our processes and services in terms Following our first stakeholder survey in 2010, a second survey was of environmental and climate protection, health, safety and quality. carried out in the reporting year. Around 80 key stakeholders in GerOur corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are many and other European countries told us in writing or in telephone integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. interviews how they perceive LANXESS’s sustainability activities and which issues they consider to be particularly important. The most We also expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules, espeheavily represented stakeholder groups were employees, customers, cially the Global Compact, and establish adequate systems to ensure representatives of politics and capital market participants. However, we legally compliant behavior and carry ethical behavior throughout their also included representatives of NGOs and our suppliers in the survey. organizations. We published our new “Supplier Code of Conduct” at the beginning of 2012, and this has been part of our communication Compared to the first survey, the perception of LANXESS has once with suppliers since then. again improved. In terms of our general CR strategy and activities, our stakeholders feel that we are well-positioned compared to the relevant Additionally, in the course of acquisitions, we make it a principle of competitors. In particular, our performance in developing innovaour due diligence processes to ensure that human rights are also tive products for green mobility and communicating our sustainable respected by the target company. activities was rated very highly. However, our stakeholders were also unanimous in the opinion that we could improve the transparency of sustainability in our supply chain. The most concrete suggestions for Stakeholder dialogue expanded significantly improvement related to working conditions and environmental protection, spread over a number of individual aspects. In 2012, we implemented a variety of projects and events to develop a more active dialogue with key stakeholders on issues that are or Based on the results and suggestions from the survey, we will focus may become relevant to our company and our economic success. our future activities more on those areas our stakeholders consider to be particularly relevant. As a next step, we will also develop a maThe stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, institutions teriality matrix. In compiling the content of this annual report, we also and people with whom we are linked directly or indirectly through our considered the information needs of our stakeholders, significantly business units and who therefore have a justified interest in our activiexpanding reporting on aspects of our supply chain (see page 117) ties. The primary purpose of our dialogue with customers, employees, and on diversity (see page 45ff.), for example. The next stakeholder suppliers, capital market participants, the media, neighbors of our survey is planned for 2014. 40 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Customer satisfaction as a success factor For example, the Mobility Days we held in 2012 created an interdisciplinary, global platform for discussing current green mobility issues In markets with a high level of competitive pressure such as the chemiand trends with experts from business, science and associations. Our cal industry, customer satisfaction and customer loyalty are among the event includes a conference featuring high-profile speakers from scimost important success factors. Every kind of feedback is therefore ence and industry and also provides the opportunity to break out into important and helps us to better assess our customers’ requirements smaller groups for panel discussions and papers on specific mobility and priorities and take appropriate measures when necessary. In line issues. During the reporting period, Mobility Days were held in China, with a Group-wide guideline, we conduct customer surveys every two the United States, Europe and South Africa. We also continued our years. These provide us with vital information about the loyalty of our successful series of Rubber Days in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, where we customers, their expectations and how they perceive our services focused on high-performance rubber for green mobility. compared to those of our competitors. Our aim for the next survey in 2013 is to significantly increase the number of customers contacted. We held our first stakeholder dialogue on education in November 2012, focusing on “New frontiers of learning.” Representatives from We apply the principle of one voice to the customer in responding to educational establishments, foundations, business, media and politics inquiries about our products, for example about specifications, certificame together in Leverkusen to generate ideas for developing the cates or hazardous substances. Our goal is that every customer has a educational landscape in the areas of mathematics, IT, science and regular contact person, if possible in the business unit responsible. We technology in North Rhine-Westphalia and beyond. We plan to continue see customer complaints as both a challenge and an opportunity in this debate, which was seen as very constructive by the participants, equal measure. Our customer complaint management is responsible with another round table in 2013. for resolving customer dissatisfaction quickly and competently, so as to establish a sustained bond between the customer and us. We have More often, too, we are seeking dialogue with our stakeholders at also established a Group-wide guideline for this purpose. The aim of high-profile external events. For example, Chairman of the LANXESS every corrective action is to prevent or at least minimize comparable Board of Management Axel C. Heitmann was a keynote speaker at errors and the associated costs in the future. We therefore consider the eMobility Summit 2012. In the presence of the German Federal it vitally important that every complaint is documented appropriately. Minister of Transport, he highlighted the central role of the chemical industry in the mobility of the future. In collaboration with tire manufacAs a supplier, we also have to submit to regular audits performed by turer Continental, we brought together participants from various sectors our customers in the context of their management systems. of industry for a series of events entitled “Responsibility for the future.” These provided a forum for exchanging practical experiences about successful strategies, new processes and cutting-edge technologies. Establishment of a high-performance network We also conduct an open dialogue with government representatives We are very aware that no single organization alone – company, govand with authorities on local, European and international level. The ernment, research institute or NGO – will be able to master the major focus is on an active exchange of ideas on strategic corporate issues social challenges of our time. Alongside the many CR activities of such as environmentally friendly product and process innovations, our own, we are therefore participating increasingly in establishing developments on raw material and energy markets and issues relating powerful global networks where we combine our competence in to the labor market and education policy. We maintain offices in Berlin sustainable development with the expertise of other partners. As well and Brussels that place us close to the center of political decisionas state institutions, NGOs in particular – with their extensive expert making. A member of our executive management also represents the knowledge of specific issues – have a crucial role to play. Our Green issue of sustainability in the German parliamentary advisory committee Mobility initiative is a prime example of successful networking that benon growth, prosperity and quality of life. efits several participants and is totally in keeping with our philosophy of “Good for business, good for society.” Corporate Responsibility 41 Employees Innovative and Stringently Applied HR Strategies Support our Sustainable Growth • Global leadership concept emphasizes behavioral change Leadership & Qualification • Extensive investment in qualification, special focus on global sales force • Comprehensive demography programs to enhance productivity Demographic Management • Workforce planning aligned with demographic data and succession plan • Employee turnover in volatile BRIC countries below sector average Employee & Labor Relations • Reliable and stable labor relations in countries with strong union traditions • Performance-based and flexible compensation schemes Compensation • Employee stock plan in Germany with over 70% participation over years Our entrepreneurial success is based to a very large extent on the Academic and Managerial Employees in the German Chemical Indusperformance, innovative strength and commitment of our employtry). The judges’ decision was based on an annual satisfaction survey ees. Only through focused and sustainable employee training and of 6,000 managers in 25 chemical and pharmaceutical companies. development can we ensure that we achieve our corporate goals This year we ranked among the top three for the first time. and safeguard LANXESS’s competitiveness in the long term. Against this backdrop, integrated, global HR work is increasingly becoming a In China, the CRF Institute named us China’s Top Employer for the significant strategic factor. third time, after honoring us in 2009 and 2011. A total of 300 leading companies took part in the competition. We were one of 36 companies Our HR strategy defines four central areas of activity, within which we judged as outstanding in the remuneration, training and develophave developed and implemented a range of innovative tools. ment, career development, working conditions and corporate culture categories. In Mexico, the global Great Place to Work® Institute rated By actively promoting social responsibility, providing attractive jobs us as one of the 100 best multinationals and major local employers in an international environment, offering performance-based marketin the country. rate compensation and promoting a culture that inspires diversity, leadership and trust, we give our employees access to remarkable Our successful growth policy, evidenced by our admission to G ­ ermany’s career development opportunities, also outside their home countries. lead index, the DAX, was once again linked with an increase in the workforce in all key target markets in fiscal 2012. A total of 1,442 new In fiscal 2012, several national and international awards confirmed employees joined the LANXESS Group worldwide in this period. At our the success of this strategy. In Germany, LANXESS was awarded companies in Germany, we hired 345 new employees across all age the Cologne Chemistry Prize 2012 for exemplary and sustainable groups. Our main focus was on specialists in the areas of production HR work. This prize is awarded annually by the VAA (Association of and technology, especially engineers and chemists. New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 2 1 1 3 20 – 29 24 76 31 96 10 34 34 47 64 167 30 – 39 33 59 24 82 12 39 19 61 43 156 40 – 49 10 28 14 57 10 25 5 22 15 30 50 – 59 3 11 4 35 5 19 1 12 2 7 ≥ 60 1 2 1 3 2 Total 71 178 74 271 37 121 59 147 124 360 42 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Recruiting talent worldwide Every year, almost 200 students work on their theses with us in Germany alone. Here, we actively seek collaboration with universities As part of our sustainable corporate policy and against the backdrop of and colleges. We are also increasing our support for scientific conferincreasing international competition for talents, LANXESS is continuences and congresses such as those organized by the Max Planck ing to position itself as an attractive employer on all key markets. We Society PhD Student Network and the Society of Chinese Chemists are giving particular attention to the BRICS countries and our home and Chemical Engineers in Germany. market in Germany. Furthermore, we are extending our cooperation with student initiatives. By means of various activities, we aim to attract, integrate and retain At the invitation of the Bonding student initiative at RWTH Aachen the best minds and talents for our company. In recent years, we have University, we were one of the companies to showcase its projects worked closely with our employees to develop the basis for an employer and career opportunities as part of a special event on sustainability. brand with the goal of conveying an authentic image of LANXESS. Our corporate culture is shaped by challenging tasks and encourages emIn Brazil, we offer an internship program with a special part-time conployees to assume responsibility in an international context at an early tract to students in the concluding stages of their degree programs. stage. This gives our employees unique development opportunities, as They are given responsibility for a project of their own, the results reflected in our low turnover. In Germany, the turnover resulting from of which will later be presented to top management. This attractive voluntary resignations was below 1 percent in the reporting period. offering targets the best of a year group, enabling us to attract local Globally, it was around 4 percent. young talents who bring new expertise to the company. We also offer a similar internship program in India, which is supplemented by a Turnover % mentoring program. Germany Rest of the World In China, we have expanded our partnership with the Changzhou Age group Female Male Female Male Institute of Engineering Technology. By means of a “LANXESS class,” < 20 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 we share practical and scientific expertise with the university, provid20 – 29 2.3 2.6 8.2 6.6 ing the students with an early insight into the working world through 30 – 39 1.5 1.1 7.4 5.1 internships and thus arousing their interest in working for LANXESS. In 40 – 49 0.5 0.6 3.7 2.5 Pittsburgh, United States, we continue to support the Carnegie Science 50 – 59 0.3 0.1 1.7 1.3 Center in a variety of ways – for example, as a founding sponsor of the ≥ 60 0.0 1.3 2.3 8.7 Center for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Total 0.8 0.6 5.6 3.8 Education and Career Development. Activities include projects for high school students and events for young women interested in science. In fiscal 2012, we continued to seek direct contact with talented uniIn addition, we are continuously expanding our cooperation with seversity and school students through our presence at a large number lected schools – including elementary schools – around the world. of career fairs, university events and scientific conferences and by In this way, we give teachers, children, faculty and students the oporganizing our own events. We also cooperated with university career portunity to discover more about the many fascinating functions in centers and funded a range of scholarships as part of the German govprocess engineering, chemical research and central administration ernment’s “Germany Scholarship” program. Through this, LANXESS that we can offer on account of our product and process diversity. supported more than 50 students at eight renowned universities in 2012, including students at RWTH Aachen University, TU Dortmund Establishing early contact with schools close to our sites in Germany University and the University of Cologne. The scholarship holders and around the world, for example as part of specialist project weeks, receive a monthly payment of €300. The company pays €150 of and promoting science education at local high schools are two of the this amount and the remaining half is shared equally by the German other focal points of LANXESS’s extensive education initiative, which government and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. In addition, we we continued to extend in fiscal 2012. As a company, we consider offer our scholarship holders individual guidance. this initiative to be part of our social and corporate responsibility. Corporate Responsibility 43 International partnership with Teach First Our special commitment Encouraging and supporting individual development to education is also reflected in our partnership with Teach First in Germany and India. We have been one of the main sponsors of this LANXESS has put in place a multi-tiered process of global HR not-for-profit organization since 2010. Teach First, which is already development conferences, enabling us to review the potential of established in a number of countries, has set itself the goal of helping talented employees and assess the performance, leadership skills school students who have had a difficult start in life, fostering their and further career path of management staff worldwide on a regular individual talents and supporting them in developing career prospects. basis. The results of these reviews form the basis for detailed feedParticularly highly qualified university graduates from all disciplines, back discussions between managerial staff and their supervisors. who also have the requisite soft skills, act as fellows for a period of two Moreover, the Development Center has become an established tool years, helping schools in socially disadvantaged areas with education worldwide for assessing the potential of future managers and supand schooling tasks. In Germany, we focus particularly on supporting porting their development. Management workshops are a special fellows specializing in mathematics and science. The most recent way of fostering and recording the potential of top managers. The intake of fellows has been active in schools in North Rhine-Westphalia results of this multi-dimensional approach are an integral part of our since February 2012. In addition to providing ­financial support, we HR development policy, which is augmented by systematic succesare also making a practical contribution through activities such as sion planning for key positions. vocational training preparation for school students and personal coaching for fellows. We do not impose a uniform leadership style on our managers. Instead, we expect them to find a personal balance between strategic We started working with Teach First in India in December 2010. The ­vision (Head), empathy (Heart) and the courage to make decisions first fellows assigned to the Indian partner schools in Mumbai and (Guts). We also provide our managerial staff with a wide range of individDelhi were given the opportunity to complete internships at our sites ual development options, including personal coaching and 360-­degree in India as part of the program. The school students they support are feedback. We extended the range of special modular and multialso given career guidance and an insight into working life through dimensional programs available at the LANXESS Academy. Designed visits to our facilities. In addition, LANXESS employees provide direct specifically to prepare trainee managers for their future tasks, these support for projects in the schools in their free time. This commitment programs proved to be a very successful component of our structured was also continued in 2012. management training. During the reporting period, 331 employees – 68 of them women – took part in the programs. Structured development of young managers Each year, under the motto “Prepare for the Future,” our LANXESS corporate trainee proTraining and development are significant aspects of personnel develgrams attract highly skilled university graduates. Our aim is to prepare opment at all levels. Alongside formal training sessions and seminars, the participants for an international career within the LANXESS Group which amount to 10,000 hours a year in France, for example, there and establish a global pool of young managers with international exare many informal training courses such as orientation days, peerperience. In fiscal 2012, our marketing, controlling, finance, human to-peer coaching and continuous knowledge-sharing events linking resources and engineering programs were complemented by a new young and experienced employees. information technology program. Since the initiative started, we have offered a wide range of entry-level positions to 63 university graduates The LANXESS Summer Academy, which takes place once a year with an interest in embarking on an international career. near our company headquarters, encourages training, networking and personal development across the boundaries of our business In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program specifiunits and group functions by means of presentations, seminars and cally for the Chinese market. This two-year program aims to prepare a varied supporting program. The Academy is aimed at employees highly qualified business and technology graduates for management from various backgrounds – from business professionals to chemroles and create a pool of local talent. We continued this program in ists and engineers. After the very positive feedback of the previous 2012, with a special focus on trainee positions in finance and techniyears, we again increased the number of participants in 2012. 130 cal production. employees took part in the one-week program, which included eleven seminars on improving hard and soft skills and an intensive exchange In India, we have implemented two trainee programs – an 18-month of experiences. management trainee program in which we develop exceptional talents for leadership functions, and a shorter project trainee program for young graduates. 44 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Under the umbrella of the LANXESS Academy, we continued offering Development opportunities and diversity functional training for our global sales teams in 2012. The Interfor international markets national LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) is a one-year modular program designed to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS currently skills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements the programs employs people from 69 countries across the world. Our successful already in place in the business units and countries by facilitating focus on the BRICS countries is a deliberate strategy to increase proxcommunication and the sharing of best practices across business imity to local customers and markets. However, training, the transfer units and national borders. We consider the targeted qualification of of know-how and international experience are not one-way streets, our global sales employees to be a significant success factor in the which is why LANXESS is increasingly sending employees from the further improvement of our customer relationships. It also gives us BRICS countries to its sites in Western Europe and North America. a competitive edge in today’s global markets. 200 first-level sales employees from all over the world took part in the program in the In 2012, we reviewed the LANXESS International Assignment Policy first two years. for its currentness and market conformity. To this end, we conducted four benchmarks with more than 470 companies in various industries. The LANXESS Forum, featuring high-caliber lectures and a subsequent plenary discussion, explores societal trends and company One result is that we intend to give greater consideration to family issues, providing a platform for dialogue between employees and circumstances in the future – not only with respect to dual career situmanagement. In the year under review, it concentrated particularly ations but also to family issues in general. LANXESS is one of the few on green mobility – which was our focus for 2012 – and the Board companies to provide a dual career allowance to compensate some of of Management’s Diversity & Inclusion initiative. the loss of income caused when a partner gives up work to accompany one of our employees on an international assignment. In addition, Positive results from our employee survey In 2012, we conducted our we support the accompanying partner’s professional development. first employee survey in Germany in collaboration with the renowned Great Place to Work® Institute. 1,050 employees were asked to evaluIn 2012, we also started to link expatriate management more closely ate the strengths and weaknesses of their current work environment at with career management, making international assignments a key LANXESS. The aim of the survey was to acquire in-depth information component of our systematic personnel development and encouraging that we can use to improve our appeal as an employer and further talent mobility. Therefore, all expatriate positions at LANXESS have enhance our motivating and performance-oriented workplace culture. been advertised globally since mid-2012. This gives all our employees the same opportunity to apply for an international assignment and An overwhelming majority – 75 percent of those questioned – exembark on an international career. pressed a firmly positive opinion of LANXESS, fundamentally describing the company as a very good employer. The high degree of loyalty Making expatriate management one of the central components of and identification with the job, great willingness to recommend the systematic personnel development also means enabling employees products manufactured, the fair and positive treatment of employees with limited international mobility to work abroad. In 2012, therefore, in a discrimination-free environment, the high level of occupational we enhanced the framework conditions for short-term assignments. safety and LANXESS’s profit-sharing model were cited as outstanding To this end, our revised International Assignment Policy now includes strengths. Of course, weaknesses and development potential were also an attractive mix of fringe benefits and special training for both longidentified. For example, our employees would like stronger leadership term and short-term assignments. In this way, we are making it easier in their day-to-day work, more intensive communication of targets and for new and experienced managers as well as skilled non-managerial expectations, greater transparency regarding individual career opporemployees to acquire international work experience. tunities and more support in achieving a work-life balance. Against this backdrop, the number of employees on international Based on these findings, we initiated a comprehensive discussion assignment rose again significantly in 2012. On average, 260 emprocess in each business unit and group function during the reporting ployees – around 7 percent of our managers and experts – worked as year. The results of this process will help us to work together in further expatriates outside their home countries, mainly in Singapore, China, improving our workplace culture by means of selected measures. the United States and Brazil. Corporate Responsibility 45 LANXESS Employee Structure by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male < 20 2 1 3 1 20 – 29 92 304 142 447 26 122 87 257 149 463 30 – 39 183 793 260 1,172 64 192 128 384 265 873 40 – 49 134 939 558 2,498 100 302 47 360 107 423 50 – 59 93 820 405 2,380 144 465 32 294 19 169 ≥ 60 10 72 22 187 35 103 2 32 4 11 Total 512 2,930 1,388 6,684 369 1,184 296 1,330 544 1,940 LANXESS Employee Structure by Functional Area and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Functional area Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Marketing 109 136 405 564 79 94 77 103 166 339 Production 255 2,616 458 5,228 156 948 131 1,112 141 1,290 Research and Development 13 59 109 408 29 75 6 15 19 110 Administration 135 119 416 484 105 67 82 100 218 201 Total 512 2,930 1,388 6,684 369 1,184 296 1,330 544 1,940 LANXESS Employee Structure by Segment, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Segment Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Performance Polymers 154 1,740 203 1,195 128 763 61 535 119 450 Advanced Intermediates 13 13 190 2,204 14 12 5 3 29 358 Performance Chemicals 272 1,104 454 1,907 94 323 134 691 186 866 Reconciliation1) 73 73 541 1,378 133 86 96 101 210 266 Total 512 2,930 1,388 6,684 369 1,184 296 1,330 544 1,940 1) Includes group functions and LANXESS Distribution In addition to achieving a global transfer of knowledge by sending force for our competitiveness on global markets, for increasing our experts and managers abroad, our goal is still to develop local maninnovative strength and performance capabilities and for attracting agement with the necessary expertise and international competencies and retaining promising talents. in each country and to transfer challenging tasks to suitable local employees. Outside Germany, 78 percent of our management funcIn the first project phase, completed during the reporting year, we tions are currently filled by local employees. established the framework of our ongoing commitment to diversity and inclusion on the basis of in-depth data analyses, best-practice The global Diversity & Inclusion initiative In order to achieve struccase studies and employee interviews around the world. tured development of diversity at LANXESS and utilize its positive effects for our company and its employees, we established the To avoid getting lost in the many different dimensions of diversity Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) initiative in 2011, under the patronage (e.g. age, gender, nationality, ethnicity, disability, social origin, experiof Board of Management member and Labor Director Rainier van ence), we decided at an early stage to focus first on the dimensions of Roessel. This initiative reflects the great importance of a diverse workage, gender and nationality. The criteria for this decision included the 46 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Age, gender and nationality are currently the main dimensions of our Board of Management's Diversity & Inclusion initiative, which takes a structured approach to developing diversity at LANXESS. expected leverage effect for a diverse corporate culture at LANXESS One such measure is the Senior Trainee Program, unique in Germany, and the importance of different dimensions in key country organizations that we launched as a Diversity & Inclusion lighthouse project during and target markets. For the pilot areas involved – the Inorganic the reporting year. This program lasts 18 months and offers a qualified Pigments and Technical Rubber Products business units and the full-time position to employees with an academic background who Accounting group function – and the participating countries of Brazil, wish to return to working life after a period of time spent raising a China, Germany, France, India and the United States, the first project family. Alongside their actual work, the participants receive personal phase highlighted different priorities and areas for action. However, support from a mentor, individual coaching and tailor-made training. this was to be expected considering the great significance of regional On November 5, 2012, 14 Senior Trainees began their second caand organizational influences for diversity in a company. reer in eleven different business sectors. Since then, they have been gaining experience in their future areas of responsibility, in line with Despite these differences, our commitment to increasing diversity their academic training. By better recognizing the professional and worldwide has a common basis – equal opportunity. Wherever equal life experience of these men and women and actively utilizing their opportunity exists, recruitment and development will be based on potential, we are taking a particularly innovative approach to combining performance, experience and personality, and not on membership our general commitment to greater diversity with the requirements of of a particular group. To guarantee this in all cases, a company must active demographic management. influence the attitudes of its employees and managers toward the different nationalities, age structures, genders etc. they encounter in Other projects aim to identify the potential for flexibilization associated their daily work. Diversity starts in the head of every individual. with part-time and home-office working for middle and upper management, or to encourage women at LANXESS to share their experience With this in mind, the path to greater diversity at LANXESS requires across organizational and hierarchical boundaries. a cultural change process above all else. We must also create the structural framework (e.g. organization, processes, guidelines) so The initiative is thus making a key contribution to reaching the goal that diversity generates added value for our employees and the comwe have set ourselves of raising the proportion of women in middle pany. As part of the Diversity & Inclusion project, we developed and and upper management to 20 percent by 2020. The figure currently started implementing more than 30 measures with this aim during the stands at just under 15 percent. reporting year. Based on the findings of the first project phase, some of these measures apply Group-wide while others are limited to certain corporate entities or countries. Corporate Responsibility 47 Taking action on demographic change activities for our vocational training programs using a range of media, attended all major regional career fairs and visited schools. Through In view of the challenges posed by demographic change, LANXESS events of our own such as “NeXt Azubi” (NeXt Trainee), we address cooperated closely with the employee representatives in 2009 to young people with an interest in our company and give them valuable develop XCare, a comprehensive demographic concept for our Gerguidance for their later career choices. We took part in Germany’s man companies based on the collective agreement on lifelong workGirls’ Day for the first time in April 2012, providing girls with a deeper time and demography in the chemical industry. In 2012, this project insight into technical areas of activity in our company. In addition, our focused in particular on the issues of health management and preone-year orientation program XOnce provides young people with useventive medicine and balancing career and family life. This project ful guidance on their way to a later traineeship if they are not ready to aims to find answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in take this route at the current time. the average age of our workforce coupled with a shortage of skilled young people. Demographic management Another main focus of our XCare demographic project in Germany is balancing career and family life, which The XCare project was initially based on an extensive demographic remains an important issue for a large number of LANXESS employees. analysis of the entire LANXESS organization, which resulted in five 5.3 percent of our employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 areas of activity – people and health; work and training; time and orgamade use of the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, almost nization; career and family life; and savings and retirement provision. 46 percent were fathers. In 2011, in support of parents looking for care for their children, we started offering our employees reserved places at One aspect of work and training was the analysis of our trainee figures childcare facilities in Cologne ahead of the relocation of our company from a demographic perspective. Among the measures based on our headquarters to that city planned for 2013. Construction also started findings was the decision to increase the number of vocational training on a kindergarten close to the Leverkusen site in November 2012. places we offer. By 2015, some 600 training places will be available at our sites throughout Germany. Providing care is an important aspect of career and family life. We aim to support employees in the care of dependents, either financially or in Vocational training In 2012, 140 young people (108 men and terms of time. In line with the German government’s draft legislation 32 women) accepted the opportunity to start one of the 16 technical, on family caregiver leave, which came into force in 2012, we were commercial or scientific training programs at LANXESS. A further one of the first companies to conclude a comprehensive agreement 26 young people have chosen our four combined vocational trainwith employee representatives on a multi-stage caregiving program ing and study programs. We are planning to increase our offering of that includes advice from an external service provider, paid short-term combined engineering programs in 2013. Our aim in the medium release from duties, and individually agreed part-time working for term is for combined programs to account for 10 percent of our caregivers. We added two further modules to this program during vocational training positions in Germany. the reporting period – a care loan at favorable terms and the support of an external service provider in arranging care placements close to With a total of 386 trainees in 16 different career paths (as of Decemall our German sites. More than 60 information events took place at ber 31, 2012), LANXESS continues to train more young people than our German sites throughout 2012. it needs to meet its own requirements. In 2012, we gave permanent and temporary positions to more than 50 percent of those who comCaregiver leave remains at the heart of the program. This allows empleted their vocational training with us in Germany. ployees to reduce their working time to a greater extent than their salary during the care phase and to make up the shortfall when they LANXESS has always given priority to training young people as a means return to work. 17 employees have already take advantage of caregiver of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of our social leave and other job release options. Given the considerable interest in responsibility. In 2012, we once again strengthened the marketing advice and further information on this issue, we anticipate increased demand in the coming months. 48 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Health and preventive medicine During the reporting year, we also Rewarding performance intensified communication in the area of people and health and launched new projects. Our primary goal is to raise awareness of LANXESS has established a fair remuneration policy that is linked to health issues among employees and managers and encourage them the long-term success of the company and offers employees worldto adopt healthy behaviors at work and in their free time. We take wide a transparent market-rate compensation system. Collective barseriously our responsibility of involving the employees and managers gaining agreements provide the main basis for the compensation of concerned in making workplaces as healthy as possible, but at the non-managerial staff in Germany and numerous other countries. The same time rely on the individual responsibility of our workforce. In fixed salaries of managerial staff, and of some non-managerial staff, Germany, our reintegration management and occupational health are supplemented by performance-based compensation components management programs are based on corresponding agreements that are linked, on the one hand, to the attainment of the Group’s with the employee representatives. defined EBITDA targets and, on the other, to employees’ individual performance. As part of our reintegration management program, we recently started giving individual support to employees who are suffering illness or have In 2012, we used a total of €100 million to give our employees had long periods of absence from work due to ill health in the past worldwide a share in the company’s success. Some of this amount twelve months. To this end, workplace integration teams comprising was already paid out at the end of 2011. integration officers and employee representatives have been in place at all our German sites since 2011. Our managers are also able to reward outstanding employee performance quickly and unbureaucratically. All employees worldwide are In the area of occupational health management, further facilities have entitled to such rewards on the basis of a prompt assessment of their joined those originally selected for pilot projects in taking the first performance. In fiscal 2012, this resulted in payments of €9 million steps toward introducing this system. Another roll-out is planned in worldwide – €6.4 million to employees in Germany – for outstanding the course of 2013. As a rule, the projects are steered by working individual performance. We are planning to implement a new employee groups made up equally of employee and employer representatives dialogue and feedback tool in 2013. The Employee Dialog project was who analyze the existing health situation and develop a participatory launched at the end of 2012. It represents an innovative approach to action model. The projects encompass management workshops, performance management based on an ongoing dialogue and thus prevention concepts, advice on ergonomics for plant workers, help to also on active management of the relationship between supervisors give up smoking and nutrition programs for shift workers. and employees. Compared with the rigid and more formal structures of traditional approaches, the focus is on trust and individual motivation Experience from the pilot projects shows that our employees are as success factors. In the long term, this creates a culture in which particularly keen to obtain personal advice about their health and the leadership and employee development are seen as a joint task for possible need for preventive action. Building on this awareness and supervisors and employees – which benefits individual productivity knowledge about their own health, employees are also responding and satisfaction. well to follow-up offers. Special medical check-ups are offered specifically for top management. Around 500 eligible managers are invited We again offered an employee stock plan in 2012. All LANXESS Group to regular appointments. employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy LANXESS shares at a 50-percent discount. The shares were purchased at an In the area of saving and retirement provision, we reached agreement average price of €54.78 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The particiwith the employee representatives in Germany in 2012 on further pation rate was 73 percent. At the reporting date, our employees and allocation options for the long-term account. These include integraBoard of Management members held around 1 percent of LANXESS’s tion of the demography fund contribution, a provision of the 2012 shares through stock plans. collective bargaining agreement. In addition, we are introducing comprehensive accident insurance for all non-managerial employees in For some time now, we have also offered a long-term incentive program Germany from the beginning of 2013. Cover will apply worldwide, for managers in Germany and similar programs in the United States, both at work and at home. Canada, India and China. This plan compares the performance of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM All benefits with respect to work and family, health and retirement Index over a period of three years. Since participants make a personal provision apply to the core workforce. Individual benefits may vary investment and there is the chance that the stock will increase in regionally and be adjusted locally to our employees’ needs. Variable value, the program is an attractive long-term incentive and a means remuneration systems have been implemented for 78 percent of our of boosting employee loyalty. employees worldwide. Corporate Responsibility 49 For the period 2010 to 2013, the Board of Management has inOpen to ideas troduced a new long-term compensation component to replace LANXESS’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The Long-Term Stock When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work procePerformance Plan 2010-2013 (LTSP) comprises four tranches, one dures, plants and processes, these ideas pay off. Our idea management commencing each year. This plan compares the performance of system fosters the development, processing and implementation of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM suggestions for improvements to ensure that we continually receive Index over a period of four years. The participation rate is 89 percent. proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, occupational safety and environmental protection. Acting in partnership In 2012, employees at LANXESS’s German companies submitted a total of 3,157 new suggestions, a rate of 430 per thousand employees. A key pillar of our HR policy is close cooperation between employee In the same period, 1,507 ideas were implemented, yielding total representatives and management, including trade unions and employsavings of €3.1 million. 1,035 of these ideas led to improvements ers’ associations, in line with the principle of active codetermination. in occupational safety and environmental protection. A total of More than 64 percent of our employees worldwide are covered by €1.2 million was paid out to employees whose ideas were put into the terms of collective agreements; in Germany, this figure is nearly practice. The highest individual payment of €73,000 was awarded 90 percent. for an improvement in process logistics that led to increased capacity in a production facility. We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our As a further incentive to attract ideas, the LANXESS Ideas Competition corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change was launched in 2008. Each year, the company’s organizational units processes at an early stage. In accordance with the German Works can measure themselves in terms of team benefit1). The focus is on Constitution Act, LANXESS is obliged to inform the Works Council identifying further cost-cutting potential, increasing both implementafully and in good time of any planned operational changes which tion and participation rates, and shortening processing times. In 2012, could result in material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the the Functional Chemicals business unit won the Ideas Competition for workforce. This does not affect the provision of information about the the first time. 104 employees submitted an idea that was implemented company’s economic affairs to the Economics Committee. We fully and contributed to the business unit’s success. They each received comply with these legal obligations with respect to the responsible an additional payment of €300. All ideas that are implemented are bodies. In Germany, the notification period is four weeks. evaluated in accordance with our _FormulaX criteria. At 66 percent, “Come up with solutions” was the most important component in the creativity process. With its attractive, performance-related bonus system, our idea management system is an essential element of innovation management at LANXESS and will continue to play a key role in our company’s future success. FormulaX Take on responsibility Come up with solutions Dare simplicity Accelerate progress 1) The team benefit is calculated from the proven cost savings yielded by ideas with a financially quantifiable benefit and from the bonuses paid (= benefits) for ideas with no quantifiable benefit and set in relation to the number of eligible employees in an organizational unit. 50 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Health, safety, environment and climate protection in health and safety risks. We systematically identify these risks and the the value creation chain hazard potential and minimize these by taking them into account when planning facilities and by defining and implementing the necLANXESS is responsible for its actions across the entire supply and essary preventive and protective measures. To help us achieve this, value creation chain – from the global procurement of raw materials we have established LANXESS-specific guidelines within the context and product development, through production, storage and transport, of our global management system. These govern our procedures to use and disposal. The health and safety of our stakeholders – emfor all safety-critical processes in our production facilities and cover ployees, contractors, immediate neighbors of our production sites, aspects such as the definition and implementation of technical and customers and end users – is of central importance at each of these organizational protective measures and the environmentally friendly stages. Through our safety standards, we aim to ensure the responsible handling of raw materials and waste. application of chemistry in health and environmental protection, in the handling of chemicals, in plant safety and in workplace safety precauExperts conduct specific spot checks as part of on-site audits to assess tions. Company-wide standards are in place to define the associated implementation of the relevant guidelines and local regulations for safe requirements and responsibilities. Through the ongoing training of our plant operation. At each facility, compliance with the safety standards employees and regular auditing of our health, safety and environmental must be certified regularly, at least at the intervals required by local management, we ensure that the requirements are systematically and legislation. In 2012, a total of 32 facilities, 14 of them in Germany, sustainably implemented in our processes. were audited in the course of HSE compliance checks. It goes without saying that safety and environmental aspects also Procurement in the supply chain play an important role in our acquisition projects. Before making any acquisition, we carry out technical due diligence tests alongside the Responsible action begins in procurement. At LANXESS, all the raw economic appraisals. Gap analyses are performed by ­LANXESS soon and other materials, plant and services needed for our operations must after the takeover of a production site. These are used to identify any satisfy uniform global safety and environmental protection requiredifferences between the management system already in place at the ments. Raw materials in particular are subject to stringent monitoring site and L ­ ANXESS’s own system. The results serve as the basis for to ensure safe processing in our production facilities. For example, the drawing up action plans to implement ­LANXESS’s binding global procurement of any raw material is dependent on the submission by HSEQ standards at these locations. In 2012, we performed two such the supplier of a current safety data sheet. Our procurement departgap analyses. ment clarifies which of the REACH requirements must be satisfied in the case of raw materials from non-European suppliers. In order to minimize our procurement risks and enhance supply chain transparXact: Board of Management’s global safety initiative ency, we and five other international chemicals companies founded the Together for Sustainability initiative in 2012. Further detailed inIn 2012, we pressed forward with our Xact global safety program, formation is contained in the “Procurement and production” section launched in 2011, with the support of our partner DuPont Sustainin the combined management report on page 117. able Solutions (DSS). Within this initiative, we have divided the issue of safety into 22 elements covering aspects of the occupational safety culture and process and plant safety. Uniform standards in production In a first phase, completed in spring 2012, we performed a standardAcross the globe, LANXESS operates at 47 production sites in which ized analysis at a total of 22 plants and sites. These included facilities it holds more than 50 percent (as of December 31, 2012). The diverin Argentina, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, the sity of the company’s product portfolio necessitates the use of many Netherlands and the United States. Almost all business units were different chemical and technical processes. Uniform standards for planning, engineering and operating facilities are applied to ensure a high level of process, plant and occupational safety. Handling chemical substances and working with technical equipment intrinsically involve Corporate Responsibility 51 represented. The in-depth analysis included an internal evaluation over the prior year, especially outside Germany. This resulted primarily of safety practices coupled with an assessment by DSS consultants. from a number of accidents at our chrome ore mine in South Africa, It yielded valuable findings for further improvement. In particular, we which has gained statistical relevance owing to the international harwere able to identify numerous best safety practices. monization of our reporting structures and the employee situation there. Also, our Xact global safety program has raised the profile of A significant consequence of our analysis is that we will be stepping up occupational safety. The associated increase in awareness for workthe involvement of the operational management level in the ongoing related accidents and their consequences among our employees is review of safety standards in future, thus emphasizing their responsibilreflected in an improved reporting culture. We expect the LTIFR to ity. The central body for monitoring the program and the continuous decrease again in the coming years following the implementation of improvement of our safety standards is the LANXESS HSE Council, further measures. which includes two members of the Board of Management and three business unit heads. Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) In the next phase, which started in the second half of 2012, twelve international corporate sub-committees made up of some 80 expe2012 3.4 rienced employees – primarily from the business units, but also from supporting group functions – have been scrutinizing and refining 2011 2.7 the global HSE standards for the LANXESS Group. They are due to 2010 2.3 complete their task by mid-2013. 2009 3.0 Lastly, in the implementation phase, local sub-committees will have the task of adapting our improved global standards to the specific 2008 3.1 conditions at their respective locations and producing the associated documentation. They will be steered by a local HSE council. In some 0 1 2 3 4 5 countries where we have larger sites or several companies, a regional HSE council will be responsible for country-specific requirements, for example concerning reporting. In addition, we will be supporting the consistent application and effectiveness of the standards with a Despite our intensive efforts in the area of plant, process and occupasystematic audit program. Implementation will take place in several tional safety, there were regrettably two fatal work-related accidents in stages. It started at our German sites in Leverkusen, Dormagen and the year under review. Both of these occurred in South Africa: one at an Krefeld-Uerdingen at the end of 2012. underground conveyor system in our chrome ore mine in Rustenburg, the other during maintenance work on our rubber chemicals producRecording accidents and incidents Thanks to our global electronic tion facility at Isithebe. We temporarily suspended work at the chrome Incident Reporting System (IRS), we are able to record accidents ore mine. The cause of the accident was investigated thoroughly, and incidents using standardized procedures. The incidents that are and the safety equipment on the conveyor systems was modified acdocumented include accidents involving people, transport accidents, cordingly. At the rubber chemicals plant, potential weaknesses were environmental incidents and downtime caused by, for example, bad identified with the support of experts from similar plants in Germany. weather or strike action. Our sites also regularly report near accidents, including unsafe conditions and actions. We communicate significant incidents worldwide via our intranet or by newsletter. Each incident Taking an active approach to global product is carefully analyzed to identify measures that can be taken to avoid ­stewardship similar accidents, disruptions or near accidents in the future. Product stewardship involves the safe handling of chemical substances The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for and products throughout their life cycle. In 2006, the International every million hours worked) in Germany, is one of the indicators used Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) launched the Global Product to assess occupational safety. In 2012, the LTIFR was 3.4, compared with 2.7 in 2011. Our analyses showed that the LTIFR rose markedly 52 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 REACH Implementation Schedule Creation of the European Pre-registration of all substances Chemicals Agency Preparation for REACH substances ≥≥ 1,000 Registration of Substances 1,000 tpatpa3)3) CMR substances1) ≥ 1 tpa3) Substances with R50/532) ≥ 100 tpa3) Substances ≥≥ 100 Registration of substances 100 tpa tpa3) Registration of Substances substances ≥≥ 11 tpa tpa3) June 1, 2007 June 1, 2008 Nov. 30, 2008 Nov. 30, 2010 May 31, 2013 May 31, 2018 Other obligations: evaluation procedures, authorization 1) CMR: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic 2) Very toxic to aquatic organisms; may cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment 3) tpa = tons per annum Strategy (GPS) initiative with the primary aim of establishing global LANXESS has a global organization for managing the various demands standards for product stewardship and thus minimizing the impact with respect to these control regulations and compliance with them. of chemicals on human health and the environment. In line with the It is supported by a globally applicable electronic safety data system Responsible Care Global Charter and the GPS initiative, we are comthat generates safety data sheets for our customers in more than mitted to manufacturing and marketing our products in such a way as 30 languages and provides national safety information systems with to prevent injury to people and damage to the environment. Product globally standardized substance data and updated documents. Safety safety is a top priority at all stages of the supply chain – from research data sheets give commercial users information about the properties and development, through production and transportation, to downof a chemical product with a view to ensuring safe handling across stream processing and disposal. the supply chain. Our Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive steers the Before manufacturing, importing or selling our products in a given Group-wide observance of product stewardship throughout the product country, we examine their marketability in accordance with the chemilife cycle and secures the necessary participation of everyone involved cal legislation in force there. We register our substances and products in the supply chain. Our internal Central Product Surveillance Direcin line with local requirements and we participate in the substance tive governs worldwide tracking of the health-related and ecological analysis programs of the relevant authorities by supplying all available implications of raw materials and products. Our product portfolio information and producing new data if necessary. also includes substances that are classified as hazardous. In order to prevent possible harm to health, we systematically test the properties We obtain certification for products beyond what is legally required of our products and draw our customers’ attention to the risks associif this is requested by customers. For example, we have certificates ated with their use. in the areas of food and drinking water contact, food and feed additives, eco-labels and E.U. environmental labels as well as certificates Management of chemical control regulations Worldwide, a range confirming conformity with religious dietary laws. of chemical control regulations govern the registration, labeling and marketing of substances and mixtures. The safe handling, marketability We aim to raise marketability and the provision of hazardous goods and safe transportation of our chemicals and products are conditional data to a globally uniform safety and technical standard by successively on compliance with these regulations. integrating the safety data system into our SAP system worldwide. In 2013, China will be the focus of our activities in this respect. Corporate Responsibility 53 The safety data system is also regularly adapted to the Globally Harmothe globally standardized classification and interpretation of dangernized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) in the ous goods regulations, together with regional regulations, helps us to various countries in the event of changes to hazardous goods legislaensure compliance in global transport operations. The classification tion. The GHS is a system under the umbrella of the United ­Nations that determines the wrapping, marking and labeling, permitted modes of aims to harmonize existing classification and labeling systems used in transport and transport routes. The classification database is filed in various sectors such as transportation and consumer, employee and LANXESS’s chemicals safety data system. In 2012, we revised our environmental protection. Implementation of the GHS global initiative existing guidelines on dangerous goods and transport safety managein the E.U. is supported by REACH and the CLP (Classification, Labelment and defined international responsibilities. ling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) Regulation, which we implemented by the relevant deadline. Storage management We operate our own warehouses, but also commission external warehousing service providers on the basis of a We expressly support the protection goals of the E.U. REACH regulaspecified process that considers relevant aspects of logistics, safety and tion, which aims to achieve a high level of chemicals safety for human security, environmental protection and cost-effectiveness. In line with health and the environment. During the first REACH registration phase a corresponding chemical industry concept, we apply a globally stanthat ended on November 30, 2010, we prepared dossiers for 193 dardized warehouse concept that takes into account the substances substances that we produce in or import to the European Union in stored and meets fire protection and occupational health and safety volumes exceeding 1,000 tons annually and submitted these to the requirements. We revised this concept in 2012 and now give greater European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). In the second phase through to consideration to regional requirements. We ensure compliance with the end of May 2013, we will be registering around 200 substances our guidelines and regularly conduct on-site inspections. with volumes exceeding 100 tons. Lastly, all substances with volumes exceeding one ton must be registered by the third deadline at the end of May 2018. We expect to submit a total of some 750 substance Ecological responsibility dossiers over all three phases. We view the continuous improvement of environmental performance In the registration process, we review the available substance informaas a key corporate goal. As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural retion and fill any data gaps by exchanging information with competitors, sources – for example, through the most efficient possible use of raw obtaining expert opinions or developing appropriate tests ourselves. materials and energies – and identifying further potential for reducing Within the context of a voluntary commitment made by the German emissions and waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of chemical industry association (VCI) in 1997 to record and assess our ecological responsibility to which we must apply our expertise. substances, we go beyond the legal requirements to determine a basic data set for our intermediates as well, in line with Appendix VII of the It is an established part of our strategy to equip all new production REACH regulation. Registration also involves systematically analyzing sites in line with state-of-the-art environmental standards, taking into the effects of our substances on human health and the environment account local requirements. This often sets us apart from many local and describing safe conditions of use. In doing this, we consider the competitors. One example of this approach was the opening of our entire product life cycle. water treatment plant in Nagda, India. Global dangerous goods and transport safety management Through Environmental protection in proximity to our production sites The our global dangerous goods and transport safety management system, areas around our European sites contain many protected areas that we ensure compliance with the relevant legal regulations and thus fall under the European Habitats Directive. No significant effects on avoid hazardous situations in dangerous goods and transport probiodiversity are to be expected when our production facilities are runcesses. We coordinate, supervise and review the implementation of ning normally or during either scheduled or unscheduled downtime. international, regional and local dangerous goods and transport safety Although no measures are currently required that go beyond the regulations and internal company guidelines. Our expertise regarding respective local permitting requirements, we are conducting further detailed evaluations, initially at our European sites. Any information about protected areas near our sites outside Europe was included in the necessary permit processes. 54 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Our industrial sites themselves do not contain any protected or reTo implement the energy management system at operational level, stored natural habitats since, as a rule, these areas continue to be an energy officer with global responsibility was appointed for each used for industrial purposes. Some unused areas outside the sites business unit, and energy teams were established for the German are near-natural, for example at La Wantzenau, France, or Duque de production units. Caxias, Brazil. There are isolated cases of protected species, such as the capybara, living on land and in waters at our sites. Landfill sites are Against the backdrop of our energy target and building on the strucrecultivated in line with legal requirements but do not necessarily revert tures of the LANXESS energy management system, we continued to natural habitat. The provisions made by LANXESS for environmental refining our systematic approaches to increasing energy efficiency protection primarily relate to contaminated soil and groundwater in across the company in 2012. For example, the business units evaluareas that were used industrially and not those with protected status. ated existing and potential efficiency improvement measures in terms of their possible contribution to reducing indirect greenhouse gas Progress in climate protection As a driving force in the chemical emissions and energy costs, the investment needed and their techniindustry, we are helping to reduce or even eliminate greenhouse gas cal feasibility. emissions using a range of cutting-edge technical solutions. Since 2012, all our savings measures have been combined in the Our aim is to reduce each segment’s specific energy consumption and LANXESS Energy Efficiency Program (LEEP), aimed at creating a specific CO2e emissions by 10 percent by 2015 (base year: 2010). Group-wide overview of potential savings, the cost of their implementaOur measures are applied in all value creation processes – from energy tion and their impact on our energy goals. A newly established team generation through manufacturing processes and transportation to of energy experts from the Innovation & Technology group function is waste disposal. supporting the identification of new measures. Typical improvement measures concern operating procedures, existing technologies, and Systematic energy management Resource and energy efficiency are also the engineering redesign of plant sections. key factors in our company’s energy efficiency and in climate and environmental protection. Against this background, we began implementWe still see substantial potential for improving our energy efficiency, ing an energy management system based on ISO 50001 in 2010. The particularly by increasing our accuracy at coordinating production consistency and transparency of a well-structured operational energy capacities with demand, improving the use of residual heat, optimizing management system are aimed at helping us conserve resources, cut refrigeration and, generally, by propagating best practices throughout energy costs and thereby significantly improve our competitiveness. the company. For example, in 2010 alone, we started up four highly efficient cogeneration plants at our sites in Porto Feliz, Brazil; Nagda Initially, we focused on those production units in Germany which we and Jhagadia, India; and Zwijndrecht, Belgium. integrated into the ISO 50001 internal audit management system in 2012. The LANXESS Energy Management Directive that came into Energy Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold force in February 2012 defines the standards to be applied in our gigajoules per ton of product global operations. We successfully completed implementation of the 2012 8.46 energy management system in the German production units at the end of 2012. The first LANXESS production facility to be certified to 2011 8.531) ISO 50001 was IAB GmbH in Bitterfeld in 2012. Our other German facilities are to follow in 2013. We have also begun introducing the 2010 8.16 energy management system in our production units outside Germany and will continue with this in 2013. 2009 8.47 2008 8.25 0 2 4 6 8 10 1) Figure restated Corporate Responsibility 55 In 2012 we increased volumes sold by around 2.5 percent, resulting Scope 1 emissions cover direct emissions from production and our in an increase of about 3 percent in absolute energy consumption (see own energy generation operations. Scope 2 emissions are indirect also Environmental and Safety Performance Data table). By contrast, emissions associated with the procurement of energies. The graphics the specific energy consumption (energy consumption in relation to below show the development of LANXESS’s specific Scope 1 and volumes sold) declined slightly. Scope 2 emissions. Energy Consumption by Segment Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in Relation to Volumes Sold gigajoules per ton of product CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product Performance Polymers 8.42 2012 0.29 8.55 8.58 2011 0.30 Advanced Intermediates 9.36 9.17 2010 0.30 8.38 Performance Chemicals 7.54 2009 0.32 7.74 7.05 2008 0.41 0 2 4 6 8 10 2012 2011 2010 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 1) Figure restated Our efforts to reduce the specific energy consumption in each segment yielded only slight progress over the previous year. One substantial Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) in Relation to Volumes Sold reason for this is the continuing expansion of our product portfolio by CO2 , tons per ton of product way of acquisitions. 2012 0.47 Reduction of climate gas emissions Having succeeded in largely neu2011 0.451) tralizing our emissions of particularly harmful nitrous oxide for several years, we reduced CO2 equivalents by 1.6 million tons in 2012 alone 2010 0.42 (compared to 2007). In the same period, we succeeded in reducing our direct greenhouse gas emissions by around 45 percent worldwide. 2009 0.46 In 2009, we had already met the target we set for our operations in Germany of reducing the emission of climate gases by 80 percent in 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 2012 and we have been able to maintain this level to date. 1) Figure restated In the European Union, trading in CO2 emissions rights – or allowances – is a cost-effective way of reducing harmful CO2 gas emissions. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 18 LANXESS facilities in Europe are subject to emissions trading CO2 equivalents, tons per ton of product (EU-ETS). Three trading periods were defined for emissions trading Performance Polymers in the European Union. The second trading period that ran from 2008 0.35 0.36 to 2012 has now been concluded without us having to purchase ad0.35 ditional allowances. Since all of our facilities are at the cutting edge Advanced Intermediates 0.25 of technology and participate in international competition, we expect 0.25 to receive an adequate number of free allowances for 2013 to cover 0.27 our anticipated CO2 emissions. Performance Chemicals 0.20 0.24 0.22 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 2012 2011 2010 56 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Compared with the base year (2010), Scope 1 emissions in our Advestors who have joined forces in order to improve transparency for vanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals declined slightly. In the financial market on questions linked to climate change and the the Performance Polymers segment, the base year level was restored requisite corporate guidelines. In 2012, we were included in the after a slight increase in 2011. Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the first time. Our transparent reporting on climate protection puts us in the top 36 of Sustainable logistics We aim to minimize the environmental impact of 350 companies assessed in German-speaking countries. The CDP our logistics operations. We view the intelligent combination of road, Climate Change Report singled out LANXESS, along with six other rail, river and sea transport as a key to achieving this. companies, as being exemplary in the field of active climate protection. We select our transport solutions on a case-by-case basis, applying Carbon footprints We are systematically compiling carbon footprints the principles of safety, punctuality, cost-effectiveness and CO2 reducfor selected products so we have reliable information about greention. A CO2 monitoring dashboard introduced in 2012 enables us to house gas emissions throughout the life cycle of these products, and compare the costs and potential CO2 savings of a transport solution, thus gain new insights regarding further potential reductions. We are and thus develop an effective strategy for reducing emissions in our also continuing the life-cycle assessments of specific products for supply chain. The dashboard also visualizes our transport-related CO2 the same reason. The analysis covers criteria such as CO2, primary emissions for our employees responsible for logistics procurement energy consumption, and greenhouse and eutrophication potential. and planning, thus raising their awareness of the issue. Other atmospheric emissions The European Union’s NEC (National In our collaboration with external service providers, we focus on their Emission Ceiling) Directive has set maximum national limits for the ability to master the particular challenges of chemical logistics and release of the atmospheric pollutants sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen give preference to those who share and develop our goal of sustainoxides (NOX), ammonia (NH3) and volatile organic compounds. Since able and cost-effective transport concepts. Measures include the use 2011, these limits may no longer be exceeded. We have specifically of lightweight and fuel-saving equipment and the development of inspected sites that release relevant emissions in support of the reconcepts to minimize transport volumes. In addition, we participate spective national air quality improvement programs. actively in various national and international initiatives concerning sustainable logistics and infrastructure. VOC Emissions in Relation to Volumes Sold VOC, kilograms per ton of product In Germany, we continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved Eco Plus solution offered by logistics provider DB Schenker Rail logistics company 2012 1.15 for transporting our products by rail. The electricity required for trans2011 1.221) port is obtained from renewable energy sources. In this way, we can reduce the CO2 emissions from our German rail transport operations 2010 1.26 by almost 75 percent. In the reporting year, Dormagen joined KrefeldUerdingen as the second site we have linked to our rail-shuttle network. 2009 1.31 We use this to transport our products to various seaports for shipping worldwide and it now saves us some 2,000 truck transports annually. 2008 0.68 Each year, LANXESS transports a total of around 375,000 tons of 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 chemicals and bulk materials by rail in Europe. 1) Figure restated Carbon Disclosure Project We again participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2012, sharing data and information on climate protection and the reduction of emissions. The Carbon Disclosure In the year under review, our VOC emissions decreased further in Project is an organization representing international institutional inrelation to the volumes sold. This was due to, among other things, various measures taken to achieve our environmental protection target of cutting VOC emissions by 30 percent through 2015 (base year: 2010). The significant increase in our VOC emissions between 2008 and 2009 was attributable to the portfolio expansion undertaken at that time, especially in Brazil. Corporate Responsibility 57 Solutions for clean water Our innovative products and technologies Wastewater in Relation to Volumes Sold help our customers worldwide to clean, treat and conserve water. We cubic meters per ton of product also take measures to ensure the efficient use of water at our own sites. 2012 5.1 All wastewater and surface water discharges at our sites are subject to 2011 5.1 legal and permitting requirements. We use both technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational (monitoring) measures to comply with 2010 4.7 these requirements. 2009 5.2 Before issuing an operating permit, the authorities assess the possible economic, social and environmental impacts of water extraction on 2008 5.5 the surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites, this takes place under 0 2 4 6 8 approved conditions. The issue of water extraction is also addressed by our environmental protection compliance program. During the reporting period, we commissioned a new wastewater With respect to the amount of wastewater requiring treatment, we treatment plant at our site in Nagda, India. It treats the water from the have achieved a relatively stable level over the past years in relation existing wastewater treatment plant so that hardly any waste­water to volumes sold. needs to be discharged from the site. On the contrary – we can use the water recovered from the wastewater treatment plant in our proSustainable waste management LANXESS attaches great importance duction processes, thus compensating any water shortages in the to the careful use of resources. The company aims to employ a consissummer months. tent material flow management process – from the use of raw materials to the manufacture of the final product – so as to use resources as Water Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold efficiently as possible and minimize the amount of waste we produce. cubic meters per ton of product Some forms of waste can be used as secondary raw materials and are 38.9 8.0 thus a valuable resource. Sustainable waste management therefore 2012 46.9 involves systematically avoiding waste and, if this is not possible, using 37.2 8.2 waste as a raw material or energy source. In order to minimize the 2011 45.4 amount of waste requiring disposal, we seek to continuously improve 36.7 8.9 our production processes. 2010 45.6 49.1 14.4 2009 63.5 Total Waste in Relation to Volumes Sold 49.6 4.8 kilograms of waste per ton of product 2008 54.4 2012 42.9 Cooling water Process water 2011 41.6 Overall, total water consumption in relation to volumes sold increased 2010 40.5 slightly year on year. This was primarily attributable to an increase in the amount of cooling water used. Since this is not contaminated, it can 2009 39.6 be discharged without treatment. By contrast, the amount of process 2008 46.5 water used was reduced slightly. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 The total amount of waste generated worldwide in relation to volumes sold has decreased by approximately 16 percent compared to 2007. Some 47 percent of our waste is used in material or energy recovery. Year on year, we increased the material recovery rate by five percentage points. Worldwide, slightly more than half our waste is classified as hazardous. 58 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Waste for Disposal Environmental and Safety Performance Data % 2010 2011 2012*), c) 6 Waste disposal by other means Safety 39 Landfilled waste Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at least one day’s absence (per million hours worked)1) 2.3b) 2.7b) 3.4c) 23 Material recovery Volume sold 2) in thousand tons/year 6,404a) 6,434a) 6,596c) Energy in petajoules (1015 joules) 3) 52.0 b) 54.5d) 56.0 c) 24 8 Direct energy sources (EN3) Incinerated Incinerated waste with waste without Non-renewable 15 14 14 energy recovery energy recovery Renewable – 0 0 Indirect energy sources (EN4) Non-renewable 35 38d) 40 Other direct energy sources Systematic recording of key performance indicators We use an elecFrom biomass 2.0 a) 2.5 2.0 tronic system for the systematic global recording of KPIs in the areas of Water in million cubic meters/year safety and environmental protection. This proprietary system enables Total water consumption (EN8) 292b) 292b) 309c) us to define a broad range of HSE performance indicators for each Surface water – 127 135 business unit and location worldwide. These provide a valid database Groundwater – 8 7 for internal and external reporting and map the progress we are makRainwater – 0 0 ing towards achieving our globally applicable HSEQ objectives (see Wastewater – 1 2 table on page 60 f.). Data for all indicators except the lost time injury Other water sources – 155 165 frequency rate (LTIFR) are collected only at those of our production Cooling water in total water consumption 4) 235b) 239b) 257c) sites in which LANXESS has a holding of more than 50 percent. Process water in total water consumption 57b) 53b) 52c) We are aware of the great challenge involved in defining and ensuring Emissions into air the use of uniform indicators for all sites and regions. We were able to in thousand tons CO2e/year further improve the quality of the data in 2012 by introducing standard Total greenhouse gas emissions documentation of the data collection processes. (EN16) 4,556 4,804d) 4,981c) Direct (Scope 1)5) 1,906b) 1,937d) 1,913 Indirect (Scope 2)6) 2,708 2,867d) 3,068 In the year under review, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschafts­ Ozone-depleting substances prüfungsgesellschaft assessed our data collection processes and (EN19) 0.00041 0.00071d) 0.00231c) system in the course of a business audit. Our HSE indicators for 2012 NO X , SO X and other emissions were audited with a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. The (EN20) audit certificate is on page 204 of this Annual Report. NOX7) 2.6 2.8 2.4 SO28) 1.7 1.9 1.2 CO 2.1 3.0 2.1 NH3 0.2 0.2 0.1 NMVOC9) 8.0 7.8 7.6 Wastewater in million cubic meters/year Total wastewater discharge (EN21) 266b) 272b) 291c) Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment)4) 235b) 239b) 257 Production wastewater (with treatment) 31b) 33b) 34 Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) Total nitrogen 0.54b) 0.54b) 0.53c) Total organic carbon (TOC) 2.1 b) 2.2b) 2.2c) Heavy metals 10) 0.0047 a) 0.0045 a) 0.0060c) Corporate Responsibility 59 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 2010 2011 2012*), c) Waste in thousand tons/year Total weight of waste (EN22) 259b) 267b) 283c) Incineration with energy recovery – 70 68 Incineration without energy recovery 89 24 22 Landfilling 96 93 111 Material recovery – 47 64 Other forms of disposal – 33 18 Type of waste Hazardous 141b) 143b) 153c) Non-hazardous 118b) 124b) 130c) Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data *) The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50 percent. The sites at Little Rock and Gastonia, U.S.A., and Brilon, Germany, are not included because they were only recently acquired by LANXESS. 2010/2011: On account of limited recording and control options and the resulting estimates, the base data contain some inherent uncertainties. 2012: The data are based on actual values for the period January through October. Appropriate estimates were used for November and December. Further details on data quality: • The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). • In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO 2e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost ­ following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including subcontract ­workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3) T he energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy contained in raw materials). 4) Equivalent to circulating cooling water 5) All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO2 emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2010: 153 kt CO2, 2011: 240 kt CO2, 2012: 225 kt CO2 6) A ll Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO 2e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2009 were used for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 and the factors from 2010 were used for fiscal year 2012. 7) Nitrogen oxide (NO X) calculated as NO 2 (excluding N 2O – nitrous oxide) 8) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) + SO3 calculated as SO 2 9) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 10) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) a) Indicator was assessed (limited assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit b) Indicator was assessed (reasonable assurance) by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungs­ gesellschaft in the course of a business audit c) Indicator was assessed (limited assurance) by PwC AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in the course of a business audit d) Value corrected compared to the value published in the prior year 60 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 HSEQ Targets for 2012 Target Program/Measures Target Target Attainment Date 1. Improvement in occupaImplementation of Xact safety program 2012 • Implementation of the Xact program is on schedule. tional and plant safety • The “no injuries” target was not attained by all business units. – no injuries 2. Implementation of Implementation and monitoring of chemicals programs By the Fully attained, i.e. new developments tracked, impact analyzed, international chemicals worldwide by the specified deadlines, e.g. REACH, specified need for action identified and measures implemented by specified programs TSCA Inventory Update Rules Amendments (U.S.A.), deadlines deadlines. e.g. implementation of the 2nd amendment regulation South Korean REACH requirements, CSCL in Japan, to the CLP Regulation concerning adaptation to technical and EHS in Malaysia, notification procedure for China, GHS scientific progress; notification of 12 new substances in China; 46 REACH dossiers submitted; preparations for EHS reporting in Malaysia completed; TSCA Inventory Update/Chemical Data Rule reporting obligations (U.S.A.) met. 3. Climate protection Reduction of the specific CO2e emissions by 10% 2015 Ongoing measure per business segment (base year: 2010) Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% 2015 Ongoing measure per business segment (base year: 2010) Increase in resource efficiency and analysis of 2012 Analyses were performed for chlorobenzene, environmental footprint of suitable products Eco-Keltan and polyamide 6. 4. Environmental Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic 2015 Ongoing measure protection compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 5. Energy management Introduction of an energy management system based 2012 Implementation was completed in the German production units; on ISO 50001 (roll-out focus in 2012 is Germany) IAB GmbH in Bitterfeld was the first LANXESS production facility to be certified to ISO 50001 in 2012. 6. Harmonization of HSE Global harmonization of HSE data in the IHS ­s ystem 2012 The Keltan sites and the Singapore site were integrated into IHS IA data for categorizing and (formerly ATRION: global regulatory product as planned during the course of SCORE projects. The SCORE classifying products, raw ­compliance system) as part of the project in China, which is tied to the harmonization of HSE data, was materials and waste •S CORE project for e.g. China, Singapore, Keltan sites suspended and the go-live postponed. The AXAPTA pilot project for •A XAPTA project for the United Kingdom (pilot project) the United Kingdom (Atrion4AX GB) has not yet been completed. Harmonization of the HSE data has been completed. 7. Improvement in Optimization of transport safety in line with 2012 Improvement measures were implemented in 2012 transport safety the potential analysis performed in 2011 and the project completed successfully. 8. Standardization of Expansion of global implementation of eMax (document 2012 • eMax has been implemented as the document control system for ­management system management) in accordance with the 2011 plan and mapping the global management system and its specific variations tools implementation of April Star (complaints management), in the business units and subsidiaries in Germany, Singapore, the Triple A (audit and activity management tool) and the U.S.A. and other countries. It is already available as a source of HSE data recording system at newly acquired sites information to all LANXESS readers worldwide. Its roll-out as an actively used system on a department-specific and operational level is continuing on schedule. A technical upgrade of the system will be available in the 2nd quarter of 2013. • Triple A has now been rolled out worldwide as the central audit and activity management tool for LANXESS’s global management system. The Group-wide complaints management system was completed with the integration of the Rhein Chemie business unit into April Star. • In 2012, all sites acquired were integrated into the global data management tool for HSE performance indicators. Because they were only recently included in the system, the sites at Little Rock and Gastonia, U.S.A., and Brilon, Germany, have not submitted any HSE data for 2012. Corporate Responsibility 61 HSEQ Targets for 2013 Target Program/Measures Target Date 1. Improvement in occupational and plant Global implementation of Xact safety program 2014 safety – no injuries or environmental incidents 2. Climate protection Reduction of the specific CO2e emissions by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Reduction in specific energy consumption by 10% per business segment (base year: 2010) 2015 Increase in resource efficiency and analysis of environmental footprint 2013 Life-cycle analyses for relevant products 3. Environmental protection Reduction in absolute emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) by 30% (base year: 2010) 2015 4. Energy management Global implementation and certification of energy management system 2014 62 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Society and electromobility. The young researchers also developed their own ideas about how traffic and driving could be made more sustainable As a company, we draw numerous benefits from the society in which in the future. we operate – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, legal and political stability and an excellent infrastructure. We believe it is only The aim of a water project week at a high school in Bitterfeld was to right that, in line with the concept of corporate citizenship, we assume raise the awareness of seventh graders for (drinking) water usage responsibility and ensure that society also benefits from our success. and develop innovative ideas for using water more efficiently. To find Our social commitment is based on the same fundamental principle out about modern chemical and technical water treatment options, as our entrepreneurial activities – a consistent focus on a manageable the students then visited our new plant for ion exchangers and memnumber of projects that promise long-term success. brane filtration elements. A representative of the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF) also talked to the students about the Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science simple and inadequate living conditions of children in Tanzania. education in schools. After all, skilled employees are a crucial prerequisite for the sustainable success of our company, no matter where As announced, this reporting year saw the implementation of our first in the world it operates. We endeavor to encourage young people to project aimed at elementary school children – a chemistry experiment develop a passion for chemistry at a young age, awaken their inventive kit we developed ourselves. The kit conveys the fascination of science spirit and make them aware of the diverse career opportunities that and technology at elementary school level, waking the inventive spirit the LANXESS Group offers. of both girls and boys as early as possible. One experiment kit can be used by a class together, and includes test setups for conducting Consequently, more than 60 percent of the projects we implemented basic experiments and research in elementary school chemistry. The in 2012 were dedicated to education. We also significantly extended experiments, which we designed in cooperation with the Department our cultural commitment in 2012. Around 20 percent of our projects of Teaching and Didactics of Chemistry at the Technical University of now fall into this category. This was one of the reasons why the geoDortmund, are completely safe and focus primarily on the solubility of graphical focus of our activities again shifted slightly more towards substances in water. We plan to provide a total of 1,000 experiment the EMEA region in the reporting year. Overall, more than 60,000 kits worth €360,000 and send them to schools around the world. mainly young people benefited from our social commitment, which we funded with some €2.6 million in 2012. Over the past five years, we have invested around €4 million in the initiative, which was among the winners of Germany’s “365 Landmarks in the Land of Ideas” contest in 2011. Feedback from teachers, princiThe LANXESS education initiative – a success story pals and school authorities shows that these activities have significantly enhanced the importance of the MINT subjects (mathematics, informaIn 2008, we launched the extensive LANXESS education initiative tion technology, natural sciences and technology) in school timetables. that underscores our clear commitment to Germany as a business location and as a base for the chemical industry. This initiative has In 2013 we are planning to carry out further project weeks on the subsince provided funding to more than 30 schools close to our sites in ject of green mobility and lightweight construction at schools in North Germany. The money was used for a number of purposes including Rhine-Westphalia. We intend to expand our activities in elementary the provision of new laboratory facilities, technical equipment and schools and, among other things, develop teaching materials related teaching materials for chemistry, biology, physics and IT classes. We to the megatrends addressed by LANXESS. also regularly offer interested and talented students the chance to gain work experience and to take part in vacation courses and workshops. Global commitment to education The workshops held in 2012 were primarily inspired by the LANXESS Year of Green Mobility. “World Class – Green Mobility” was the motto LANXESS has also initiated projects focusing particularly on the proof the project days and project weeks, during which we reached some motion of science education at almost all its sites across the globe. 600 students at seven schools. The aim was to make the young people We are involved in a wide range of projects and initiatives in Brazil, aware of the advantages and disadvantages of increasing mobility. Argentina, India, China and South Africa especially. In an intensive introduction session, the students looked at current trends such as lightweight construction, green tires, alternative fuels Corporate Responsibility 63 Social Activities by Topic1) Social Activities by Region 1) % % 5 Networking 5 Climate protection 2 Corporate volunteering 15 38 Latin America EMEA 5 Water and disaster recovery 61 Education 19 22 Culture North America 28 Asia-Pacific 1) Basis: 87 projects undertaken in 2012 1) Basis: 87 projects undertaken in 2012 Our local activities in Brazil have been merged under the “e3 initiative. In August 2012, we initiated a new environmental program, also in “e3” stands for education, ecology and economy. South America’s Zárate. The “La Basura Sirve” (Waste is Useful) initiative also seeks to largest country has some catching up to do, particularly in the fields of promote responsible environmental practices. The program, which is environmental protection and education. We aim to use our expertise being implemented in collaboration with a group of schools, encourages to offer effective support in this area. the collection and sorting of inorganic household waste. The income from the sale of reusable materials to recycling companies is used by Since 2010, for example, we have been fostering scientific knowledge the participating schools to purchase essential items. with our Green Cycle environmental competition, which was staged again at our Cabo de Santo Agostinho and Porto Feliz sites in Brazil in An important CR project in India is the long-term Teach for India pro2012. The winners receive recognition for the environmental protection gram, part of the Teach to Lead initiative. It recruits top graduates from projects they develop for the competition and LANXESS fully finances Indian universities who, after completing their studies, spend an initial implementation of these projects. Participants additionally receive asperiod of two years teaching full-time at schools with insufficient fundsistance from an agency that specializes in implementing environmental ing. Our financial support, which amounts to €50,000 each year, will projects. We also provide financial support to this agency. Since the fund current Teach for India projects in Mumbai until at least 2013. competition began, we have successfully initiated 23 projects. The funding will also help extend the project to other towns and cities in India, including New Delhi and Jhagadia, where LANXESS has sites. Around one fifth of our employees in Brazil participated in a volunteering day on April 14, 2012. As well as contributing eight hours of their In December 2012, a fully equipped library financed by LANXESS time to charitable causes, they also organized activities to raise funds opened in Nagda to provide junior and senior high school and university for renovating schools and upgrading their equipment, for example. students with completely new opportunities for learning and obtaining Some of our customers and suppliers were involved, too. information. In addition to books, the library offers numerous magazines and newspapers. Also in Nagda, our donation to the not-for-profit orgaThe “Educar para Crecer” (Educate to Grow) initiative in Argentina aims nization Special Need Education Home enabled construction of a new to promote development in the Zárate region by supporting schools school building for handicapped children. In Jhagadia, we financed and not-for-profit organizations engaged in educational, social and the refurbishment and equipping of two state-run schools attended by environmental protection activities there. As part of this initiative, we around 400 students. provide funding for sustainable education projects and help those wishing to launch such projects by delivering the fundamental knowEmployees at our Thane site used the proceeds from selling old office how they need. Five schools took part in the fifth year of the program equipment to provide school materials for 350 orphaned girls in the in 2012. More than 6,000 people have already benefited directly Ma-Niketan children’s village. or indirectly from the projects implemented since the program was launched in 2007. 64 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Our first Green Mobility Public Day in China focused on green moPromoting art and culture bility issues. It gave more than 1,000 local residents and LANXESS employees in Shanghai the opportunity to experience environmentally For several years now, our cultural commitment has focused on enfriendly mobility solutions. Other features of the program were a paintcouraging young musicians. We now support three Young Euro Classic ing competition for children and a visit to a car museum. In the year orchestras, which bring together the greatest talents from Germany, under review, we also began supporting students who are particularly China, India and Russia and give them the opportunity to showcase gifted or very committed but from low-income families at two schools their ability during concert tours and prestigious events. close to our site in Liyang. 36 young talents have already received a LANXESS scholarship. In June 2012, the LANXESS Young Euro Classic Concert Russia marked the official start of Germany Year in Russia 2012/2013. The We were the main sponsor of the Rally to Read initiative in South orchestra performed for some 1,800 high-ranking guests from both Africa, which aims to reduce the significant difference in achievement countries at the Tchaikovsky Conservatory in Moscow. Comprising 76 between students in rural areas and their urban counterparts. Commithighly talented music students from Berlin University of the Arts and ted LANXESS employees made the journey of some 350 kilometers the Moscow Tchaikovsky Conservatory, the orchestra was established from Durban to twelve schools in the rural KwaZulu-Natal region to specifically for this kick-off event. Musicians from the Young Euro Classic deliver container libraries, sports equipment, educational toys, school Orchestra China-Germany, on the other hand, have now completed six bags, writing materials and other items. More than 2,000 children concert tours, impressing Chinese audiences with dance and music. benefited from the campaign. Their progress is regularly monitored In view of its huge success, we are looking to extend the Young Euro by the local education authorities and the READ Trust, partner of the Classic initiative to South Africa in 2013. Rally to Read initiative. Through its support for the Singapore National Youth Orchestra (SNYO), LANXESS is sponsoring a unique project. Rehearsing with classical music celebrities gives young musicians an exemplary experience of teamwork coupled with tuition at the highest level. This exceptional orchestra has produced many internationally renowned musicians. Corporate Responsibility 65 Our LANXESS SNYO Classic cultural initiative sponsors an exchange The same important message is the focus of PHASE (Personal Hygiene program for the Singapore National Youth Orchestra. Since 2010, and Sanitation Education), a new joint project with AMREF launched more than 1,000 young orchestral musicians have benefited from at our South African production site in Rustenburg in 2012. The rehearsing with internationally renowned soloists. In the year under project aims to significantly reduce the incidence of disease caused review, we extended our commitment to this program until 2015. by contaminated water. Thanks to our financial support, more than 750 sets of PHASE teaching materials have been distributed to eight We have also committed to support the Ozawa International Chamber schools. Some 3,000 students, their teachers and parents are benefitMusic Academy (OICMA) until 2015. Led by Japanese star conductor ing from the newly acquired knowledge. Seiji Ozawa, this ensemble offers talented young musicians from across Asia the chance of a top-quality musical education. Also in Japan, some 6,400 school students enjoyed the Opera for Young People we Help where it is needed sponsored during the renowned Saito Kinen Festival. Although our social commitment is normally carefully thought out and We entered into a new partnership with the “Kölner Philharmonie,” influenced by strategic considerations, some events require a rapid one of Europe’s premier cultural institutions. Over the coming years, and unbureaucratic response. we will be supporting a range of activities at this venue, including the “Acht Brücken” (Eight Bridges) contemporary music festival. Following the devastating earthquake in Japan in March 2011, for example, we donated €310,000 to Save the Children Japan. The We will also remain the main partner to lit. COLOGNE, Europe’s biggest organization used some of this donation to open a temporary children’s literature festival in Cologne, until at least 2015. At this annual event, center in Yamada in March 2012. The donation will also fund various renowned authors and actors demonstrate how the written word can activities at the children’s centers in Yamada, Rikuzentakata and Ishireally be brought to life. nomaki through to the end of 2014. Our commitment is benefiting some 1,000 children and, indirectly, their families as well. Valuable knowledge of water At our Thane site in India, more than 100 LANXESS employees and their family members responded to an appeal by the Think FoundaAs part of our social commitment, we are contributing our knowledge tion to donate blood. This ensured the provision of more than 100 of water to charity projects, especially in Africa. life-saving transfusions to children with thalassemia, a serious blood disorder. We have been supporting the African Medical and Research Foundation (AMREF) for a number of years. By the end of 2010, AMREF had used LANXESS’s financial assistance to establish water supplies for 25 Tanzanian schools attended by approximately 10,000 children and provide the sanitary facilities they need. In addition to these infrastructure measures, AMREF also provided hygiene training for teachers and children, thus helping spread the safe water message in their daily lives. Investor information Quality on a world scale Peter Förster, foreman and HSE officer at our Performance Butadiene Rubbers facility in Dormagen, Germany, supervises the production process for the high-performance rubber used in green tires. Dormagen is the third-largest LANXESS production site in Germany and one of the most important sites for synthetic rubber worldwide. We also produce the high-performance rubbers that are essential for the manufacture of green tires in Port Jérôme, France; Orange, United States; and Cabo de Santo Agostinho, Brazil. In September 2012, we laid the foundation stone for a new production facility for neodymium-based performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) in Singapore. Costing around €200 million, this facility will be the largest of its kind in the world with an annual capacity of 140,000 tons. It is scheduled to come on stream in the first half of 2015 and will serve the Asian market in particular. We will then be the only supplier to have a high-performance production facility in each of the key sales regions. LANXESS is already the global market leader for the synthetic high-performance rubber Nd-PBR, which is used in green tires. With annual growth rates of around 10 percent, this is the fastest-growing segment of the world tire industry. Increasing demand for green tires is being driven by the mobility megatrend, especially in Asia and Latin America. Experts forecast that the number of cars in use worldwide will increase by more than 60 percent in the next 15 years. We expect more than 2 billion tires to leave the production lines in 2017 – some 28 percent more than today. Over the same period, the proportion of green tires is likely to increase from around 35 percent at present to just under 50 percent. 68 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Investor In the second quarter, however, the euro crisis and weak economic data triggered renewed corrections in the markets. A further focus of Information concern, apart from Greece, was the growing economic weakness throughout the euro area, especially in Spain and Italy. In addition, the poor performance of the U.S. economy also made the stock markets nervous. As a result, neither the German indices nor the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM were able to sustain their substantial prior-quarter gains and closed lower at the end of the second quarter. Although down 7.6 percent, the DAX remained above the LANXESS can look back on a very gratify6,000-point threshold, while the MDAX stayed above 10,000 points despite falling by nearly 3.4 percent. ing trading year in 2012. The price of our stock increased substantially, gaining about The rest of the year saw a strong recovery on the stock markets, from which all indices benefited. Policy decisions that brought further 66 percent over the year. Another highrelief to the euro debt crisis had a particularly bullish effect on stock light was admission to Germany’s lead market performance. The European Central Bank, for example, announced in September that it would allow the purchase of unlimited index, the DAX, on September 24. numbers of government bonds from the euro area’s crisis countries. Two months later, the euro countries and the International Monetary Fund agreed on a new aid package for Greece that, among other things, featured lower interest rates on bailout loans. Further positive impetus came from the United States in the second half of the year. In addition to announcing the monthly purchase of mortgage bonds, the U.S. Federal Reserve unveiled plans to buy long-dated U.S. treasury bonds, also on a monthly basis. It maintained its low The world’s stock markets posted a positive performance for the full interest rate policy as well. year 2012. The German indices, in particular, rose considerably in value. The DAX, for example, was one of the top-performing indices In the wake of these developments, Germany’s blue-chip DAX index in the world, with growth of almost 30 percent. The MDAX, which climbed back above the 7,000-point threshold, surpassing it conincluded our stock up until its DAX listing, also recorded a substantial siderably at times and reaching a five-year high of 7,668 points in gain, closing around 34 percent higher at year end. Like the German December. It closed the year at 7,612 points, against 5,898 points indices, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, the LANXESS at the end of 2011. At more than 11,000 points, the MDAX delivered benchmark index, also posted a gratifying increase in value, growing strong growth of 34 percent. It closed at 11,914 points on the last by slightly more than 29 percent. The euro debt crisis remained a trading day of the year, breaking the previous record high from 2007. central topic in 2012 and had a substantial impact on the equity For the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, the successful year markets. However, its effects on the stock markets varied widely from ended on 663 points (December 30, 2011: 513 points). one quarter to the next. The overall positive market environment in 2012 supported the The mood on the markets was more positive again in the first months strong price trend of our stock, which posted its largest gain of of the year. Having started 2012 still below 6,000 points, the DAX 55 percent in the first quarter. As a result of this significant growth, topped the 7,000-point threshold in March for the first time since our shares again reached a price level of more than €60 after trading 2011 and achieved its highest quarterly gain for 2012 – around at just €40 at the end of 2011. In line with market and index trends, 18 percent – in the first quarter. The MDAX also posted its strongest our stock also sustained losses in the second quarter, dipping below quarterly increase of 20 percent in the first months of the year and €50 at times. Then, from mid-July, a clear upward trend emerged. climbed back above the 10,000-point threshold. Our benchmark In September, our stock posted its high for the year and a new postindex, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, also profited from listing record of €68.90 (intraday high). the good market environment, giving its best performance for 2012 with growth of nearly 16 percent. The easing of the euro debt crisis, resulting in part from the successful haircut on Greek debt, was an important price driver for the stock markets during this time. Investor Information 69 LANXESS Stock Performance since Listing % 500 400 300 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 LANXESS DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM MDAX DAX LANXESS Stock Performance 2012 % 200 150 100 50 Dec. 30, 2011 March 31, 2012 June 30, 2012 Sep. 30, 2012 Dec. 28, 2012 LANXESS DJ STOXX 600 Chemicals SM MDAX DAX 70 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Performance Data 2012 Q1 2012 Q2 2012 Q3 2012 Q4 2012 Year 2012 Capital stock/no. of shares 1) €/no. of shares 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 83,202,670 Market capitalization1) € billion 5.16 4.14 5.37 5.51 5.51 High/low for the period € 63.80/40.17 64.40/45.75 68.90/49.31 68.83/59.33 68.90/40.17 Closing price1) € 61.98 49.72 64.53 66.27 66.27 Volatility 2) % – – – – 35.98 Trading volume million shares 38.106 39.490 37.270 33.257 148.123 Average daily trading volume shares 586,249 636,940 573,383 536,399 583,162 Earnings per share € 2.32 2.11 1.13 0.62 6.18 Price/earnings ratio 1), 3) – – – – 10.72 Price/cash flow ratio1), 3), 4) – – – – 6.58 1) End of quarter: Q1: March 31, 2012, Q2: June 30, 2012, Q3: September 30, 2012, Q4 and full year: December 31, 2012 2) Source: Bloomberg 3) D ata, especially cash flow, are influenced by exceptionals, which restricts the significance accordingly 4) Reference value: operating cash flow The admission of our stock to the DAX also occurred in September. We also reported on important growth projects targeted at strengthenThe main criteria were that LANXESS ranked among the 30 largest ing our business units. One of the largest capital expenditure projects publicly traded companies in Germany in terms of the average marlaunched in 2012 is our new production facility for Nd-PBR, which ket capitalization over the 20 trading days leading up to the cut-off we are building in Singapore at a cost of around €200 million and date, which was the last trading day in August, and among the 30 expect to bring on stream in the first half of 2015. In addition, a most traded companies on the stock exchange in terms of the tradnew €75 million plant for high-tech plastics is under construction in ing volume reported in the Xetra order book for the previous twelve ­Antwerp, Belgium. A further highlight in 2012 was the groundbreakmonths. After seven years on the MDAX, our shares started trading ing for our largest single investment in China to date. In Changzhou, on Germany’s lead index, the DAX, on September 24, 2012. In the we are building the world’s biggest plant for EPDM synthetic rubber ensuing weeks, the solid price trend continued. Our stock closed at at a cost of around €235 million. This plant is also expected to start €66.27 on the last trading day of 2012. up in 2015. In addition to the good stock market environment overall, our own Buoyed by an overall positive market environment, the systematic corporate newsflow drew a positive response from the capital market. implementation of our strategy and clear communication of our Key capital market information included the new medium-term earnmedium-term earnings targets were reflected in the very favorable ings target we announced at our Media and Capital Markets Days in development of our share price. Up nearly 66 percent for the year, mid-September, which is to achieve an EBITDA pre exceptionals of our stock substantially outperformed the solid growth in the DAX, €1.8 billion in 2018. Moreover, we intend to reach the €1.4 billion MDAX and Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM indices in 2012. medium-term earnings target set in 2010 a year earlier than planned, Since its initial listing on January 30, 2005, the value of our stock in 2014 (see page 12 in the “Strategy” section). has increased by some 347 percent. Investor Information 71 Capital Market Information In June 2011, LANXESS signed the United Nations Global Compact, Share class No-par shares the world’s largest and fastest-growing corporate social responsibility Listing code LXS (CSR) initiative. It reaffirmed its commitment to this important platform WKN (German securities 547040 last year. ­identification number) ISIN DE0005470405 Strengthening the sustainability profile will remain a priority for Reuters/Bloomberg codes LXSG.DE/LXS:GR LANXESS in 2013. Detailed information about sustainability is availMarket segment Prime Standard able from page 36 and on our corporate website. Trading venues XETRA, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, Düsseldorf, Hamburg, Hannover, Berlin Selective indices DAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM, DAXsupersector Basic Materials, MSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid Cap, Dow Jones Sustain­ability Index World, Ownership structure FTSE4Good Investment-grade ratings Standard & Poor’s: BBB (stable) The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional investors Moody’s: Baa2 (stable) Fitch: BBB (stable) whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. At December 31, 2012, these investors held around 89 percent of the stock, which was unchanged from the previous year. Sustainability In 2012, some of our institutional investors again issued mandatory notices in which they reported ownership of at least 3 percent of Exercising responsibility in our entrepreneurial activities is a key eleLANXESS’s outstanding shares. They included international investors ment of our corporate strategy. We therefore continued to raise our such as BlackRock, Norges and Fidelity. A summary of all previous sustainability profile in 2012 and underscored our claim to being a voting rights announcements can be found in the “Investor Relations” sustainable investment. section of our website under the Shares menu item. For the first time, LANXESS was included in the Carbon Disclosure In addition to the stakes held by institutional investors, an unchanged Leadership Index (CDLI) of the world’s leading climate protection initiaholding of around 11 percent of our shares is in the hands of private tive. This means we ranked in the top 10 percent of the 350 companies investors and LANXESS employees, who collectively own some 1 persurveyed in Germany, Austria and Switzerland which are charactercent. These investors are primarily located in Germany. ized by particularly transparent reporting about climate protection. LANXESS has participated since 2006 in the Carbon Disclosure The United States, United Kingdom and Germany remain the top Project, which collects climate protection data from companies around countries in the regional breakdown of LANXESS’s institutional inthe world and uses the results of its analyses to calculate the CDLI. vestors. With a share of about 29 percent last year (2011: roughly 36 percent), the United States has held the lead since LANXESS’s We were also included once again in the renowned Dow Jones Susinitial listing. The share held by our stockholders in Germany stood tainability World Index (DJSI World) in 2012. Special mention was at around 24 percent as of December 31, 2012 (2011: roughly made of our performance in the dimensions Environmental Policy/ 27 percent). Investors in the United Kingdom held around 19 percent Management System, Climate Strategy and Innovation Management, of our stock (2011: around 17 percent). Institutional investors in in particular. Moreover, our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, in which other regions, especially other European countries, increased their we were first included in 2011, was confirmed. We improved our rankshare to 28 percent (2011: roughly 20 percent). Here, LANXESS ing against the previous year especially in the area of environmental is represented in the portfolios of institutional investors in Denmark, responsibility. In addition, leading rating agency oekom research has Norway and France, in particular. put our corporate responsibility rating at C+ since 2011. 72 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Stockholder Profile as of December 31, 2012 A majority of the analysts evaluated the current and future alignment % of the LANXESS Group positively in 2012 and recommended buying LANXESS shares. As of January 31, the number issuing a buy ~11 ~ 89 recommendation on LANXESS shares stood at 46 percent (2011: Private investors Institutional investors 69 percent). A further 36 percent (2011: 21 percent) said to hold our shares, while 18 percent (2011: 10 percent) gave a sell recommendation. Summaries of analyst appraisals from an independent service provider are available in the “Investor Relations” section of our website under the “Shares” menu item. Recommendations as of January 31, 2013 % Geographical Breakdown as of December 31, 2012 1) % 18 46 Sell Buy 5 Other regions 29 U.S.A. 23 36 Other Europe Hold 19 24 U.K. Germany 1) Based on the stockholders identified Annual Stockholders’ meeting As in previous years, LANXESS stockholders were well represented at Analysts the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in Cologne on May 15, 2012, with 60.54 percent of the voting capital present (2011: 56.21 percent), In fiscal 2012, numerous analysts issued reports on the current and corresponding to 50,371,492 shares and the same number of votes. future performance of the LANXESS Group. Around 30 sell-side anaOur Annual Stockholders’ Meetings have been well attended to date, lysts, most of them from Germany and the United Kingdom, regularly and we succeeded again in raising the number of voting stockholdissued their appraisals of LANXESS. Focal points of the dialogue with ers represented. Our stockholders passed all the agenda items by analysts were our growth in the current economic environment and solid majorities. Detailed voting results and additional information the strategic alignment with which we intend to achieve our shortand about LANXESS’s Annual Stockholders’ Meeting are available in medium-term earnings targets. the “Investor Relations” section of our website under the “Events & Presentations” menu item. The next Annual Stockholders’ Meeting takes place on May 23, 2013, in the LANXESS arena at Willy-Brandt-Platz 1, Cologne. Investor Information 73 Dividend All of the bonds placed in 2012 were issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. The term sheets are available in the “Investor Relations” section LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We aim for our stockof our website (http://corporate.lanxess.com/en/investor-relations) holders to share in our business performance in an appropriate and under the “Bond” menu item. sustainable way. In light of our success in 2012, we are seeking another increase in our dividend compared to the previous year. Therefore, LANXESS’s first bond, issued in 2005, matured in June 2012 and the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG was repaid. It had a volume of €400 million and an annual interest will propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2013, coupon of 4.125 percent with a term of seven years (June 21, 2005 that a dividend of €1.00 per share be declared for fiscal 2012, an to June 21, 2012). increase of almost 18 percent against the previous year. Relative to the price at which LANXESS shares ended 2012, this equates to a Further information about our bonds can be found on page 101ff. of dividend yield of 1.5 percent. Subject to approval of the correspondthis Annual Report. ing resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, the dividend will be paid on May 24, 2013. Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds ISIN/WKN Volume Term Coupon XS0423036663 €500 ­million April 9, 2009 – 7.750% Bonds April 9, 2014 XS0452802175 €200 ­million September 21, 2009 – 5.500% LANXESS successfully placed another Eurobond on the European September 21, 2016 capital market in fiscal 2012. Issued in November, the bond has a XS0629645531 €500 ­million May 23, 2011 – 4.125% May 23, 2018 volume of €500 million, a term of ten years (November 21, 2012 to XS0746637296 CNH 500 m ­ illion February 16, 2012 – 3.950% November 21, 2022) and an annual interest coupon of 2.625 percent. (around €60 million) February 16, 2015 XS0855167523 €500 ­million November 21, 2012 – 2.625% November 21, 2022 Additionally, in April 2012, we made two private placements in Europe with a volume of €100 million each. The terms of these bonds are ten and 15 years with an annual interest coupon of 3.5 percent and 3.95 percent, respectively. Ratings We placed our first bond on the Asian market in February 2012. This Dim Sum Bond has a volume of CNH 500 million (around €60 million), The world’s three major rating agencies, Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s a term of three years (February 16, 2012 to February 16, 2015) and Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, reconfirmed their existing investan annual interest coupon of 3.95 percent. ment-grade ratings with stable outlook for LANXESS in fiscal 2012. The successful placement of these bonds in 2012 has further imIn their analyses, the rating agencies highlighted, among other things, proved our financial flexibility and successfully extended the maturity LANXESS’s strong operational performance and its leading market profile of our financial liabilities. positions with synthetic rubber products, intermediates and specialty chemicals. In addition to the company’s diversified product portfolio, its favorable technological position was mentioned. The agencies also noted LANXESS’s strong liquidity, moderate debt and prudent financial policy. Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s have had LANXESS at a BBB and a Baa2 rating, both with stable outlook, since 2007. Fitch has rated LANXESS a BBB with stable outlook since 2006. 74 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Investor relations activities New growth targets announced at LANXESS Media and Capital Markets Day Maintaining an active, broad and ongoing dialogue with investors and analysts is a top priority in our investor relations activities. Our Reporting on our new corporate targets was the focus of the LANXESS declared objective is to provide a continuous and sustained flow of Media Day and LANXESS Capital Markets Day events that we hosted information about the LANXESS Group. Roadshows, conferences and in New York on September 19 and 20. Another focal point, apart the LANXESS Capital Markets Day 2012 were among the main activifrom the company’s medium-term alignment, was our Performance ties for communicating with our IR target groups in 2012. Altogether, Polymers segment, whose business units boast a product portfolio we again hosted more than 70 days of roadshows and capital market that allows them to participate in the key global mobility megatrend. conferences, thus continuing our comprehensive investor relations Accordingly, the heads of our Butyl Rubber, Performance Butadiene activities in these areas. The Chairman of the Board of Management Rubbers and High Performance Materials business units explained, and the Chief Financial Officer participated in most of the roadshows for example, how LANXESS products will individually contribute to and conferences, but others were carried out by the Investor Relations our growth, today and in the future. team. Our activities in 2012 continued to focus on our stockholders. However, we also expanded our dialogue with fixed income investors The presentations from the LANXESS Capital Markets Day are availand with investors who are focused on sustainability. able in the “Investor Relations” section of our website. In-depth exchanges at roadshows Strong presence at conferences Last year, too, we continued to use our roadshows to engage in a In 2012, LANXESS again participated in many global conferences as broad and personal dialogue with institutional investors. Not only did an important means of communicating with analysts and investors. In LANXESS management and the Investor Relations team maintain the addition to conferences held in global financial centers like Frankfurt, high frequency of roadshows in international capital market centers London and New York, the LANXESS Board of Management and the like Boston, New York, London, Paris, Frankfurt and Zurich, they also Investor Relations team used events in Singapore and Tokyo as a stepped up the dialogue in other regions where there is an interest platform for providing information about LANXESS’s performance and in our shares. In Europe, this included the Benelux and Scandinavian growth strategy to audiences in the Asia region. We also participated in countries as well as Eastern Europe. Asia was also a focus, and we special forums for private investors in order to present the company’s held roadshows in Singapore and Hong Kong. In North America, we alignment to this important target group. In 2013, we intend to again sought contact with investors in Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco show a strong presence at international conferences. One of our goals and Toronto in addition to the U.S. cities already mentioned. in this regard is to strategically expand our dialogue with institutional investors in Asia. We also aim to increase our participation at events We additionally gave investors the opportunity to gain a detailed insight for private investors. into our company at individual LANXESS sites with, for example, plant tours. Participating locations included our company headquarters in Leverkusen, Germany, our site in Shanghai, China, and our production Further IR activities support exchange of information facility in Orange, United States. Conference calls remain another important means of providing capital market participants with timely and extensive information updates. In these calls, LANXESS’s Board of Management explains our published results or reports on current strategic measures like major growth initiatives. Conference calls are streamed live in the “Investor Relations” section of the LANXESS website, and recorded versions are available for download for one year. Investor Information 75 The “Investor Relations” section of our website also contains the Investor Relations contacts: presentations from roadshows and conferences, financial reports, publications like the LANXESS Fact Book, investor news and details Head of Investor Relations about our shares and bonds. In addition, there is a contact form for Oliver Stratmann ordering copies of our financial reports, for example. Tel. +49 214 30 49611 E-mail: oliver.stratmann@lanxess.com LANXESS earns top ratings for its capital market Private Investors, Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Events communications Tanja Satzer Tel. +49 214 30 43801 Maintaining a broad, timely and transparent dialogue with the capital E-mail: tanja.satzer@lanxess.com markets has always been a priority for us. That is why we are very pleased that LANXESS’s capital market communications have been Institutional Investors, Analysts recognized by portfolio managers and analysts in prestigious rankings Joachim Kunz and that last year it once again received many awards. The credibility Tel. +49 214 30 42030 and transparency of communications, the focus on target groups and E-mail: joachim.kunz@lanxess.com access to top management were again important criteria for the capital market participants polled in 2012. Ulrike Weihs Tel. +49 214 30 50458 Our investor relations activities received several first-place honors E-mail: ulrike.weihs@lanxess.com from the U.K.’s respected IR Magazine, for example. Chairman of the Board of Management, Dr. Axel C. Heitmann, was honored for best Dirk Winkels investor relations by a CEO in Europe, while our IR team ranked top for Tel. +49 214 30 58007 investor relations work by a mid-cap company. The awards were based E-mail: dirk.winkels@lanxess.com on a survey of some 500 European portfolio managers and analysts. For the first time, LANXESS also took top honors from the buy side of the European chemical sector in the annual survey of investors conducted by U.S. magazine Institutional Investor. In the previous year, the sell-side analysts had ranked LANXESS's IR team first among European chemical companies. Here we took second place in 2012. In compiling its rankings, Institutional Investor asked more than 800 fund managers, some 400 brokerages and nearly 1,500 analysts to rate the investor relations work of European companies. Financial Information Destination: the global market Markus Brückner, our Public Affairs Manager, explains the LANXESS fuel savings app to Ibrahim Erdogmus of ­Reifen4.me. This app allows drivers to quickly and easily calculate how much money and CO2 they can save by using green tires. It has been tested and certified by the TÜV Rheinland inspection agency. Around 180,000 users have already accessed the app on the Internet or downloaded it (http://app.greenmobility.de). A study conducted by the Technical University of Munich on behalf of LANXESS found that, thanks to a reduction in fuel consumption coupled with only slightly higher costs, the switch to green tires is amortized far more quickly than, for example, changing to a start-stop system or a hybrid engine. Drivers also achieve a higher CO2 reduction for each additionally invested euro than for other green investments. If all the vehicles in the world were fitted with these modern highperformance tires, annual fuel savings of some 20 billion liters could be achieved and CO2 emissions reduced by around 50 million tons each year. The E.U. tire label introduced in November 2012 also makes it easier to choose the right tires. The label classifies the rolling resistance (fuel consumption) and wet grip (safety) of new tires using a scale ranging from A (best performance) to G. It also indicates the level of rolling noise. The E.U. model gives green tires a particularly good rating and is familiar to consumers from the similar system used for refrigerators and washing machines. Outside the European Union, tire labeling is also compulsory in South Korea. Some countries have so far opted for voluntary labeling, while others are currently debating or planning mandatory requirements. Combined Management Report of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG; Corporate Governance 79 Combined Management Report 79 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy 82 Value management and control system 84 Legal environment 84 Business conditions 86 Key events influencing the company’s business 86 Comparison of forecast and actual business 88 Business performance of the LANXESS Group 91 Business trends by region 92 Segment information 96 Statement of financial position and financial condition 104 Management’s summary of the fiscal year 106 Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG 107 Employees 110 Compensation report 114 Report pursuant to Section 289 Paragraph 4 and Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 116 Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code 117 Procurement and production 118 Sales organization and customers 119 Research and development 122 Corporate responsibility 123 Events after the reporting period 123 Report on risks and opportunities 136 Corporate Governance 136 Corporate governance statement 141 Compensation report 141 Risk management 141 Liability insurance 141 Reportable securities transactions 141 Accounting and auditing 142 Offices held by Board of Management members 143 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 144 Report of the Supervisory Board Combined Management Report 79 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy Additions to the Group portfolio In March 2012, we acquired U.S. company Tire Curing Bladders, LLC, Little Rock, Arkansas. The comGroup structure pany is a leading manufacturer of vulcanization bladders for the tire industry and primarily serves the North American market. The acquisiLegal structure LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS tion, which has been assigned to the Performance Chemicals segment, Group and functions largely as a management holding company. represents a next step in our Rhein Chemie business unit’s strategy LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS International Holding of building on its position as a premium supplier to the tire industry GmbH are wholly owned subsidiaries of LANXESS AG, and in turn conby moving into the manufacture of vulcanization bladders for the tires trol the other subsidiaries and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere. used on trucks, agricultural vehicles and construction machinery. The following are the principal companies wholly owned by In September 2012, we strengthened our innovative product portLANXESS AG directly or indirectly: folio of lightweight materials for the automotive industry by acquiring Bond-Laminates GmbH, which is based in Brilon, Germany. Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG The company specializes in developing and producing customized Company Name and Domicile Function Segments continuous fiber-based composite sheets. The business, which has LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Production All some 80 employees, was assigned to the High Performance Materials Leverkusen, Germany and sales (formerly Semi-Crystalline Products) business unit of the Performance LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Production Performance Polymers Polymers segment. Alongside the automotive sector, other key cusSingapore and sales tomer markets are the sporting goods and electronics industries. LANXESS Corporation, Production All Pittsburgh, U.S.A. and sales LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Production Performance Polymers Management and control organization LANXESS AG has a dual manHeerlen, Netherlands and sales agement structure consisting of the Board of Management, which LANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Production Performance Polymers Lillebonne, France and sales manages the company, and the Supervisory Board, which oversees LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Production Performance Polymers the Board of Management with the assistance of an Audit Committee Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and sales formed from among its members to advise on financial matters. The LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Holding All Barcelona, Spain company Board of Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource LANXESS Inc., Production Performance Polymers allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management Sarnia, Canada and sales company, LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for commuLANXESS International SA, Sales All Granges-Paccot, Switzerland nication with the company’s key stakeholders. LANXESS N.V., Production Performance Polymers, Antwerp, Belgium and sales Performance Chemicals For additional information, please see the Corporate Governance LANXESS Rubber N.V., Production Performance Polymers Zwijndrecht, Belgium and sales section of this Annual Report. Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Production Performance Chemicals Mannheim, Germany and sales Saltigo GmbH, Production Advanced Intermediates Langenfeld, Germany and sales 80 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Business The business activities that LANXESS combines in its Advanced Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading suppliers Business organization The LANXESS Group is structured in three of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in the custom segments with, as of January 1, 2013, 14 business units. Each of synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors and specialty these conducts its own operations and has global profit responsibility. active ingredients. In response to the growing significance of the global EPDM rubber business, we divided the Technical Rubber Products business unit in Advanced Intermediates the Performance Polymers segment into two new units. The newly Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates formed Keltan Elastomers business unit will focus exclusively on Saltigo synthetic ethylene-propylene-diene rubber (EPDM). The remaining Sites Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Leverkusen, Germany Technical Rubber Products portfolio has been renamed the High PerBaytown, U.S.A. formance Elastomers business unit. This change has had no impact Liyang, China on the reporting for fiscal 2012. Nagda, India Applications Agrochemicals Group functions and service companies assigned to them support Automotive our business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other Construction Dyestuffs centralized services. Complementing this global alignment of the Coatings business units and group functions, the country organizations ensure Pharmaceuticals the necessary proximity to markets and provide the organizational infrastructure required. We have consolidated our application-oriented specialty chemicals At the present time, we do not plan to make any other material changes operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. to the legal or organizational structures described above in fiscal 2013. Performance Chemicals The segments in brief We have combined our high-performance Business units Material Protection Products synthetic rubber and high-tech plastics manufacturing activities in Inorganic Pigments the Performance Polymers segment. Functional Chemicals Leather Rhein Chemie Performance Polymers Rubber Chemicals Business units Butyl Rubber Ion Exchange Resins Performance Butadiene Rubbers Sites Bitterfeld, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, KrefeldTechnical Rubber Products 1) Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany High Performance Materials Antwerp, Belgium Sites Brilon, Dormagen, Hamm-Uentrop, KrefeldBranston, United Kingdom Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Marl, Germany Filago, Italy Antwerp and Zwijndrecht, Belgium Vilassar de Mar, Spain Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands Isithebe, Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, La Wantzenau and Port Jérôme, France South Africa Sarnia, Canada Burgettstown, Bushy Park, Chardon, Gastonia and Orange, U.S.A. Greensboro, Little Rock and Pittsburgh, U.S.A. Cabo, Duque de Caxias and Triunfo, Brazil Burzaco, Merlo and Zárate, Argentina Wuxi, China Porto Feliz, Brazil Applications Tires Qingdao, Shanghai, Tongling and Wuxi, China Automotive Jhagadia, India Electronics Toyohashi, Japan Electrical engineering Sydney, Australia Medical equipment Applications Disinfection Protection and preservation of wood, 1) Since January 1, 2013: divided into Keltan Elastomers and High Performance Elastomers construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs Color pigments Polymer additives Leather processing products Tire chemicals Water treatment products Combined Management Report 81 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World Europe North and Central America Asia South America Australia Africa Strategy Sustained megatrends offer potential for future success The future development we anticipate is shaped by four megatrends: The LANXESS Group is a globally operating chemicals enterprise with a portfolio ranging from polymers to industrial, specialty and fine • The growing demand for mobility, particularly in China, India and chemicals. All of the conditions are in place for long-term success in other large emerging economies, and the simultaneous need to our businesses. These include a flexible asset structure, a diversified make mobility more environmentally friendly. customer base, a global presence with regional flexibility and an • Agriculture, which will have to satisfy the sharp increase in global entrepreneurial management structure. food requirements due to a rapidly growing world population. • Urbanization resulting worldwide in the migration of people from Through innovations and selective additions to our product portrural areas to cities. All these people will need living space, offices folio, we have positioned ourselves as a reliable high-tech supplier and a robust infrastructure. According to current forecasts, nearly of premium products that actively supports its customers’ innovation 70% of the world population will be city-dwellers in 2050. processes and thereby adds measurable value for them. This enables • The rising demand for water due to population growth and climate us to strengthen customer loyalty, clearly set ourselves apart from change will result in water becoming a commodity as valuable as our competitors, and remain highly competitive even in economically oil in the not-too-distant future. challenging times. 82 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 With the customized products and services offered by their business In respect of capital requirements and capital coverage, we work to units, our segments make a valuable social and economic contribuoptimally reconcile competing requirements for profitability, liquidity, tion to mastering the challenges presented by these megatrends in security and autonomy. The debt level is aligned to the ratio systems everyday life. used by the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. Earnings strategy Against this backdrop, we are consistently alignOur company is able to grow as a result of its business operations ing our product portfolio with markets that promise steady, aboveand by means of specific financing measures. Our goal is to generaverage growth in the coming years. Accordingly, our regional focus ate positive cash flow along with a positive contribution to earnings. is mainly on expanding our businesses and production capacities in the faster-growing BRICS countries, especially Brazil, India and China. We have always safeguarded our profitability with our price-beforeValue management and control system volume strategy, which involves passing the volatility in raw material prices on to the market. Value Management and Control System 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In September 2012, we announced a new mid-term corporate target. EBITDA pre We aim to raise our key controlling parameter – EBITDA pre exceptionexceptionals € million 722 465 918 1,146 1,225 als – to €1.8 billion in 2018. Our previous target of €1.4 billion in EBITDA margin pre exceptionals % 11.0 9.2 12.9 13.1 13.5 2014 is to be achieved one year earlier than originally planned. We Capital employed € million 2,989 3,475 3,750 4,784 5,442 intend to achieve our mid-term targets through organic growth as well ROCE % 15.4 5.9 17.0 17.2 15.6 as through targeted acquisitions, with our focus on organic growth. Days of sales in inventories (DSI) Days 66.9 55.1 53.7 60.1 64.7 Days of sales Capital expenditure strategy We make capital expenditures to inoutstanding crease our international competitiveness, focusing on attractive growth (DSO) Days 44.6 47.0 46.3 49.9 47.4 opportunities in profitable markets. The following principles guide our Net financial liabilities € million 864 794 913 1,515 1,483 capital expenditure policy: Net debt ratio 1.2x 1.7x 1.0x 1.3x 1.2x Investment ratio % 5.4 6.8 7.4 8.0 8.1 • The focus is on expanding our portfolio of premium products that set us apart from our competitors. • We invest in sustainably growing markets that are the strategic To achieve our strategic goals, we need specific controlling parameters focus for our operating segments. against which we can measure the success of our efforts. Such assess• Capital expenditures must satisfy clear financial criteria that, at ments are founded on a reliable, readily understandable financial and a minimum, preserve the Group’s average return on capital emcontrolling information system. We are constantly working to further ployed and incorporate an adequate risk premium. improve the information provided by the Accounting and Controlling • Most capital expenditures are financed out of the cash flow from group functions through consistent reporting of budget, forecast and operating activities or, if that is insufficient, from other available actual data. liquidity or credit lines. Financing strategy Our conservative, sustainability-based financing Financial performance policy prepares the ground for long-term dynamic business activity. The cornerstones of this policy are accessing international financial The key controlling parameter for the LANXESS Group and the indimarkets and securing long-term financial flexibility. vidual segments is EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding back operational depreciation and amortization and any exceptional items. Every operational decision or achievement is judged by its sustainable impact on EBITDA. As part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for this benchmark of our company’s success, which are then incorporated into the assessment of employees’ variable income components (see the “Employees” section of this combined management report). Combined Management Report 83 LANXESS – Group structure, business and strategy | Value management and control system Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the Group’s Profitability controlling parameters because they do not permit any direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material prices are a hallmark Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented as a of our industry. When raw material prices fluctuate throughout the controlling parameter at Group level. ROCE is a profitability ratio that year, we adjust our selling prices in line with our price-before-volume indicates how efficiently we utilize our capital. This makes it an imporstrategy. This has an effect on sales, but almost none on the margins tant criterion in capital expenditure decisions, for example. All new that are significant to our profitability. We therefore set no sales targets, capital expenditure projects must at least meet the Group’s ROCE. either for the short term or medium term. EBIT pre exceptionals ROCE = Capital employed Company-specific lead indicators Capital employed = Total assets Less deferred tax assets Lead indicators support the timely identification of material changes Less interest-free liabilities in assets and liabilities, financial condition and earnings performance and the initiation of appropriate measures. Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for pensions), Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values for the income tax liabilities, trade payables, and items included under “other Group’s profitability and our ability to finance operations from our own liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called funds as the starting point for steering the company. This information “business ROCE,” to manage our business units. is used, for example, to make financing and capital expenditure decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in market conditions and the competitive environment, operational forecasts are prepared Cost of capital twice each year as the basis for updating the full-year budget and the associated key values we use to control the Group. In addition, regular Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our case, forecasts of the key controlling parameters are prepared. from the return on a long-term German government bond plus a risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category as Certain parameters used in the forecasts are defined centrally and LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return expected by investors applied uniformly because they have a major influence on the key from an investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors demand a values. Strategic raw materials, like butadiene, play a crucial role in risk premium due to the greater risk involved in acquiring shares than forecasting. The ongoing development of procurement prices has a in buying risk-free government bonds. This is known as a market risk significant impact on the timely adjustment of selling prices in line premium and is calculated using the long-term excess return generated with our price-before-volume strategy. Even regional differences in the by a stock investment over an investment in risk-free government bonds availability of raw materials over a specific period of time may become and adjusted by the beta factor denoting the relative risk of an investsignificant. Given the regional diversification of our production sites ment in LANXESS stock compared with that of the market as a whole. and customer markets, exchange rate development also affects the profitability resulting from sales and cost trends, with corresponding At 15.6%, ROCE in 2012 (2011: 17.2%) was well above our weighted repercussions for pricing and hedging strategies. In addition, we draw average cost of capital (WACC), which was adjusted for comparability. on continuously updated growth forecasts for our customer industries After adjustment for the €500 million bond issued at the end of the and the regions where we do business in order to prepare and review reporting year to secure our long-term financing needs, ROCE was sales and capital expenditure decisions. exactly the same as the previous year at 17.2%. The after-tax WACC, which is used for steering purposes, amounted to 8.4% and was unchanged from the previous year. 84 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Capital employment Legal environment To control our working capital, we use two key performance indicators: There were no changes in the legal environment in 2012 that would DSI (days of sales in inventories) and DSO (days of sales outstanding). have had a material impact on the cash flows, financial condition or These represent inventories and receivables, respectively, in relation to results of operations of the LANXESS Group. sales for the previous quarter. In 2012, DSI was at 64.7 days (2011: 60.1 days) and DSO at 47.4 days (2011: 49.9 days). Another important performance indicator is business free cash flow, which indiBusiness conditions cates how much cash our business units are generating directly. It is calculated for the operating units using a simplified cash flow method. GDP and Chemical Production in 2012 Change vs. prior year in real terms (%), projected Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous North America capital discipline and are aligned systematically with those product 2.3 1.5 areas with the greatest potential for success. We prioritize investment Latin America projects on the basis of financial indicators such as the pay-off period, 2.6 1.8 net present value and ROCE. For more detailed information about our EMEA capital expenditure guidelines, please see the “Capital expenditure 0.5 strategy” section above. (1.5) Asia-Pacific 4.4 3.3 World Debt 2.2 1.4 (2) 0 2 4 6 The net debt ratio, which we use solely at Group level, is defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre exceptionals. Net financial Gross domestic product Chemical production liabilities are the total of current and non-current financial liabilities, less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. The financial liabilities reflected in the statement of financial position are adjusted here for liabilities for accrued interest. Due to the solid result for the reporting The economic environment year and lower net financial liabilities at December 31, 2012, we were able to reduce the net debt ratio to 1.2, against 1.3 at the previous The public debt crisis of the established economies remained the year’s reporting date. We achieved a slight reduction in net financial dominant economic force in 2012. The U.S. economy was harmed liabilities despite continued high capital expenditures made in the by the debate about a higher debt ceiling and the length of time it took implementation of our growth strategy. for a deal on the “fiscal cliff.” North America posted growth of 2.3% in 2012. In Europe, the debt situation in several countries worsened, Net Financial Liabilities with the result that more aid was requested from the European bailout € million 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 facility. There was no economic stimulus in many countries because Non-current financial of the austerity measures. Against this background, large parts of liabilities 9591) 1,462 1,302 1,465 2,167 Western Europe slipped into recession with contraction of 0.2%. Current financial liabilities 168 94 176 633 167 Germany posted growth of 0.9% in 2012, which was much better Less than the overall trend in Western Europe. The emerging economies Liabilities for accrued interest (14) (47) (41) (55) (54) likewise lost momentum. At 7.8%, growth in China was relatively weak Cash and cash equivalents (249) (313) (160) (178) (386) but improved again at the end of the year. Overall, global economic Near-cash assets 0 (402) (364) (350) (411) growth slowed over the course of the year to 2.2%. 864 794 913 1,515 1,483 1) After deduction of €27 million in specific exchange hedging of financial liabilities Combined Management Report 85 Value management and control system | Legal environment | Business conditions With sometimes high gains, the global capital markets – though volaDespite further declines in economic momentum, the volatility of the tile – broke free of the sluggish economic trend in 2012. The stock raw material markets during the year gave way to a more stable price markets benefited from growing hope in the second half of the year level at year-end. As a purchaser, we are particularly affected by the in particular that lasting progress was being made in addressing the price trend for petrochemical raw materials, as it has a material impact European public debt crisis. Germany’s lead index, the DAX, gained on our production costs. Our most important strategic raw material, nearly 30% for the year, putting it among the world’s strongest indices. butadiene, was far more volatile than usual over the course of the year, Japan’s Nikkei Index, up about 23%, also posted considerable growth, with prices increasing sharply in the first few months, in particular. This some of which, of course, was attributable to the country’s domestic trend reversed later in the year. By the end of 2012, butadiene was economic recovery following the natural disaster in spring 2011. The actually trading slightly below the prior-year level. U.S. Dow Jones Index and the British FTSE 100 also showed positive growth of a good 7% and nearly 6%, respectively. The chemical industry The exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar was slightly less volatile in 2012 than in the previous year. Against the backdrop of The general economic trends had an impact on the chemical industry the European public debt crisis, the U.S. dollar gained tangibly on the as well, where production growth was much lower than we expected, euro up until around the middle of the year. In the second half, however, at 1.4%. The individual regions also lagged behind our forecasts. The it gave back all those gains as a result of the stabilizing measures taken growth rates of 6.0% in China and 1.5% in the NAFTA region reflected by the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. At the weak economic development. The Asia-Pacific region was the the end of the year, the euro was worth US$1.32, which represented industry’s growth engine with a gain of 3.3%. In Europe, however, the a decrease in the value of the U.S. currency of about 2.3% in 2012. industry could not escape the recession, shrinking by 2.0%. Production Its average price for the year was US$1.29, down sharply from the in Germany receded even further, down 3.3% on a strong prior year. prior-year price of US$1.39. Due to the regional positioning of our business, a stronger U.S. dollar generally has a positive effect on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot Evolution of major user industries be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place in the same currency area. There was a slight decrease of 0.2% in global tire production. This decline was centered on Europe, down 5.0%, and the Americas, Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro down 3.8%. In Asia, by contrast, output was up by 3.4%. China and India were the main drivers of this trend, with growth of 5.5% and 1.60 5.3%, respectively. In the heavy-duty commercial vehicle sector, the original equipment business was satisfactory only in North America and 1.50 Japan. Elsewhere, the economic situation resulted in a downward trend in truck tire production. The demand for replacement tires receded 1.40 worldwide in 2012. OEM tires for cars and lightweight commercial 1.30 vehicles developed in line with automobile production. Customers spent noticeably less on replacement tires. 1.20 1.10 Jan. Feb. March April May June July Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. 2012 Average 2012 2011 Average 2011 86 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Global automobile production rose 4.9% in 2012. At 16.8%, most Key events influencing the company’s business of this growth was in the NAFTA region, where a substantial backlog had built up in the several years since the financial crisis. Japan and Fiscal 2012 was characterized, in particular, by the development of Southeast Asia likewise posted high growth rates of 20.5% and 31.5%, Europe’s debt crisis and the associated slump in demand, especially respectively. Of course, these were attributable to the exceptionally low in the automotive and construction sectors. This trend spread to other production levels in the previous year resulting from the natural disaster regions as the year progressed, and contrasted with the momentum in early 2011. Overall, Asian automotive production rebounded with from further growth in the demand for agricultural products. The exstrong growth of 9.2%. In Europe, a particularly important market for tremely low to negative growth rates posted by the tire and automotive LANXESS, the automotive sector was also impacted by the macroindustries in some regions had a tangible effect on our Performance economic problems, with production down by 7.6%. In Germany, Polymers segment. The volatility in raw material prices during the too, output declined by a steep 7.1%. Likewise, production in South reporting year did not negatively impact our business due to the conAmerica was impacted by the economic situation, decreasing by 2.0%. sistent application of our price-before-volume strategy. Global production of chemicals for the agricultural industry expanded Declining demand over the course of 2012, particularly from the by 3.0% due to continued high demand for agricultural products. The European and Latin American automotive sectors, hampered sales drought in the NAFTA region caused a slight decrease of 0.6% there. growth in our Performance Polymers segment primarily because of By contrast, growth of 3.9% was recorded in Western Europe, with lower volumes. The segment achieved a modest improvement in production in Germany expanding by 6.1%. earnings compared with the previous year, in part because of the price adjustments driven by the volatility of raw material prices. The situation The construction industry worldwide posted growth of 3.0%. Europe in the European automotive industry held back development in some was the biggest drag on the global trend, with contraction of 4.6% of the business units of our Performance Chemicals segment as well. in Western Europe. Germany showed a slightly positive trend with an increase of 0.4%. The main growth engine was Asia, especially Continuing growth in demand for agricultural products increased sales China and India where business was up 8.7% and 7.4%, respectively. of our agrochemical precursors. Construction in the NAFTA region remained slow, with a gain of 2.0%. Performance varied from region to region. North America and AsiaEvolution of Major User Industries in 2012 Pacific were our most successful reporting regions with nearly doubleChange vs. prior year Tires AutoAgroCondigit growth rates in sales. Sales in all of the other regions were essenin real terms (%) motive chemicals struction tially level with the previous year. Adjusted for currency and portfolio (projected) effects, the sharpest decline in business was seen in Latin America. Americas (3.8) 12.1 (0.2) 2.8 This was partly due to the decrease in the price of a key raw material as NAFTA (3.7) 16.8 (0.6) 2.0 well as to lower demand from the tire and automotive-related industries. Latin America (3.9) (2.0) 0.4 6.7 EMEA (5.0) (7.6) 4.3 (3.1) Germany (7.8) (7.1) 6.1 0.4 Western Europe (7.7) (9.8) 3.9 (4.6) Comparison of forecast and actual business Central and Eastern Europe (1.5) 4.4 8.8 8.8 Asia-Pacific 3.4 9.2 3.8 3.8 Fiscal 2012 was dominated by opposing developments in the mobility World (0.2) 4.9 3.0 3.0 and agriculture megatrends. While mobility was affected by lower business volumes for the automotive industry and its suppliers, agriculture recorded dynamic growth due to the rising demand for agricultural products. Combined Management Report 87 Business conditions | Key events influencing the company’s business | Comparison of forecast and actual business At the beginning of 2012, we had assumed that our key customer Based on the assumption that the trend toward higher procurement industries would continue to perform well, albeit with regional differcosts, especially for petrochemical raw materials, would also continue ences. In retrospect, our business with the automotive industry and beyond 2012, we had forecast volatile raw material prices. While its suppliers trended positively in North America, in particular, but raw material prices initially rose in the first months of the year, this negatively in Europe. Agrochemicals profited from stable demand in trend reversed toward the end of the second quarter, with the result all regions. The construction sector performed satisfactorily in North that the weighted index of our raw material prices was just below the America and parts of Eastern Europe, but was depressed especially in level seen at the end of December 2011. Declining prices for the raw those countries severely affected by the European public debt crisis. material butadiene drove this development, while other raw materials were slightly more expensive. Developments thus far are therefore In our half-year financial report, we had confirmed the forecast quanticonsistent with our initial assumptions as we still expect raw material fied in our reporting for the first quarter of an increase in EBITDA pre prices to increase over the long term. exceptionals of 5% to 10% for 2012 compared with 2011. We had also assumed that EBITDA pre exceptionals in the second half of In connection with our focused research and development activities, 2012 would match the level of the second half of 2011. A result of which are designed to facilitate our own customerand market-oriented €1,225 million was posted in the year under review, which is about innovations and process improvements, research and development 7% higher than the prior year and within the guidance range. spending increased by 33% during the year. This percentage growth is below what was expected for the full year, because the costs for some Our segments posted a gratifying performance, which was driven projects accrued at different points in time than originally planned. largely by positive price, portfolio and currency effects and negative The focus was on the Performance Polymers segment, with a share volume effects. of about 59%. In fiscal 2012, the cash outflow for capital expenditures totaled €696 million, which was at the upper end of the range of €650 million to €700 million we had forecast in the 2012 half-year financial report. Due to the implementation of a number of strategic investment projects and the launch of promising new growth initiatives, cash outflow for capital expenditures was thus €96 million higher in the reporting year than the figure of €600 million projected in the Annual Report 2011. Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2012 Forecast for 2012 in Forecast for 2012 in Forecast for 2012 in Actual 2012 Annual Report 2011/ H1 Interim Report Q3 Interim Report Q1 Interim Report Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals 5% to 10% increase 5% to 10% increase 5% to 10% increase €1,225 million ( = +7%) Business development: segments Performance Polymers solid business performance solid business performance solid business performance Sales +2% Advanced Intermediates solid business performance solid business performance solid business performance Sales +8% Performance Chemicals solid business performance solid business performance solid business performance Sales +3% Raw material prices volatile, volatile, volatile, volatile, long-term trend upward long-term trend upward long-term trend upward in some cases higher Research and development Research and development expenses +40% +40% +40% +33% Financial condition: Group Cash outflows for capital expenditures €600 million €650 – 700 million €650 – 700 million €696 million 88 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Business performance of the LANXESS Group LANXESS Group sales rose by 3.6% from €8,775 million in the prior year to €9,094 million. The course of business was shaped by a • Slight sales growth of 3.6%, largely due to currency and portfolio effect of 2.6% relating, in particular, to the acquisition of the portfolio effects with offsetting volume effect Keltan EPDM business in 2011 as well as by positive currency effects • Substantial sales growth in North America and Asia-Pacific of 3.9% resulting mostly from movement in the U.S. dollar. Declining regions volumes, down 3.5% from the strong prior-year level, had an offsetting • EBITDA pre exceptionals up 6.9% to €1,225 million effect. Selling prices were raised by a slight 0.6% over the prior year. • EBITDA margin pre exceptionals up to 13.5% from 13.1% the previous year Effects on Sales • Net income of €514 million slightly above prior-year level € million/% • Earnings per share of €6.18, up from €6.08 8,775 +0.6% +3.9% +2.6% 9,094 • Statement of financial position and financing structure still solid (3.5)% • Net debt ratio improves from 1.3 to 1.2 Key Financial Data € million 2011 2012 Change % Sales 8,775 9,094 3.6 2011 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2012 Gross profit 2,010 2,108 4.9 EBITDA pre exceptionals 1,146 1,225 6.9 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 13.1% 13.5% – Sales in our Performance Polymers segment expanded by 2.3% in the EBITDA 1,101 1,188 7.9 reporting year. Alongside the favorable movement in exchange rates, Operating result (EBIT) this was due particularly to the tangible contribution to sales by the pre exceptionals 826 849 2.8 Operating result (EBIT) 776 810 4.4 Keltan EPDM business acquired from DSM in May 2011. The two EBIT margin 8.8% 8.9% – effects offset a mid-single-digit percentage drop in volumes. Selling Financial result (121) (141) (16.5) prices in this segment remained at the prior-year level. Income before income taxes 655 669 2.1 Net income 506 514 1.6 The Advanced Intermediates segment posted a sales increase of Earnings per share (€) 6.08 6.18 1.6 8.3%, largely resulting from the increase in volumes attributable to the continued strong demand for agrochemicals. High purchase prices for raw materials were offset by selling price adjustments. This, as Sales and earnings well as the positive exchange rate trend, contributed to the gratifying business performance. Group Sales € million Our Performance Chemicals segment also grew sales, achieving an increase of 3.4% on the previous year. Lower volumes were offset by 2012 9,094 positive currency effects and a slight adjustment in selling prices. In addition, there was a positive portfolio effect from the acquisitions 2011 8,775 made in 2011 and 2012. These activities were assigned to the Rhein Chemie, Material Protection Products and Functional Chemicals busi2010 7,120 ness units. 2009 5,057 2008 6,576 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Combined Management Report 89 Business performance of the LANXESS Group Sales by Segment tions, including, in particular, the Keltan EPDM business. Changes in € million 2011 2012 Change Proportion raw material prices were passed on to the market at Group level, which % of Group had a positive net effect on gross profit. There was a deflationary effect sales % on the price of butadiene, in particular, over the course of the year, which contrasted with price increases, some substantial, for nearly all Performance Polymers 5,059 5,176 2.3 56.9 Advanced Intermediates 1,545 1,674 8.3 18.4 of our other strategic raw materials, including isobutylene, benzene, Performance Chemicals 2,130 2,203 3.4 24.2 toluene and cyclohexane. Capacity utilization, at roughly 81%, was Reconciliation 41 41 0.0 0.5 5 percentage points below the level for 2011 due to the decline in 8,775 9,094 3.6 100.0 demand over the course of the year and the associated adjustments to inventory management. The resulting idle capacity costs adversely affected earnings. We grew sales by around 10% in both the North America and AsiaPacific regions. The Performance Chemicals segment was the main growth driver in the North American market in both absolute and EBITDA and operating result (EBIT) relative terms. Business in the Asia-Pacific region was still dominated by the Performance Polymers segment, which posted sales growth Selling expenses rose by €31 million to €763 million in 2012, mainly in the low-double-digit percentage range. Sales in the other regions due to portfolio and currency effects. The ratio of selling expenses to were essentially level with the previous year. sales edged up from 8.3% to 8.4%. Research and development costs increased by 33.3% to €192 million, Order book status underscoring the continued expansion of research activities as part of the LANXESS Technology Initiative. As a percentage of sales, they Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements on fixed were higher than the prior-year level of 1.6%, at 2.1%. The number volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized by long-standof employees in R&D grew to 843 as of December 31, 2012, up ing relationships with customers and revolving master agreements. substantially from 731 on December 31, 2011. Our activities are focused on demand-driven orders with relatively short lead times which do not provide a basis for forward-looking General administrative expenses climbed from €325 million to statements about our capacity utilization or volumes. Our business €339 million in 2012. Reasons for this included portfolio effects is managed primarily on the basis of regular Group-wide forecasts from acquisitions made in the past. Their share in sales was 3.7%, of Group operating targets. For additional information, please see which was unchanged from the prior year. “Company-specific lead indicators.” The other operating result, which is the balance between other operatAny disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given reporting income and expenses, improved by €29 million to minus €4 miling date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s shortor lion. Adjusted for exceptional items, the other operating result would medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such disclosure is have been €18 million higher. This was partly due to the absence of made in this report. one-off expenses from the previous year. The net exceptional charges of €39 million incurred in the reporting year, €37 million of which impacted EBITDA, related to reorganization projects and portfolio Gross profit measures as well as expenses associated with improvements to the IT infrastructure. In the prior year, exceptional charges amounted to The cost of sales did not rise as steeply as sales, increasing by 3.3% €50 million, €45 million of which impacted EBITDA. These were from the prior year to €6,986 million. Gross profit advanced by also associated primarily with restructuring and portfolio measures. €98 million to €2,108 million. The gross profit margin improved slightly, up 0.3% to 23.2%. The softer demand led to a corresponding drop in volumes. This was offset by a significant positive net effect from exchange rates as well as portfolio effects from the prior-year acquisi90 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment these effects and a portfolio effect were not sufficient to fully offset € million 2011 2012 Change % the segment’s higher costs in areas like production and energies, with Performance Polymers the result that segment earnings were below the prior-year level. The 768 817 6.4 Advanced Intermediates 264 305 15.5 slight decline in EBITDA pre exceptionals reported in the reconciliaPerformance Chemicals 289 281 (2.8) tion was due in part to an increase in research expenditure from the Reconciliation (175) (178) (1.7) expansion of centrally led cross-segment research activities and to a 1,146 1,225 6.9 slight increase in personnel expenses. The operating result (EBIT) improved tangibly in the reporting year, We increased our operating result before depreciation and amortization from €776 million to €810 million. (EBITDA) pre exceptionals by €79 million, or 6.9%, to €1,225 million in 2012, from €1,146 million the year before. This improveReconciliation of EBIT to Net Income ment was primarily due to positive exchange rate effects, selling price € million 2011 2012 Change % adjustments made in response to raw material costs, and portfolio Operating result (EBIT) 776 810 4.4 effects, especially from the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business. Income from investments These effects outweighed the negative effects, particularly from lower accounted for using the equity method 7 1 (85.7) demand. The Group’s EBITDA margin pre exceptionals improved Net interest expense (93) (96) (3.2) from 13.1% to 13.5%. Other financial income and expenses – net (35) (46) (31.4) EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals Financial result (121) (141) (16.5) Income before income taxes 655 669 2.1 € million Income taxes (148) (154) (4.1) Income after income taxes 507 515 1.6 2012 1,225 13.5% of which: attributable to non-controlling 2011 1,146 13.1% interests 1 1 0.0 attributable to LANXESS AG 2010 918 12.9% stockholders (net income) 506 514 1.6 2009 465 9.2% 2008 722 11.1% Financial result 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 The financial result came in at minus €141 million in fiscal 2012, compared with minus €121 million for the prior year. The pro-rated income from investments accounted for using the equity method, EBITDA pre exceptionals in our Performance Polymers segment grew primarily Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, came by 6.4% against the previous year. Positive portfolio and currency to €1 million, against €7 million the previous year. Interest expense effects more than compensated for the decrease in volumes. The posiwas nearly level year on year. The capitalization of a portion of borrowtive portfolio effect from the acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business in ing costs, mainly relating to the construction of the new butyl rubber May 2011 also offset further cost increases, for example in production. plant in Singapore, had a positive effect on the financial result. The Earnings rose by a substantial 15.5% in the Advanced Intermediates amount capitalized was higher than the previous year and offset the segment due largely to the growth in volumes. In addition, higher prices slight decline in interest income. In total, net interest expense was for raw materials were passed on to the market in full. By contrast, €3 million higher than in the previous year at €96 million. The balance the Performance Chemicals segment posted a decrease in EBITDA of other financial income and expense items was impacted by a value pre exceptionals of 2.8%. A slight increase in raw material prices adjustment of €18 million of the carrying amount of the interest in was offset by corresponding selling price adjustments. The negative Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, in light of that company’s share earnings impact of lower sales volumes was neutralized by positive curprice performance. This figure included the accumulated losses of rency changes of a comparable magnitude. Taken together, however, €10 million previously reported in other comprehensive income that were removed from equity and reclassified to the financial result during the reporting year. Combined Management Report 91 Business performance of the LANXESS Group | Business trends by region Income before income taxes Sales by Market 2011 2012 Change Due to the positive EBIT trend, income before income taxes rose by € million % € million % % €14 million to €669 million. EMEA (excluding Germany) 2,546 29.0 2,526 27.8 (0.8) Germany 1,569 17.9 1,577 17.3 0.5 Income taxes North America 1,458 16.6 1,611 17.7 10.5 Latin America 1,201 13.7 1,185 13.0 (1.3) Asia-Pacific 2,001 22.8 2,195 24.2 9.7 In fiscal 2012, the Group had tax expense of €154 million, compared 8,775 100.0 9,094 100.0 3.6 with €148 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate was 23.0%, after 22.6% in the previous year. Net income, earnings per share EMEA (excluding Germany) The LANXESS Group’s net income increased by €8 million year on Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) receded by €20 million, year to €514 million. As in the previous year, income of €1 million or 0.8%, to €2,526 million in 2012. Adjusted for portfolio and currency was attributable to non-controlling interests. effects, sales decreased by 4.1%. The Advanced Intermediates segment saw growth in the mid-single-digit range. Our Performance With the number of LANXESS shares in circulation unchanged, earnPolymers and Performance Chemicals segments, by contrast, posted ings per share increased by €0.10, or 1.6%, to €6.18, compared sales declines in the highand mid-single-digit percentage range. Sales with €6.08 in 2011. in Eastern Europe and the Middle East decreased by a low-singledigit percentage compared to the previous year, whereas Western Europe recorded relative sales declines in the mid-single-digit range Business trends by region and with that dominated the operating performance in absolute terms. The region’s sales decreased particularly in the Czech Republic, Italy, Sales by Market Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. By contrast, the BRICS % countries Russia and South Africa generated higher sales compared to the prior year. 22.8 24.2 Asia-Pacific The EMEA region (excluding Germany) accounted for 27.8% of Group 13.7 13.0 sales, down 1.2 percentage points on the prior-year level. Latin America 16.6 17.7 North America 17.9 17.3 Germany Germany 29.0 27.8 In Germany, our sales came to €1,577 million in 2012, up €8 million, EMEA (excluding Germany) or 0.5%, over the previous year. However, when adjusted for portfolio effects, mostly from the Keltan EPDM business acquired in May of 2011 2012 the previous year, sales receded by 1.2%. Performance Polymers and Performance Chemicals saw sales declines in the mid-single-digit range, while our Advanced Intermediates segment achieved growth of the same magnitude. Germany’s share of Group sales fell slightly from 17.9% to 17.3%. 92 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 North America Segment information In this region, we generated sales of €1,611 million, up €153 million, • Performance Polymers: portfolio and currency effects offset the or 10.5%, from the previous year. Adjusted for positive currency and effect of lower volumes on sales and earnings portfolio effects, sales were down by 1.9%. This decrease was mainly • Advanced Intermediates: price adjustments in response to the result of the development of business in the Performance Polymers raw material prices drive sales; demand for agrochemicals lifts segment, which posted a sales decline in the mid-single-digit percentearnings age range against a strong prior year. The positive performance of the • Performance Chemicals: slight price increases as well as currency Advanced Intermediates and Performance Chemicals segments only and portfolio effects offset the effect of lower volumes on sales; partially offset this decrease. higher manufacturing costs impact earnings At 17.7%, North America’s share of Group sales was 1.1 percentage Sales by Segment points higher than the prior-year level. % Reconciliation 24.2 0.5 24.2 0.5 Performance Chemicals Latin America 17.6 18.4 Advanced Intermediates Sales in Latin America receded by €16 million, or 1.3%, to €1,185 mil57.7 56.9 lion in the reporting period. After adjusting for positive currency and portfolio effects, sales declined by 9.1%. This trend was due to weaker Performance Polymers business performance in the Performance Polymers segment, which saw a sales decline in the low-double-digit percentage range as a result of the demand situation and the price of raw materials. By contrast, our Advanced Intermediates segment grew sales by a double-digit 2011 2012 percentage. The Performance Chemicals segment also performed well, with sales growth in the high-single-digit range. The region’s sales were mainly influenced by the course of business in Brazil. Performance Polymers Latin America’s share of Group sales dropped slightly from 13.7% to 13.0%. Overview of Key Data 2011 2012 Change € million Margin € million Margin % Asia-Pacific % % Sales 5,059 5,176 2.3 Sales in this region advanced by €194 million, or 9.7%, to EBITDA €2,195 million in 2012. After adjustment for currency and portpre exceptionals 768 15.2 817 15.8 6.4 EBITDA 759 15.0 808 15.6 6.5 folio effects, sales grew by 0.4%. Our Performance Polymers and Operating Advanced Intermediates segments achieved operational growth in result (EBIT) the low-single-digit range, while sales in the Performance Chemicals pre exceptionals 607 12.0 608 11.7 0.2 Operating result segment declined by a mid-single-digit percentage. (EBIT) 598 11.8 599 11.6 0.2 Cash outflows for Our business in Thailand and Vietnam showed pleasing development capital expenditures1) 437 434 (0.7) Depreciation and but decreased slightly in China and Japan. amortization 161 209 29.8 Employees as of Asia-Pacific’s share of Group sales increased year on year, from Dec. 31 4,977 5,348 7.5 22.8% to 24.2%. Thus, it remained the Group’s second-strongest 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment region in terms of sales. Combined Management Report 93 Business trends by region | Segment information Our Performance Polymers segment posted a very solid performance The exceptional charges of €9 million that fully impacted the segment’s compared to the strong prior year. Sales increased slightly by 2.3% to EBITDA included expenses relating to the integration of acquired busi€5,176 million. Compared to the previous year, raw material prices ness activities. The exceptional charges of €9 million from the previous were volatile and displayed differing trends, which led to timely adjustyear that also fully impacted EBITDA related to corporate transactions ments in selling prices. The price for butadiene, in particular, one of and remediation measures at our site in Canada. this segment’s key raw materials, trended sharply higher in the first half of the year, before declining significantly to below its initial price for the period, which resulted in a negative but insignificant price effect Advanced Intermediates of 0.3% for the full year. Lower demand attributable to the weaker development of the automotive industry led to a decrease in volumes, Overview of Key Data especially in the second half of the year. This resulted in a volume 2011 2012 Change decline of 5.5% for the full year. Positive currency effects of 4.7% and € million Margin € million Margin % a portfolio effect of 3.4% lifted sales. % % Sales 1,545 1,674 8.3 All of the segment’s business units saw declining demand from their EBITDA principal customer industries. Our Butyl Rubber and Performance pre exceptionals 264 17.1 305 18.2 15.5 EBITDA 245 15.9 311 18.6 26.9 Butadiene Rubbers business units, which are closely allied with the Operating tire industry, posted slight declines in volumes in light of the weak sales result (EBIT) in the automotive industry. In the Technical Rubber Products business pre exceptionals 198 12.8 238 14.2 20.2 Operating result unit, volumes decreased significantly for nearly all products because of (EBIT) 175 11.3 244 14.6 39.4 restrained demand, especially in Asia. The High Performance Materials Cash outflows for (formerly Semi-Crystalline Products) business unit reported largely capital expenditures1) 107 92 (14.0) Depreciation and unchanged volumes compared to the prior year. Sales declined, in amortization 70 67 (4.3) part substantially, in nearly all reporting regions. In the Asia-Pacific Employees as of region, we were able to slightly expand business. Dec. 31 2,883 2,841 (1.5) 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals € million Sales in our Advanced Intermediates segment grew by €129 million, 2012 817 15.8% or 8.3%, to €1,674 million in 2012. Price increases implemented to compensate for higher raw material prices yielded a 3.9% price 2011 768 15.2% effect. Volumes rose by 2.2% due to improved demand. Exchange rates had a positive effect on sales of 2.2%. 2010 548 14.8% Demand for agrochemicals provided the main impetus in the report2009 250 10.5% ing period. Both of the segment’s business units profited from this 2008 development. The Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit 413 12.6% posted year-on-year volume growth, especially with products from the 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 aromatics network for the agrochemical industry. In addition, the market accepted our new production capacities for menthol. In relative terms, growth was strongest in Latin America, while the highest absolute EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Performance Polymers segment rose by growth was seen in Germany. €49 million, or 6.4%, to €817 million. The price adjustments resulting from the change in raw material prices contributed a positive earnings effect at segment level. A drop in marginal income due to the decrease in volumes tangibly depressed earnings. Positive currency effects, particularly relating to the U.S. dollar, lifted earnings and offset rising production costs and increased research expenditures. Portfolio effects from the Keltan EPDM business acquired in May of the previous year were also accretive to earnings. The segment’s EBITDA margin pre exceptionals rose from 15.2% to 15.8%. 94 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals Performance Chemicals € million Overview of Key Data 2012 305 18.2% 2011 2012 Change € million Margin € million Margin % 2011 264 17.1% % % Sales 2,130 2,203 3.4 2010 259 18.4% EBITDA pre exceptionals 289 13.6 281 12.8 (2.8) 2009 154 13.9% EBITDA 289 13.6 264 12.0 (8.7) Operating 2008 186 14.2% result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 211 9.9 196 8.9 (7.1) 0 100 200 300 400 Operating result (EBIT) 211 9.9 177 8.0 (16.1) Cash outflows for capital expenditures1) 112 135 20.5 Depreciation and EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segment amortization 78 87 11.5 increased by €41 million, or 15.5%, to €305 million. Higher raw Employees as of material prices, especially for petroleum derivatives like toluene and Dec. 31 5,819 6,031 3.6 benzene, were offset at segment level with corresponding selling 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment price adjustments. Solid demand in the agricultural sector led to a positive volume effect in both business units. Product mix effects and production process optimization compensated for rising energy costs, Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment rose 3.4% in fiscal yielding a positive earnings effect overall. The favorable exchange 2012, from €2,130 million to €2,203 million. The growth was mainly rates also had a slightly positive effect. The EBITDA margin pre attributable to currency effects of 3.3% and portfolio effects of 2.5%. exceptionals increased as a result, from 17.1% to 18.2%. Volumes, by contrast, receded by 3.0%. The portfolio effects related to businesses that had been acquired for our Material Protection Exceptional income of €6 million in 2012 related to the adjustment Products, Functional Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units. of a provision set up for a proactive and market-oriented realignment A price effect of 0.6% contributed to the sales growth. of the Saltigo business unit. This realignment was initiated in the prior year with the goal of gradually converting infrastructure and Nearly all the segment’s business units, but especially Rhein Chemie, resources from the pharmaceuticals area for use by the growing raised selling prices. The exception was the Leather business unit, agrochemicals business. where prices decreased substantially in light of low prices on the chrome ore market. The segment’s volumes were below the prior-year level, with almost all business units experiencing declines. Volumes were down sharply in both absolute and percentage terms in the Rubber Chemicals and Rhein Chemie business units especially, which generate a substantial portion of their sales with automotive-related industries and were affected by weak demand from their main customer industries. Moreover, the weaker macroeconomic environment noticeably impacted the segment. The restrained demand had a tangible effect in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) and in Germany, while Latin America went against the trend to post a significant percentage gain. Combined Management Report 95 Segment information EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals Reconciliation € million Overview of Key Data 2012 281 12.8% € million 2011 2012 Change % 2011 289 13.6% Sales 41 41 0.0 EBITDA pre exceptionals (175) (178) (1.7) EBITDA (192) (195) (1.6) 2010 281 14.2% Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals (190) (193) (1.6) 2009 182 11.9% Operating result (EBIT) (208) (210) (1.0) Cash outflows for capital expenditures1) 23 35 52.2 2008 241 12.5% Depreciation and amortization 16 15 (6.3) 0 100 200 300 400 Employees as of Dec. 31 2,711 2,957 9.1 1) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals segment The EBITDA pre exceptionals of minus €178 million reported in the receded by €8 million, or 2.8%, from the prior year to €281 million. Reconciliation (against minus €175 million in the prior year) was This decline was largely attributable to higher energy and other proinfluenced in part by a planned expansion of central research actividuction costs as well as slightly higher research expenditures. Higher ties. The exceptional charges of €17 million, which fully impacted raw material costs were passed on in full to the market at segment EBITDA, primarily related to expenses for the design and implementalevel. In addition, there was a slightly positive portfolio effect from the tion of IT projects and for portfolio adjustments, to the extent that these acquisitions made and the supporting effect of exchange rates. In sum, expenses could not be allocated to specific segments or business units. however, these were not enough to offset the higher costs. Segment The exceptional charges of €17 million reported in the Reconciliation earnings were also impacted by production limitations arising from in 2011, all of which impacted EBITDA, also related to expenses for an instable CO2 supply at a manufacturing facility in South Africa. On IT projects and portfolio adjustments. account of the effects described, the EBITDA margin pre exceptionals decreased from 13.6% to 12.8%. The segment had exceptional items of €19 million in the reporting year, €2 million of which did not impact EBITDA. These exceptional items related mainly to restructuring expenses in the Rubber Chemicals business unit. 96 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Statement of financial position and financial condition Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets € million Statement of financial position 6,878 7,519 • Solid statement of financial position provides basis for Other current assets 797 331 329 further growth Cash and cash equivalents 528 2,644 2,532 • Total assets increase, mainly due to capital expenditures and business-related increase in working capital Inventories and receivables • Cash and cash equivalents grow following successful 363 placement of €500 million bond Other non-current assets 437 3,384 3,052 • Equity ratio improves against prior year Intangible assets and property, • Net financial liabilities of €1,483 million slightly below prior year plant and equipment Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 2011 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Change € million % € million % % Assets Non-current assets rose by €258 million, or 7.4%, to €3,747 milNon-current assets 3,489 50.7 3,747 49.8 7.4 lion. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment increased Current assets 3,389 49.3 3,772 50.2 11.3 by €332 million to €3,384 million, above all due to capital expenTotal assets 6,878 100.0 7,519 100.0 9.3 ditures and acquisitions. Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets, at €696 million, were above Equity and liabilities the prior-year figure of €679 million. Depreciation and amortization Equity (including totaled €378 million, against €325 million in the previous year. The non-controlling interests) 2,074 30.2 2,331 31.0 12.4 carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method Non-current decreased by €4 million, or 33.3%, to €8 million. The change resulted liabilities 2,715 39.5 3,558 47.3 31.0 mainly from the net asset-driven adjustment to the carrying amount in Current liabilities 2,089 30.3 1,630 21.7 (22.0) Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG. The earnings performance of the joint Total equity and liabilities 6,878 100.0 7,519 100.0 9.3 venture company LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd., China, was also a factor. The change in investments in other affiliated companies was mostly influenced by the purchase of a strategic Structure of the statement of financial position Total assets of the minority interest in BioAmber, Inc., Minneapolis, United States, and a LANXESS Group amounted to €7,519 million as of December 31, compensating effect from the fair-value adjustment of the investment 2012, an increase of €641 million, or 9.3%, on the prior-year figure. in Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, in light of that company’s This was primarily due to capital expenditures for property, plant and recent share price development. Other non-current financial assets equipment made during the year, the increase in cash and cash equivdeclined by €74 million, or 90.2%, to €8 million due especially to alents, and the rise in working capital. The ratio of non-current assets the sale of other securities. to total assets decreased from 50.7% to 49.8%. On the equity and liabilities side, non-current liabilities especially were higher due to the Current assets increased by €383 million, or 11.3%, against the bonds issued during 2012. At the end of 2012, the equity ratio was prior year, to €3,772 million. The ratio of current assets to total assets 31.0%, after 30.2% in the previous year. rose to 50.2% from 49.3% in the previous year. Inventories grew by €141 million to €1,527 million. With the currency effect slightly negative, this was primarily due to a modest increase in inventory levels, in part to prepare for a technology conversion in early 2013 at our site in Geleen, Netherlands. Days of sales in inventories (DSI) increased to 64.7 from 60.1 in 2011. Trade receivables decreased by €29 million to €1,117 million against the previous year, mainly due to slightly negative currency effects. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) came in at 47.4, compared with 49.9 in the previous year. Minimal portfolio Combined Management Report 97 Statement of financial position and financial condition effects from the acquisitions made during the reporting year had no Equity, including non-controlling interests, amounted to €2,331 milsignificant influence on working capital. As a result of the financing lion, up from €2,074 million in the previous year. The equity ratio was measures undertaken in 2012, the total of cash, cash equivalents 31.0% after 30.2% at the end of 2011. A prominent factor in the and near-cash assets increased by €269 million against the end of equity increase was the high net income for the year. This was partly 2011, to €797 million. offset by negative currency translation adjustments in other equity components and by the dividend payout of €71 million to LANXESS AG The LANXESS Group has significant internally generated intangible stockholders in May 2012. assets that are not reflected in the statement of financial position due to accounting rules. These include the brand equity of LANXESS Non-current liabilities rose by €843 million to €3,558 million as of and the value of the Group’s other brands. A variety of measures was December 31, 2012. This resulted mainly from the other non-current deployed in the reporting period to continually enhance these assets, financial liabilities, which were €702 million higher than the previwhich contributed to our continued success in positioning our busious year at €2,167 million. The increase was due to the issue of a ness units in the market. €500 million Eurobond in November 2012. In addition to a three-year CNH 500 million (roughly €60 million) Chinese off-shore renminbi Our established relationships with customers and suppliers also conbond, we issued two further bonds with a volume of €100 million each stitute a significant intangible asset. These long-standing, trust-based and maturities of 10 and 15 years, respectively. Provisions for penpartnerships with customers and suppliers, underpinned by consistent sions and other post-employment benefits increased by €213 million service quality, have made it possible for us to systematically apply our as against the end of 2011, to €892 million. This was mainly due to price-before-volume strategy. Our specific competence in technology a decrease in the interest rates used to measure the provisions. The and innovation, also a valuable asset, is rooted in our expertise in the ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets was 47.3%, up substantially areas of research and development and custom manufacturing. It from 39.5% at the end of 2011. enables us to generate added value for our customers. Current liabilities decreased by €459 million, or 22.0%, to €1,630 milThe know-how and experience of our employees are central pillars of lion against December 31, 2011. This was due primarily to the schedour corporate success. In addition, we have sophisticated production uled redemption of the Eurobond issued in 2005. At €795 million, and business processes that create competitive advantages for us in trade payables were slightly higher than the €766 million reported at the relevant markets. year end 2011 due to a small increase in purchasing volumes. The ratio of current liabilities to total assets was 21.7% as of December 31, Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities 2012, down from 30.3% at year end 2011. € million Net financial liabilities decreased by €32 million from the previous 6,878 7,519 year to €1,483 million. High cash inflows from operating activities 658 more than offset the cash outflows for capital expenditures, interest Other current liabilities 650 972 and dividends as well as the working capital. 1,439 Current financial liabilities 1,387 1,237 Other non-current liabilities 2,171 1,478 Non-current financial liabilities 2,331 2,074 Equity 2011 2012 98 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: Ratios % 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Equity ratio Equity1) Total assets 29.2 28.5 31.1 30.2 31.0 Non-current asset ratio Non-current assets Total assets 47.2 47.0 48.3 50.7 49.8 Asset coverage I Equity1) Non-current assets 61.7 60.7 64.3 59.4 62.2 Asset coverage II Equity1) and non-current liabilities Non-current assets 151.8 165.8 153.9 137.3 157.2 Funding structure Current liabilities Total liabilities 40.0 30.9 37.2 43.5 31.4 1) Including non-controlling interests Capital expenditures In 2012, capital expenditures for property, plant In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following and equipment and intangible assets came to €734 million, comareas: pared with €700 million the year before, and led to cash outflows of €696 million (2011: €679 million). Depreciation and amortization • construction of new facilities, expansion and maintenance of totaled €378 million in the same period (2011: €325 million). This existing facilities; figure included €2 million in impairments reported as exceptional • measures to increase plant availability; items (2011: €5 million). Adjusted for these impairments, capital • projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply with expenditures in support of our growth strategy exceeded depreciation environmental protection requirements. and amortization by a substantial 95% (2011: 118%). Roughly two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2012 went toward Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization expansion or efficiency improvement measures, while the rest went € million to modify and maintain existing facilities. This underlines our goal of generating further organic growth through investment, as described 2012 696 under “Earnings strategy” in the “Strategy” section of this combined 378 management report. 2011 679 325 In regional terms, 29% of capital expenditures in 2012 were made 2010 501 in Germany, 22% in the EMEA region (excluding Germany), 9% in 283 North America, 6% in Latin America and 34% in Asia-Pacific. Major 2009 275 capital expenditures in Germany mostly comprised our investments to 273 increase capacities and modernize facilities in all segments, especially 2008 342 capacity improvements for the Advanced Industrial Intermediates busi279 ness unit and the expansion of several plants for the Technical Rubber 0 200 400 600 800 Products business unit. The large share of capital expenditures made Cash outflows for capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization in the Asia-Pacific region is due primarily to the construction of a new butyl rubber plant for the Butyl Rubber business unit in Singapore, the largest investment project so far in our company’s history. Combined Management Report 99 Statement of financial position and financial condition Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment capital expenditures in this segment were made in the Butyl Rubber € million business unit. Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segment amounted to €104 million (2011: €117 million). Cash outflows came to €92 million (2011: €107 million), exceeding the 434 92 135 35 depreciation and amortization of €67 million (2011: €70 million). 2012 696 This figure includes capital expenditures in the Advanced Indus23 trial Intermediates business unit for expansion of the formalin plant 437 107 112 in Leverkusen, Germany, and expansion of menthol production in 2011 679 Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany. In the Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures came to €139 million (2011: €113 million), Performance Polymers €135 million (2011: €112 million) of which were cash outflows. Advanced Intermediates Performance Chemicals Depreciation and amortization stood at €87 million (2011: €78 milReconciliation lion). Key capital expenditures were the start of construction of a new CO2 concentration unit in Newcastle, South Africa, and construction of a production facility for leather chemicals in Changzhou, China, In the Performance Polymers segment, capital expenditures amountfor the Leather business unit. ed to €455 million (2011: €447 million), €434 million (2011: €437 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and amorThe following table shows major capital expenditure projects in the tization amounted to €209 million (2011: €161 million). The major LANXESS Group. Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2012 Segment Site Description Performance Polymers Butyl Rubber Singapore Construction of a new butyl rubber plant, start-up in the first quarter of 2013 Performance Butadiene Rubbers Singapore Construction of a new neodymium polybutadiene rubber plant, start-up in the first half of 2015 Technical Rubber Products Dormagen, Germany Expansion of production capacities for chloroprene and ethylene vinyl acetate rubbers Technical Rubber Products Geleen, Netherlands Investment to convert EPDM rubber production to the innovative Keltan ACE technology, completion in 2013 Technical Rubber Products Changzhou, China Construction of an EPDM rubber plant, start-up in 2015 High Performance Materials Jhagadia, India; Gastonia, U.S.A.; Construction of three new compounding plants for high-tech plastics, Porto Feliz, Brazil completion in Brazil in 2013 High Performance Materials Antwerp, Belgium Expansion of glass fiber capacities High Performance Materials Antwerp, Belgium Construction of a new polyamide plastics plant, start-up in the first quarter of 2014 Advanced Intermediates Advanced Industrial Intermediates Leverkusen, Germany Expansion of cresol production, completion mid-2013 Advanced Industrial Intermediates Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Expansion of menthol production Performance Chemicals Rhein Chemie Porto Feliz, Brazil Construction of a plant for curing bladders, start-up in 2013 Rhein Chemie Lipetsk, Russia Construction of a new plant for rubber additives and release agents, start-up in the first half of 2013 Inorganic Pigments Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Modernization and expansion of the water treatment plant Leather Changzhou, China Construction of a new plant for leather chemicals, start-up in the first half of 2013 Leather Newcastle, South Africa Construction of a CO2 concentration unit, start-up in the second half of 2013 Expansion of investment portfolio Please see “Additions to the Group portfolio” in this combined management report for more information on the subsidiaries and affiliates added to our portfolio in fiscal 2012. 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Financial condition The increase in working capital compared with December 31, 2011 resulted in a cash outflow of €118 million. The outflow from the change • High operating cash flow thanks to solid business performance in working capital in 2011 was €256 million. The development in both • Business-related increase in cash tied up in working capital periods was mainly attributable to the replenishment of inventories and • Cash used for investing activities reflects extensive capital increase in receivables, as well as to higher raw material costs. This expenditures for growth projects was financed from the high cash inflows yielded by operating activities. • Maturity profile of financial liabilities significantly extended • High level of liquidity to support growth strategy LANXESS’s investing activities in fiscal 2012 resulted in a cash outflow of €674 million, down from €923 million in the previous year. The cash flow statement shows inflows and outflows of cash and cash Disbursements for intangible assets and property, plant and equipequivalents by type of business operation. ment came to €696 million, which was just above the prior-year level of €679 million. The cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries Cash Flow Statement and other businesses, net of acquired cash and subsequent purchase € million 2011 2012 Change price adjustments, amounted to €44 million, against €285 million Income before income taxes the previous year. The companies acquired in the reporting year in655 669 14 Depreciation and amortization 325 378 53 cluded, in particular, Tire Curing Bladders, LLC, Little Rock, United Other items (52) (91) (39) States, and Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon, Germany. Cash inflows Net cash provided by from financial assets came to €41 million and mainly comprised the operating activities before proceeds from the sale of short-term money market investments and change in working capital 928 956 28 Change in working capital (256) (118) 138 a partial repayment of contributions by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG. Net cash provided by These were partially offset by cash outflows for the purchase of a 3.4% operating activities 672 838 166 interest in BioAmber Inc. Net cash used in investing activities (923) (674) 249 Net cash provided by Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from operfinancing activities 276 46 (230) ating activities and the cash used in investing activities – increased Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities 25 210 185 by €415 million from minus €251 million in 2011 to €164 million. Cash and cash equivalents The previous year’s negative free cash flow was attributable to the as of December 31 178 386 208 acquisition of the Keltan EPDM business in May 2011. Net cash provided by financing activities came to €46 million, against Cash provided by operating activities, before changes in working capia net inflow of €276 million the year before. Cash inflows of €893 miltal, increased by a slight €28 million to €956 million in fiscal 2012 lion comprised proceeds from borrowings, including, in particular, compared to the year before. This was mainly due to the €14 million the issuance of bonds and private placements with a total volume of increase in income before income taxes to €669 million. The LANXESS €760 million. A large portion of the outflows of €652 million for the Group’s asset base has expanded due to our extensive investment repayment of borrowings was attributable to the repayment in the and acquisition activities in recent years, and depreciation and amorsecond quarter of 2012 of the remaining €402 million owed under a tization increased as a result from €325 million to €378 million. The bond that was issued in 2005. Interest payments were comparable with other items include payments that had to be made to counterparties the previous year’s amounts. An outflow of €71 million was accounted under roll-over hedges for intra-Group foreign currency loans due to for by the dividend paid to the stockholders of LANXESS AG in May the marked decrease in the value of the euro at times during the year. (2011: €58 million). These payments did not affect earnings. The net change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities in fiscal 2012 was €210 million, against €25 million the previous year. After taking into account other changes in cash of minus €2 million, cash and cash equivalents at the closing date amounted to €386 million, against €178 million at the previous year’s closing date. Combined Management Report 101 Statement of financial position and financial condition Taken together with near-cash assets (short-term investment of liquid Financing analysis LANXESS started fiscal 2012 with a very sound assets in money market funds) of €411 million, against €350 million financial and liquidity position. the previous year, the Group retained a sound liquidity position of €797 million as of December 31, 2012, compared to €528 million Our financial portfolio improved over the course of 2012, especially at the end of 2011. due to capital market financings and the refinancing of our syndicated credit facility in the amount of €1.25 billion. We funded our organic Principles and objectives of financial management LANXESS pursues growth with the increased earnings from business operations and a conservative financial policy characterized by secured long-term financed additional growth using existing liquidity and credit lines. financing and the forward-looking management of financial risks. Our The issuance of a three-year Chinese offshore renminbi bond with a aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our business operations volume of CNH 500 million (equivalent to €60 million) and the firstat all times, regardless of cyclical fluctuations in the real economy or ever issuance of two private placements with a volume of €100 million financial markets. The debt level is largely aligned to the ratio systems of each have contributed to safeguarding the long-term liquidity. The the leading rating agencies for investment-grade companies. In addition, private placements were made at the beginning of April 2012 under as an expression of the company’s forward-looking debt management, our debt issuance program and have terms of 10 and 15 years and LANXESS defined its first targeted leverage range in 2012. Measured coupons of 3.5% and 3.95%, respectively. In addition, in November as the ratio of net financial debt to EBITDA pre exceptionals, the debt 2012 we took advantage of the very positive market climate to issue level should stay between 1.0 and 1.5 through a normal business cycle. our first-ever ten-year €500 million bond with a coupon of 2.625%. In addition to liquidity risk, financial management also covers other This helped us strengthen our liquidity position at favorable terms and financial risks, such as interest and foreign exchange risks. Here too, created financial reserves for redemption of the €500 million bond we aim to mitigate the financial risks that arise and increase planning that matures in 2014. These financing measures have improved the reliability, partly by using derivative financial instruments. Detailed maturity profile of our financial liabilities. In the period under review, information about the management of these risks is contained in the the remaining €402 million from the Eurobond issued in 2005 was Risk Report and in Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the consolirepaid from existing liquidity. Accordingly, the cash and cash equivadated financial statements. The success and accuracy of our financial lents and near-cash assets items in the statement of financial position management was confirmed in fiscal 2012, as in previous years. The as of December 31, 2012 were €208 million and €61 million above ongoing volatility of the capital markets in the year under review had prior-year levels at €386 million and €411 million, respectively. no negative impact on our solid financial position or our rating. This stable financial condition reliably supported our growth strategy and LANXESS launched a €2.5 billion debt issuance program in March the attainment of our operational targets. 2009. Using this documentation base, aligned with the prevailing market conditions, bonds can be placed on the capital market very LANXESS Group ratings Access to the capital markets and good relaflexibly with respect to timing and volume. Each of the aforementioned tions with German and international commercial banks are essential for bond issuances and private placements was based on this docuachieving our financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing mentation. As of December 31, 2012, just under €2.0 billion of the dialogue and communication with banks, investors and rating agen€2.5 billion financing facility had been utilized to issue bonds and cies are of crucial importance. In fiscal 2012, the latter continued to private placements. assess LANXESS’s creditworthiness with ratings of BBB and Baa2 with stable outlook. They emphasized the improved positioning of our businesses and the importance of our conservative financial policy in the retention of these ratings. Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2008 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Standard & Poor’s BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable May 16, 2008 May 28, 2009 Sep. 1, 2010 Aug. 23, 2011 Aug. 31, 2012 Moody’s Investors Service Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable Baa2/stable July 25, 2008 May 26, 2009 May 19, 2010 Nov. 23, 2011 Sep. 26, 2012 Fitch Ratings BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable BBB/stable Dec. 4, 2008 July 20, 2009 Dec. 17, 2010 Nov. 22, 2011 Sep. 13, 2012 102 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 In December 2012, we took early action to refinance our syndicated on LANXESS’s financial condition considering the current financing credit facility that is due to mature in 2014. The new syndicated credit structure. The proportion of loans and bonds denominated in euros facility, which amounts to €1.25 billion, runs until February 2018 and averaged 97% in the reporting year, which was level with the prior year. contains two one-year extension options. This proactive refinancing has Thanks to the financing measures taken in 2012, we succeeded in enabled us to safeguard LANXESS’s liquidity for the long term. The improving the weighted average interest rate for our financial liabilities. reduction in the amount of the facility from €1.408 billion to €1.25 bilIt stood at 4.8% at year end 2012, against 5.3% the previous year. lion is due to the higher weighting of capital market financing, while simultaneously preserving our strong liquidity position. The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing structure as of December 31, 2012 in detail, including its principal liquidity reserves. In total, we successfully obtained new financing of around €2.0 billion in 2012 through the issuance of the aforementioned bonds and Financing Structure private placements and through refinancing the syndicated credit Instrument Amount Term Interest Financial facility. These measures will contribute sustainably to improving our € million rate covenant 1) % financing costs and to optimizing our maturity profile. Moreover, they Eurobond 2009/2014 April are important building blocks in the financing of our company’s growth. (€500 million) 498 2014 7.750 no Eurobond 2009/2016 September Current financial liabilities decreased from €633 million to €167 mil(€200 million) 199 2016 5.500 no Eurobond 2011/2018 May lion, primarily due to the repayment of the remaining €402 million (€500 million) 497 2018 4.125 no bond that matured in 2012. Eurobond 2012/2022 November (€500 million) 493 2022 2.625 no Private placement We made only limited use of finance leases, which are reported as 2012/2022 April financial liabilities in the statement of financial position. As of Decem(€100 million) 100 2022 3.500 no ber 31, 2012, the financial liabilities from finance leases amounted to Private placement 2012/2027 April €78 million, against €84 million in the previous year. The LANXESS (€100 million) 99 2027 3.950 no Group uses operating leases mainly for operational reasons and not as CNH bond 2012/2015 February a means of financing. Minimum future payments relating to operating (CNH 500 million) 60 2015 3.950 no Investment loan December leases totaled €496 million, against €418 million the previous year. 67 2017 no The increase over the prior year is principally due to the construction Development bank loan September of the new production facility in Singapore and to our new Group 120 2018 no Other loans 69 n/a no headquarters in Cologne. Finance lease 78 n/a no Total financial As of December 31, 2012, LANXESS had no material financing liabilities 2,280 items not reported in the statement of financial position in the form Cash 386 ≤ 3 months of factoring, asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. Near-cash assets 411 ≤ 3 months Total liquidity 797 Net financial liabilities 1,483 LANXESS’s total financial liabilities, i.e. net of accrued interest, climbed 1) Ratio of net financial liabilities to EBITDA pre exceptionals from €2,043 million in 2011 to €2,280 million at December 31, 2012. Net financial liabilities – the total financial liabilities net of cash and near-cash assets – decreased by €32 million, from €1,515 milDue to extensive financing measures taken in past fiscal years, we have lion to €1,483 million. continually improved the maturity structure of our financial liabilities. At the time this combined management report was finalized, LANXESS Of the total financial liabilities, some 99% bear a fixed interest rate therefore had no need for substantial refinancing. The other loans over the term of the financing, which is comparable to the previous related mainly to the use of credit facilities by subsidiaries in Brazil, year. Interest rate changes therefore do not have a material effect China, India and Argentina, some of which mature in 2013. Because these facilities are regularly extended – annually, for example – we do not expect any need for substantial refinancing. Combined Management Report 103 Statement of financial position and financial condition Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2012 The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us a liquidity € million scope of around €2.3 billion, which is the same as the prior year. Given the ongoing volatility of the capital markets and in view of our growth 700 targets, this liquidity reserve is an expression of our forward-looking 600 and conservative financial policy. Our solvency is safeguarded for the 500 short and long term. 400 300 Bond performance – evolution of credit spread in 2012 An important 200 indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the absolute change in price, 100 is the relative valuation of the risk specific to the issuer in comparison to 0 a reference interest rate. This credit risk premium is expressed in what 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 after 2018 is known as the credit spread. Due to the higher default risk associated with longer bond maturity, long-term bonds generally feature a wider credit spread. This, and factors such as liquidity and trading volume, Liquidity analysis In addition to cash of €386 million and investments also apply to the various LANXESS bonds. The chart below shows the in highly liquid AAA money market funds of €411 million, LANXESS evolution of the credit spreads of our bonds and the average credit has additional sizeable liquidity reserves in the form of undrawn credit spread of corporate bonds with a BBB rating and a five-year maturity facilities. The investments in money market funds are undertaken only in comparison to the interest rate swap curve. at European Group companies that are not subject to restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. We can therefore freely dispose LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index of the funds. Around 93% of our cash is held in Group companies in Basis points countries with no restrictions on foreign exchange and capital transfers. 300 Only about 7% of our cash is held in companies in regulated capital markets where cash transfers are restricted. 250 200 Thanks to our strong liquidity position, our solvency was assured at 150 all times in fiscal 2012. 100 By far the most important of our credit lines is the syndicated credit 50 facility of €1.25 billion that is valid until February 2018 and has two one-year extension options. This facility was largely undrawn at the end 0 Jan. 2, 2012 Dec. 31, 2012 of 2012. It is designed as an operating line of credit and to provide funds for capital investment. It corresponds to market requirements in LANXESS Eurobond 2014 LANXESS Eurobond 2022 the European syndicated loan market for investment-grade companies LANXESS Eurobond 2016 BBB Corporates, 5 years with a BBB rating. Another important credit line is the €200 million LANXESS Eurobond 2018 facility we have with the European Investment Bank. None of our major loan agreements contains a financial covenant. LANXESS had unused The credit risk premiums on corporate bonds fell in 2012, despite credit lines totaling around €1.5 billion as of December 31, 2012, the continued high level of uncertainty in the financial markets. Credit against €1.8 billion at the end of the previous year. spreads for corporate bonds decreased in the first quarter as signs of Greece’s debt restructuring emerged. This trend continued until the end of 2012, interrupted by fresh tensions in the financial crisis of the peripheral euro countries in the second quarter. 104 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 As comparison with our bond that matures in 2018 shows, in particular, The integration and further development of our recent acquisitions, the credit risk premiums on comparable LANXESS bonds were well which have been assigned to the Performance Polymers and Perbelow those for the BBB-rated reference group throughout 2012. The formance Chemicals segments, has proceeded according to plan. credit risk premiums on our bonds followed the general trend in the first quarter but, unlike those for the BBB-rated reference group, stayed Our conservative accounting and financing policy is expressed by the relatively constant in the second quarter. This can be attributed specifisolid indicators in our statement of financial position, which includes an cally to the high demand among investors for corporate bonds from the equity ratio of 31.0%. Total assets increased mainly due to the capital core eurozone countries, especially from Germany. Our credit spreads expenditures made in support of our organic growth. Working capital were less volatile than those of the BBB-rated reference group over the rose slightly compared with the previous year, given the mixed busicourse of 2012. The narrower credit spreads and lower volatility of ness performance during the reporting year. In accordance with the LANXESS bonds underscore the fact that we have good access to the consistency principle, we essentially applied the same measurement capital market at comparatively low costs. We successfully exploited methods and exercised the same discretion as in the previous year. this good capital market access in 2012 with the financing measures For further information, please see the explanations under “Estimation we undertook. uncertainties and exercise of discretion” in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2012. Management’s summary of the fiscal year Our statement of financial position shows that we have a solid liquidity position. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in the form of undrawn In light of the global macroeconomic conditions, fiscal 2012 was credit lines are also available. Of the total financial liabilities, some characterized by predominantly declining demand, which varied by 99% bear a fixed interest rate over the term of the financing, which is region, with concurrent volatility in the prices of key raw materials. comparable to the previous year. Interest rate changes do not have a material effect on the LANXESS Group’s financial condition considerWe recorded sales growth of 3.6% compared to the previous year. ing the current financing structure. Our financial liabilities are free of Adjusted for currency and portfolio effects, operational sales decreased financial covenants. by 2.9% against a strong prior year due to lower volumes. In the Performance Polymers segment, in particular, volumes were below Net financial liabilities stand at €1,483 million, which is 1.2 times the prior-year level because of restrained demand in the tire market. EBITDA pre exceptionals. In fiscal 2012, the rating agencies reconBy contrast, the Advanced Intermediates segment profited from the firmed the LANXESS Group’s creditworthiness with ratings of BBB gratifying development in the area of agrochemicals, especially in and Baa2 with stable outlook. North America and Latin America. In view of our stable liquidity and financing positions as well as the solid Our price-before-volume strategy remained intact in 2012. Year on business performance, we believe that our company’s business situayear, EBITDA pre exceptionals rose 6.9% to €1,225 million. The tion is positive overall and provides a suitable foundation for attaining EBITDA margin also improved further, increasing to 13.5%. Earnings the profitable growth targets we have set. per share were slightly higher than the previous year, due to the slight improvement in after-tax income. Combined Management Report 105 Statement of financial position and financial condition | Management’s summary of the fiscal year Business Ratios – Multi-Period Overview € million 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Earnings performance Sales 6,576 5,057 7,120 8,775 9,094 EBITDA pre exceptionals 722 465 918 1,146 1,225 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 11.0% 9.2% 12.9% 13.1% 13.5% EBITDA 602 422 890 1,101 1,188 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 462 204 635 826 849 Operating result (EBIT) 323 149 607 776 810 EBIT margin 4.9% 2.9% 8.5% 8.8% 8.9% Net income 183 40 379 506 514 Earnings per share (€) 2.20 0.48 4.56 6.08 6.18 Liquidity Cash flow from operating activities 492 565 430 672 838 Depreciation and amortization 279 273 283 325 378 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 342 275 501 679 696 Net financial liabilities 864 794 913 1,515 1,483 Assets and liabilities Total assets 4,592 5,068 5,666 6,878 7,519 Non-current assets 2,169 2,382 2,738 3,489 3,747 Current assets 2,423 2,686 2,928 3,389 3,772 Net working capital 1,289 1,096 1,372 1,766 1,849 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,339 1,445 1,761 2,074 2,331 Pension provisions 498 569 605 679 892 Key data ROCE 15.4% 5.9% 17.0% 17.2% 15.6% Equity ratio 29.2% 28.5% 31.1% 30.2% 31.0% Gearing 64.5% 54.9% 51.8% 73.0% 63.6% Non-current asset ratio 47.2 47.0 48.3 50.7 49.8 Asset coverage I 61.7 60.7 64.3 59.4 62.2 Net working capital/sales 19.6% 21.7% 19.3% 20.1% 20.3% Employees (as of December 31) 14,797 14,338 14,648 16,390 17,177 2008 figures restated 106 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG The earnings of LANXESS AG are determined largely by profit or loss transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH and LANXESS InterLANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding company national Holding GmbH, which hold the shares of the other subsidiaries for the LANXESS Group. The principal management functions for and affiliates both in Germany and elsewhere. the entire Group are performed by the Board of Management. The Board of Management shapes Group strategy and manages resource Sales of LANXESS AG stood at €5 million, which was slightly higher allocation, infrastructure and organization. As the Group management than the prior-year level of €4 million. They related to services provided company, LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and communito LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result remained after cation with the company’s key stakeholders. The economic perfordeducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly of personnel exmance of LANXESS AG depends principally on that of the operating penses and appropriate shares of the general administration expenses. companies in the LANXESS Group and on the development of the chemical industry. General administration expenses decreased slightly against the previous year, down €1 million, or 2.2%, to €44 million. They principally The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in accordance comprised personnel and other business expenses not directly related with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the German Stock to the services provided to Group companies. The operating result Corporation Act (AktG). was level with the prior year at minus €46 million. The financial result, which comprises the balance of income and Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net interest position, and other financial income and expense, rose by €43 million, or LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance with the 26.7%, to €204 million. This change was primarily due to the profit German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged transfer of €283 million from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which € million 2011 2012 Change % was €67 million higher than in the previous year. The decrease in Sales 4 5 25.0 the net interest position by €26 million to minus €71 million had an Cost of sales (4) (5) 25.0 adverse effect and was mainly attributable to additional borrowings Gross profit 0 0 0.0 from subsidiaries. General administration expenses (45) (44) (2.2) Income before income taxes came to €158 million, following €115 milOther operating income 1 1 0.0 Other operating expenses (2) (3) 50.0 lion in the previous year. Income taxes increased by €8 million to Operating result (46) (46) 0.0 €54 million and comprised €14 million in tax expense for previous Income from investments years and €40 million in tax expenses for 2012. Net income rose in affiliated companies 216 283 31.0 substantially, up €35 million to €104 million. Net interest expense (45) (71) 57.8 Other financial income and expenses – net (10) (8) (20.0) Taking into account the allocation of €52 million to retained earnings Financial result 161 204 26.7 and the profit carryforward of €44 million, the distributable profit amounted to €96 million as of December 31, 2012, against €115 milIncome before income taxes 115 158 37.4 lion in the previous year. Income taxes (46) (54) 17.4 Net income 69 104 50.7 Carryforward to new account 46 44 (4.3) Allocation to retained earnings 0 (52) – Distributable profit 115 96 (16.5) Combined Management Report 107 Earnings, asset and financial position of LANXESS AG | Employees Statement of financial position and financial condition Liabilities rose by €514 million to €2,167 million, largely on account of LANXESS AG of payables to subsidiaries, which were €509 million higher than the previous year at €1,973 million. The increase was mainly due to longLANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance with the term loans totaling €493 million from LANXESS Finance B.V. The German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged provisions rose by €12 million to €117 million and related mainly to Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Change commitments to employees and statutory obligations. € million % € million % % ASSETS Financial assets 757 26.7 757 22.3 0.0 Employees Non-current assets 757 26.7 757 22.3 0.0 Receivables from As of December 31, 2012, the LANXESS Group had a total of affiliated companies 1,704 60.0 1,850 54.6 8.6 17,177 employees, against 16,390 at the closing date of the prior Other assets 78 2.8 39 1.2 (50.0) Liquid assets and securities 298 10.5 734 21.7 >100 year. This was 787 more than a year earlier. The number of employees Current assets 2,080 73.3 2,623 77.5 26.1 increased primarily as a result of acquisitions plus additional new hires Prepaid expenses 1 0.0 6 0.2 >100 linked to our growth strategy. 14,068, or 82%, of our employees Total assets 2,838 100.0 3,386 100.0 19.3 were men and 3,109, or 18%, were women. The number of employees who were non-German nationals was 9,481. In addition, we EQUITY AND LIABILITIES had 628 employees working on temporary employment contracts. Equity 1,185 41.8 1,219 36.0 2.9 LANXESS AG had 141 employees as of the reporting date, versus Provisions 105 3.7 117 3.4 11.4 135 the year before. Liabilities to banks 80 2.8 68 2.0 (15.0) Payables to affiliated Part-time employees accounted for 9.9% of the workforce at our companies 1,464 51.6 1,973 58.3 34.8 Other liabilities 4 0.1 9 0.3 >100 German core companies as of the reporting date. Individuals with Liabilities 1,548 54.5 2,050 60.6 32.4 severe disabilities made up 4.8% of the workforce at our German Total assets 2,838 100.0 3,386 100.0 19.3 companies. In addition, we routinely award contracts to work centers for the disabled. In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of employees In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the statement as of December 31, 2012 was 3,442, up from 3,357 in the previof financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated by financial assets ous year. In Germany, the headcount grew from 7,846 to 8,072. The and by receivables from, and payables to, subsidiaries. number of employees in the North America region rose to 1,553, from 1,427 as of December 31, 2011, while Latin America saw its LANXESS AG had total assets of €3,386 million as of December 31, workforce expand from 1,585 at the end of last year, to 1,626. At the 2012, which was €548 million, or 19.3%, above the prior-year figure. reporting date, we employed 2,484 people in the Asia-Pacific region, Non-current assets were constant at €757 million and primarily which is 309 more than a year ago. included the carrying amount of the investment in LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which stands at €739 million. The share of non-current Personnel expenses totaled €1,392 million in fiscal 2012 (2011: assets in total assets decreased from 26.7% to 22.3%. Current assets €1,244 million). Wages and salaries, at €1,097 million (2011: rose by €543 million to €2,623 million and accounted for 77.5% of €985 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social total assets, compared with 73.3% in 2011. Receivables from subsecurity contributions were €193 million (2011: €174 million), while sidiaries accounted for 54.6% of total assets and related principally pension plan expenses totaled €92 million (2011: €77 million), and to financial transactions and short-term loans. At the same time, a social assistance benefits came to €10 million (2011: €8 million). long-term loan from LANXESS Finance B.V. increased the share of bank balances and securities in total assets from 10.5% to 21.7%. Equity rose by €34 million to €1,219 million. This increase was due to the net income for the year, less the dividend payment for 2011. The equity ratio was 36.0% after 41.8% at the end of 2011. 108 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Employees by Region petitiveness in the long term. By actively exercising social responsibility, % providing attractive jobs in an international environment, offering performance-based, market-rate compensation, and promoting a culture that inspires diversity, leadership and trust, we give our employees 14.5 20.0 Asia-Pacific EMEA (excluding Germany) access to remarkable career development opportunities, also outside their home countries. 9.5 Latin America A major focus in the year under review was support for our internal 9.0 and external growth. We also worked diligently to foster the diversity North America of our workforce in response to the challenges associated with different markets, cultures and customers. To that end, we continued to 47.0 Germany develop the Board of Management’s Diversity & Inclusion initiative and set a clear goal for the company: to voluntarily increase the proportion of women in middle and upper management to 20% by 2020. The figure currently stands at just under 15%. Employees by Segment % In addition to developing and implementing innovative concepts for addressing the challenges resulting from demographic change, our 17.2 top long-term strategic human resources goal is to attract and cultivate 31.1 Other Performance Polymers a range of talented employees for LANXESS. We aim to strengthen our diversity, particularly in terms of age, national origin and gender, and have made this the focus of our Board of Management’s Diversity & Inclusion initiative. We continually develop new tools for positioning LANXESS as an employer brand that enables us to recruit, integrate and retain talented young people and experienced professionals for the 35.1 company worldwide. We involve our existing employees at numerous 16.6 Performance Chemicals Advanced Intermediates internal and external events to provide an authentic picture of LANXESS as an employer. Working together with our specialist departments, we have systematically expanded our network of contacts and built alliances with research institutes, colleges and universities, and student Employees by Functional Area (Annual Average) initiatives worldwide. This includes the expansion of the “Germany % Scholarship” program, a German government initiative. In the year under review, we funded scholarships for a total of 50 students at 4.8 Research eight target universities. 72.1 Production 11.0 Administration Our management training programs focus on building versatile global leadership skills. These programs and ILSA, our global sales academy, 12.1 support the sustainable growth of our company worldwide by enhancMarketing ing our organization’s productivity and openness to change. A key pillar of our HR policy is close cooperation between employee representatives and management, including trade unions and employers’ associations, in line with the principle of active codetermination. More than 64% of our employees worldwide are covered by the terms of collective agreements; in Germany, this figure is nearly 90%. Working conditions and HR policy We maintain a close dialogue with employee representative bodies in Germany, Europe and around the world to regularly discuss our Our success is fundamentally based on the performance, innovative corporate goals and involve these bodies in organizational change strength and commitment of our employees. Only through focused processes at an early stage. In Germany, the minimum notice period and sustainable employee training and development can we ensure for any substantial operational changes is four weeks. that we achieve our corporate goals and safeguard LANXESS’s comCombined Management Report 109 Employees Employee compensation and benefits Across Germany, 386 young people were being trained in 17 different career paths as of the December 31, 2012 reporting date. In the previWe strive for a merit-based compensation system linked to our comous year, we trained 317 young people in 14 different career paths. pany’s success and employees’ individual performance. Compensation We provide solid training opportunities for significantly more young systems that include variable compensation components in addition to people than we need to meet our own requirements. At the start of fixed remuneration have been implemented for 78% of our employees. the new training year in fall 2012, 140 young people (108 men and Our managers are able to reward outstanding employee performance 32 women) began their vocational training with LANXESS. A further quickly and unbureaucratically. In fiscal 2012, this resulted in payments 26 young people have chosen our four combined vocational training of €9 million worldwide (€6.4 million to employees in Germany) for and study programs. In 2012, we gave permanent and temporary outstanding individual performance. positions to more than 50% of those who completed their training with us in Germany. We again offered an employee stock plan in 2012. All LANXESS Group employees in Germany were given the opportunity to buy LANXESS Each year, under the motto “Prepare for the Future,” we attract parshares at a 50% discount. The shares were purchased at an average ticularly highly skilled university graduates for our LANXESS corporate price of €54.78 on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The participation trainee programs. Through the end of 2012, 63 highly qualified rate was 73%. At the reporting date, our employees and Board of university graduates had taken part in various intakes of our trainee Management members held around 1% of the company’s shares programs. The aim is to prepare the participants for an international through stock plans. career within the LANXESS Group and establish a pool of versatile young managers with international experience to support the further For the period 2010 to 2013, a new long-term compensation comexpansion of our business activities worldwide. ponent was introduced for the Board of Management and other senior managers to replace LANXESS’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). In 2010, we created the China Management Trainee Program specifiThe Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 2010 –2013 (LTSP) comcally for the Chinese market. This two-year program aims to prepare prises four tranches, each lasting four years. The plan compares the highly qualified business and technology graduates for management performance of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 roles and create a pool of local talent. We continued this program in ChemicalsSM Index over a period of four years. The participation rate 2012, with a special focus on trainee positions in finance and techniis 89%. cal production. In India, we have implemented two training programs. In China, the CRF Institute named us China’s Top Employer for the Vocational training third time in 2012, after honoring us in 2009 and 2011. LANXESS has always given priority to training young people as a means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of Employee development our social responsibility. In 2012, we once again strengthened the marketing activities for our vocational training programs using a range We assign great importance to motivating employees throughout their of media, attended all major regional career fairs and visited schools. entire career to undertake continuing professional development and Through events of our own such as “NeXt Azubi” (NeXt Trainee), accept new challenges within the Group regardless of their age. To we address young people with an interest in our company and give promote the talents of individual employees, LANXESS has established them valuable guidance for their later career choices. We also took a systematic, multi-tiered process of global HR development conferpart in Girls Day for the first time. In addition, our one-year orientaences where future managerial employees from around the world tion program XOnce provides young people with useful guidance on are regularly evaluated with regard to their potential. In 2012, the their way to a later traineeship if they are not ready to take this route LANXESS Academy continued promoting leadership and manageat the current time. ment skills with nearly all managers from around the world attending its modular programs as part of the uniform leadership system that is In Germany, young people can opt to combine vocational training at in effect throughout the LANXESS Group. In the period under review, LANXESS with university studies, or they can complete a traditional a total of 331 employees participated in these special management scientific, technical or commercial training program in our plants and programs. In addition, we provide extensive support to our young mandepartments. In addition to the combined IT vocational training and agers through focused coaching and modular leadership seminars. study program, we have strengthened our science offering with a combined program of university studies and vocational training in the fields of technical chemistry and business administration. We hope to offer more combined programs in the future. 110 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 With the LANXESS Summer Academy, we encourage continuing occupational safety and environmental protection. In 2012, employees professional and personal development across the boundaries of our at LANXESS’s German companies submitted a total of 3,157 suggesbusiness units and group functions by means of presentations, semitions, a rate of 430 per thousand employees. In the same period, nars and an attractive supporting program. 130 employees attended 1,507 ideas were implemented, yielding total savings of €3.1 million. the 2012 Summer Academy. 1,035 of these ideas led to improvements in occupational safety and environmental protection. In view of our ambitious growth targets, one focus of our human resources development activities in 2012 remained the International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA), which offers a tailored and practical Compensation report training program to all sales employees worldwide. This one-year modular program aims to develop both the specialist knowledge and soft Compensation of the Board of Management skills of our sales employees. It perfectly complements the programs already in place in the business units and countries by facilitating The structure of the compensation system and the level of compensacommunication and the sharing of best practices across business tion for the members of the Board of Management are determined by units and national borders. We consider the targeted qualification of the Supervisory Board. The appropriateness of the compensation is our global sales employees to be a significant success factor in the regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriateness further improvement of our customer relationships. It also gives us of the compensation for an individual Board of Management member a competitive edge in today’s global markets. 200 first-level sales include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, and the employees from all over the world participated in the program in the economic situation and sustainable growth of the LANXESS Group. first two years. Consideration is also given to the company’s overall compensation structure and to compensation at comparable companies. The compensation structure is also designed to be competitive in the interOccupational safety national market for highly qualified executives and provide the motivation to successfully work toward sustainable corporate development. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, is the key indicator used Effective January 1, 2010, the contracts of the members of the Board to assess occupational safety within the LANXESS Group. In 2012, of Management were amended to implement the legislative changes the LTIFR was 3.4, compared with 2.7 in 2011. There was a sharp entailed by the German Law on the Appropriateness of Management increase in the LTIFR outside Germany, in particular. This resulted Board Compensation and the provisions of the German Corporate primarily from a number of accidents at our chrome ore mine in South Governance Code. The 2010 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of Africa, which has gained statistical relevance owing to the international LANXESS AG resolved to approve the compensation system that harmonization of our reporting structures and the employee situation was introduced with these new contracts. This compensation system there. Also, our Xact global safety program has raised the profile of was applied when concluding the service contracts with all Board of occupational safety. The associated increase in awareness among our Management members. employees is reflected in an improved reporting culture. We expect the LTIFR to decrease again in the coming years. The components of the compensation for members of the Board of Management are the annual base salary; the variable components, which are the Annual Performance Payment, the Long-Term IncenIdea management tive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan and the Long-Term Performance Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three variable When LANXESS employees have good ideas for improving work components are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance and, procedures, safety and environmental protection, and for avoiding particularly, to its corporate success over a number of years. A cap mistakes, these ideas pay off. Our idea management system fosters has been defined for each of them. The compensation mix of 31% the development of suggestions for improvements to ensure that annual base salary and 69% variable compensation components we continually receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, is strongly aligned with the company’s performance and long-term value creation. Combined Management Report 111 Employees | Compensation report Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management In March 2012, on account of the company’s exceptional performance % in fiscal 2011, the Supervisory Board approved the payment of a Annual base salary 31 special bonus to the members of the Board of Management totalAnnual Performance Payment 36 ing €830 thousand. This bonus amounted to €320 thousand for Long-Term Incentive Plan/Long-Term Stock Performance Plan 19 Dr. Heitmann, €110 for Dr. Düttmann, and €200 thousand each for Long-Term Performance Bonus 14 100 Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel. The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is another element of variable Annual base salary The fixed compensation comprises the annual compensation. This compensation component is based on the perforbase salary and remuneration in kind, the latter consisting mainly of mance of LANXESS stock against a reference index, the Dow Jones the tax value of perquisites such as the use of a company car. The STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM. The LTIP responds to the call by legislators annual base salary of the members of the Board of Management is for a stronger focus on long-term company performance. The LTIP is market-oriented and in line with that paid at other comparable comdivided into three three-year tranches, with the first tranche having panies. The aggregate amount of the fixed compensation came to begun in 2008. Participation required a prior personal investment each €2,678 thousand in fiscal 2012. year in LANXESS shares to a value of 13% of the annual base salary. The shares are subject to a five-year lock-up period. First payments Variable compensation The annual performance-based component from the LTIP are made three years after the start of a tranche, provided of the variable compensation, known as the Annual Performance defined conditions are satisfied. 100% target attainment brings a payPayment (APP), is based on corporate business targets and other ment per tranche of 50% of the individual target income, which is the conditions, such as the attainment of certain Group EBITDA targets, annual base salary plus the APP assuming 100% target attainment. which are defined by the Supervisory Board before the beginning of the respective fiscal year. The APP is equivalent to 115% of the annual The LTIP was succeeded effective fiscal 2010 by two other long-term base salary in the case of 100% target attainment, with the maximum variable compensation components: the Long-Term Stock Performance payment limited to 200% of this variable compensation component. Plan (LTSP) and the Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB). Compensation from the performance-based APP in 2012 totaled €4,713 thousand. Actual payments in 2013 may differ from this amount, which was calculated in advance. Compensation of the Board of Management € ’000 Fixed compensation Variable compensation Payments from LTSP rights Year Annual RemuPerforPayLTPB Total cash Number Fair Total base neration mance ment for (multicompenof rights values compensalery in kind bonus1) previous year)3) sation sation years2) 2012 900 119 1,798 320 703 3,840 564,375 282 4,122 Dr. Axel C. Heitmann 2011 825 118 1,423 190 556 3,112 532,125 266 3,378 2012 500 54 972 200 380 2,106 322,500 161 2,267 Dr. Werner Breuers 2011 494 53 862 109 336 1,854 306,375 153 2,007 Dr. Bernhard Düttmann 2012 500 61 972 110 380 2,023 322,500 161 2,184 (effective April 1, 2011) 2011 375 194 646 0 126 1,341 322,500 161 1,502 2012 500 44 972 200 380 2,096 322,500 161 2,257 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2011 494 44 862 109 336 1,845 306,375 153 1,998 Matthias Zachert 2012 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (until March 31, 2011) 2011 137 13 158 0 0 308 354,750 177 485 2012 2,400 278 4,713 830 1,844 10,065 1,531,875 765 10,830 Total 2011 2,325 422 3,951 408 1,354 8,460 1,822,125 910 9,370 1) Payment in 2012 and 2013, respectively 2) Payment in 2011 and 2012, respectively 3) Payment of 50% each in 2013 and 2014 112 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The LTSP is divided into four four-year tranches and is also based on the interest thereon – may be converted to a pension benefit. There are performance of LANXESS stock against the Dow Jones STOXX 600 claims arising from provisions in place before 2006 that are granted ChemicalsSM reference index. Compared to the previous LTIP, the as vested rights. If the service contract ends before the beneficiary possible payment per tranche under the new plan has been reduced reaches the age of 60, the company pays certain additional benefits from 50% to 30% of the individual target income, assuming 100% up to a defined ceiling. target attainment. The condition for participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year in LANXESS shares to a value of 5% LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of Board of of the annual base salary. The shares are subject to an average fiveManagement members. The total service cost recognized under IFRS year lock-up period. accounting rules in the 2012 consolidated financial statements for this purpose was €815 thousand. The present value of the obligations for For more information, particularly regarding the valuation parameters the members of the Board of Management serving as of December 31, applied, please see Note [14] to the consolidated financial statements. 2012 was €18,248 thousand. Under IFRS accounting principles, the service cost for pension entitlements earned in 2012 and the present The personnel expenses incurred in fiscal 2012 for the LTIP and LTSP value of the obligations, including acquired rights, as of December 31, entitlements granted amount to €1,726 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, 2012 amounted, respectively, to €257 thousand and €10,924 thou€118 thousand for Dr. Düttmann and €991 thousand each for sand for Dr. Heitmann, €271 thousand and €2,173 thousand for Dr. Breuers and Dr. van Roessel. These personnel expenses are theoDr. Breuers, €204 thousand and €944 thousand for Dr. Düttmann, retical amounts and are not to be equated with the actual gains realized and €83 thousand and €4,207 thousand for Dr. van Roessel. when the entitlements are exercised in the future. The total service cost recognized under HGB accounting rules in the The LTPB, which is the third variable compensation component, is 2012 annual financial statements for this purpose was €1,987 thoulikewise aligned to long-term corporate performance. It rewards target sand. The present value of the obligations for the members of the Board attainment only after two successive fiscal years. The basis for calculatof Management serving as of December 31, 2012 was €14,882 thouing the LTPB is the individual APP target attainment for the fiscal years sand. Under HGB accounting principles, the present value of the in question. The exact amount of the LTPB results from the average obligations, including vested rights, for the members of the Board of individual APP target attainment for the two fiscal years. Assuming an Management serving as of December 31, 2012 amounted, respecaverage APP target attainment of 100%, the LTPB amounts to 45% of tively, to €8,732 thousand for Dr. Heitmann, €1,850 thousand for the annual base salary. Rights worth €1,844 thousand were earned Dr. Breuers, €768 thousand for Dr. Düttmann, and €3,532 thousand under the performance-based LTPB in fiscal 2011 and 2012. Actual for Dr. van Roessel. payments in 2013 and 2014 may differ from this amount, which was calculated in advance. As of December 31, 2012, obligations to former members of the Board of Management totaled €11,411 thousand under IFRS accounting Retirement pensions On termination of their service contracts, the rules and €8,946 thousand under HGB accounting rules. members of the Board of Management receive benefits under the company pension plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary Payments of €479 thousand were made to former members of the reaches age 60 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to work. Board of Management. They are paid to surviving dependents in the event of the beneficiary’s death. In fiscal 2012, the members of the Board of Management had indemnification rights should their service contracts be terminated The pension plan for the members of the Board of Management is a for defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution to be made a material change of control over the company. The terms depended by the company equal to 25% of the annual base salary and APP. on the respective circumstances and, regardless of the remaining term Moreover, the members of the Board of Management must themselves of the service contract, included severance payments amounting to pay an amount from deferred compensation amounting to 12.5% of up to two times the annual base salary or, in the event of a change of the APP. The members of the Board of Management may increase control, three times the annual base salary, plus the APP and LTPB their personal contribution to up to 25% of the APP. From the date assuming 100% target achievement. of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capital – including the Combined Management Report 113 Compensation report No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the Board Supervisory Board members who chair a committee other than the of Management in the event of termination of their service. In 2012, no Audit Committee receive a further quarter. However, no member may member of the Board of Management received benefits or assurances receive in total more than three times the fixed compensation amount. of benefits from third parties in respect of their duties as members of the Board of Management. Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their expenses in addition and also receive an attendance allowance of €1.5 thousand No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management in for each Supervisory Board meeting and each committee meeting fiscal 2012. they attend, with the exception of meetings of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codetermination Act and meetings of the Nominations Committee. With respect to their memberCompensation of the Supervisory Board ship on the supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the members of the Supervisory Board were remunerated only for their The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by Secservice on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH tion 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members of in the amount of €5 thousand each. the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compensation of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term incentive receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half times, this based on the company’s performance during the standard term of an amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Supervisory Board comindividual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five years). Unlike mittees is compensated separately in accordance with the German the fixed compensation component, this variable compensation comCorporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board members who belong ponent is not paid every year, but only once at the end of the standard to a committee receive one half of the fixed compensation amount term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, in addition. The chair of the Audit Committee receives a further half. the amount is prorated. Compensation of the Supervisory Board1) € Year Fixed Compensation as Attendance Fixed Total compensation committee member allowance compensation LANXESS AG LANXESS AG LANXESS Deutschland GmbH 2012 240,000 0 16,500 5,000 261,500 Dr. Rolf Stomberg, Chairman 2011 240,000 0 21,000 5,000 266,000 2012 120,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 178,500 Ulrich Freese, Vice Chairman 2011 120,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 186,000 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Axel Berndt 2011 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Wolfgang Blossey 2012 0 0 0 0 0 (until May 31, 2011) 2011 33,333 16,667 7,500 2,083 59,583 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Rudolf Fauss 2011 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 2012 80,000 80,000 15,000 5,000 180,000 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2011 80,000 80,000 18,000 5,000 183,000 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Robert J. Koehler 2011 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Rainer Laufs 2011 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 Thomas Meiers 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 (effective June 1, 2011) 2011 46,667 23,333 7,500 2,917 80,417 2012 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Dr. Ulrich Middelmann 2011 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 2012 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Hans-Jürgen Schicker 2011 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 2012 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Gisela Seidel 2011 80,000 40,000 21,000 5,000 146,000 2012 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Theo H. Walthie 2011 80,000 40,000 18,000 5,000 143,000 2012 1,160,000 480,000 184,500 60,000 1,884,500 Total 2011 1,160,000 480,000 231,000 60,000 1,931,000 1) Figures exclude value-added tax 114 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Payment of the variable compensation depends on how LANXESS’s 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under employee stock index during a member’s five-year term. The average price of LANXESS plans are subject to a lock-up period before they may be sold. stock and the average level of the index during the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Supervisory Board 3. Companies of the BlackRock Group notified us pursuant to Secmembers were elected are each compared with the respective average tion 21 Paragraph 1 of the German Securities Trading Act that they for the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at held 10.08% of the voting rights in our company as of October 31, the conclusion of which the members’ terms end. The variable com2012, thereby exceeding the threshold of 10%. We received no pensation is only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchmark other reports of direct and indirect equity investments in the capital index. The exact amount of the variable compensation depends on the of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total voting rights. extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed the 4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to 10 percentage points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand for this five-year 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG period; if it has outperformed the index by between 10 and 20 perthrough employee stock programs. There are no restrictions on centage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the degree of outperdirectly exercising the control rights arising from these shares. formance is greater than this, the compensation is €150 thousand. 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act and SecNo variable compensation was paid in fiscal 2012. tion 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply to the appointment and dismissal of Board of Management members. Under the The expected compensation payable for the term of office that began provisions of these sections, Board of Management members are with the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, appointed by the Supervisory Board for a term not exceeding five 2010 and runs until the conclusion of the Annual Stockholders’ Meetyears. Such appointment may be renewed or the term of office may ing that resolves to ratify the Supervisory Board members’ actions be extended, provided that the term of each such renewal or extenfor fiscal 2014 was valued at a total of €1,800 thousand (2011: sion shall not exceed five years. Appointments require a majority €1,500 thousand) at December 31, 2012 and reported as a provision. of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes. Section 6 Paragraph 1 of the articles of association states that the None of the members of the Supervisory Board received benefits for Board of Management must consist of at least two members. Over services provided individually during the reporting period. No loans or and above this, the number of members of the Board of Manageadvances were granted to members of the Supervisory Board during ment is determined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory the reporting year. Board may appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and a vice chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative members The table on page 113 breaks down the compensation received by of the Board of Management may be appointed. The Supervisory each member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the SuperBoard may revoke the appointment of a member of the Board of visory Board. Management or the appointment of a member as Chairman of the Board of Management for cause (Section 84 Paragraph 3 of the German Stock Corporation Act). Report pursuant to Section 289 Paragraph 4 and Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act provides that a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required for any Pursuant to Section 289 Paragraph 4 Nos. 1 to 9 and Section 315 amendment to the articles of association. Pursuant to Section 17 Paragraph 4 Nos. 1 to 9 of the German Commercial Code, we hereby Paragraph 2 of the articles of association, resolutions of the Stockmake the following declarations: holders’ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes cast and, if a capital majority is required, a simple majority of the capital stock, 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €83,202,670 as unless otherwise required by law or provided by the articles of assoof December 31, 2012 and is composed of 83,202,670 no-par ciation. The articles of association contain no further provisions in bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. this regard. Section 10 Paragraph 9 of the articles of association One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. of LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to resolve on The rights and obligations arising from the shares are governed amendments relating solely to the form of the articles of association. by the German Stock Corporation Act. Combined Management Report 115 Compensation report | Report pursuant to Section 289 Paragraph 4 and Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code 7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been authorized The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the to issue or repurchase shares as follows: extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the Own shares The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on company or a dependent company against cash contributions, or May 18, 2011 authorized the Board of Management until May 17, issued against cash contributions and guaranteed by the company 2016 to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10% or a dependent company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted the authorization granted to the Board of Management by the Annual by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of Stockholders’ Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its conversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to grant shares shares may be acquired either in the market or via a public tender in the company in place of all or part of the cash amount due for offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any payment. The conditional capital increase shall not be implemented purpose permitted by law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell if cash compensation is granted or if the company’s own shares, them other than via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockholdshares issued out of authorized capital or shares in another listed ers, or transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose company are used to service the option or conversion rights. of acquiring companies, parts of companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude mergers. It is also authorized When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with to use them to satisfy conversion rights from convertible or warrant the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights bonds and/or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a comin the following cases: bination of these instruments) issued by the company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; rights or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued issued by the company or its direct and indirect affiliates that grant option or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the a conversion or option right or stipulate a conversion or warrant number of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe obligation the number of shares for which such parties would be as stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or option or fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations; rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except price is not significantly below the theoretical market value of the where the shares are retired. bonds with option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of by application of Section 186 Paragraph 3 Sentence 4 of the LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011, authorized the Board of ManGerman Stock Corporation Act, in which case the issued shares agement until May 17, 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory may not exceed a total of 10% of the capital stock either at the Board, to issue – in one or more installments – warrant bonds time this authorization takes effect or at the time it is utilized; and/or convertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or bonds or a combination of these instruments (collectively referred conversion rights or conversion obligations are vested with bondto as “bonds”) – either as registered or as bearer bonds – with like characteristics. a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose option Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 2 of obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, profitLANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, Meeting on May 7, 2009 authorized the Board of Management and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligauntil May 6, 2014, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to tions on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total bearer shares of the company representing a total pro-rata increase amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are of up to €16,640,543 in the company’s capital stock on the terms generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 4 utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription of the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant thus conditionally increased by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company Capital). 116 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for 8. The service contracts between the company and the members which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain provisions of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights regarding the potential departure of the members of the Board can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when of Management in the context of a change of control. These are the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in outlined in the compensation report in this combined management kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription report. Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also exist rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory between the company and members of the first and second levels Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds of upper management. In addition, the terms of the €500 million issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of and €200 million Eurobonds issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with 2009 contain a change-of-control clause which gives bondholders the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new the right to redeem the bond should certain events occur that afshares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the fect its rating. The bonds were guaranteed by LANXESS AG. The time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed same applies to the terms of the €500 million Eurobond issued by 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further details are given in LANXESS Finance B.V. in the 2011 fiscal year, the CNH 500 milSection 4 Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. lion bond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in February 2012 and the €500 million Eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. In addition, pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s in November 2012, which are all guaranteed by LANXESS AG. articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on The company has signed an agreement with one major bank for May 28, 2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, a loan of €93 million. This agreement may be terminated without 2015, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the notice or repayment of the outstanding loan may be required if company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new another company or person gains control of more than 50% of no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total LANXESS AG. The same applies to two additional loan agreements amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are for €200 million and €120 million that LANXESS Finance B.V. generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is signed with investment banks in fiscal 2011. The company also utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription entered into an agreement with a syndicate of banks concerning rights can be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant a credit facility that is currently at €1,250 million. This agreement holders of warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company can also be terminated without notice if another company or person and its affiliates subscription rights to the number of new shares for takes control over more than 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, which such parties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise according to agreements between the company and LANXESS of their conversion or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights Pension Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make considerable can be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board when payments to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a change the company’s capital stock is increased against contributions in of control. kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory 9. The service contracts between the company and the members of Board in order to grant holders of convertible and/or warrant bonds the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as between issued by the company or its affiliates new shares upon exercise of the company and members of the first and second levels of upper their rights. Finally, subscription rights can also be excluded with management of LANXESS AG contain compensation agreements the approval of the Supervisory Board if the issue price of the new applicable in the event of a change of control, as such change is shares is not significantly lower than the stock market price at the more particularly described in the respective contracts. time the issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have issued the corporate governance statement pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code (HGB). This has been made available to the stockholders and can be found on our website at www.lanxess.com under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. Combined Management Report 117 Report pursuant to Section 289 Paragraph 4 and Section 315 Paragraph 4 of the German Commercial Code | Report pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code | Procurement and production Procurement and production Procuring chemical raw materials is a significant priority at LANXESS. Most of our sourcing in this area is done on the basis of long-term Procurement supply contracts. The availability of chemical raw materials has always played a crucial role in our facility location decisions. In Singapore, LANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement organizafor example, we will source the most important feedstocks for our tion – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a reliable supply of two new rubber plants via nearby pipelines. We procure key raw mamaterials and services. Global Categories coordinate with our business terials like butadiene and utilities like steam and biomass from the units to pool requirements. Our worldwide procurement network helps immediate vicinity at several of our other production sites, too. This not them leverage purchasing synergies, so that we can move efficiently in only minimizes the costs and environmental impact of our transportathe market and exploit price advantages. We avoid delivery bottlenecks tion activities but also reduces the risk of delivery shortfalls caused by or reliance on individual suppliers using techniques like multiple sourctransportation issues. ing. We systematically apply best-practice processes. These include e-procurement tools, such as e-catalogs and electronic marketplaces, Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2012 included many of which are integrated into our internal IT systems. In 2012, BASF, Bayer, BP, Braskem, Chevron Phillips, Enterprise, Evonik, Exxon about 60% of all items ordered (2011: around 55%) were handled Mobil, INEOS, LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic, Shell Chemicals, through e-procurement. Texas Petrochemicals and Total/Petrofina. Our HSEQ management process begins when raw materials and Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for our proservices are procured. We expect our suppliers to comply with all duction operations in 2012 were ammonia, butadiene, caustic soda, applicable national and other laws and regulations on safeguarding cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene, propylene, styrene and toluene. In the environment, ensuring health and safety in the workplace and all, strategic raw materials accounted for a purchasing volume of about using appropriate labor and hiring practices. These criteria, which €3.9 billion in fiscal 2012 (2011: approx. €3.9 billion), or around are defined in our Supplier Code of Conduct, play an important role 83% of the LANXESS Group’s total expenditure for raw materials in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. Regular audits, especially and goods in 2012, which amounted to approximately €4.7 billion of selected suppliers, are conducted in Germany and abroad to help (2011: approx. €4.6 billion). Our total procurement volume in 2012 us verify compliance with these regulations. In 2012, we performed was around €6.9 billion (2011: about €6.8 billion). a total of 29 audits, which corresponds to 7% of our suppliers. We are still not dependent on individual suppliers. Furthermore, no In order to minimize our procurement risks and enhance supply chain delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks occurred in the reporting period that transparency, we and five other international chemicals companies had a material effect on our business development. founded the Together for Sustainability initiative in 2012. The principal goals of this initiative are the standardization of supplier evaluations and audits, the institutionalization of neutral risk assessment of suppliers Production by a recognized independent partner and creation of a shared pool of qualified auditors. We expect this concerted approach to further LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of chemical and raise the level of awareness among our suppliers and inspire them polymer products. Our production facilities make anywhere from very to make continuous improvements. In the pilot phase, which started small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty and in the reporting year, more than 1,850 suppliers are being evaluated fine chemicals and polymers in quantities of several ten thousand tons. and some 150 audited. Each of our production facilities is organizationally assigned to an Across the LANXESS Group, a global procurement directive defines individual business unit. The most important production sites are at how our employees should behave towards suppliers and their employLeverkusen, Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany; Antwerp, ees. An internal training academy supports the training and ongoing Belgium; Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands; Orange, United States; Sarnia, professional development of our employees and ensures the high Canada; Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; and quality of our procurement processes. The training content includes our Wuxi, China. LANXESS also has other production sites in Argentina, seven-step strategic procurement process, negotiating techniques and Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, intercultural awareness, as well as time, supplier and risk management. South Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. For a complete breakdown of our production sites by segment, please see “The segments in brief” in this combined management report. 118 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The following significant changes occurred in our global production Including the measures described above, our cash outflows for capital network in 2012: expenditures came to €696 million in 2012. Details are given under “Capital expenditures” in the “Statement of financial position and • In May 2012, as scheduled, we opened our NBR rubber production financial condition” section of this combined management report. For plant in Nantong, China, which was constructed in a joint venture additional information about the acquisitions made in the year under with Taiwan-based TSRC Corporation. review, please see “Additions to the Group portfolio” in this combined • Our Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit completed management report. the second phase of an expansion of its production plant for highperformance rubber products in Orange, United States. • The Technical Rubber Products business unit expanded its production Sales organization and customers capacities for the high-performance synthetic rubber Therban® by 40% each at the sites in Leverkusen, Germany, and Orange, United Sales States. Effective January 1, 2013, this business unit was split into the new Keltan and High Performance Elastomers business units. The We sell our products all over the world, to several thousand customers facilities described here will be assigned to the High Performance in more than 150 countries across all continents. LANXESS’s longElastomers business unit in future. standing customer base includes leaders in each of its user industries. • Technical Rubber Products significantly expanded EVM capacities We have well-established customer relationships in all sales regions. To at the site in Dormagen, Germany, as well. This facility will also be meet our customers’ needs, we have set up very flexible marketing and assigned to the High Performance Elastomers business unit in future. sales structures. We manage our sales throughout the world through • In September 2012, the High Performance Materials business unit 49 companies owned by LANXESS itself. We continually extend our opened our first U.S. compounding plant in Gastonia, North Carolina. global presence so we are closer to our customers and can better • Together with our partner, U.S. chemical company DuPont, we evaluate strategic potential. doubled the capacity of our joint compounding facility for polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) in Hamm-Uentrop, Germany. For example, in mid-2012 we established the new country company • With Bond-Laminates GmbH, our High Performance Materials busiLANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi to conduct our business in ness unit acquired a production plant for highly specialized composite Turkey, where LANXESS markets its entire range of products. Activities materials. focus on high-performance rubber products, rubber chemicals and • In the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit, we completed high-tech plastics for the automotive sector, as well as color pigments the project to double production capacities for synthetic menthol at for the construction industry. In countries where we do not yet have the site in Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany, as scheduled. our own company, we work with local sales partners. • Our Functional Chemicals business unit increased the capacity of its production network for phosphorus chemicals at the site in To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive Leverkusen, Germany, by 10%. individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales • With Tire Curing Bladders, LLC, our Rhein Chemie business unit organization. Another competitive advantage is provided by our acquired a production facility for vulcanization bladders in Little Rock, 49 production sites in 16 countries. Wherever possible, customers United States. are supplied from production sites in the same region, which saves • In addition, the Rhein Chemie business unit raised its production them both time and money. capacities for vulcanization bladders at the site in Burzaco, Argentina, by 40%. In this context, production in Uruguay was relocated to Approximately 20% of all orders with external purchasing and sales partArgentina and the United States in the reporting year. ners were processed via e-business in fiscal 2012. Altogether, around 300,000 orders and the respective automated follow-up notices in these areas and logistics were handled as e business. This capability is provided by the LANXESS one Internet portal and the system-to-system connections via ELEMICA. We will continue to expand this process, which provides benefits for all involved, by adding additional partners and technical services, for example, by bringing our Brazilian companies online. The net sales invoice values accounted for by e-business came to approximately €1,690 million, an increase of about 7% on the previous year. Combined Management Report 119 Procurement and production | Sales organization and customers | Research and development Selling costs for fiscal 2012 came to 8.4% of LANXESS Group sales, The number of customers in each segment varied widely. The Perup 0.1 percentage points on the prior-year level of 8.3%. formance Polymers segment had some 3,300 customers in 2012 (2011: 3,100), while Advanced Intermediates and Performance The table below shows selling costs by segment over the last five years. Chemicals had about 3,000 (2011: 2,900) and 11,800 (2011: 12,000), respectively. This information is based on the number of Selling Costs customer accounts in each segment. Each segment includes all cus2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 tomer groups and sales categories. However, one customer may do business with more than one segment. Selling costs (€ million) 658 530 646 732 763 % of sales 10.0 10.5 9.1 8.3 8.4 Breakdown by segment The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance ChemiPerformance Polymers 228 178 216 262 284 cals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect the way in Advanced Intermediates 110 92 122 127 125 which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions in specialty Performance Chemicals 307 253 300 320 335 chemicals. The substantially lower number of customers in the PerReconciliation 13 7 8 23 19 formance Polymers segment, which generates relatively high sales, is likewise typical of the synthetic rubber products business. The extensive customer base means that no segment can be considered dependent Customers on just a few customers. Because of our broad offering, we have business relationships with a large number of customers all over the world. These customers need Research and development an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are able to provide because our sales organizations are managed through the business Research and development plays a significant role in increasing our units. Individual sales and marketing strategies are reviewed on the competitiveness and expanding our business through the developbasis of regular customer satisfaction surveys. ment of innovative processes and products as well as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, chemicals, automotive supply, plastics, electronics, agrochemicals, pharmaceutiTherefore, we continued to systematically expand our research and cals, food, water treatment, construction and furniture. development activities in 2012. Existing products and processes were refined and optimized with a shortto medium-term time horizon. In Shares of Sales by Industry Sector addition, the Innovation & Technology Group Function focused above % 2012 all on initiating mediumto long-term research projects to ensure Tires success in the high-growth areas of the future and thus safeguard the ~ 25 Chemicals ~ 15 Group’s sustainable performance. Automotive ~ 15 Construction, electrical/electronics, in each case Important research projects were advanced in the Performance Polyagrochemicals, leather/footwear 3 –10 mers segment, which focuses on the mobility megatrend. Investments Others (cumulative share) ~ 15 in this segment have included the further development of high-performance rubbers that help improve the braking performance, abraIn fiscal 2012, our top ten customers accounted for about 26% of sion resistance and wet grip properties of tires. Within this context, total sales (2011: 28%). None of our customers accounted for more we developed a concept tire that has already received a double-A than 10% of Group sales. 50 (2011: 53) customers accounted for rating for fuel efficiency and wet grip under the new E.U. tire labeling annual sales in excess of €20 million. The slight decrease in these regulations. Our high-performance rubber Nd-PBR also contributes figures is attributable to the declining volumes reflected in Group sales. to improving durability. In this way, we are cementing our position as a leading company in the field of specialty chemicals for green mobility. Sustainability in raw material sourcing is also particularly important. 120 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 In this area, LANXESS is focusing on bio-based rubber. Since the Number of Employees in Research and Development end of 2011, we have been marketing various EPDM rubber grades 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 produced in part using ethylene derived from sugar cane rather than Year end 453 489 519 731 843 from petroleum. % of Group employees 3.1 3.4 3.5 4.5 4.9 The Performance Chemicals segment is also setting trends in the area of research and development. Following the successful start-up of the At the end of 2012, we employed 843 people (2011: 731) in our membrane element production plant in Bitterfeld, Germany, we added research and development laboratories worldwide. We created the new membrane separation elements with high rejection and high flow Group Senior Scientist awards in 2012 to honor top researchers and rates to our product portfolio. We also developed a highly effective scientific experts for their achievements, generate motivation and synthetic iron oxide for removing hydrogen sulfide from biogas that prospects for careers in research and development, and place the can be easily metered into the fermentation reactor as well as iron focus even more firmly on innovation and our premium strategy. The oxides for the production of cathodes for lithium-ion batteries. Thanks first awards have already been made for outstanding achievements in primarily to their good morphological properties and high reactivity, the area of sustainable science and technology with commensurate the products are ideally suited for use in the field of electromobility. contributions to earnings. Our largest research and development units are at the sites in LeverCost trend and employees kusen, Krefeld-Uerdingen and Dormagen, Germany; London, Canada; and Qingdao and Wuxi, China. The development and testing of highOur total research and development expenses in 2012 increased performance rubber products for energy-saving green tires and highby 33% on the prior year to €192 million, or 2.1% of sales (2011: tech plastics for lightweight construction applications in the automotive €144 million, or 1.6% of sales). The Butyl Rubber, Technical Rubber industry are examples of the work we perform there. In December Products, High Performance Materials and Saltigo business units 2012, we also opened a development center for high-tech plastics accounted for the largest share of these expenses in 2012 at 61% in Hong Kong to strengthen our relations with automakers in the Asia(2011: 54%). Butyl Rubber, Saltigo, Material Protection Products and Pacific growth region. Ion Exchange Resins were the business units most active in research in terms of their ratios of research and development expenses to sales. Fields of activity and patent strategy The table below shows research and development expenses in the last five years. In 2012, we conducted around 235 research and development projects (2011: 210), around 145 of which (2011: 125) aimed to Research and Development Expenses develop new products and applications or improve existing ones. Some 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 90 projects (2011: around 85) concerned process technology issues Research and development with a view to reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capaciexpenses (€ million) 97 101 116 144 192 ty. We plan to have roughly 25% of the research and development % of sales 1.5 2.0 1.6 1.6 2.1 projects we started in 2012 in the market or technical implementation stages by the end of 2013 (2011: about 20%). A commitment for long-term financing from the European Investment The results of our research and development work are protected by Bank (EIB), the E.U.’s Luxembourg-based development bank, will patents, where this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2012, increase our scope for funding research and development activities we submitted 90 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, over the next six years. It covers a €200 million credit facility that 2012, the full patent portfolio included approximately 1,100 patent carries attractive conditions. We see the partnership as affirmation families covering around 7,600 property rights. of our innovative potential and recognition of our clear focus on developing sustainable products and production processes. Combined Management Report 121 Research and development Organizational focus In the area of process innovation, we direct our efforts toward developing new processes and integrating new technologies into existing Our research and development activities are closely allied to the needs production processes with the aim of achieving cost and technology of the market and our customers. Organizationally, the LANXESS leadership. One focus is on reviewing current production processes Group’s research and development units are assigned to the individual using mathematical and experimental methods in order to pinpoint business units. For example, business units with a substantial proporoptimization potential. In this way, we have already identified and in tion of products in very mature markets, such as Advanced Industrial some cases achieved considerable savings on raw materials and Intermediates, concentrate on constantly improving their production energy. We made further savings in operating costs by implementing facilities and processes (process optimization). Other business units our process control concepts in a number of facilities. These newly focus their research and development activities more on optimizing implemented concepts – including online analytics – enable us to run their products and product quality and on developing new products to plants even closer to the optimum operating point, which, in addition to meet market requirements and customers’ special needs. We have set reducing costs, in some cases even increases their capacity. Against the ourselves the goal of aligning our research programs in the future more backdrop of our strategic growth initiative, we are also stepping up our directly and more systematically with the major global megatrends: the efforts to refine the technological aspects of our processes for growth expanding need for mobility, sharply rising global food requirements, projects. To this end, we opened a new process technology laboratory increasing urbanization and the growing demand for water. in 2012 where we can optimize existing processes as well as develop new processes and investigate their transferability to industrial scale. Our basic research is conducted mainly via alliances with universities and research institutes. Generating knowledge in this way Product innovation is focused on the development of new products and is substantially more efficient and cost-effective than if we were to new applications for existing products as well as on product modificamaintain our own resources for this purpose. In 2012, we had a tions. The search for new products is more broadly based than in the total of 203 (2011: 145) major research and development alliances, business units, the main topics are generally applicable to multiple 78 (2011: 50) of which were with universities, 66 (2011: 55) with business units, and there is a mediumto long-term time horizon. suppliers or customers, and 59 (2011: 40) with research institutes. Here, too, our research goals are derived from the global megatrends. Since launching our Xplore ideas platform on the company intranet in 2011, we regularly issue challenges that result in the development Innovation & Technology Group Function of ideas and solutions for future-oriented innovations worldwide. For instance, the winning team in the “Sustainability” challenge that conAs a central unit, the Innovation & Technology Group Function complecluded during the reporting year developed an innovative method for ments our business units’ research work with new, longer-term, crossremoving organic impurities from drinking water. The great success of business unit projects to ensure that potential synergies are exploited this platform has made a significant contribution to the promotion of to the full and innovations can be applied in various LANXESS units. our corporate innovation culture. We have already transformed a large number of ideas into concrete projects with the help of standardized We further expanded this group function in all areas in 2012, thereby processes. These projects are regularly evaluated with regard to their significantly strengthening our expertise in both chemistry and technoltechnological and financial attractiveness. We have further expanded ogy. Against the backdrop of rising energy prices, we established a our broad network of external partners through the establishment of central energy task force comprising experts from various disciplines new alliances with universities, institutes and leading companies in to implement energy efficiency projects across the Group and act as various fields such as biotechnology, nanotechnology, microtechnola competence center for energy technology. We also broadened our ogy and membrane technology. engineering expertise with the aim of being able to implement largescale capital expenditure projects on the basis of our own know-how. The group function’s research concentrates on both process and product innovation, which are handled by separate units. 122 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 In 2010, we began collaborating with the Russian Academy of management system worldwide. Confirmation of our compliance with Sciences (RAS) and have since established a research network with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. leading Russian institutes and universities. RAS ranks among the In 2012, we successfully completed the recertification audit, which world’s most distinguished scientific institutions and has a history must take place every three years. dating back over 285 years. Under the motto “Chemistry – Shaping the Future,” we hosted a joint scientific symposium in Moscow in As of April 28, 2012, our matrix certificate covered 41 companies November 2012. The conference with scientists from both countries, with 79 sites in 22 countries. At the end of 2012, the site we acquired which was organized as part of Germany Year in Russia, offered a from DSM in Geleen, Netherlands, our facilities in Liyang, China, the wide range of topics from various chemical disciplines – from catalytic headquarters of the Butyl Rubber business unit in Singapore and the chemistry and polymer and organic chemistry to material science. sites assigned to Rhein Chemie that were acquired from Darmex in Burzaco and Merlo, Argentina, and Colonia, Uruguay, were included in the certificate. For our sites in the United States, we have also received Corporate responsibility certification to RC 14001 (RC = Responsible Care®). In our business activities we are committed to taking account of the In 2010, we began implementing an energy management system demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. With based on ISO 50001. The LANXESS Energy Management Directive our products and our expertise in the area of sustainable development that came into force in February 2012 defines the standards to be we can make a significant contribution to supporting our customers, applied in our global operations. We successfully completed implemenprotecting the environment and improving the quality of life of people tation of the energy management system in the German production everywhere. All our corporate responsibility activities must be linked units at the end of 2012. The first LANXESS production facility to be to our core business or to our available expertise. certified to ISO 50001 was IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH in Bitterfeld. We consider compliance with laws and ethical principles to be the basis for sustainable corporate governance. The “Code for Legal Environment data Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS,” which is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards and We have developed a proprietary electronic system for the systematic gives our employees advice and guidance on complying with these global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of standards. Our compliance management system was audited by safety and environmental protection. Data for all indicators except Deloitte & Touche GmbH in 2012. the LTIFR are gathered only at those production sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. In the year under review, We have been supporting the Responsible Care® initiative since 2006, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft when we became a signatory to the Global Charter initiated by the assessed our data recording processes and system in the course of International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). We are also a business audit. Most of our HSE indicators for 2012 were audited committed to the established principles of the world’s largest corpowith a view to achieving a “limited assurance” rating. rate social responsibility initiative, the U.N. Global Compact. Since we signed up in 2011, we have continued to raise our sustainability profile. Product stewardship Integrated management system We expressly support the protection goals of the European chemicals regulation REACH. During the first REACH registration phase that Our globally integrated management system provides the necessary ended on November 30, 2010, we prepared dossiers for 193 subGroup-wide structures to ensure responsible commercial practices. In stances that we produce in or import to the European Union in volumes addition to internal directives and operating procedures, strict quality exceeding 1,000 tons annually and submitted these to the European and environmental standards in line with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 Chemicals Agency (ECHA). In the second phase through to the end of apply worldwide. External, independent experts regularly audit the May 2013, we will be registering around 200 substances with volumes progress of system integration at new sites and the performance of our exceeding 100 tons. Lastly, all substances with volumes exceeding one ton must be registered by the third deadline at the end of May 2018. We expect to submit a total of some 750 substance dossiers over all three phases. Combined Management Report 123 Research and development | Corporate responsibility | Events after the reporting period | Report on risks and opportunities Social commitment Expected Growth in GDP Change vs. prior year in Gross domestic product Our not-for-profit activities focus on providing support for science real terms (%)1) 2013 2014 2015 –2017 education in schools. In 2008, we launched the extensive LANXESS Americas 2.0 3.0 3.0 education initiative that underscores our clear commitment to Germany NAFTA 2.0 3.0 3.0 as a business location and as a base for the chemical industry. Over Latin America 3.5 4.5 4.0 the past five years, we have invested around €4 million in this initiaEMEA 0.5 1.5 2.5 tive. LANXESS has also initiated projects focusing particularly on the Germany 0.5 1.0 1.5 promotion of science education at almost all its sites across the globe. Western Europe 0.0 0.5 2.0 Central and Eastern Europe 2.0 3.5 4.0 Asia-Pacific 4.0 5.0 5.0 World 2.0 3.0 3.5 Events after the reporting period 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in February 2013 No events of particular significance took place after December 31, 2012 that could be expected to have a material effect on the cash flows, financial condition and results of operations of the LANXESS We expect geopolitical conditions to continue contributing to high Group or LANXESS AG. volatility on the raw material markets. The trend toward higher procurements costs, especially for petrochemical raw materials, is likely to persist. It can be assumed that energy prices will continue to increase Report on risks and opportunities in the coming years. Expected changes in business conditions We predict volatility for the U.S. dollar against the euro in 2013 within the range of US$1.25 to US$1.40, compared with US$1.32 at General business conditions We anticipate that the economic difficulDecember 31, 2012. ties facing the industrialized nations will recede only gradually during 2013. Even the growth markets may not be able to escape the effects Future performance of the chemical industry We expect the chemical of the challenging environment in the established economic regions. industry to follow the macroeconomic trend. Growth in 2013 is likely Therefore, the global economy is likely to expand only slightly again to be below average at 3.0%, shaped again by lower demand in the in 2013, with projected growth of 2.0% for the year. NAFTA region and Western Europe. The emerging economies will remain the principal drivers of global growth. We expect growth of Even this cautious forecast is still subject to significant risks, among 7.5% in China and 5.5% in India, for example. Growth in the Asiathem the political uncertainty surrounding the fiscal situation in the Pacific region overall is expected to be 5.5%. We predict that South United States and the public debt situation in Europe. The Middle America will again provide more positive momentum for the industry, East and Africa present the biggest risk in terms of political instability. with growth of 3.5%. We estimate that GDP growth in the NAFTA region will be close to Expected Growth in Chemical Production the prior-year level at 2.0%. Since the problems in Europe remain Change vs. prior year in Chemical production unsolved, but are not expected to worsen further, we project that real terms (%)1) 2013 2014 2015 –2017 the region’s economy will stagnate. Recessionary trends are likely to Americas 1.5 2.5 3.0 dominate in the first half of 2013, but could be followed by a recovery NAFTA 1.5 2.0 3.0 in the second half of the year. We therefore anticipate zero growth in Latin America 3.5 4.0 4.0 Western Europe, too. Asia is likely to grow at 4.0%, slightly stronger EMEA 0.5 1.5 2.5 than 2012. Germany 1.5 2.0 1.5 Western Europe 0.0 1.0 2.0 Central and Eastern Europe 2.5 3.5 4.5 Asia-Pacific 5.5 7.0 6.5 World 3.0 4.5 4.5 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight in February 2013 124 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Future evolution of selling markets According to our forecasts, the tire Risk report industry is expected to expand by 4.5% overall in 2013, with a rebound in the demand for replacement tires, in particular. We project growth of Opportunity and risk management system Our success is significantly 6.5% for the Asia-Pacific region with its growth engines China and India. dependent on identifying opportunities and risks in our business activiIn Europe, however, we must expect a slight decline. The downward ties and actively managing them. The goal of the risk management momentum of the previous year is expected to continue in Western system is to safeguard the company’s existence for the long term and Europe, with a contraction of 7.5%, while Central and Eastern Europe ensure its successful future development by identifying opportunities could achieve substantial growth of 7.5%. We predict only marginal and risks and, depending on their nature, appropriately considering growth of 0.5% for the NAFTA region. these in strategic and operational decisions. Risks and opportunities are understood as negative or positive deviations from planned results. The automotive industry is expected to post much lower growth of only 2.5% in 2013. We anticipate a strong contraction of around Our management system is based both on internal organizational 8.5% in Western Europe on account of the weak economy there, but workflows, which are managed by way of control and monitoring believe there is scope for a 6.0% improvement in Central Europe. We mechanisms, and on early warning systems that are used to closely expect growth to normalize to 3.0% in the NAFTA region. Automotive observe changes in external conditions and systematically implement production in Asia is projected to expand by 6.0%. China is likely to the appropriate measures. This approach applies equally to risks and record strong growth of 10.5%, while output in Japan, at minus 6.0%, opportunities. is poised to fall significantly. Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this system The market for agrochemicals should continue to grow due to solid does not offer absolute protection. However, it does serve to prevent global demand. Asia is likely to post the strongest growth at 4.5%. business risks from having a material impact on the company with a Europe could continue to raise output slightly from the current high sufficient degree of certainty. level of production. We anticipate the weakest growth of 0.5% in the NAFTA region given the low demand in 2012 and the corresponding Structural basis The principles of our opportunity and risk management increase in inventories held by customers. system are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, which uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management frameWe expect global growth in the construction industry to remain moderwork, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into ate. In our opinion, the eurozone crisis will cause a further contraction business processes through the company’s organizational structure, of 0.5% in Europe. We predict slight growth of 3.0% in the NAFTA its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems, region. Most of the industry’s growth is likely to continue to come from and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards. Asia with 7.0%. China will be the main driver. Expected Evolution of Major User Industries Change vs. prior year in Tires Automotive Agrochemicals Construction real terms (%)1) 2013 2014 2015 – 2013 2014 2015 – 2013 2014 2015 – 2013 2014 2015 – 2017 2017 2017 2017 Americas 2.5 2.0 1.0 3.5 5.5 3.5 2.0 2.5 2.5 3.5 8.0 6.0 NAFTA 0.5 0.0 (0.5) 3.0 5.0 2.5 0.5 2.0 2.0 3.0 8.5 6.0 Latin America 9.5 8.5 5.0 5.0 6.5 6.0 3.5 3.0 3.0 5.5 6.0 5.0 EMEA 0.5 1.5 2.0 (5.5) 5.0 6.5 1.0 2.0 3.0 0.5 1.5 3.0 Germany (3.5) (1.0) (0.5) (10.0) 0.5 5.5 1.5 2.0 2.5 (0.5) 0.5 1.0 Western Europe (7.5) (4.0) (1.0) (8.5) 1.5 6.0 1.5 1.5 2.0 (0.5) 0.5 2.0 Central and Eastern Europe 7.5 6.0 4.0 6.0 9.0 5.0 1.0 2.5 3.0 2.0 4.0 5.0 Asia-Pacific 6.5 8.5 7.5 6.0 10.0 7.0 4.5 5.5 5.5 7.0 6.5 5.5 World 4.5 5.5 5.0 2.5 7.5 6.0 3.0 4.0 4.0 3.5 5.0 4.5 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5% Data based mainly on forecasts by IHS Global Insight, LMC and other sources in February 2013 Combined Management Report 125 Report on risks and opportunities The system is based on an integration concept, i.e. the early identificaThe reporting threshold for opportunities and risks is an effect of tion of opportunities and risks is an integral part of the management €1 million on the Group’s net income or EBITDA, taking into account system and not the object of a separate organizational structure. The a minimum probability of occurrence. This low reporting threshold management of opportunities and risks is therefore a primary duty of guarantees that the information gathered about opportunities and the heads of all business units, as well as of those people in Group risks is comprehensive and that the collection of information is not companies who hold process and project responsibility. This is why our just limited to material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future of opportunity and risk management is based on clearly defined business the company as a going concern. The Corporate Controlling Group processes, the precise assignment of responsibilities throughout the Function centrally determines the top opportunities and risks only Group, and reporting systems that ensure the timely provision of the after the information has been gathered. The threshold for material information required for decision-making to the Board of Management risks has been defined at €10 million for the Group. or other management levels. Various committees and other bodies discuss and monitor our opportunities and risks. The Corporate Development Group Function systematically analyzes and measures significant and strategic opportunities and risks with Roles of key organizational units At LANXESS, the business units the goal of ensuring that the Group is pursuing the correct long-term each conduct their own operations, for which they have global profit strategy. responsibility. Group functions and service companies support the business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other centralized Transactions particularly for the transfer of financial but also operating services. Complementing this global alignment of the business units risk (hedging transactions or insurance) are managed centrally by the and group functions, the country organizations ensure the required Treasury Group Function. This is explained in more detail in “Risks of proximity to markets and the necessary organizational infrastructure. future development.” In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility, i.e. Due to the highly integrated nature of our general business processes, defined the risk owners, for the following: we have specialized committees composed of representatives of the business units and group functions who deal with issues concerning • identification and analysis of risks and opportunities, the Group’s risks and opportunities. This enables us to react quickly • risk prevention (measures taken to avoid, minimize or and flexibly to changing situations and their influence on the company. diversify risk), • risk monitoring (e.g. on the basis of performance indicators and, Significance of the Group-wide planning process Corporate planning perhaps also, early warning indicators), is a core element of our opportunity and risk management. Opportuni• risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurrence ties and risks with a likelihood of occurrence greater than the specified of a risk event) and minimum probability flow directly into the planning process. Key budget • communication of the key risks and opportunities to the managevalues are calculated and those risks and opportunities considered ment committees of the business units and group functions. relatively likely to materialize are presented as worst-case/best-case scenarios. The processes for corporate planning and intrayear foreThe Corporate Controlling Group Function is responsible for collecting casting as well as the corresponding analyses and suggestions for and aggregating key information across the Group at the following action are steered by the Corporate Controlling Group Function, which intervals: works closely in this regard with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings are dedicated to discussing and adopting • twice per year during the intrayear forecasting process, corporate planning outcomes, including the associated opportunities • once per year as part of the budget and planning process for the and risks. We monitor the annual budget in any given fiscal year by subsequent year and the medium-term forecast horizon. regularly updating our expectations for business development. The reported opportunities and risks are collected in a central database There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on specific risk and regularly analyzed for the Board of Management and Supervisory issues such as unexpected operational events with a significant impact Board. This ensures that when new risks and opportunities arise or on earnings. In 2012, there was no cause for immediate reporting when existing ones change substantially, the necessary information of this kind. can be communicated in a timely manner all the way to the Board of Management and therefore also be specifically integrated into the general management of the company. 126 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Compliance as an integral component Risk management also includes The Supervisory Board, and especially its Audit Committee, deal with preventing illegal conduct by our employees. To this end, we obtain major questions relating to LANXESS’s accounting and risk manageextensive legal advice concerning business transactions and obligate ment, the audit mandate and the areas of focus for the auditor’s audit employees by means of our compliance code to observe the law and of the annual financial statements. to act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive compliance management system that has been structured in accorConsolidated interim financial statements are prepared each quarter. dance with the principles of an internationally recognized framework The condensed consolidated half-yearly financial statements are for enterprise risk management (COSO). A Compliance Committee reviewed, while the annual financial statements and the consolidated promotes and monitors adherence to our compliance guidelines. Its financial statements are subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the work is supported by compliance officers who have been appointed company’s annual financial statements and consolidated financial for each country in which we have a subsidiary. The Compliance statements. Committee is chaired by a Group Compliance Officer, who reports directly and regularly to the Board of Management. In addition, there LANXESS AG’s uniform accounting in compliance with the German is provision for immediate notification of the Board of Management Commercial Code is based on a structured process with appropriate and Supervisory Board in the event of serious compliance violations. organizational structures and workflows, including the related working In 2012, there was no cause for immediate reporting of this kind. instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dual-control principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundamental moni(Group) accounting aspects of the internal control and risk managetoring tools during the financial statement preparation process. On ment system The aspects of the internal control and risk management the IT side, the accounting process is supplemented by an integrated system relating to the (Group) accounting process include the prinIT system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected ciples, procedures and measures required to ensure the effectiveness, by security measures against unauthorized access. The correctness efficiency and propriety of the company’s accounting, and compliance of the automatically generated postings and the master data required with applicable legal regulations. To this end, clear organizational, confor them is regularly reviewed. Manual postings are based on a systrol and monitoring structures have been established. The distinctive tematic voucher system, documented to the necessary extent and features of the chemical industry and the risk management tools used verified downstream. regularly by LANXESS in this regard are taken into account. In addition to the (Group) accounting process in its narrower sense, this also The foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated financial includes the aforementioned structured budget and forecasting proreporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements Guideline. cess, and extensive contract management. However, the effectiveness This governs the way the provisions of the International Financial and reliability of the internal control and risk management system can Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are applied by be restricted by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls the subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the guideline also or other circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used defines charts of accounts that are binding throughout the Group. On are applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) the IT side, the guideline is supplemented by a uniform, Group-wide accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. delivery and consolidation system that is based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected by security measures against unauthorized The Accounting Group Function, which reports to the CFO, is responaccess. sible for the (Group) accounting process and therefore for preparing the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting profinancial statements of the LANXESS Group. It is also responsible for cess, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices in line ensuring the uniform preparation of the single-entity financial statewith the applicable laws and standards are applied and guarantee the ments of the subsidiaries that are included in the consolidated financial reliability of our financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related statements. The Board of Management prepares the annual financial internal control system we use is based on generally accepted stanstatements and the consolidated financial statements, which are then dards (COSO model). There were no material changes to this system forwarded to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee without delay. during the period under review. Corresponding standards also apply Upon recommendation by the Audit Committee, the annual financial to the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries. statements and the consolidated financial statements are adopted and approved by the Supervisory Board at its financial statements meeting. Combined Management Report 127 Report on risks and opportunities Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based on a the auditor as part of the audit of the annual financial statements. The very detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement Supervisory Board also exercises control functions, including regular calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. A further monitoring of the efficiency of the management systems described component is regular reviews of the correctness and completeness of above by the full Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The the scope of consolidation. The principle of the segregation of duties Audit Committee reviews reports about the Compliance Committee’s as expressed in structured authorization and approval procedures activities and findings, the work of the Internal Auditing Group Function, and the dual-control principle as well as continual plausibility testing and the status of the risk management and internal control system. on data is applied end-to-end throughout the preparation and consolidation process. Risks of future development The main sources of risk are shown in the table below: For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries subject to reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting data using the Main Sources of Risk above-mentioned consolidation system. Validation rules integrated Macroeconomic Regional differences in performance into the system ensure that the data reported by the subsidiaries are Long-term exchange-rate parities consistent at the time of delivery. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring Demographic trends the correctness of the reported data content lies with the accounting Strategic Corporate strategy Investments departments of the subsidiaries. The Corporate Accounting DepartInformation technology ment within the Accounting Group Function conducts more detailed Human resources testing of the correctness of the data content. To this end, the departOperational Sales markets ment evaluates standardized reports in which the companies explain Plant operations material facts relevant to financial reporting. After the process-based Environmental risks controls have been applied, Group consolidation including currency Procurement markets translation is carried out in the same system, without additional interFinancial risks Regulatory Legal aspects faces, utilizing both automated and manual procedures. The correctRegulatory measures ness of the automated consolidation steps and of the master data Taxes necessary for this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information that must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to the extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented Regional differences in economic trends LANXESS is inherently by validation rules that are integrated into the system. exposed to the general economic and political opportunities and risks of the countries and regions in which the LANXESS Group operates. Regular coordination with other financial group functions, particularly Regional differences in economic performance and the associated the Treasury, Tax and Controlling group functions, assists the financial demand trends can affect the Group’s pricing and sales potential in reporting process. A continual exchange of information with the its various geographical markets, with corresponding effects on its operating business units and other group functions makes it possible earnings. We address these issues with our broad regional presence for the Accounting Group Function to identify and deal with issues and by expanding our profile in selected growth regions. This approach arising outside of accounting processes. These include litigation risks, is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this combined projections for impairment testing and special contractual agreements management report. with suppliers or customers. In addition, third-party service providers are consulted on special issues, particularly relating to the valuation Long-term exchange rate trends Depending on the country of proof pensions and other post-employment benefits. duction, shifts in exchange rate parities can affect sales revenues as reported in the Group’s currency and the gross profit margins on sales Monitoring of risk management and the internal control system as they relate to the production costs of products. In addition to the (ICS) Within the Group, the Internal Auditing Group Function is tasked hedging we perform as described under “Financial risks,” we also make with overseeing whether the internal control and monitoring system is a point of expanding our production sites in the key growth regions in functioning properly and whether organizational safeguards are being order to build a natural hedge position by matching production and observed. The planning of audits (selection of audit subjects) and audit sales in the regional markets. methods applied by this group function are correspondingly aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies, operating units and group functions. In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by 128 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Demographic trends We actively manage the risk of demographic helping a group of academically trained men and women of varying change as well. To ensure continued access to a highly skilled workages return to employment after a long period spent raising a family. force, we launched a comprehensive package of measures known as The idea is to better deal with demographic-related trends by focusing XCare in 2009, starting in Germany. Interdisciplinary working groups on a frequently overlooked segment of the German labor market and, are collaborating closely with employee representatives at LANXESS as a socially responsible company, promoting equal opportunities for to develop innovative concepts to preempt and actively address shifts women at the same time. resulting from demographic change – ranging from increasing the number of vocational training positions to measures allowing older Corporate strategy risks We actively pursue the strategic optimization employees to enjoy a longer working life. of the enterprise. Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, strengthening of core businesses, active portfolio management, and Another area of activity is health. The goal is to increase productivity, proactive participation in industry consolidation through partnerships, while continuing to reduce the risk of lost workdays. Measures aimed divestments and acquisitions. at prevention and reintegration have been successfully expanded. Additionally, in 2011 we worked closely with our employee repreThe success of the decisions associated with these efforts is naturally sentatives to agree a multi-stage concept that will make it easier for subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future (market) employees to care for family members while continuing their jobs. developments and making assumptions about the feasibility of planned One feature of the concept is individually agreed part-time working measures. For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment for caregivers. Further modules were added in 2012. These include could be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to helping our employees in Germany to find care facilities for family be unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systemmembers close to their workplaces and low-interest caregiver loans. atically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making. Overall, we are expanding our concepts to facilitate employees’ workDuring this process, the business units affected and the Board of life balance. In November 2012, for example, construction started on Management receive support from departments with the requisite a new childcare facility near the Leverkusen site. expertise and, if necessary, from external consultants. Thus far, there has not been a major shortage of labor in our global When gathering information about potential M&A candidates, it is markets. However, in the interests of a forward-thinking, sustainable possible that certain facts required to assess a candidate’s future human resources policy, we continued to expand our cooperations performance or to determine the purchase price are not available or with research institutes, colleges and universities in Germany and other are not correctly interpreted. We reduce this risk by conducting wellimportant target markets in 2012. We were also able to position our structured due diligence analyses and, where possible, by concluding company as an attractive employer through participation at numerous appropriate agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of events around the world. Our admission to the DAX helped in this acquired companies or businesses can result in expected developregard. We additionally extended our programs for interns and new ments not materializing. For this reason, we have processes in place talents in several regions, especially in the BRICS countries. with which full integration of acquired businesses is assured. A key element in the globally responsible management of human Investment risks The preparatory work for investments that exceed resources is the Board of Management’s Diversity & Inclusion initiative. a specified significance threshold is the responsibility of the relevant The program aims to create a more diverse workforce in terms of age, business units. After review by an Investment Committee set up for this gender and nationality over the medium and long term that can better purpose, the information is presented to the Board of Management for respond to the challenges of global markets and diverse customer a decision. By following this procedure, we ensure that investments requirements. The Diversity & Inclusion initiative was launched in are in line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and 2011 and entered a decisive phase in 2012 with many different subsecurity requirements. projects. In this context, LANXESS also set its first concrete target: to increase the proportion of women in middle and upper management IT risks Our IT systems support LANXESS’s business activities worldworldwide from 15% to 20% by 2020. At the same time, we aim to wide, including the processes from receiving an order to receiving find intelligent solutions that bring together diversity and demographic payment and from placing an order to paying a vendor. It is important management. In Germany, for example, our Senior Trainee Program is that the people who use the systems receive correct and meaningful information when they need it. We support this by developing a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing in the expansion and improvement of IT services worldwide. Combined Management Report 129 Report on risks and opportunities The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For example, netIn 2011, to further increase productivity at LANXESS, we developed works or systems may fail, or data and information may be comproand launched the International LANXESS Sales Academy (ILSA) mised or destroyed because of operator and programming errors or for our global sales organization within the context of our strategic external factors. In both cases, this can cause serious business intergrowth program GOFOR 1.4. We continued this offering in 2012. ruptions. To mitigate such risks, we invest in suitable data protection To date, 200 sales employees from all regions have been trained in systems, such as mirror databases designed to prevent the loss of data three modules. and information. Various security and monitoring tools, like firewalls and access restriction and authorization systems, are used to ensure Risks in sales markets The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and information and the global chemical and polymer markets and their dependence on the trouble-free operation of systems. The risk management practices developments in customer industries harbor risks to LANXESS’s busiemployed by the Information Technology Group Function comply with ness. In addition to being subject to these demand-side market risks, recognized standards. LANXESS’s risk profile is influenced, and its earnings power can be impaired, by structural changes in markets, such as the entry of new HR policy risks The risk of industrial actions in some countries resultsuppliers, the migration of customers to countries with lower costs, ing from disputes in connection with negotiations concerning future and product substitution or market consolidation trends in some seccollective bargaining agreements or associated with restructuring tors. We counter such trends by systematically managing costs and measures cannot be ruled out. We counter this risk by fostering open by taking comprehensive measures designed to achieve a sharper communication with our employees and their representatives in a focus and arrive at a product portfolio with which we can operate culture of active labor relations. QUEST, our qualification, deployment successfully for the long term. and job management center, is part of these efforts. Formed in 2009 and firmly anchored in our German organizations, this internal job Risks in the course of operations A lack of plant availability and disrupplacement unit enables us to redeploy surplus headcount and keep tions of plant and process safety can make it impossible for us to meet expertise within the company. production targets and adequately service existing demand, resulting in a loss of marginal income. We use a comprehensive range of measures Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and issues to counter this scenario. These include proactive facility maintenance, relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor in the efficiency regular compliance checks, the preparation of risk assessments and of our business operations. We take various approaches to mitigate the systematic training of employees to improve standards and safety. risk of losing this expertise and to increase our employees’ loyalty to the company, including attractive compensation models, challenging Environmental risks from production processes Although LANXESS jobs and international career options. Additionally, we use personnel applies high technical and safety standards to the construction, conferences and development centers as a means of identifying operation and maintenance of production facilities, interruptions in particularly well-qualified employees for subsequent appointment to operations, including those due to external factors, such as natural key functions and management positions. This allows us to further disasters or terrorism, cannot be ruled out. These can lead to explodevelop the expertise already available within the company and avoid sions, the release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents in the loss of know-how. To this end, we are also continually expanding the which people, property or the environment are harmed. In addition to international exchange of experts between the various group functions systematically monitoring compliance with quality standards in order and business units. We continue to invest in the next generation of to avoid such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against employees as well, by increasing the number of training opportunities the resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry. in Germany, launching and expanding regional internship and trainee programs in, for example, Brazil, India and China, and offering a central LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at which chemCorporate Trainee Program that includes international assignments. icals have been produced for periods that in some cases exceed One indicator of our success so far in limiting the loss of know-how is 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste disposal facilities. the low employee fluctuation rates in all regions and steadily increasing The possibility cannot be ruled out that pollution occurred during applicant numbers. Overall, we estimate as low the risk of our business this time that has not been discovered to date. We are committed to being impaired by a loss of knowledge. the Responsible Care® initiative and actively pursue environmental management. This includes constant monitoring and testing of the soil, groundwater and air. We have set up sufficient provisions within the scope permitted by law for necessary containment or remediation measures in areas with identified contamination. 130 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 LANXESS’s product portfolio includes substances that are classified Price risks are managed using derivative financial instruments within as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health, approved limits for hedging. We ensure our access to the capital marwe systematically test the properties of our products and draw our kets and our solvency through a conservative financing policy and a customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use. We also target capital structure that is largely based on the ratio systems used carry product liability insurance that is customary in our industry. by leading rating agencies. We mitigate default risks by setting sensible credit limits. The Pension Committee, which is made up of the CFO and Risks in procurement markets On the procurement side, the principal representatives from the Treasury, Accounting and Human Resources risk lies in the volatility of raw material and energy prices. If the price of group functions, limits investment risk by making decisions about the the materials we use increases, our production costs increase. If the allocation of the pension fund’s investments, insofar as LANXESS is price of the materials we use decreases, write-downs may have to be able to exercise its influence in this regard. recognized on inventories. We mitigate this risk by following a sensible inventory and procurement policy. Most of the company’s raw material Detailed information about our financial risks and how we manage needs are met by long-term supply contracts that have price escalathem is contained in Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the contion clauses, and many agreements with customers also contain price solidated financial statements. escalation clauses. We also hedge this risk in some cases via derivatives transactions if liquid futures markets are available for hedging raw Legal Risks Companies in the LANXESS Group are parties to various material and energy price risks (see also “Financial risks”). Detailed litigations. The outcome of individual proceedings cannot be predicted information is contained in the section headed “Raw material price with assurance due to the uncertainties always associated with legal risks” under Note [35], “Financial instruments,” to the consolidated disputes. To the extent necessary in light of the known circumstances in financial statements. each case, we have set up risk provisions for the event of an unfavorable outcome of such proceedings. Taking into account existing provisions To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors such as and insurance, as well as agreements reached with third parties in the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a networked respect of liability risks arising from legal disputes, it is currently estisite, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and line up alternative mated that none of these proceedings will materially affect our future sources of supply. We also face increases in our personnel expenses financial condition or earnings. because of future wage increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can be just as detrimental to earnings as increases In our reporting in previous years, we referred to heightened risks in raw material prices, as described above, but in the case of personnel relating to certain antitrust proceedings brought by regulatory authoriwe cannot hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our custies or civil courts in the United States, Canada and Europe concerntomers. In order to cushion the impact of such negative developments ing certain products of the former Rubber Business Group, which on our cost base, we pursue a market-oriented pricing policy that is was transferred to the LANXESS Group in the course of the spin-off in line with the premium nature of our products. Additionally, we are from Bayer AG. LANXESS AG and Bayer AG agreed on specific rules constantly looking for ways to use our resources more efficiently so governing their respective share of the liabilities in connection with that we can offset higher costs by raising productivity. these proceedings. The rules provide that LANXESS will bear 30% and Bayer AG 70% of such liabilities. LANXESS’s total liability was Financial risks The Treasury Group Function centrally manages finanlimited to an amount that has now been exhausted by the payments cial risks. The chief financial risks are: which have since been made. In addition to this maximum amount, it is liable for the reimbursement of income tax payable as a result of limited Financial Risks tax deductibility and the proportionate costs of external legal counsel, Price risks Liquidity and Default risks Investment risks which are also split between LANXESS and Bayer at a ratio of 30:70. refinancing risks Interest Availability of cash Banks Investments in Additional information on legal risks can be found in Note [14], “Other pension assets current and non-current provisions,” to the consolidated financial Currencies Access to multiCustomers and bilateral capital statements. markets Raw materials Energy Combined Management Report 131 Report on risks and opportunities Risks from regulatory measures Possible tightening of safety, quality Opportunity report and environmental regulations or standards can lead to additional costs and liability risks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the Strategic opportunities We intend to maintain LANXESS’s proven implementation of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, strategic alignment in the future. Our product portfolio is systematically Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). In aligned to those markets that promise growth in the coming years. addition to direct costs that could arise due to additional measures The BRICS countries – especially Brazil, China and India – will retain necessary to comply with these standards, market structures could a central role in this regard. In the future too, we will be positioning change to our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and ourselves as a flexible, market-facing premium supplier at the core of customers to regions outside Europe. the chemical industry that is applying its great innovative capability to generate measurable added value for its customers. Tax risks Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other counOur medium-term objective is to increase our key controlling parameter, tries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been reported EBITDA pre exceptionals, to €1.4 billion in 2014 and €1.8 billion in correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility cannot be 2018. We aim to pursue these goals on the basis of organic growth ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different conclusion and targeted acquisitions, with the focus on organic growth. in individual cases. Strategic projects in support of organic growth, the composition of Summary of LANXESS’s overall risk exposure Despite mixed economic our product portfolio, our regional focus, acquisitions, and targeted developments across regions and sectors, our risk exposure during research and development will be instrumental in helping us achieve the reporting year was not materially different from our risk exposure these earnings targets. during the previous year due to our broadly diversified product and customer portfolios. Nonetheless, all planning is subject to a certain Product portfolio aligned to four global megatrends With its product degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustportfolio, LANXESS has a presence in all key customer industries. Our ments to rapidly changing business conditions over the course of broad diversification of this portfolio ensures that we are not dependent the year. This is particularly true in view of the fact that planning and on any single product or process. We are focused on strengthening forecasts in general have become somewhat less reliable due to the the individual product segments with optimized production processes drastic changes observed recently in our global procurement and and methods, ongoing innovation, capacity expansion measures, new customer markets. production facilities or acquisitions. Our work in this regard is aligned to the global megatrends that are most relevant to us: In light of the systematic improvements made in our financing structures during the reporting year, our sound liquidity position, and our Mobility: The increasing demand for vehicles, especially in the emerging demonstrated ability to adapt our business, even on short notice, to economies, and the need to improve the environmental compatibility of significant changes in the business environment, we are confident mobility throughout the world are providing key impulses for growth in that we will be able to successfully master any risks that materialize tire production and automotive engineering, both of which are imporin the future. tant user industries for LANXESS. At both European and international level, current and draft legislation seeks to improve quality standards by Based on an overall evaluation of risk management information, requiring the classification of vehicle tires on the basis of their rolling the Board of Management at the present time cannot identify any resistance, wet grip, noise emissions and durability. A good rating sufficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would jeopardize the can only be achieved using high-performance rubber. In automotive continued existence of LANXESS. engineering, it is above all the efforts to achieve substantial weight reduction through the increased use of high-performance plastics that are providing us with opportunities for growth. Agriculture: The rising world population is driving the demand for agricultural products. The need in agriculture for more efficient use of limited arable land is a crucial issue for our customers in the agrochemical industry. Our products help protect crops and increase agricultural yields. 132 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Urbanization: Urban expansion and the emergence of new megacities position in global markets. Investing in new plants and increasing can be observed especially in the fast-growing newly industrialized the productivity of existing ones are key elements for future organic nations such as Brazil, China and India. The need for new buildings growth. and an efficient infrastructure is correspondingly large. Moreover, demand for better consumer goods and a higher standard of living In the year under review, we strengthened the basis for further growth is evolving with the growing middle class in these countries. We are in the coming years by making selective investments in our existing benefiting from this trend through our customers in the construction businesses and developing innovations that support, for example, and consumer goods industries in particular. the mobility and water megatrends. Water: Given escalating environmental pollution and the steady rise As planned, we will be bringing our new butyl rubber plant built in in water consumption because of ongoing population growth and Singapore for the Butyl Rubber business unit of our Performance industrial requirements, the demand for clean water will continue to Polymers segment on stream in the first quarter of 2013. The facility is rise. With our innovative solutions for purifying and treating drinking designed to have an annual capacity of up to 100,000 tons. This new water, wastewater and industrial process water, we are therefore serving capacity will enable us to meet the mediumand long-term growth in a high-growth market. demand for butyl rubber for tires, particularly from the BRICS countries. The investment volume of the new facility is about €400 million. Sustainable expansion in the BRICS countries In recent years, we have substantially strengthened our business activities in Asia, Central and Also in Singapore, LANXESS started construction in September 2012 Eastern Europe and Latin America and will continue to expand our of a new production facility for high-performance neodymium-based market positions there in the future. Our growing presence in these performance butadiene rubber (Nd-PBR) for the Performance Butakey economic regions will enable us to participate in their dynamic diene Rubbers business unit. Investment in the new plant on Jurong economic development. Last year, we laid the foundation for further Island will total around €200 million. The facility, which is due to come growth in Asia, in particular, by making selective investments in China on stream in the first half of 2015, will be the largest of its kind in the and Singapore. world, with an annual capacity of 140,000 tons. Strengthening the Group through acquisitions We are not planning In the key Asian growth market China, we are investing around to make any fundamental changes to our corporate structure and €235 million in the construction of the world’s largest production business policy in the coming years. However, strengthening our plant for EPDM synthetic rubber. Assigned to the Technical Rubber segments through selective acquisitions will remain an important Products business unit (since January 1, 2013: Keltan Elastomers element of our strategy. business unit), the plant will have an annual capacity of 160,000 tons and is due on stream in 2015. We broke ground on the new facility Focused research and development activities We make targeted in September 2012. investments in the research and development of new solutions that underscore the premium nature of our products and generate added With the construction of a new polymerization plant in Antwerp, value for our customers. We intend for customerand market-oriented Belgium, which has an investment volume of about €75 million, our innovations to continue helping us achieve organic growth and High Performance Materials business unit is strengthening its produccementing our competitive positions as a premium supplier. Process tion network for high-tech plastics and will be in a position to supply and product innovations remain the focus of our research and develits global compounding network from the site. Antwerp is also home opment activities. to the facility for caprolactam – the key precursor for plastics manufacturing – and glass fiber production. The new polymerization plant The importance of research and development work is also reflected in is due for completion in the first quarter of 2014 and is designed for our R&D budget for fiscal 2013, which exceeds the actual expenditure an annual capacity of 90,000 tons of polyamide. for the reporting year by a good 10%. With our Advanced Industrial Intermediates and Saltigo business Operational opportunities Unlocking and exploiting operational opporunits in the Advanced Intermediates segment, we are well-positioned tunities is an important aspect of LANXESS’s entrepreneurial activities. in the market to meet the growing demand for agrochemicals that is We are committed to using existing products and new solutions to rooted in the agriculture megatrend. We aligned our Saltigo business systematically advance our growth and sustainably strengthen our more strongly to the agrochemicals business last year. In addition, following the completion of capacity expansions for menthol and dichlorobenzene production in the reporting year and at the beginning of 2013, the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business can offer the market further capacities to serve the long-term demand trend. Combined Management Report 133 Report on risks and opportunities A number of measures have resulted in operational opportunities Sustainability is not just about production processes at LANXESS. Our for the business units in our Performance Chemicals segment. For commitment to sustainability starts with raw material sourcing, which instance, the Inorganic Pigments business unit started constructing is why we actively search for alternative sources of raw materials for a new facility for iron oxide red pigments on the east coast of China, our businesses. In our rubber business, for example, we successfully marking an expansion of its global production network for inorganic developed a dehydration process for producing ethylene from sugar pigments. Designed in line with state-of-the-art environmental stancane. Since the end of 2012, we have been using this bio-based dards, the plant will have an initial annual capacity of 25,000 tons. ethylene as a substitute for ethylene derived from petroleum to produce Production is scheduled to start in the first quarter of 2015. The EPDM rubber at our site in Brazil. We intend to gradually expand our investment volume is about €55 million. use of bio-based raw materials in the Keltan Elastomers business unit in the coming years and are researching sustainable feedstocks for The Rhein Chemie business unit will further strengthen its position in our other business units as well. the market for vulcanization bladders through the acquisition of U.S. company Tire Curing Bladders, LLC, in the year under review. In the For the important mobility megatrend, our High Performance Materials Ion Exchange Resins business unit, which supplies products in support business unit is developing innovative lightweight construction soof the water megatrend, we have successfully established ourselves lutions. Our new composite material systems made from high-peras an end-to-end supplier for water treatment solutions following the formance plastics can replace metal parts used in motor vehicles, market launch of our membrane technology. thereby reducing fuel consumption and emissions. We can produce highly durable and resistant components for vehicle manufacturers, In the first half of 2013, our Leather business unit will commission especially structural body parts made from composite sheets containits new production plant for leather chemicals in China, which is the ing our high-tech plastics. These replace critical vehicle components world’s largest market for leather chemicals. At a cost of about €30 milthat were previously made from metal, including the front end, brake lion, the new plant will have an annual capacity of up to 50,000 tons. In pedals and various housings, like the airbag housing. In developing the second half of 2013, this business unit is also due to commission these innovations, we work closely with leading carmakers on cusour new CO2 concentration unit in South Africa, thereby strengthening tomized solutions for each vehicle model. Our acquisition of Bondour value chain in this business area. The investment volume for the Laminates GmbH in September 2012 has reinforced our position in new unit amounts to €40 million. this promising field. Bond-Laminates makes composite sheets that combine thermoplastics and high-strength fibers. With this step, we The development of innovative products and ongoing development have gained additional expertise in the cutting-edge field of lightweight of our production processes play a significant role in cementing our construction and can now offer the development and production of current market position and increasing our competitiveness. these composite systems from a single source. In the Keltan Elastomers business unit, for example, we are using the Our Ion Exchange Resins business unit expanded its portfolio of sustainable advanced catalyst elastomers (ACE) technology in the custom-tailored solutions for the water megatrend. Thanks to the production of our EPDM synthetic rubber. Compared to conventional commercial launch of membrane elements for reverse osmosis in technology, ACE reduces energy requirements for rubber production the reporting year, we have successfully established ourselves as an and does not require catalyst extraction as a result of high catalyst end-to-end supplier in the market for water treatment solutions. We efficiency. Furthermore, it enables the manufacture of new rubber have enhanced our competitive position by becoming one of two grades, which will allow us to expand our EPDM portfolio and align companies to offer products for ion exchange and membrane filtraour products even more closely with customers’ specific needs. We tion. We are steadily adding innovative products to our portfolio in will deploy the ACE technology at our EDPM plant currently under the important area of reverse osmosis membranes, which are used construction in China. At our site in Geleen, Netherlands, which previin the desalination of brackish water in many industrial applications, ously ranked as our largest EPDM facility, we will be converting 50% including, for example, the production of boiler feed water for power of the production capacity, or some 80,000 tons, to ACE technology stations. The new membrane elements were designed to reduce the this year. accumulation of particles on the membrane surface during industrial water treatment operations, thereby extending maintenance intervals. 134 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Expected results of operations of the LANXESS Group LANXESS has Expected cost development of the LANXESS Group LANXESS defined clear medium-term earnings targets. We aim to achieve an has been swift to respond to the challenging economic conditions, EBITDA pre exceptionals of approximately €1.4 billion in 2014 and, introducing measures in the reporting year to counter the effects as a second mid-term growth target, an EBITDA pre exceptionals of of declining demand. We will continue these efforts, which include €1.8 billion in 2018. flexible asset management and rigorous cost discipline, in 2013. In the course of the last few years, against the backdrop of the global Given the ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty related to the European economic and financial crisis, we have further flexibilized our cost base financial crisis, our ability to make concrete earnings projections for and, if necessary, are now in a position to adapt our costs to changes 2013 is limited. Despite the challenging economic environment we in the economic environment at an early stage. anticipate for the first half of 2013, in particular, we are confident that we will achieve our first medium-term earnings target of €1.4 billion We believe that our cost base will be higher in 2013 than in 2012, in EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2014. partly as the result of the higher depreciation expense attributable to the startup of new production facilities as well as to the increase in For the Performance Polymers segment, we expect the demand for wages and salaries to be expected from pending collective bargaining tires to come mainly from the Asian growth markets China and India agreements. in 2013. We also expect demand to be lifted by the new European directive on mandatory tire labeling, which came into force in the We project depreciation and amortization of between €420 million E.U. in November 2012, and by other global labeling regulations and €440 million in fiscal 2013. With respect to raw material costs, in, for example, Korea and Japan. In our opinion, these factors will we expect continued volatility at a comparatively high level in 2013. As also contribute to a continued increase in the demand for tires with in previous years, we will seek to pass on rising costs to the market by optimized rolling resistance, which can be manufactured thanks to adjusting our product prices. Since raw material prices are expected our high-performance rubber products. to be volatile, we are very limited in our ability to make a medium-term forecast for our raw material costs. However, we are generally assumOur global production network and long-standing customer relationing that price trends for the individual strategic raw materials will vary ships put us in an excellent position to profit from this trend in our and that the trend toward higher procurement costs, particularly for rubber business. Over the course of 2013, we will start to supply petrochemical raw materials, will continue, with corresponding volathe fast-growing Asian markets directly from our butyl rubber plant tility. We believe energy costs are likely to increase slightly in 2013. in Singapore, which will come on stream in the first quarter of 2013 as announced. We see further growth opportunities for our high-tech Exchange rate fluctuations may impact our earnings. We have already plastics because of the ongoing trend to reduce vehicle weight. We entered into hedging transactions to ward off the effects of such are also well-positioned in this market, in part because of the aforedevelopments in 2013 as well as 2014. mentioned acquisition of Bond-Laminates. The effective tax rate for the LANXESS Group is significantly influenced In the Advanced Intermediates segment, we forecast good demand for by the regional distribution of its earnings. Accordingly, we expect a our agrochemical products in 2013, in both the Advanced Industrial tax rate of about 22.0% for the medium term, but the rate for 2013 Intermediates and Saltigo business units. could be slightly higher. In Performance Chemicals, we expect the demand for products for Expected financial condition of the LANXESS Group the construction industry to increase in 2013, especially in North America and China. We see growth opportunities for the current year Liquidity situation LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking in the Ion Exchange Resins business unit, which supplies products in and conservative financial policy. With more than €2.3 billion in cash support of the water megatrend, due to solid demand for ion exchange and undrawn credit lines, as described under “Financial condition,” resins and the market success of our membrane technology. Growth we have a very good liquidity and financing position which will enable opportunities for the Leather business unit in 2013 may come from us to fund our selective growth strategy. the startup of our new production plant in China. Combined Management Report 135 Report on risks and opportunities Capital expenditures We will continue to pursue our investment and little economic momentum in 2013. We have set clear medium-term growth strategy in fiscal 2013. Around 70% of cash outflows for capigrowth targets that we aim to achieve through organic growth as well as tal expenditures will relate to the expansion of existing plants or the selective acquisitions. It is planned to raise the Group’s key controlling construction of new production facilities. The remaining 30% will be parameter, EBITDA pre exceptionals, to approximately €1.4 billion in used for the maintenance of existing LANXESS production facilities. We fiscal 2014. In addition, as announced during the reporting year, we are projecting cash outflows for capital expenditures of €650 million aim to achieve an EBITDA pre exceptionals of €1.8 billion in 2018. To to €700 million for 2013, which is in line with the previous year. We reach our goals, we will continue to pursue our price-before-volume expect an investment volume of around €65 million in 2013 for our strategy and to focus on offering premium products. new Nd-PBR production facility in Singapore and about €100 million for our EPDM rubber plant in China. There are certain company-specific factors that can influence LANXESS’s future business performance. One key factor is the future Financing measures The financing for the planned capital expendevelopment of raw material and energy costs. We expect the trend ditures and the expected dividend payment is ensured by future toward higher procurement costs to continue throughout 2013 and, cash flows, available liquidity and existing lines of credit. LANXESS from today’s vantage point, see no fundamental change in the trend is in a strong position due to the long-term nature of its financing. thereafter. We intend to continue to pass along the volatility in raw There is no significant need for refinancing this year on account of material and energy prices to the market by making price adjustments. the extensive measures we have adopted to date to improve our financial position. In addition, LANXESS will continue its efforts to The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for LANXESS’s businesses. secure long-term funding as part of a conservative financing policy by We expect this currency to remain volatile against the euro in 2013, further diversifying its financing sources and implementing forwardmoving within the range of US$1.25 to US$1.40. looking financing measures. As global economic momentum is expected to stay slow, we are Expected results of operations of LANXESS AG We expect the cautiously optimistic for 2013. We believe that Asia will post the largest administration expenses that LANXESS AG incurs in performing its year-on-year gain among the growth markets. tasks as a management holding company to increase slightly in 2013 and 2014. Apart from this, the earnings position of LANXESS AG We expect customer demand to stay at a low level in the first quarter will be dominated by the financial result, especially the net interest of 2013, consistent with the end of the reporting year. For this reason, position and the balance of income and losses from investments in we think that the situation will be particularly challenging in the first affiliated companies. In 2013 and 2014 we expect the net interest quarter. We predict that there will be a gradual improvement in the position to be negative and the balance of income and losses from demand situation during the second half of the year. investments in affiliated companies to come in at a level that puts the net income of LANXESS AG on a par with the reporting year. The LANXESS was swift to start introducing measures last year that have ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend in large measure helped the company successfully counter the effects of declining on the profit transfers and dividends paid by the other companies of demand. These measures include flexible asset management and our the LANXESS Group. rigorous cost discipline. We will continue to apply these measures in 2013 in light of the economic challenges. In addition, we believe that Dividend policy LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. As all our segments are well-positioned to benefit from an improvement in the past, our future dividend proposals will take into account the in business conditions during the year. business performance of the relevant fiscal year, the Group’s financing goals and development trends in the new fiscal year. Against this background, we are confident of continuing to grow over the coming years and of achieving our mid-term target of €1.4 billion Summary of Group’s projected performance The LANXESS Group EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2014. is successfully positioned with its product portfolio in the relevant markets and will continue to expand its presence in the world’s growth regions this year. We aim to strengthen our market position, especially in the BRICS countries, even though it is assumed that there will be 136 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Corporate do not exceed the value of two years’ compensation (severance pay cap) and compensate no more than the remaining term of the Governance contract. The employment contracts for Board of Management members limit payments to a Board of Management member on premature termination of his contract, including fringe benefits, to two years’ compensation, except in the event of a change of control. However, they do not contain the additional limitation that no more than the In this section, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board report remaining term of the contract shall be compensated. The Superon corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section 3.10 of visory Board does not consider it appropriate to base the absolute the German Corporate Governance Code. This section also contains amount of any severance payment on the date of termination. the corporate governance statement pursuant to Section 289a of the German Commercial Code. 2. Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2 Members of the Management Board of a listed company shall not accept more than a total of three Supervisory Board mandates in Corporate governance statement non-group listed companies or in the supervisory bodies of nongroup companies with comparable requirements. Declaration by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG pursuant to Supervisory Board member Robert J. Koehler, Chairman of the Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, is a member of the superregarding the German Corporate Governance Code visory boards of three listed companies outside the SGL Carbon SE Group and holds one supervisory board mandate in a non-listed The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are company outside the SGL Carbon SE Group with comparable committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate requirements. However, we do not believe that this detracts from governance and control. They place high value on the standards of Mr. Koehler’s ability to diligently perform his duties as a member good corporate governance. On December 13, 2012, the Board of of the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board. Management and Supervisory Board issued the following joint declaration pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act: II. Suggestions In addition to its recommendations, the German Corporate Governance “I. Recommendations Code also contains a number of suggestions for efficient, responsible Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on May 8, corporate governance, compliance with which is not required to be 2012, LANXESS AG has complied with the recommendations of the disclosed under the statutory provisions. LANXESS currently complies Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code with these suggestions as well, with only a few exceptions. (“Government Commission”) as amended on May 26, 2010, which were published on July 2, 2010 by the Federal Ministry of Justice In accordance with Section 3.10, Sentence 2 of the German Corporate in the official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory with the exception of the deviations from Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Board therefore voluntarily issue the following declaration: Sentence 1 and Section 5.4.5, Sentence 2, as well as the meanwhile inapplicable deviation from Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 3, Sentence 3, Since the issuance of the last declaration of compliance on May 8, as described in the declaration of May 8, 2012. LANXESS AG will 2012, LANXESS AG has complied with the suggestions of the Govhenceforth comply with the recommendations of the Government ernment Commission as amended on May 26, 2010, which were Commission as amended on May 15, 2012, which were published published on July 2, 2010 by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the on June 15, 2012, with the following exceptions: official portion of the electronic version of the Federal Gazette, with the following exceptions and will henceforth comply with the suggestions 1. Section 4.2.3, Paragraph 4, Sentence 1 of the Government Commission as amended on May 15, 2012, which In concluding Management Board contracts, care shall be taken were published on June 15, 2012, with the following exceptions: to ensure that payments made to a Management Board member on premature termination of his contract, including fringe benefits, Corporate Governance 137 1. Section 2.3.3, Sentence 2, 2nd Half-Sentence a compliance organization that is integrated into the overall LANXESS The Management Board shall arrange for the appointment of a Group organization, risk identification and assessment, a compliance representative to exercise shareholders’ voting rights in accordance program (comprising directives, hotlines, training, knowledge sharwith instructions; this representative should also be reachable during, compliance reporting and guidance on responding to observed ing the General Meeting. breaches of compliance), and measures for monitoring the overall compliance situation within the LANXESS Group. The objective is The representatives appointed by LANXESS AG to exercise to prevent breaches of compliance and to create and foster a culture stockholders’ voting rights in accordance with instructions can of compliance. LANXESS does not tolerate breaches of compliance be reached at the Stockholders’ Meeting until the voting is held. and enforces observance of the provisions of its compliance code. Stockholders not attending the meeting can reach the representatives up to the previous evening. As an international specialty chemicals enterprise, LANXESS bears a large degree of responsibility toward people and the environment. 2. Section 2.3.4 Our entrepreneurial activities reflect this sense of responsibility. Safety, The company should make it possible for stockholders to follow environmental protection, social responsibility, quality and economic the General Meeting using modern communication media (e.g. efficiency are all key corporate goals at LANXESS. The company’s Internet). objective is sustainable, forward-looking development which meets the demands of economics, ecology and society in equal measure. The speech by the Chairman of the Board of Management to the The greatest benefits of our corporate responsibility activities are Stockholders’ Meeting is broadcast on the Internet. Continued achieved if they are balanced with entrepreneurial and, especially, broadcasting of the proceedings thereafter, particularly of contrieconomic objectives. They must therefore be linked to our core busibutions made by stockholders, could be seen as a violation of the ness or to our available expertise. An overview of the implementation stockholders’ rights to privacy. For this reason, LANXESS does not of corporate responsibility at LANXESS can be downloaded from plan to broadcast the further proceedings.” the Sustainability pages of our website at http://www.lanxess.com/. Additionally, LANXESS joined the United Nations Global Compact Shareholders can download the declaration of compliance from the initiative in July 2011 and has supported and consistently applied company’s website at any time. the Responsible Care® Global Charter adopted by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) since 2006. Management practices above and beyond LANXESS has supplemented German legislation prohibiting insider the legal requirements trading with a Group-wide insider directive. This defines rules of conduct for trading in the company’s securities so that insider trading LANXESS views compliance with laws and ethical principles as the violations can be avoided. The names of persons with authorized basis of sustainable corporate governance. Our employees’ integrity access to insider information required for the performance of their and awareness of their responsibilities are key factors in the success professional duties are included in an insider register that is regularly of our company. Compliance with laws, social responsibility, sustainupdated. The directive also stipulates the reporting and disclosure able environmental protection, and occupational, plant and product obligations for transactions with LANXESS shares (directors’ dealings). safety are an essential part of our corporate culture. The Code for Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS, which Corporate policies on other important issues such as occupational is applicable throughout the Group, specifies minimum standards safety and diversity are implemented throughout the Group on the and gives employees advice and guidance on complying with these basis of Board of Management initiatives. With its Diversity & Inclusion standards. This code can be viewed on our website at http://www. initiative, LANXESS aims to promote equal opportunity for employees lanxess.com/ under the menu item About LANXESS/Values & Visions. and facilitate work/life balance. Additional information is available on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under the menu item About An effective compliance management system has been established LANXESS/Diversity & Inclusion. to implement the compliance code. This system was globally audited in 2012 by Deloitte & Touche GmbH, which applied the AuS 980 standard promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). The system was rated favorably, and there were no objections. Components of this system include 138 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Work of the Board of Management The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of Management and Supervisory Board in its management of the company and to monitor its conduct of the business. The Supervisory Board discusses business performance, LANXESS AG is a company established under the laws of Germany. planning and strategy at regular intervals. Its responsibilities also inOne of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law clude appointing the members of the Board of Management as well is the dual management system with the governing bodies of manas reviewing the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consoliagement board and supervisory board. This system is characterized dated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. The Supervisory by a clear separation between the management board as the body Board reaches its decisions with a majority of the votes cast unless a that manages a company and the supervisory board as the body that different majority is stipulated by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairadvises and oversees management. Concurrent membership on both man of the Supervisory Board has two votes in a second ballot on boards is strictly prohibited. The management board and the superthe resolution, even if this also results in a tie. The German Codetervisory board work closely together in a relationship of mutual trust for mination Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions. the benefit of the company. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns of The management board is appointed to manage and represent the the body externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually adopted company. It is responsible for conducting business in the company’s at regularly held meetings. interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The principal tasks of the management board include defining the company’s goals and The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, which, strategic alignment, managing and overseeing the operating units, in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the Supervisory setting human resources policy, arranging the company’s financing, Board and the personal qualifications of its members, establishes the and establishing an effective risk management system. It is also reprocesses for convening, preparing and chairing meetings as well as sponsible for preparing the quarterly and half-year financial statements, the procedures for voting. the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and the combined management The Board of Management reports to the Supervisory Board on a report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. timely and comprehensive basis about the progress of business and the situation of the Group, including potential risks and relevant issues The Board of Management of LANXESS AG currently comprises four relating to corporate planning. The Supervisory Board has laid down members. Information about the members of the Board of Managethe Board of Management’s notification and reporting requirements ment is available on our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under in detail in its rules of procedure. The Chairman of the Board of Manthe menu item Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/Board of agement regularly exchanges information with the Chairman of the Management. The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Supervisory Board in order to discuss matters of strategy, planning, Management. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted business performance, risks, risk management and compliance. Cerwith a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting tain transactions and measures of major or long-term importance vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed require the Supervisory Board’s approval. Measures requiring approval at regularly held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of include, but are not limited to: adoption of the corporate planning; Management that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain further the acquisition, sale or encumbrance of real property, shareholdings regulations concerning the form of cooperation within the Board of or other assets; borrowings and certain other types of financial transManagement, the allocation of duties and the matters requiring resoluactions. Thresholds have been set for some of these transactions. tion by the full Board of Management. In deciding the composition of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board gives consideration to professional suitability, leadership qualities and diversity. Corporate Governance 139 Composition of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board assumes that the ability of the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board to act independently is not affected The company’s Supervisory Board is composed of twelve members, by their status as employees of the company or members of labor with equal numbers of stockholder representatives and employee unions. No member of the Supervisory Board has a personal or busirepresentatives in accordance with the provisions of the German ness relationship with the company, its executive bodies, a controlling Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockholder representatives are shareholder or any enterprise affiliated with a controlling shareholder elected by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, whereas the employee that may cause a material and not merely temporary conflict of interests. representatives are elected in accordance with the provisions of the No former member of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG is a Codetermination Act and its electoral regulations. Supervisory Board member of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for members normally serve for a five-year term. all future members of the Supervisory Board to be independent within the meaning of Section 5.4.2 of the German Corporate Governance Gisela Seidel, Axel Berndt, Dr. Rudolf Fauss, Ulrich Freese, Thomas Code and free of conflicts of interest. Meiers and Hans-Jürgen Schicker serve as the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of An age threshold for members of the Supervisory Board is specified in LANXESS AG held on May 28, 2010, elected Dr. Friedrich Janssen, the rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board Robert J. Koehler, Rainer Laufs, Dr. Ulrich Middelmann, Dr. Rolf members shall not serve past the end of the first Annual Stockholders’ Stomberg and Theo H. Walthie as the stockholder representatives to Meeting following their seventy-fifth birthday. the company’s Supervisory Board. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Rolf Stomberg. The Vice Chairman is Ulrich Freese. InforIn general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the principles mation about the members of the Supervisory Board is available on of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their various personal our website at http://www.lanxess.com/ under the menu item Investor and professional backgrounds, the members of the Supervisory Board Relations/Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. contribute a broad spectrum of experience and skills. The global reach of LANXESS AG has been reflected in the composition of the Supervisory Board thus far and will remain a factor in selecting candidates Goals for the composition of the Supervisory Board to be proposed to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the Supervisory Board. In many cases, the experience and skills of the Section 5.4.1, Sentence 5 of the German Corporate Governance members of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working Code states that the concrete objectives of the Supervisory Board abroad for a long period or in an international field. One member of regarding its composition and the status of the implementation of these the Supervisory Board is not a German citizen. The members of the objectives are to be published in the Corporate Governance Report. Supervisory Board have professional knowledge of the chemical industry and other sectors that are important for the company’s business. The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG are expected to possess the necessary expertise, skills and professional experiWith the election of stockholder and employee representatives in fiscal ence to perform their duties. The members of the Supervisory Board 2010, the composition of the Supervisory Board is essentially fixed for autonomously undertake the necessary training required for their the current term ending in 2015. One of the twelve members currently tasks and are supported in their efforts by the company. In making serving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board is a woman. With a nominations, the Supervisory Board applies only legally permissible view to ensuring appropriate representation of women, the number and fair selection criteria, acts in the company’s best interests, and of women serving on the Supervisory Board is to be increased. The gives consideration to the nominated candidates’ integrity, commitSupervisory Board aims to have at least three women members of ment and independence. the Supervisory Board from the start of the next term. Stockholder and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board view it as The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure the provision their joint responsibility to ensure the appropriate representation of of impartial advice and supervision to the Board of Management. All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent. The 140 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 women. They aim to work together in fulfilling this responsibility. Future The Committee pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codenominations to the relevant bodies of candidates for membership of termination Act performs the tasks described in Section 31 (3) of the Supervisory Board should support the attainment of this goal. the German Codetermination Act. The members of this commitIn setting this goal, the Supervisory Board is assuming that it will be tee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Mr. Schicker and able to identify women candidates with the requisite professional and Dr. Middelmann. personal qualifications for election. The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory Board to Composition and work of the Supervisory Board nominate for election as new members of the Supervisory Board by committees the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The members of this committee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Dr. Janssen and Dr. Middelmann. The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German CodeThe respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory termination Act and a Nominations Committee formed from among Board on the work of the committees. its members. The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares the meetStockholders and stockholders’ meetings ings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. It makes decisions on transactions requiring approval that are already included in the The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Annual company’s annual planning. The Presidial Committee may also reStockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resolutions submitsolve on the exercise of participation rights pursuant to Section 32 ted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on all matters reserved of the German Codetermination Act and on transactions requiring for its decision by law, with binding effect on the stockholders and the approval that cannot be deferred. It consults regularly about long-term company. Each share confers one vote. succession planning for the Board of Management. Furthermore, the Committee also prepares the personnel decisions to be made by the The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include Supervisory Board and resolutions of the full Supervisory Board regardappropriation of the balance sheet profit, ratification of the actions taken ing the compensation of the members of the Board of Management. In by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory place of the full Supervisory Board, the Presidial Committee resolves Board, appointment of the auditors and election of the stockholder on the conclusion and amendment of employment contracts with representatives to the Supervisory Board. The Annual Stockholders’ the members of the Board of Management and all other contractual Meeting also resolves on amendments to the articles of association, matters not pertaining to compensation. The members of the Presidial measures affecting the company’s capital and the approval of interCommittee are Dr. Stomberg (Chairman), Mr. Freese, Ms. Seidel, company agreements. Each year there is an Annual Stockholders’ Mr. Schicker, Mr. Koehler and Dr. Middelmann. Meeting at which the Board of Management and Supervisory Board give an account of the last fiscal year. The German Stock Corporation The Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in overseeing Act requires the convening of an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting the conduct of the business and deals with matters relating to the in certain situations. supervision of accounting, the effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk management system and the internal auditing system, All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligibility to attend as well as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise their voting rights shall the work additionally performed by the auditor, and compliance. It be allowed to participate in the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockprepares the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning the financial holders may exercise their voting rights at the Annual Stockholders’ statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements Meeting in person, through a proxy of their own choosing or through of the LANXESS Group and recommends an auditor whom the Supera company-nominated proxy who acts according to their instructions. visory Board then proposes to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting for appointment. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an independent financial expert and has specialist knowledge and experience in the field of accounting acquired through his professional activities. The members of the Audit Committee are Dr. Janssen (Chairman), Mr. Berndt, Dr. Fauss, Mr. Meiers, Mr. Laufs and Mr. Walthie. Corporate Governance 141 Compensation report The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of December 31, The compensation report, which describes the compensation system 2012 was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company. and the amount of compensation paid to the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board for their service in fiscal 2012, is part of the combined management report for LANXESS AG and Accounting and auditing the LANXESS Group and can be found on page 111ff. of this Annual Report. LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial statements and interim financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed by the European Union. The Risk management separate financial statements of LANXESS AG for any given fiscal year (“financial statements”) are prepared in accordance with the German Corporate governance also includes the responsible handling of busiCommercial Code (HGB). The financial statements, consolidated ness risks. Therefore, a systematic and effective risk management financial statements and combined management report are published, system is the basis for professional corporate governance. Our risk once adopted/approved by the Supervisory Board, within 90 days of management system aims to identify risks and opportunities at an the end of the fiscal year. The company’s accounting for the 2012 early stage and to steer and minimize the risks that materialize. It is fiscal year was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft subject to ongoing optimization and adaptation to changing conditions. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (“PwC”), the auditors chosen at the The Board of Management informs the Supervisory Board about the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting held in 2012. PwC also reviewed the existence and development of potential risks on a regular basis. The 2012 half-year financial report. The audits are conducted in accorAudit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the risk mandance with German auditing regulations and in accordance with the agement, internal control and auditing systems. Further information generally accepted standards for auditing promulgated by the Institut is provided in the Risk Report on page 124ff. der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW – Institute of Public Auditors in Germany). It was agreed with the auditors that they would report to the Supervisory Board without delay concerning any possible grounds for their Liability insurance disqualification or bias as well as any significant findings or incidents that came to light during the audit. The company maintains a directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurance that covers the activity of the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. The suitable deductible required by Section 93 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act has been agreed for members of the Board of Management, and the recommended deductible within the meaning of Section 3.8 of the German Corporate Governance Code has been agreed for the members of the Supervisory Board. Reportable securities transactions Pursuant to Section 15a (1) of the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG), the trading of securities by certain parties, including members of a management board or supervisory board, must be reported if the total sum of the transactions undertaken in any given calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Individuals who are closely related to these parties (e.g. spouses, registered partners and first-degree relatives) are also subject to this reporting requirement. Reportable securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website. 142 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Offices held by Board of Management members (as of December 31, 2012) Member of External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group the Board of Management Dr. Axel C. • Member of the Presidium of the German Chemical Industry • Chairman of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Heitmann Association (VCI) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. Chairman of the • Member of the Asia-Pacific Committee of German Business (APA) Board of • Member of the Board of Management and Presidium of Management OAV-German-Asia-Pacific Business Association • Member of the Advisory Board of NRW.Bank • Member of the Presidium of stiftung neue verantwortung • Member of the Executive Committee of the Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft • Member of the Advisory Board of Goethe-Institut e.V. • Member of the Association of Friends of Philharmonie KölnMusik e.V. • Member of the Board of Trustees of Konvent für Deutschland e.V. Dr. Werner • Member of the Supervisory Board of Currenta • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Breuers Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, Leverkusen • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH Member of the • Member of the Supervisory Board of Messer Group GmbH, • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aliseca GmbH Board of Bad Soden • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. Management • Member of the Board of Trustees of the VCI’s • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS International S.A. Chemical Industry Fund • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd. • Member of the Board of Trustees of the DWI of RWTH Aachen University • Member of the German Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations • Member of the Advisory Board of the Association for Chemistry & Economics (VCW) • Member of the Senate of the Deutsche Akademie der Technikwissenschaften • Member of the Board of Directors of the German American Chamber of Commerce Dr. Bernhard • Member of the Supervisory Board of GfK SE, Nuremberg • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Düttmann • Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsches Aktieninstitut (DAI) • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. Chief Financial • Member of Gesellschaft für Finanzwirtschaft in der Officer Unternehmensführung e.V. (GEFIU) Dr. Rainier • Member of the Board of the VCI Regional Association in • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH van Roessel North Rhine-Westphalia • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. Member of the • Member of the VCI Trade Policy Committee • Executive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. Board of • Member of the 1 b Experience-Exchange Group of the • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH Management German Association for Personnel Management (DGFP) • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. and Industrial • Chairman of the Board of Directors of Holding Hispania S.L. Relations • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemicals S.L. Director • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. • Chairman of the Governing Board of LANXESS Srl. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. Corporate Governance 143 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board Robert J. Koehler Chairman of the Board of Management of SGL Carbon SE, Wiesbaden Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman) Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG • Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, Heidelberg* (Chairman) • Former Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division of • Klöckner & Co. SE, Duisburg* The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, U.K. • Benteler International AG, Salzburg, Austria (Chairman) • Former member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., • SGL Carbon S.p.A., Lainate, Milan, Italy London, U.K. • SGL Carbon SDN BHD, Banting, Malaysia Further offices: • SGL Carbon S.A., La Coruña, Spain • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* (Chairman) • Biesterfeld AG, Hamburg* • HOYER GmbH, Hamburg Rainer Laufs • KEMNA Bau Andreae GmbH & Co. KG, Pinneberg • Smith & Nephew plc, London, U.K. (until April 30, 2012) • Self-employed consultant • OAO Severstal, Cherepovets, Russia • Former Chairman of the Management Board of Deutsche Shell AG, Hamburg • Ruspetro plc, London, U.K. Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • WCM Beteiligungsund Grundbesitz AG, Frankfurt am Main* (Chairman) Ulrich Freese (Vice Chairman) • Petrotec AG, Düsseldorf* (Chairman) • Bilfinger Industrial Services GmbH, Munich • Vice Chairman of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, • Bilfinger Industrial Technologies GmbH, Frankfurt am Main Hannover Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* (Vice Chairman) Thomas Meiers • Vattenfall Europe Mining AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman) • Vattenfall Europe Generation AG, Cottbus* (Vice Chairman) District Secretary of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, • Vattenfall Europa GmbH, Berlin* (Vice Chairman) Cologne • 50Hertz Transmission GmbH, Berlin* (Vice Chairman, until November 30, 2012) Further offices: • DMT GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman) • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • Vivawest Wohnen GmbH, Essen* (Vice Chairman) • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne* • Vivawest GmbH, Essen (Vice Chairman) • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne* • GSB – Gesellschaft zur Sicherung von Bergmannswohnungen mbH, Essen (Vice Chairman) • GSG Wohnungsbau Braunkohle GmbH, Cologne (Vice Chairman) Prof. h.c. (CHN) Dr.-Ing. E.h. Dr. Ulrich Middelmann Former Vice Chairman of the Executive Board of ThyssenKrupp AG, Duisburg/Essen Axel Berndt Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Member of the Works Council at the Leverkusen site • Deutsche Telekom AG, Bonn* Further offices: • Commerzbank AG, Frankfurt am Main* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman) • Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen* Hans-Jürgen Schicker Dr. Rudolf Fauss Chairman of the Works Council at the Uerdingen site • Head of Central Functions in the HR Services Germany Group Function Further offices: • Chairman of the LANXESS AG Group Managerial Employees’ Committee • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Gisela Seidel Chairman of the Works Council at the Dormagen site Dr. Friedrich Janssen Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • National-Bank AG, Essen* Theo H. Walthie • E.ON Avacon AG, Helmstedt* • E.ON Energy Trading SE, Düsseldorf* Self-employed consultant • E.ON Hanse AG, Quickborn* Further offices: • E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen* • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen* • Stadtwerke Göttingen AG, Göttingen* • HDI-Gerling Sach Serviceholding AG, Hannover • Thüga Assekuranz Services München Versicherungsmakler GmbH, Munich • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf The information about offices held refers to memberships of other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad (as of December 31, 2012). * Statutory supervisory boards 144 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Report of the Supervisory Board Dear Stockholders, The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Management in2012 marked another very successful year for LANXESS. The comformed us regularly and in good time in detailed written and oral reports pany achieved new sales and earnings records despite an extremely about business performance, the situation of the Group, including the challenging economic climate in the second half of the year. Thanks risk situation, strategic development and current issues. On the basis of to the corporate strategy of focusing on sustainable growth, the stock these reports, we discussed significant business transactions in detail. also posted gains, culminating in the company’s admission to GerWe thoroughly examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by many’s lead index, the DAX. Although conditions were more volatile, the Board of Management and discussed them at length in meetings the clear focus on global growth markets in the three main business of the full Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles areas contributed to the company’s very gratifying performance. of association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board to approve the actions of the Board of Management, we discussed these During the reporting year, the Supervisory Board duly and fully peractions and adopted resolutions on them. formed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the law, the articles of association and the rules of procedure for the Supervisory The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Board Board. It advised the Board of Management regularly on the manageof Management and the other members of the Board of Management ment of the company and monitored its work. were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory Board’s meetings. We regularly discussed the present state of the company, matters of strategy, planning, business performance, risks, risk management and compliance, as well as material events. Report of the Supervisory Board 145 Focus of deliberations by the Supervisory Board At the meeting that took place immediately prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, the Board of Management reported on the status of The Supervisory Board met a total of six times in fiscal 2012. preparations for the relocation of company headquarters to Cologne. We regularly discussed the sales and earnings performance of the In August, the Supervisory Board approved the construction of a procompany and its segments, as well as the financial condition. Additionduction plant for EPDM rubber in Changzhou, China. It also adapted its ally, the Board of Management kept us updated about the overall state rules of procedure to reflect changes made to the German Corporate of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, the performance Governance Code. of LANXESS stock, and investment and acquisition plans. Other important issues addressed by the Supervisory Board are presented below. At the meeting in late October, the Board of Management reported to us on the company’s control, risk management and auditing systems. The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held in March was the It also presented an ongoing Group-wide initiative on occupational, review of the financial statements and consolidated financial stateprocess and plant safety. In addition, the Supervisory Board approved ments for fiscal 2011, the proposal for use of the distributable profit, the placement of a long-term €500 million Eurobond. and preparation of the motions for resolution by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. The Supervisory Board also dealt at length with At its December meeting, the Supervisory Board reviewed in full and issues relating to corporate governance and approved the execution of reached a decision on the corporate planning for 2013 as proposed additional financing agreements. The Board of Management reported by the Board of Management. It also discussed the company’s straon the successfully completed integration into the Group of a recent tegic alignment and capital expenditure policy and dealt with issues acquisition. With regard to human resources issues, the Supervisory relating to corporate governance. Lastly, we defined the conditions Board adopted the necessary resolutions concerning the attainment for the Board of Management’s variable compensation components of performance targets for variable compensation components and for fiscal 2013. the granting of a performance bonus to the members of the Board of Management. All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees performed their duties diligently and conscientiously. The Supervisory Board’s At the meeting in May, the Supervisory Board approved a partial admeetings in 2012 were attended by all members, with the exception justment of the conditions defined in December 2011 for the Board of one meeting at which one of the twelve members was absent. Comof Management’s variable compensation components for fiscal 2012 mittee meetings were attended by all members, with the exception of in order to provide added incentive for the members of the Board of one meeting that two members were unable to attend. The stockholder Management. It also approved a related update of the declaration of representatives and employee representatives to the Supervisory Board compliance. In addition, the Board of Management reported on the worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held separate meetcompany’s current innovation projects. We were given information ings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Supervisory Board. about the Board of Management’s Diversity & Inclusion initiative, including the announcement of a very specific target for the proportion of women in management roles. 146 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Work of the committees The Committee formed pursuant to Section 27 (3) of the German Codetermination Act and the Nominations Committee did not convene The Supervisory Board has four committees. The membership of these in fiscal 2012. committees is shown on page 140. The committees are tasked with preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the The chairmen of the committees each reported on the meetings and full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-making the work of the committees at the meetings of the full Supervisory powers conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. Board. The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in particular with the financial statements and management report of Corporate governance and declaration of compliance LANXESS AG for fiscal 2011, the consolidated financial statements and Group management report for fiscal 2011, the interim reports In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the German issued during fiscal 2012, and the condensed consolidated financial Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and its further development statements and interim management report included in the 2012 halfarising from the amendments of May 15, 2012. In connection with the year financial report. It also extensively reviewed the risk management Code’s recommendations, we extensively reviewed and defined goals and internal control systems. Other topics discussed were the signififor the composition of the Supervisory Board, which are discussed on cant findings by the internal audit department, corporate planning, page 139 of this Annual Report. No conflicts of interest on the part of corporate governance, compliance, tax matters, accounting-related Supervisory Board members became known last year. topics, strategies for IT security and the determination of the principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2012 financial statements. The exStockholders can download the joint declaration of compliance by ternal auditor attended three of the Audit Committee’s four meetings the Board of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to Secand reported on the auditing activities. tion 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act from the company’s website at any time. As expressed in the declaration, LANXESS AG The Presidial Committee convened five times during 2012 to prepare complies with the Code’s recommendations and suggestions except the meetings of the Supervisory Board and to discuss personnel issues. in a few justified cases. More information about corporate governance A chief focus of its deliberations was the preparation of the decisions can be found in the section on corporate governance starting on page to be reached by the full Supervisory Board concerning the Board of 136 of this Annual Report. Management’s variable compensation components. Report of the Supervisory Board 147 Financial Statements of LANXESS AG and Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as well as Consolidated Financial Statements of the on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial stateLANXESS Group ments of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal The Board of Management of LANXESS AG prepared the financial for appropriation of the profit, the Supervisory Board endorsed the statements for the 2012 fiscal year in accordance with the rules of the auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements for Board has approved the financial statements of LANXESS AG and the fiscal 2012 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, which were Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for 2012. prepared by the Board of Management. We endorsed the Board of These were all audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Management’s proposal for use of the distributable profit after close Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual examination and extensive deliberations that carefully weighed the Stockholders’ Meeting and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The best interests of the company and the stockholders. auditor issued an unqualified opinion in each case. The Supervisory Board thanks the Board of Management, all of the The Supervisory Board satisfied itself of the independence of the Group’s employees and the employee representatives for their enorauditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. mous dedication and tremendous work. The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial stateLeverkusen, March 19, 2013 ments were discussed at length with the Board of Management and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 14, 2013. They The Supervisory Board were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statements meeting held on March 19, 2013. The responsible auditor was present for Dr. Rolf Stomberg the discussions concerning the financial statements of LANXESS AG Chairman and the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group. He reported on the material results of the audits. He was also available to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 184 Notes to the Income Statement 149 Statement of Financial Position 184 (20) Sales 150 Income Statement 184 (21) Cost of sales 151 Statement of Comprehensive Income 185 (22) Selling expenses 152 Statement of Changes in Equity 185 (23) Research and development expenses 153 Statement of Cash Flows 185 (24) General administration expenses 185 (25) Other operating income 154 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 185 (26) Other operating expenses 154 General information 185 (27) Financial result 154 Structure and components of the 186 (28) Income taxes consolidated financial statements 187 (29) Earnings and dividend per share 154 Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied 187 (30) Personnel expenses 154 New standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory 187 Other Information 156 Presentation changes and restatement of 187 (31) Employees prior-year figures 188 (32) Contingent liabilities and other financial commitments 156 Consolidation methods 188 (33) Related parties 157 Currency translation 189 (34) Compensation of the Board of Management 157 Accounting policies and valuation principles and the Supervisory Board 163 Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion 189 (35) Financial instruments 165 Companies consolidated 197 (36) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 197 (37) Segment reporting 168 Notes to the Statement of Financial Position 199 (38) Audit fees 168 (1) Intangible assets 199 (39) Declaration of Compliance pursuant to 169 (2) Property, plant and equipment Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act 170 (3) Investments accounted for using the equity method 199 (40) Exemptions under Section 264 Paragraph 3 170 (4) Investments in other affiliated companies of the German Commercial Code 170 (5) Derivative financial instruments 171 (6) Other non-current and current financial assets 200 Responsibility Statement 172 (7) Other non-current assets 201 Auditor’s Report 172 (8) Inventories 172 (9) Trade receivables 173 (10) Near-cash assets 173 (11) Other current assets 173 (12) Equity 175 (13) Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 179 (14) Other non-current and current provisions 183 (15) Other non-current and current financial liabilities 184 (16) Non-current and current income tax liabilities 184 (17) Other non-current and current liabilities 184 (18) Trade payables 184 (19) Further information on liabilities Consolidated Financial Statements 149 Statement of Financial Position Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 373 390 Property, plant and equipment (2) 2,679 2,994 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 12 8 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 19 18 Non-current derivative assets (5) 8 16 Other non-current financial assets (6) 82 8 Deferred taxes (28) 196 211 Other non-current assets (7) 120 102 Non-current assets 3,489 3,747 Inventories (8) 1,386 1,527 Trade receivables (9) 1,146 1,117 Cash and cash equivalents 178 386 Near-cash assets (10) 350 411 Current derivative assets (5) 8 28 Other current financial assets (6) 27 6 Current income tax receivables 64 41 Other current assets (11) 230 256 Current assets 3,389 3,772 Total assets 6,878 7,519 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 889 889 Other reserves 943 1,233 Net income 506 514 Other equity components (280) (321) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 16 16 Equity (12) 2,074 2,331 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (13) 679 892 Other non-current provisions (14) 331 304 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 13 4 Other non-current financial liabilities (15) 1,465 2,167 Non-current income tax liabilities (16) 63 35 Other non-current liabilities (17) 89 74 Deferred taxes (28) 75 82 Non-current liabilities 2,715 3,558 Other current provisions (14) 446 440 Trade payables (18) 766 795 Current derivative liabilities (5) 40 10 Other current financial liabilities (15) 633 167 Current income tax liabilities (16) 49 45 Other current liabilities (17) 155 173 Current liabilities 2,089 1,630 Total equity and liabilities 6,878 7,519 150 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Income Statement LANXESS Group € million Note 2011 2012 Sales (20) 8,775 9,094 Cost of sales (21) (6,765) (6,986) Gross profit 2,010 2,108 Selling expenses (22) (732) (763) Research and development expenses (23) (144) (192) General administration expenses (24) (325) (339) Other operating income (25) 179 186 Other operating expenses (26) (212) (190) Operating result (EBIT) 776 810 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 7 1 Interest income 11 5 Interest expense (104) (101) Other financial income and expense (35) (46) Financial result (27) (121) (141) Income before income taxes 655 669 Income taxes (28) (148) (154) Income after income taxes 507 515 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 1 1 of which attributable to LANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 506 514 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (29) 6.08 6.18 Consolidated Financial Statements 151 Income Statement | Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income LANXESS Group € million 2011 2012 Income after income taxes 507 515 Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans (94) (217) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (33) (81) Financial instruments (38) 58 Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method (11) 0 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 40 53 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (136) (187) Total comprehensive income 371 328 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 1 1 of which attributable to LANXESS AG stockholders 370 327 152 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Statement of Changes in Equity LANXESS Group € million Capital Capital Other Net Other equity components Equity Equity Equity stock reserves reserves income attributable attributCurrency Financial to able to nontranslation instruments LANXESS AG controlling adjustment stockholders interests Dec. 31, 2010 83 806 699 379 (215) (6) 1,746 15 1,761 Allocations to retained earnings 379 (379) 0 0 Dividend payments (58) (58) 0 (58) Total comprehensive income (77) 506 (33) (26) 370 1 371 Income after income taxes 506 506 1 507 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (77) (33) (26) (136) 0 (136) Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans (94) (94) (94) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (33) (33) 0 (33) Financial instruments (38) (38) (38) Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method (11) (11) (11) Income taxes on other comprehensive income 28 12 40 40 Dec. 31, 2011 83 806 943 506 (248) (32) 2,058 16 2,074 Allocations to retained earnings 506 (506) 0 0 Dividend payments (71) (71) (1) (72) Stock-based compensation 1 1 1 Total comprehensive income (146) 514 (81) 40 327 1 328 Income after income taxes 514 514 1 515 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (146) (81) 40 (187) 0 (187) Actuarial gains/losses, effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit plans (217) (217) (217) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (81) (81) 0 (81) Financial instruments 58 58 58 Other comprehensive income (net of income tax) attributable to companies accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 71 (18) 53 53 Dec. 31, 2012 83 806 1,233 514 (329) 8 2,315 16 2,331 Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Statement of Changes in Equity | Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Cash Flows LANXESS Group € million Note 2011 2012 Income before income taxes 655 669 Depreciation and amortization 325 378 Gains on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (2) 0 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method (7) (1) Financial losses 98 113 Income taxes paid (95) (109) Changes in inventories (178) (164) Changes in trade receivables (148) 8 Changes in trade payables 70 38 Changes in other assets and liabilities (16) (94) Net cash provided by operating activities before external financing of pension obligations (CTA) 702 838 Cash outflows for external financing of pension obligations (CTA) (30) 0 Net cash provided by operating activities (36) 672 838 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment (679) (696) Cash inflows from financial assets 24 41 Cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents and net of subsequent purchase price adjustments (285) (44) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 7 5 Interest and dividends received 10 20 Net cash used in investing activities (36) (923) (674) Proceeds from borrowings 655 893 Repayments of borrowings (221) (652) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (100) (123) Dividend payments (58) (72) Net cash provided by financing activities (36) 276 46 Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities 25 210 Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 160 178 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents (7) (2) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (36) 178 386 154 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales method. LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. Its registered calendar year. office is at Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee 40, 51369 Leverkusen, Germany. The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated Financial reporting standards and financial statements of the LANXESS Group, to which the auditors, interpretations applied PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified auditor’s The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group as of reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). December 31, 2012 were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretations, together 2012 were prepared by the Board of Management of LANXESS AG with the additional requirements of Section 315 a Paragraph 1 of the and authorized for submission to the Supervisory Board on March 7, German Commercial Code (HGB). 2013. It is the responsibility of the Supervisory Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and declare whether or not it An amendment to IFRS 7 relating to disclosures required in the notes approves them. to the financial statements in connection with the transfer of financial assets took effect in fiscal 2012. However, this amendment is currently not relevant for the LANXESS Group. Structure and components of the consolidated financial statements New standards and interpretations issued The consolidated financial statements comprise the statement of but not yet mandatory financial position, the income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement In 2012 the LANXESS Group did not yet apply certain further accountof cash flows and the notes, which include the segment information. ing standards and interpretations that had already been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS InterThe consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were pretations Committee but were not mandatory for that year. The applicaprepared in euros (€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ miltion of these standards and interpretations is in some cases contingent lion) except where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classiupon their adoption by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the dates fied in the statement of financial position as current or non-current. for mandatory application may ultimately be later than indicated below. Further details of their maturities are provided below in certain cases. In November 2009 the IASB published IFRS 9. The new requireThe consolidated financial statements were prepared on the basis of ments this standard introduced for classifying and measuring financial historical acquisition, generation, construction or production costs of assets were supplemented in October 2010 by requirements for the the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, these measurement of financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial are used. They are explained in the section on accounting policies instruments. The new standard represents the first of three phases in and valuation principles. the complete replacement of IAS 39. If adopted by the E.U., IFRS 9 is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2015. The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating the impact the application of IFRS 9 will have on its financial position and results of operations. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 155 General information | Structure and components of the consolidated financial statements | Financial reporting standards and interpretations applied | New standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory In May 2011 the IASB published three new standards – IFRS 10, In June 2011 the IASB also issued a revised version of IAS 19. This IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 – and two revised standards – IAS 27 and addresses the recognition and measurement of expense for definedIAS 28 – on accounting for participating interests in other entities. With benefit plans and termination benefits. It also results in altered disregard to the three new standards, in June 2012 the IASB published closures on employee benefits. The revised version of IFRS 19 is to changes to the transition arrangements. All five standards are to be be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. applied in the E.U. for the first time for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Earlier application is permissible provided Since the option currently used by the LANXESS Group for the recognithat this is stated in the notes to the financial statements and all of the tion of actuarial gains and losses corresponds to the future mandatory standards are early applied at the same time. An entity may, however, method, application of the revised version of IAS 19 will not have a early provide some of the disclosures on interests in other entities significant impact on the financial position and results of operations. required by IFRS 12 without being compelled to apply the other new If the LANXESS Group had already applied the new version of IAS 19 or revised standards. The LANXESS Group is currently evaluating for fiscal 2012, the operating result would have been reduced by an the impact the application of these standards will have on its financial amount in the low-single-digit million euro range and the financial position and results of operations. result by an amount in the mid-single-digit euro range, with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income. The LANXESS Group In June 2011 the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 1. This specifies assumes that in future fiscal years the charge on the operating result that items included in other comprehensive income must be divided and the financial result will probably be in the low-single-digit million into those that will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss and euro range, with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income. those that will not. The revised version of IAS 1 is to be applied by the LANXESS Group from the start of fiscal 2013. The following accounting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group. Standard/Interpretation Date of publication Mandatory for Adoption LANXESS as of by the E.U. fiscal year IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets – Amendments to IAS 12 Dec. 20, 2010 2013 yes IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters – Amendments to IFRS 1 Dec. 20, 2010 – yes IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement May 12, 2011 2013 yes IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Oct. 19, 2011 2013 yes IFRS 7 and IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IFRS 7 and IAS 32 Dec. 16, 2011 2013/2014 yes IFRS 1 Government Loans – Amendments to IFRS 1 March 13, 2012 – yes Various IAS Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 – 2011 Cycle and IFRS 1 May 17, 2012 2013 no IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Investment Entities – Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 and IAS 27 Oct. 31, 2012 2014 no 156 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Presentation changes and restatement Fully consolidated companies of prior-year figures Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. There has been no change of presentation compared with 2011, nor The cost of a business combination is stated as the aggregate of the have any figures been restated. fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. It also contains the fair value of assets and Consolidation methods liabilities resulting from contingent consideration contracts. The financial statements of the consolidated companies were prepared For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent using uniform accounting policies and valuation principles. liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on December 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the purpose of For each business combination, there is an option to include any shares consolidation. not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro-rata share of the fair value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reported in the statement Intra-Group profits, losses, sales, income, expenses, receivables and of financial position as equity attributable to non-controlling interests. payables are eliminated. Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. Scope of consolidation Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess of the The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the direct or indirect control and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair of LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG holds more than half value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is immediately of the voting rights in a company or is otherwise able to govern the recognized in profit or loss after the purchase price allocation has company’s financial and operating policies in order to obtain benefits been re-examined. from its activities. Special purpose entities, where control is exercised from an economic viewpoint, are also included in the consolidated financial statements. A company is consolidated as of the date from Investments accounted for using the equity method which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control (acquisition date) and deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the equity method (associate) is adjusted annually by the percentage of any Investments in entities in which the LANXESS Group exerts a significant change in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interinfluence, generally through an ownership interest between 20% and est in the entity. If any impairment exceeds the carrying amount of the 50%, are accounted for using the equity method. entity, an impairment loss is recognized for the associated non-current assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated assets Entities that in aggregate are immaterial to the Group’s financial posiare reduced to zero, additional impairments would be recognized as tion and results of operations are not consolidated, but included in the a liability if the owner has entered into a legal or substantive obligaconsolidated financial statements at cost of acquisition. tion, e.g. to offset pro-rata losses or has made payments for the entity. Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the section headed Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investments using “Companies consolidated,” which also contains a list of companies. the equity method are determined according to the same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the associate. Joint ventures are also included in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. Proportionate consolidation is not used. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 157 Presentation changes and restatement of prior-year figures | Consolidation methods | Currency translation | Accounting policies and valuation principles Currency translation The main exchange rates used for currency translation in the LANXESS Group were: In the financial statements of the individual consolidated companies that form the basis for the consolidated financial statements of the Exchange Rates LANXESS Group, all foreign currency receivables and payables are €1 Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether they are hedged. 2011 2012 2011 2012 Forward contracts serving as economic hedges against fluctuations Argentina ARS 5.57 6.49 5.75 5.85 in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. Brazil BRL 2.43 2.70 2.33 2.51 China CNY 8.16 8.22 9.00 8.11 The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on the basis United Kingdom GBP 0.84 0.82 0.87 0.81 of the currency of the primary economic environment in which the India INR 68.60 72.56 64.86 68.62 entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the majority of Japan JPY 100.20 113.61 110.99 102.61 foreign companies are financially, economically and organizationally Canada CAD 1.32 1.31 1.38 1.28 Singapore SGD 1.68 1.61 1.75 1.61 autonomous and their functional currencies are therefore the local South Africa ZAR 10.48 11.17 10.10 10.55 currencies. The assets and liabilities of these companies are translated United States USD 1.29 1.32 1.39 1.29 at closing rates, while income and expense items are translated at average rates for the year. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is recorded in Accounting policies and valuation principles the currency of the acquired entity and translated at the closing rate, irrespective of the date on which it arose. The accounting policies and valuation principles are the same as those used in the previous fiscal year and have been consistently applied. Equity (excluding income and expenses recognized directly in other comprehensive income) is translated at historical rates while income and expenses are translated at average rates. This results in differIntangible assets ences compared with translation at closing rates, which are shown separately in other comprehensive income as exchange differences Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets such on translation of operations outside the eurozone. as software, concessions, industrial property rights, similar rights and assets and licenses to such rights and assets. Acquired intangible If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange differences are assets with a definite useful life are recognized at cost and amortized reversed and recognized in profit or loss. over their respective useful lives using the straight-line method. The amortization period for intangible assets, apart from goodwill, is between 3 and 20 years. Amortization for 2012 has been allocated to the respective functional areas. Any further loss of value is recognized by means of an impairment charge. Impairment losses are reversed in the following year if the reasons for them no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying amounts of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would have been recognized if the impairment losses had not been recognized or their current recoverable value. The lower of these two amounts is recognized. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are not amortized. They are tested for impairment annually, or more often if events or a change in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any impairment losses are recognized in other operating expenses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. 158 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants are recogdevelopment stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected nized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of the related assets useful life of the software from the date it is placed in service. and depreciated over the period between one general overhaul and the next using the straight-line method. Emissions allowances are recognized at cost. Allowances allocated free of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) Where assets comprise material components with different purposes, or comparable authorities in other European countries are capitalized different properties, or different useful lives, the components are capiat a value of zero. talized individually and depreciated over their useful lives. When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between Property, plant and equipment the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recognized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses. Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acquisition or construction less depreciation for wear and tear. LANXESS does not Assets are depreciated by the straight-line method based on the foluse the revaluation model. Impairment losses are recognized for any lowing useful lives, which are applied uniformly throughout the Group: reduction in value that goes beyond normal depreciation. In compliance with IAS 36, impairment losses are measured by comparing Useful Lives the carrying amounts with the discounted cash flows expected to Buildings 20 to 50 years be generated by the assets in the future. Where it is not possible Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years to allocate future cash flows to specific assets, the impairment loss Plant installations 6 to 20 years is assessed on the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cashMachinery and equipment 6 to 12 years Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years generating unit to which the asset belongs. Impairment losses are Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years reversed if the reasons for previous years’ impairment charges no Vehicles 5 to 8 years longer apply, provided that this does not cause the carrying amounts Computer equipment 3 to 5 years of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would Furniture and fixtures 4 to 10 years have been recognized if the impairment charge had not been taken or their current recoverable value. The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment comprises Leasing the direct cost of materials, direct manufacturing expenses, and appropriate allocations of material and manufacturing overheads. and an In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantially all risks appropriate share of the depreciation and impairments of assets used and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred (finance leases) in construction. It also includes the shares of expenses for company are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and the present value of pension plans and discretionary employee benefits that are attributthe minimum lease payments at the date of addition. They are depreciable to construction. ated over their useful lives. If subsequent transfer of title to the leased asset is uncertain, it is depreciated over the shorter of its estimated Where an obligation exists to decommission or dismantle assets at useful life and the lease term. the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original condition, the present value of the obligation is capitalized along with the cost The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. Liabilof acquisition or construction and a provision in the same amount is ities under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of the leased recognized. asset at the inception of the lease or the present value of the minimum lease payments, whichever is lower. Thereafter the minimum lease If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over payments are divided into financing costs and the portion representa long period, the directly attributable borrowing costs incurred up to ing repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing contracts that do the date of completion are capitalized as part of the cost of acquisition not include the transfer of substantially all risks and rewards incidental or construction. to ownership (operating leases), the lessee recognizes the lease payments as current expenses. Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are recognized directly in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition or construction costs are capitalized if they will result in future economic benefits and can be reliably determined. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 159 Accounting policies and valuation principles Property, plant and equipment also includes assets that LANXESS Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method leases or rents out to third parties under agreements other than finance are recognized at the amounts corresponding to LANXESS’s share leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded as the economic owner in their equity in accordance with IAS 28 or IAS 31. of the assets, a receivable is recognized in the amount of the discounted future lease or rental payments. Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. Any gain or loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected in the inLeasing arrangements may be embedded in other contracts. Where come statement. IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing arrangement, the components of the contract are recognized and measured separately. All other primary financial assets are classified as “available-for-sale” and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to loans and receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement, Financial instruments with the exception of write-downs and translation gains and losses, is recognized in other comprehensive income until the financial asset Financial instruments are contracts that give rise simultaneously to is derecognized. a financial asset for one party and a financial liability or equity instrument for another. These include primary financial instruments, such Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value less as trade receivables or payables and financial assets or liabilities, as any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are measured at well as derivative financial instruments, which are used to hedge risks amortized cost using the effective-interest method. arising from changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices or interest rates. LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-derivative financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss upon Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Group initial recognition. becomes the contracting party to them. Financial assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive payments from them expire or the financial assets are transferred together with all substantial Derivative financial instruments and opportunities and risks. Financial liabilities are derecognized when hedging transactions the contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when they expire. The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruments as In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. Gains and the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition of financial losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in profit assets in the consolidated financial statements. or loss. Where foreign currency derivatives or forward commodity contracts used to hedge future cash flows from pending business or Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially recognized forecasted transactions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amortized cost using financial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments the effective interest method. Write-downs for amounts unlikely to be are recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the recovered are recognized via impairment accounts. underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized here are subsequently reclassified to other operating income or production Investments in affiliated companies and the equity instruments included costs, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is recognized in in non-current assets are classified as “available-for-sale” financial profit or loss. Any portion of the change in value of such derivatives assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value cannot deemed to be ineffective with regard to the hedged risk is recognized be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized at cost. directly in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of interest rate deWhere objective evidence exists that such assets may be impaired, rivatives used to hedge long-term liabilities with variable interest rates an impairment loss is recognized on the basis of an impairment test. – provided such derivatives qualify for hedge accounting – are recognized in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or loss as interest income/expense at the same time as the income from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. 160 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivering nonMost of the derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are financial items based on expected purchases, sales or utilization and traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values of forward exchange held for this purpose are recognized not as financial derivatives but as contracts are derived from their trading or listed prices using the “forpending transactions. If the contracts contain embedded derivatives, ward method.” Currency options are valued using an asset pricing the derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract, model based on the Black & Scholes model. The fair values of forward provided that the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded commodity contracts are also derived from their trading or listed prices derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract. using the “forward method.” Where no market price is available, values are determined using recognized capital market pricing methods. Determination of fair value Inventories The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments are outlined below: Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in the process of Trade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivalents being manufactured for sale (work in process) and assets consumed are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is therefore during the production process (raw materials and supplies). They their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are discounted are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the using current interest rates to determine their fair value. lower of cost and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated remaining The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on production costs and selling expenses. the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, direct The fair value of loans is calculated from discounted future interest manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed and payments and capital repayment amounts. variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal capacity utilization, where these are attributable to production. The bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair values are the prices determined and published by the market. It also includes expenses for company pension plans, corporate welfare facilities and discretionary employee benefits that can be allocated to The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial liabilities production. Administrative costs are included where they are attributdue within one year is normally their carrying amount. That of all other able to production. liabilities is determined by discounting them to present value where feasible. Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance leases not manufactured using long-term production processes. are the present values of the net lease payments calculated using the market rate for comparable lease agreements. Given the production and distribution sequences characteristic of the LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped together. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and balances with banks. Securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition are recognized in cash and cash equivalents in view of their high liquidity. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 161 Accounting policies and valuation principles Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale The share-based employee compensation program provides for cash settlement. Provisions are established for the obligations entered into Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be sold in under such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such assets may the rights allocated to employees. The fair value is determined using be individual non-current assets, groups of assets (disposal groups) the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and or complete business entities. A disposal group may also include the expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights based liabilities if these are to be divested together with the assets as part on a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The fair value of of the transaction. the rights is reflected in a pro-rata provision during the vesting period. Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. They are The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or pending recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and the carrylegal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be reasonably ing amount. estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees and legal costs and the cost of potential settlements. The amounts of such provisions are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the Group’s Provisions legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed together with the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 37 and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best estimates of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions of material proviContingent liabilities sions due in more than one year are discounted to present value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed with reasonable Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing certainty. Where the projected obligation alters as the time of perforcommitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably estimated mance approaches (interest effect), the related expense is recognized or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. They are not in other financial expense. recognized in the statement of financial position unless they have been entered into in connection with a business combination. If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the Liabilities provision was originally recorded. Other current liabilities are recognized at repayment or redemption Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits are estabamounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized at amortized cost. lished for defined-benefit pension plans. The provision is measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or construcusing the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not tion of property, plant and equipment are reflected in other liabilities only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing and released to the income statement over the underlying period or date, but also expected future salary and benefit increases. Actuarial expected useful life of the assets to which they relate. gains and losses and adjustments resulting from the asset ceiling and from minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit pension plans are recognized in full in other comprehensive income in the Sales and other revenues period in which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made or the service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and deductions. Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual bonus This is normally the case when the significant risks and benefits associpayments, payments under multi-year compensation programs and ated with ownership of the goods pass to the purchaser. It must also other personnel costs. be sufficiently probable that the economic benefits will be obtained and the costs incurred must be reliably determinable. 162 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Allocations to provisions for rebates to customers are recognized in Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to income the period in which the respective revenues are legally recognized. taxes levied by the same tax authorities. Revenues such as license fees, rental income, interest income or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent fiscal year are accrued. Statement of cash flows The LANXESS Group does not have long-term production orders. Accordingly, the percentage-of-completion method is not applied to The statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and outflows determine when revenues are realized. during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents of the LANXESS Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities in accordance with IAS 7. The liquidity reported in the stateResearch and development expenses ment of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents. According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, whereas The cash flow from operating activities is calculated using the indirect development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, specific narrowly method. This involves eliminating the translation effects and the effects defined conditions are fulfilled. Development costs must be capitalof changes in the scope of consolidation from the changes recognized ized if it is sufficiently certain that the future economic benefits to the in the items on the statement of financial position. Therefore, the cash company will cover not only the usual production, selling and adminflows calculated by the indirect method cannot be directly derived istrative costs but also the development costs themselves. However, from the statement of financial position. since the development and optimization of products and processes frequently involves uncertainties, the conditions for capitalization of Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment are development costs are generally not met. included in the cash flows for investing activities after deducting any third-party subsidies. Investments involving finance leases, along with capitalized borrowing costs, are not included. Comparison therefore Income taxes should not be made between these items and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule of changes in property, plant and equipment. This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash flows from basis of local tax rates. operating activities. Disbursements made under finance leases where LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as cash outflows for financing Income tax liabilities and provisions for income taxes comprise the activities, while cash inflows under finance leases where LANXESS liabilities relating to 2012 and any liabilities from previous years. is the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing activities. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for tempoCash outflows relating to the financing of pension obligations are rary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities allocated to cash flows for operating activities. in the statement of financial position and the tax base and for differences arising from consolidation measures or realizable tax loss carryPurchase prices paid or received in connection with acquisitions or forwards. Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which – on the divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities are included in basis of the statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in relation the investing cash flow after deducting cash and cash equivalents to future periods, as of the closing date – are expected to apply in the acquired or divested. individual countries at the time of realization. Interest and dividends received are also included in investing cash flow, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each closing while interest and dividends paid are reflected in financing cash flow. date and only the amount likely to be realizable due to future taxable income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryforwards can be utilized. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 163 Accounting policies and valuation principles | Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion Global impairment testing procedure and impact If the impairment test shows a strategic business unit to be impaired, an impairment loss is first recognized for any goodwill assigned to it. In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets Any remaining impairment amount is allocated among the other nonstarts with an analysis to determine whether impairment losses need to current assets of the strategic business unit in proportion to their net be recognized or previously recognized impairment losses reversed. If carrying amounts at the closing date. there are indications that this is the case, the residual carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are fully recognized in the income statement under In the LANXESS Group these impairment tests are performed at least other operating expenses and reflected in the segment reporting in once a year. the expenses of the respective segments. Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are tested annually The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal 2012 are outlined for impairment – or more frequently if events or changes in circumin the following section. stances indicate a possible impairment. The residual carrying amount of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill allocated to it, is compared to its recoverable amount. Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion The LANXESS Group defines its business units as the cash-generating The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance units. However, if there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and valuation assets below business-unit level, impairment testing is also performed principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions and estimates at this level and impairment losses recognized in the income statethat may affect the valuation of assets and liabilities, income and exment where necessary. penses and contingent liabilities. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated financial to sell and the value in use. If the carrying amount of a cash-generating statements are based on management’s expectations. Information unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized. that could alter these estimates is reviewed continually and may result The fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate of the price that in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the respective assets and would be obtained by selling the cash-generating unit to a third party liabilities. at the time of valuation less the estimated selling costs. The value in use is defined as the present value of future cash flows based on the Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the valuation continuing use of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are explained below. life. The first step in an impairment test is to determine the fair value less costs to sell. If this is less than the carrying amount of the cashThe LANXESS Group tests its cash-generating units for impairment at generating unit, the value in use is then determined. least once a year by determining the respective recoverable amount (for further information see the section headed “Global impairment The recoverable amount is calculated from a forecast of future cash testing procedure and impact”). The test is based on forecasts of future flows, based on the latest approved five-year plan for the LANXESS cash flows, derived from reasonable assumptions representing the Group. This is built on past experience and the Board of Managemanagement’s best assessment of the economic circumstances at the ment’s estimates of expected market conditions, including assumptions time of the impairment test. Management’s expectations of future cash regarding future raw material prices, cost of sales, selling expenses, flows therefore indirectly affect the valuation of assets and goodwill. research and development expenses, general administration expenses and exchange rates. The present value of future cash flows is calcuThe assumptions and estimates used for the impairment test conlated by discounting them using a weighted capital cost factor. The ducted on assets in fiscal 2012 could differ from the actual values in capital cost factor is derived according to IAS 36 from capital market subsequent periods, necessitating subsequent valuation adjustments. models, taking into account the capital structure and business risks The impairment test was based on a discount rate after taxes of 7.9% specific to the chemical industry. (2011: 7.4%), without using growth rates to extrapolate the last year of the forecasting period. 164 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The testing of the cash-generating units did not reveal any indication Defined-benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial computations of possible asset impairment. and valuations. The derivation of the discount rate used for pensions in Germany was reviewed in fiscal 2012. The section on provisions The principal goodwill items were tested for impairment on the basis for pensions and other post-employment benefits contains information of fair value less costs to sell. As of the annual impairment testing on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations and estimates date, the goodwill from previous years was tested for impairment after were based (see Note [13]). adjusting for currency translation effects. This included, in particular, the goodwill of €95 million (2011: €105 million), which is recognized Further the LANXESS Group is affected by a number of legal disputes. in Brazilian real by the Performance Butadiene Rubbers business unit As an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to adminisin connection with the acquisition of Petroflex in 2008. trative or court proceedings in the normal course of business and may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings generally The goodwill of €18 million relating to the acquisition in 2012 of involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are therefore subBond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon, Germany, was allocated to the High ject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes of any current or Performance Materials business unit in the Performance Polymers future proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. It is therefore segment and tested for impairment as of the reporting date. possible that legal judgments could give rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by insurance and that could materially Neither a one percentage point increase in the discount rate nor a affect the business operations, revenues, earnings and cash flows of 10% reduction in expected future cash flows would have led to the the LANXESS Group. recognition of an impairment loss on these goodwill items. There is also a degree of uncertainty surrounding the assessment of The recognition and measurement of provisions are also affected by certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timing, the underlying Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information correctly discount rate and the absolute level of risk. The LANXESS Group and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities performed sensitivity analyses on all provisions existing as of Decemmay occasionally reach different conclusions. ber 31, 2012 as required by the IFRS. These involved calculating the impact of variations in the parameters used, especially the probability Other significant estimates are used to assess the useful lives of inof occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The outcome tangible assets and property, plant and equipment, the probability of of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the assumptions collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventories described above would not have a material impact on the level of other and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets recognized provisions reported in the consolidated financial statements of the for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. The first-time LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity analyses consolidation of business operations also involves estimation uncerrelating to provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits, tainties and the exercise of discretion in determining the fair values of see Note [13]. the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. Up to the time these consolidated financial statements were prepared, no circumstances had become known that would necessitate a major change in such estimates. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 165 Estimation uncertainties and exercise of discretion | Companies consolidated Companies consolidated The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign affiliates. EMEA (excluding Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2012 20 13 7 6 17 63 Additions 1 1 1 3 Subtractions 0 Mergers (1) (3) (4) Changes in scope of consolidation 2 2 Dec. 31, 2012 22 13 5 6 18 64 Companies accounted for using the equity method Jan. 1, 2012 1 2 3 Dec. 31, 2012 0 1 0 0 2 3 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2012 5 2 1 3 0 11 Additions 1 1 Subtractions (1) (1) Mergers 0 Changes in scope of consolidation (2) (2) Dec. 31, 2012 2 2 1 3 1 9 Total Jan. 1, 2012 25 16 8 9 19 77 Additions 1 1 2 4 Subtractions (1) (1) Mergers (1) (3) (4) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 0 Dec. 31, 2012 24 16 6 9 21 76 In addition, two special purpose entities in the EMEA region (excluddate. The company was assigned to the High Performance Materials ing Germany) are included in the consolidated financial statements. business unit in the Performance Polymers segment. With the acquisition, LANXESS is strengthening, in particular, its innovative portfolio Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These comof lightweight materials for the automotive industry. panies are immaterial to the Group’s financial position and results of operations, since together they account for less than 0.1% of Group The acquisitions were funded from existing liquidity of the LANXESS sales and less than 0.1% of equity. Group and accounted for as business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3. On March 14, 2012, LANXESS acquired all of the shares of Tire Curing Bladders, LLC, of Little Rock, United States. The company Thus, in allocating the purchase price, the acquiree’s identifiable was assigned to the Rhein Chemie business unit in the Performance assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities were included at fair value. Chemicals segment and has broadened the product portfolio. The purchase price allocation is provisional and was carried out with the assistance of external experts in light of the information available On September 12, 2012, LANXESS acquired all of the shares of at and immediately after the date of acquisition. According to IFRS, it Bond-Laminates GmbH of Brilon, Germany. First-time inclusion in can be adjusted within one year after the date of acquisition to reflect the consolidated interim financial statements was effected from that new information and findings. 166 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The following table shows effects from the acquisitions discussed, Other information on companies consolidated neither of which, either individually or on aggregate, materially impacted the Group’s financial position. The following table lists the affiliated companies in accordance with Section 313 Paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code: Additions from Acquisitions € million IFRS carrying Purchase Carrying Company Name and Domicile amounts prior price amounts upon % Interest held to first-time allocation first-time consolidation consolidation Fully consolidated companies Intangible assets 0 23 23 Property, plant and Germany equipment 6 1 7 LANXESS AG, Leverkusen – Other assets 8 0 8 Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Total assets 14 24 38 Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 Non-current liabilities 2 7 9 IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 Current liabilities 6 0 6 LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Total liabilities 8 7 15 LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100 Net acquired assets LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen 100 (excluding goodwill) 6 17 23 LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Langenfeld 100 LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Acquisition costs 41 Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen 100 Acquired goodwill Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim 100 (provisional) 18 Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) The goodwill arising from acquisitions is the result of various factors. Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 In particular, it reflects the potential for utilizing the acquired technoloLANXESS (Pty.) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 gies in further business units. LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia 100 LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 LANXESS CISA (Pty.) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 The acquired activities did not materially impact Group sales or earnLANXESS Elastomères S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100 ings, nor would they have done so if the business had already been LANXESS Elastomers B.V., Heerlen, Netherlands 100 consolidated from January 2012. LANXESS Emulsion Rubber S.A.S., La Wantzenau, France 100 LANXESS Finance B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 First-time consolidation of the Darmex group, which was acquired in LANXESS Holding Hispania, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 the previous year, was effected as of January 11, 2011. The material LANXESS International SA, Granges-Paccot, Switzerland 100 protection business acquired from Syngenta AG was consolidated LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 LANXESS Limited, Newbury, U.K. 100 effective April 13, 2011. First-time inclusion of the elastomers busiLANXESS Mining (Proprietary) Ltd., ness acquired from Dutch company Royal DSM N.V. was effected as Modderfontein, South Africa 100 of May 2, 2011. First-time inclusion of Unitex Chemicals CorporaLANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 tion, Greensboro, United States, took place on October 12, 2011. LANXESS Rubber N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100 All shares in Verichem Inc., Pittsburgh, United States, were acquired LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 as of November 9, 2011. Owing to changes in the purchase price OOO LANXESS, Dzerzhinsk, Russia 100 allocation, goodwill increased by €1 million. In the respective twelveRustenburg Chrome Mine Holdings (Pty.) Ltd., month periods since the date of these acquisitions, there were no Modderfontein, South Africa 100 new findings or information warranting adjustment of the provisional Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., Ede, Netherlands 100 purchase price allocations. These allocations are therefore final. Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 167 Companies consolidated Company Name and Domicile Company Name and Domicile % Interest held % Interest held Fully consolidated companies Associates accounted for using the equity method North America Germany LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 100 Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 LANXESS Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100 LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S.A. 100 Asia-Pacific Rhein Chemie Corporation, Chardon, U.S.A. 100 LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 Nantong, China 50 Latin America Joint ventures accounted for using the equity method LANXESS Elastômeros do Brasil S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 100 LANXESS Industria de Produtos Quimicos e Plasticos Ltda., Asia-Pacific São Paulo, Brazil 100 Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Chemical Co., Ltd., Tongling, China 25 LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Rhein Chemie Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Consolidated special purpose entities Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) Asia-Pacific Dirlem (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 49 LANXESS Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment Trust, Shanghai, China 100 Modderfontein, South Africa 0 LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Ningbo City, China 100 LANXESS Butyl Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 Germany LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, China 100 Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 100 LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 EMEA (excluding Germany) LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, South Korea 100 OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore 100 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, U.K. 100 LANXESS PTY Ltd., Homebush Bay, Australia 100 LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 North America LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai , China 100 LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, U.S.A. 100 LANXESS Wuxi Chemical Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China 100 Nexachem Trading (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 100 Latin America Rhein Chemie Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan 100 Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago de Chile, Chile 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 Asia-Pacific Bond-Laminates HK Limited, Hong Kong, China 100 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies Latin America Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serr, Brazil 39 168 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Notes to the statement of financial position 1 Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2011 € million Acquired goodwill Other Advance payments Total intangible assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2010 142 155 21 318 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 45 116 161 Capital expenditures 25 8 33 Disposals (10) (12) 0 (22) Reclassifications 16 (16) 0 Exchange differences (9) (3) 1 (11) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2011 168 297 14 479 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (5) (87) 0 (92) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Amortization and impairment losses in 2011 (2) (32) (34) of which impairment losses (2) (2) (4) Disposals 6 11 17 Reclassifications 0 0 Exchange differences 0 3 3 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (1) (105) 0 (106) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2011 167 192 14 373 Changes in Intangible Assets in 2012 € million Acquired goodwill Other Advance payments Total intangible assets Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2011 168 297 14 479 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 18 23 0 41 Capital expenditures 0 12 19 31 Disposals 0 (4) (4) Reclassifications 5 (5) 0 Exchange differences (11) (8) 0 (19) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2012 175 325 28 528 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (1) (105) 0 (106) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Amortization and impairment losses in 2012 (40) (40) of which impairment losses 0 Disposals 3 3 Reclassifications 0 Exchange differences 0 5 5 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2012 (1) (137) 0 (138) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2012 174 188 28 390 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 169 Notes to the statement of financial position 2 Property, plant and equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2011 € million Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2010 1,255 5,483 231 421 7,390 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 24 157 2 5 188 Capital expenditures 14 112 19 522 667 Disposals (17) (132) (8) (2) (159) Reclassifications 31 169 9 (209) 0 Exchange differences (5) (15) (1) 11 (10) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2011 1,302 5,774 252 748 8,076 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2010 (838) (4,247) (174) 0 (5,259) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Depreciation and impairment losses in 2011 (35) (234) (22) (291) of which impairment losses (2) (7) 0 (9) Disposals 17 130 8 155 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences 0 (3) 1 (2) Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (856) (4,354) (187) 0 (5,397) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2011 446 1,420 65 748 2,679 Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2012 € million Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2011 1,302 5,774 252 748 8,076 Changes in scope of consolidation/acquisitions 1 6 0 0 7 Capital expenditures 43 202 18 440 703 Disposals (29) (43) (8) (1) (81) Reclassifications 102 307 19 (428) 0 Exchange differences (20) (45) (3) (13) (81) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2012 1,399 6,201 278 746 8,624 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2011 (856) (4,354) (187) 0 (5,397) Changes in scope of consolidation 0 Depreciation and impairment losses in 2012 (41) (270) (27) 0 (338) of which impairment losses (2) (2) (4) Disposals 28 42 7 77 Reclassifications 0 Exchange differences 5 20 3 28 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, Dec. 31, 2012 (864) (4,562) (204) 0 (5,630) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2012 535 1,639 74 746 2,994 170 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets with the was also a €32 million payment out of reserves and an obligation to following gross and net values held under finance leases: offset a loss of €29 million. The carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method decreased by a total amount of Assets Held Under Finance Leases €3 million. The prior-year figure also reflected losses of €11 million € million Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 recognized in other comprehensive income. Gross Net Gross Net carrying carrying carrying carrying A capital increase at LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial amount amount amount amount Co., Ltd., Nantong, China, in the previous year increased the carryBuildings 10 2 3 3 ing amount of investments accounted for using the equity method by Technical equipment and €4 million. In fiscal 2012 a share of the losses of Currenta GmbH machinery 151 56 151 50 Fittings and equipment 4 3 5 3 & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, amounting to €3 million (2011: 165 61 159 56 €0 million) was not recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Directly attributable borrowing costs of €23 million (2011: €12 mil4 Investments in other affiliated companies lion) were capitalized. The average cost of borrowing for the LANXESS Group was 5.1% in 2012 (2011: 5.2%). This item contains interests in other affiliated companies totaling €18 million (2011: €19 million). The reduction resulted from a valuation adjustment for the shares of Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, 3 Investments accounted for using the equity method due to the development of this company’s share price. This was partially offset by the addition of a strategic minority interest in BioAmber Inc., As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Minneapolis, United States. Germany, Anhui Tongfeng Shengda Co., Ltd., Tongling, China, and LANXESS-TSRC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, As of December 31, 2012, all the other investments classified as China, were accounted for using the equity method. available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in Gevo Inc. – comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of these The following tables show the main items included in the income stateinstruments at the closing date could not be reliably determined, they ment and statement of financial position related to these associates: were recognized at cost. There are currently no plans to dispose of these investments. Income from Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method € million 2011 2012 Sales 1,333 1,399 5 Derivative financial instruments Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 7 1 Derivatives with a total fair value of €44 million (2011: €16 million) are capitalized in the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal 2012. Instruments with a negative fair value totaling Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method €14 million (2011: €53 million) are recognized as liabilities. € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2011 2012 Derivative Financial Instruments Assets 911 1,093 € million Dec. 31, 2011 Liabilities 739 1,062 Notional Positive Negative Equity 172 31 amount fair values fair values Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest and equity valuation (160) (23) Forward exchange contracts 2,265 16 (51) Investments accounted for using Forward commodity contracts 22 0 (2) the equity method 12 8 Total derivative financial instruments 2,287 16 (53) of which current 1,827 8 (40) of which non-current 460 8 (13) The €4 million (2011: €1 million) decrease in the carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method arose from the equity-method income and the effect of the distribution of €2 million (2011: €1 million) in pro-rata prior-year income. In fiscal 2012, there Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 171 Notes to the statement of financial position Derivative Financial Instruments The LANXESS Group expects that of the unrealized losses from forward € million Dec. 31, 2012 commodity contracts recognized in other comprehensive income in Notional Positive Negative 2012, €0 million will be reclassifiable from equity to profit or loss in amount fair values fair values 2013 (2011: € 1 million of unrealized losses reclassifiable in 2012). Forward exchange contracts 2,470 44 (14) Forward commodity contracts 0 0 0 Information on the maturity structure of derivative assets and liabilities Total derivative financial is given in Note [35]. instruments 2,470 44 (14) of which current 2,000 28 (10) of which non-current 470 16 (4) 6 Other non-current and current financial assets The total notional amount of forward exchange contracts was Other Financial Assets €2,470 million (2011: €2,265 million), including €2,000 million € million Dec. 31, 2011 (2011: €1,805 million) due within one year. The forward commodity Non-current Current Total contracts in a notional amount of €0 million (2011: €22 million) are Receivables under finance leases 4 2 6 due within one year. Available-for-sale financial assets 61 1 62 Other financial receivables 17 24 41 Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2012, the unrealized gains 82 27 109 recorded in other comprehensive income in 2012 or earlier periods from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting amounted to €8 million (2011: losses of €25 million). In 2012, a Other Financial Assets loss of €23 million (2011: gain of €12 million) was reclassified from € million Dec. 31, 2012 equity to profit or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions. Non-current Current Total Currency hedging contracts concluded to hedge future sales in foreign Receivables under finance leases 2 2 4 currencies had a notional value of €945 million (2011: €815 million). Available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 2 As of December 31, 2012, these had positive fair values of €21 milOther financial receivables 5 3 8 lion (2011: €1 million) and negative fair values of €8 million (2011: 8 6 14 €36 million). Contracts with a total notional amount of €649 million (2011: €583 million) are due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized within the next two years. In 2011 the available-for sale non-current financial assets comprised €60 million in bearer securities of an exchange-traded index fund. The LANXESS Group expects that of the unrealized gains (2011: Accounts receivable of €4 million (2011: €6 million) relate to lease losses) on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive inagreements in which the other party, as lessee, is to be regarded as come in 2012, €3 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or the economic owner of the leased assets (finance leases). The decline loss in 2013 and €5 million in 2014 (2011: €18 million in 2012 in other financial receivables resulted from retirements of fixed-term and €7 million in 2013). investments with short fixed-interest periods. Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to €8 million (2011: €9 million) and related As of December 31, 2012 the unrealized losses recognized in other entirely to write-downs of other financial receivables. comprehensive income in 2012 or earlier periods from forward commodity contracts that qualified for hedge accounting amounted to €0 million (2011: €1 million). In 2012, a loss of €1 million (2011: gain of €3 million) was reclassified from equity to profit or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions. Hedging comprised forward commodity contracts with positive fair values of €0 million on December 31, 2012 and negative fair values of €0 million (2011: €2 million). The total notional amount of these hedges was €0 million (2011: €22 million) and they are due within one year. The hedged cash flows will be realized within the next year. 172 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The leasing receivables are due as follows: 8 Inventories Maturity Structure of Lease Payments The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised: € million Dec. 31, 2011 Inventories Lease Interest Leasing payments portion receivables € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2011 2012 Up to 1 year 3 1 2 1 to 5 years 4 0 4 Raw materials and supplies 271 273 7 1 6 Work in process, finished goods and merchandise 1,115 1,254 1,386 1,527 Maturity Structure of Lease Payments € million Dec. 31, 2012 Inventories of €217 million (2011: €184 million) are reflected at net Lease Interest Leasing realizable value. payments portion receivables Up to 1 year 2 0 2 Write-downs of inventories were as follows: 1 to 5 years 2 0 2 4 0 4 Write-Downs of Inventories € million 2011 2012 Balance at beginning of year (62) (101) Additions charged as expenses (59) (37) 7 Other non-current assets Reversals/utilization 20 51 Exchange differences 0 1 Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less write-downs. Balance at end of year (101) (86) No write-downs were necessary in 2011 or 2012. Other non-current assets comprised: 9 Trade receivables Other Non-Current Assets € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, All trade receivables – totaling €1,117 million (2011: €1,146 mil2011 2012 lion) – are due within one year. Trade receivables of €4 million (2011: Receivables from pension obligations 85 64 €6 million) related to other affiliates and €1,113 million (2011: Other receivables 35 38 €1,140 million) to other customers. 120 102 Trade receivables are stated after write-downs of €13 million (2011: The €21 million decline in receivables from pension obligations was €13 million) for amounts unlikely to be recovered. These write-downs mainly attributable to a decrease in the discount rate for pensions. related to gross receivables of €21 million (2011: €28 million). The other receivables include, among other things, security deposits. Changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as follows: Write-Downs of Trade Receivables € million 2011 2012 Balance at beginning of year (19) (13) Additions charged as expenses (3) (4) Reversals/utilization 8 4 Exchange differences 1 0 Balance at end of year (13) (13) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Notes to the statement of financial position The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was as follows: acquired either in the market or via a public tender offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables law. In particular, it can retire the shares, sell them other than via the € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or transfer them against 2011 2012 consideration in kind for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts of Carrying amount 1,146 1,117 companies or equity interests in companies or in order to conclude of which neither impaired nor past due 1,033 973 mergers. It is also authorized to use them to satisfy conversion rights of which unimpaired but past due by from convertible or warrant bonds and/or profit-participation rights or up to 30 days 85 112 income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the between 31 and 60 days 9 10 company and to grant holders of convertible or warrant bonds and/ between 61 and 90 days 1 3 more than 90 days 3 11 or profit-participation rights or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments) issued by the company or its direct and indirect affiliates that grant a conversion or option right or stipulate a converWith regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired nor past sion or warrant obligation the number of shares for which such parties due, there were no indications as of the closing date that the respecwould be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion or tive debtors would not meet their payment obligations. option rights or fulfillment of the conversion or warrant obligation. The stockholders shall not have subscription rights in such cases, except where the shares are retired. 10 Near-cash assets Capital stock The capital stock of LANXESS AG was €83,202,670 and The near-cash assets of €411 million (2011: €350 million) comprises thus unchanged from the previous year. It is divided into 83,202,670 units of money market funds that can be sold at any time and are no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. expected to be realized within twelve months after the closing date. One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. Authorized capital As of December 31, 2012 the company’s autho11 Other current assets rized capital comprised the following: Other receivables and other assets totaling €256 million (2011: Authorized Capital I and II Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 2 of €230 million) are stated at amortized cost less any write-downs. They LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ principally comprise miscellaneous claims for tax refunds (mainly sales Meeting on May 7, 2009 authorized the Board of Management until taxes) amounting to €181 million (2011: €182 million) and other May 6, 2014, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase advance payments. the capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). Stockholders are generally 12 Equity entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of LANXESS AG on May 18, 2011 authorized the Board of Management warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates until May 17, 2016 to acquire shares in the company representing up subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parto 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the or option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its subsidiaries. the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital At the discretion of the Board of Management, such shares may be stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded 174 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conversion obligaof convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its tions on, the holders or creditors of convertible bonds, convertible affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription profit-participation rights or convertible income bonds in respect of rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board bearer shares of the company representing a total pro-rata increase if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the of up to €16,640,543 in the company’s capital stock on the terms stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued to be defined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 4 of shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 2 of the articles of association. conditionally increased by up to €16,640,534 (Conditional Capital). In addition, pursuant to Section 4 Paragraph 3 of LANXESS AG’s The conditional capital increase shall only be implemented to the extent articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 28, that the holders or creditors of, or persons obligated to exercise, option 2010 authorized the Board of Management until May 27, 2015, or conversion rights pertaining to bonds issued by the company or with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the coma dependent company against cash contributions, or issued against pany’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par cash contributions and guaranteed by the company or a dependent shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of company, on or before May 17, 2016 on the basis of the authorization €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are generally granted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockholders’ entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital is utilized. Meeting on May 18, 2011, exercise their option or conversion rights With the approval of the Supervisory Board, subscription rights can or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill such obligation, or to the be excluded for residual amounts and in order to grant holders of extent that the company elects to grant shares in the company in place warrants or convertible bonds issued by the company and its affiliates of all or part of the cash amount due for payment. The conditional subscription rights to the number of new shares for which such parcapital increase shall not be implemented if cash compensation is ties would be entitled to subscribe upon exercise of their conversion granted or if the company’s own shares, shares issued out of authoror option rights. Moreover, subscription rights can be excluded with ized capital or shares in another listed company are used to service the approval of the Supervisory Board when the company’s capital the option or conversion rights. stock is increased against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded When issuing bonds, the Board of Management is authorized, with with the approval of the Supervisory Board in order to grant holders the approval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights of convertible and/or warrant bonds issued by the company or its in the following cases: affiliates new shares upon exercise of their rights. Finally, subscription • for residual amounts resulting from the subscription ratio; rights can also be excluded with the approval of the Supervisory Board • insofar as is necessary to grant to holders of previously issued option if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the or conversion rights or obligations subscription rights to the numstock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the issued ber of new shares to which they would be entitled to subscribe as shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. Further stockholders upon exercise of their option or conversion rights or details are given in Section 4 Paragraph 3 of the articles of association. fulfillment of their option or conversion obligations; • in the case of issuance against cash contributions, if the issue price is Conditional capital As of December 31, 2012 the company’s connot significantly below the theoretical market value of the bonds with ditional capital comprised the following: option or conversion rights or conversion obligations, as determined using accepted pricing models; if bonds are issued by application of Conditional capital The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG Section 186 Paragraph 3 Sentence 4 of the German Stock Corporaon May 18, 2011 authorized the Board of Management until May 17, tion Act, in which case the issued shares may not exceed a total of 2016, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one or 10% of the capital stock either at the time this authorization takes more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, profiteffect or at the time it is utilized; participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination of these • if profit-participation rights or income bonds without option or coninstruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – either as registered or version rights or conversion obligations are vested with bond-like as bearer bonds – with a total nominal value of up to €2,000,000,000, characteristics. with or without limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose option obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with warrants, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 175 Notes to the statement of financial position Capital reserves The capital reserves of LANXESS AG were unchanged In the case of defined-contribution plans, the company pays contribufrom the previous year at €806,195,490. tions into separate pension funds. These contributions are included in the respective functional cost items as expenses for the year, and Other reserves The €290 million increase in other reserves to thus in the operating result. Once the contributions have been paid, €1,233 million was entirely attributable to the increase in retained the company normally has no further payment obligations. In 2012 earnings from €785 million to €1,074 million. An addition of €1 milthese expenses totaled €54 million (2011: €38 million). lion was made in connection with stock-based compensation in South Africa. The pension plan financed through the Bayer Pensionskasse is also reflected in the consolidated financial statements as a defined-contriRetained earnings comprised prior years’ undistributed income of bution plan. The above amounts include contributions of €28 million companies included in the consolidated financial statements. They (2011: €21 million) to this pension fund. also contained actuarial gains and losses along with the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements for defined-benefit The Bayer Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance plans and the associated tax effects. company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance Supervision Act. The obligation of the plan sponsors is not confined to payment Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests comprised the of the contributions for the respective fiscal year. Therefore the Bayer interests held by other stockholders in the equity of DuBay Polymer Pensionskasse is a defined-benefit plan sponsored by multiple employGmbH, Hamm, Germany; Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain; and ers and would normally have to be accounted for proportionately as Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co. Ltd., Qingdao, China. a defined-benefit plan. Capital management The main purpose of capital management in the The Bayer Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of coverage LANXESS Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the Group’s for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial equivalence operations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared to principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This means that the sum the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy defines of existing plan assets and the present value of future contributions a second key criterion for capital management, which is to maintain must be at least equal to the present value of the future benefits payan investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the Group has to able under the plan. The LANXESS Group is therefore exposed to the meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most of these are derived actuarial risks of the other plan sponsors of the Bayer Pensionskasse from the statement of financial position, income statement and cash and thus has no consistent or reliable basis for allocating the benefit flow data. In addition, LANXESS has set a target debt range. Over a obligation, plan assets and costs to account for the Bayer Pensionsnormal business cycle, the ratio of net financial debt to EBITDA pre kasse as a defined-benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. There is no exceptionals should be between 1.0 and 1.5. Capital management in information available on overor underfunding that could be used to the LANXESS Group entails decisions by the relevant internal bodies estimate any impact on future contributions. The Bayer Pensionskasse on the capital structure shown on the statement of financial position, is therefore accounted for as a defined-contribution plan and not as the appropriateness of the company’s equity, the distribution of the a defined-benefit plan. profit, the amount of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures and borrowing and the repayment of debt. The articles of association The Bayer Pensionskasse assumes any pension adjustments in of LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements. accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG) insofar as the necessary funds are made available to it. Pension adjustments not expected to be assumed by 13 Provisions for pensions and other the Bayer Pensionskasse are accounted for by LANXESS as a separate post-employment benefits defined-benefit plan. Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retirement benefits on the basis of statutory regulations or contractual agreements. These are provided through both defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans. 176 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Pension plans based on statutory regulations mainly comprise an The costs for the plans comprise the following: obligation to pay a lump sum when employment ends. The amount depends principally on years of service and final salary. Costs for Defined-Benefit Plans € million Pension Other postPension plans based on contractual agreements generally comprise obligations employment benefit obligations lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or disability or when the employee reaches a certain age. Benefits are normally based on 2011 2012 2011 2012 employees’ salaries and years of service. Current service cost 22 26 7 11 Past service cost 1 0 0 0 Alongside retirement benefits, pension and other post-employment Interest cost 89 94 7 7 Expected return on plan assets (87) (84) 0 0 benefit obligations include the obligation of Group companies in the Actuarial gains/losses – – 0 1 Americas to reimburse healthcare costs to retirees. Plan curtailments, settlements and divestments 8 (1) 0 – Benefit entitlements are financed either internally through provisions 33 35 14 19 or externally through legally independent pension funds. The pension commitments in Germany are partly covered by the LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany (CTA). The reconciliation of the defined-benefit obligation to the net amounts of assets and provisions recognized in the statement of financial The provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits recposition is as follows: ognized in the statement of financial position reflect the present value of the defined-benefit obligation at year end, taking into account exReconciliation to Net Recognized Liability as of Dec. 31 pected future benefit increases, less the year-end fair value of external € million Pension Other postplan assets adjusted for unrecognized past service cost, unrealizable obligations employment benefit obligations plan assets and minimum funding requirements. The defined-benefit obligation is measured regularly – at least every three years – by an 2011 2012 2011 2012 independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. ComDefined benefit obligation (funded) 1,347 1,579 6 8 prehensive actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for External plan assets (1,156) (1,146) (4) (4) all major pension plans. The discount rates used to compute present Underfunding 191 433 2 4 Defined benefit obligation value normally correspond to the yields on high-quality corporate (unfunded) 187 275 120 117 bonds with the same maturities. Unrecognized past service cost (1) (1) 0 0 Effects of asset ceiling and minimum funding requirements 95 – – – Total expenses for defined-benefit plans in 2012 amounted to €54 milNet recognized liability 472 707 122 121 lion (2011: €47 million). Expenses for pension payments, and the Amounts recognized in the effect of plan curtailments, settlements and divestments totaling statement of financial position €37 million (2011: €38 million), are recognized in the operating Receivables from pension obligations (85) (64) – – result. The interest cost pertaining to pension entitlements earned in Provisions for pensions and prior years and the expected return on plan assets totaled €17 million other post-employment benefits 557 771 122 121 (2011: €9 million). This amount was reflected in the financial result. Net recognized liability 472 707 122 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 177 Notes to the statement of financial position The net recognized liability is reflected in the following items in the Employer contributions contain both allocations to externally financed statement of financial position: pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimbursement of pension payments and externally financed pension obligations where Net Recognized Liability as of Dec. 31 subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of external € million 2011 2012 pension assets. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 679 892 Other non-current assets (85) (64) Allocations to external financing where subsequent pension payments Net recognized liability 594 828 are made directly out of external pension assets totaled €21 million in 2012 (2011: €19 million). In addition, in 2011 allocations of €30 million were made to external financing where LANXESS can The defined-benefit obligation and plan assets changed as follows claim reimbursement of payments made (CTA). in 2012: It is not possible to reliably estimate the employer contributions to Change in Defined-Benefit Obligation as of Dec. 31 defined-benefit plans in the next fiscal year. These depend mainly on € million Pension Other postfuture decisions by the company’s management and the regulatory obligations employment benefit environment in each country. obligations 2011 2012 2011 2012 The following table shows the actuarial gains and losses recognized Defined-benefit obligation outside profit or loss as a component of other comprehensive income, Benefit obligation at the effects of the asset ceiling recognized in other comprehensive beginning of year 1,419 1,534 125 126 income, and the minimum funding requirements: Current service cost 22 26 7 11 Past service cost 1 – – – Interest cost 89 94 7 7 Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income Employee contributions 2 2 – – € million Pension Other postPlan settlements (34) (4) – – obligations employment benefit Actuarial gains/losses 137 307 1 (4) obligations Benefits paid (74) (69) (13) (12) 2011 2012 2011 2012 Acquisitions/divestments 0 4 – – Actuarial gains/losses (85) (322) (1) 5 Plan curtailments 0 0 0 – Effects of asset ceiling and Exchange differences (28) (40) (1) (3) minimum funding requirements (10) 95 – – Benefit obligation at end of year 1,534 1,854 126 125 (95) (227) (1) 5 Change in Plan Assets as of Dec. 31 The accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognized in other com€ million Pension Other postprehensive income in 2012 or earlier periods amounted to minus obligations employment benefit €693 million (2011: minus €385 million). obligations 2011 2012 2011 2012 Fair value of plan assets Plan assets at beginning of year 1,105 1,156 3 4 Expected return on plan assets 87 84 0 0 Actuarial gains/losses 52 (15) 0 0 Acquisitions/divestments 0 1 – – Plan settlements (42) (3) – – Employer contributions 48 20 1 1 Employee contributions 2 2 – – Benefits paid (57) (51) 0 (1) Exchange differences (39) (48) 0 0 Plan assets at end of year 1,156 1,146 4 4 178 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 The actuarial gains and losses are assigned to the following categories: Categories of Actuarial Gains/Losses as of Dec. 31 € million Pension obligations Other post-employment benefit obligations 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Difference between expected and actual return on plan assets (50) 15 5 52 (15) 0 0 0 0 0 Experience adjustments (26) 36 (54) (39) (17) 0 (2) 4 4 5 Adjustments for changes in valuation assumptions 90 (81) (134) (98) (290) 6 (6) (6) (5) (1) Net actuarial gain/loss for the year 14 (30) (183) (85) (322) 6 (8) (2) (1) 4 Experience adjustments represent changes in benefit obligations The discount rate is weighted on the basis of the benefit obligation for arising from differences between actuarial assumptions and actual each pension plan at year end, including all plans in the calculation. By developments during the year. By contrast, adjustments for changes contrast, the weighting of the percentage for the expected return on in valuation assumptions reflect differences in the benefit obligation plan assets only includes pension plans with plan assets. The weightresulting from differences in the assumptions made at the start and ing is based on the plan assets at year end. The weighted valuation end of the year. assumptions also reflect country-specific differences. The increase in the adjustments for changes in valuation assumpThe Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric basis for tions is primarily due to the decline in discount rates in the principal the computation of pension obligations in Germany. Current national countries in which LANXESS has pension obligations. biometric assumptions are used to compute benefit obligations at other Group companies. Employee turnover rates are estimated on The actual return on external plan assets in 2012 amounted to the basis of age and gender. €69 million (2011: €139 million). The data selection criteria used to derive the discount rate for penThe following weighted parameters were used to calculate benefit sion obligations in Germany and the extrapolation method were reexpense and obligations: vised because the data basis for high-quality corporate bonds with an equivalent maturity had been eroded by rating downgrades. In future, Assumptions as of Dec. 31 the discount rate will be derived from high-quality corporate bonds % Pension Other postwhich have been awarded an AA rating by at least one of the three obligations employment benefit major rating agencies. The discount rate derived in this way is 25 obligations basis points above the discount rate that would have been obtained 2011 2012 2011 2012 using the previous selection criteria and the previous extrapolation Discount rate 6.2 5.1 5.7 4.9 process, and the increase in the present value of the defined-benefit Expected salary increases 3.6 3.6 3.8 3.7 pension obligation as of the closing date is reduced by €48 million. Expected pension increases 2.1 2.4 – – This has the opposite effect on benefit expense for subsequent years, Expected return on plan assets 7.8 7.0 5.8 5.6 but the effect is negligible both in individual years and in aggregate. Expected increase in the cost of medical care – – 8.4 7.9 Expected long-term increase in the cost of medical care – – 5.5 5.3 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 179 Notes to the statement of financial position The discount rate used to calculate the present value of pensions and The plan assets now comprise: other post-employment benefit obligations is derived from the yield on high-quality corporate bonds with the same maturity. An increase Breakdown of Plan Assets as of Dec. 31 of 0.5 percentage point in the discount rate would reduce pension % of plan assets 2011 2012 obligations by €141 million (2011: €105 million) and other postFixed-income securities 58.1 61.0 employment benefit obligations by €6 million (2011: €6 million). Equity instruments 25.7 26.7 A decrease of 0.5 percentage point in the discount rate would increase Real estate 2.0 2.3 pension obligations by €156 million (2011: €111 million) and other Other 14.2 10.0 post-employment benefit obligations by €6 million (2011: €6 million). 100.0 100.0 The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place within about eleven years. The expected return on each category of plan assets was calculated on the basis of generally available and internal capital market reports Assuming all other parameters remain unchanged, a one percentage and forecasts. The expected return on fixed-income securities is based point increase or decrease in the assumptions relating to the expected on the maturity of the portfolio and the yields on the closing date. The long-term increase in medical costs would raise or reduce the present expected return on equity instruments reflects the long-term return value of the defined-benefit obligation by €8 million (2011: €9 milexpectations for the underlying equity portfolio. lion). The costs for healthcare plans would not materially increase or decrease. The table below shows the defined-benefit obligation and plan assets at the end of each year: Funded Status as of Dec. 31 € million 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Defined benefit obligation 1,049 1,231 1,544 1,660 1,979 External plan assets (668) (879) (1,108) (1,160) (1,150) Underfunding 381 352 436 500 829 14 Other non-current and current provisions On the closing date, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions of €440 million (2011: €446 million) and other non-current provisions of €304 million (2011: €331 million). The maturity structure of other provisions can be seen from the table: Other Provisions € million Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 172 85 30 287 218 82 32 332 Environmental protection 23 34 77 134 13 18 77 108 Trade-related commitments 115 11 – 126 74 5 – 79 Restructuring 23 31 6 60 20 22 3 45 Miscellaneous 113 45 12 170 115 55 10 180 446 206 125 777 440 182 122 744 180 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Overall, other provisions declined from €777 million to €744 million in fiscal 2012. While personnel-related provisions and miscellaneous provisions increased, provisions for environmental protection, traderelated commitments and restructuring decreased. Provisions changed as follows in 2012: Changes in Other Provisions in 2012 € million Jan. 1, 2012 Allocations Interest effect Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, differences 2012 Personnel 287 211 3 (143) (19) (7) 332 Environmental protection 134 5 3 (14) (19) (1) 108 Trade-related commitments 126 45 0 (44) (47) (1) 79 Restructuring 60 12 0 (17) (10) 0 45 Miscellaneous 170 81 0 (16) (47) (8) 180 777 354 6 (234) (142) (17) 744 Personnel-related provisions Personnel-related provisions mainly LTIP 2008 – 2010 If LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a payrelate to annual performance-related compensation and multi-year ment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point compensation programs. up to 5% by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.05 is paid in addition. For each percentage point above 5%, €0.06667 is paid in Multi-year compensation programs addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. Stock-based compensation LANXESS AG offers a stock-based LTSP 2010 – 2013 If LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a paycompensation program to members of the Management Board and ment of at least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point certain other managers. The program provides for cash settlement. by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. Following the granting of rights under two consecutive three-year The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIP) launched in 2005, a new Long Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) was introduced in 2010 under which Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are valued on rights are granted for the years 2010-2013. The date of issue of the the basis of the following principal parameters: rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the programs Principal Parameters as of Dec. 31 is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment in % 2011 2012 LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. Awards are based Expected share price volatility 41.0 41.0 on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the Dow Jones Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. Expected index volatility 23.0 23.0 Correlation between LANXESS stock and the index 81.0 82.0 LTIP 2005 – 2007 If LANXESS stock performs in line with this index, Risk-free interest rate 0.4 0.0 a payment of €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point up to 10% by which the stock outperforms the index, €0.025 is paid in addition. For each percentage point above 10%, €0.05 is paid in In view of the general reduction in interest rates, the risk-free interest addition. The maximum possible payment per right, however, is €1.50. rate was 0.02% in 2012 (2011: 0.40%). The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index in the past three years. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 181 Notes to the statement of financial position The following table provides information on the tranches outstanding as of December 31, 2012: LTIP and LTSP LTIP LTIP LTSP 2005 – 2007 2008 – 2010 2010 – 2013 Tranche 2007 Tranche 2008 Tranche 2009 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2010 Tranche 2011 Tranche 2012 Duration 5 years 6 years 6 years 6 years 7 years 7 years 7 years Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 4 years 4 years 4 years Holding period for personal investment shares Jan. 31, 2010 Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Feb. 1, 2013 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Initial LANXESS share price €40.79 €24.03 €12.86 €27.28 €27.28 €55.60 €44.54 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM index price 431.50 points 465.97 points 317.39 points 432.44 points 432.44 points 564.17 points 533.45 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2011 €0.04 €2.00 €2.00 €1.20 €1.04 €0.27 – Fair value per right as of December 31, 2012 – – €2.00 €2.00 €1.81 €0.55 €0.71 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2012 362,205 538,500 11,123,992 12,288,645 10,706,954 11,706,098 0 Rights granted – – – – – – 12,631,238 Rights exercised 362,205 538,500 10,976,291 – – – – Rights compensated – – 20,907 207,451 291,553 251,582 146,431 Rights forfeited – – – 228,732 182,519 241,064 208,741 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2012 0 0 126,794 11,852,462 10,232,882 11,213,452 12,276,066 LANXESS shares were trading at €66.27 at year-end 2012, and the Environmental provisions The Group’s activities are subject to extenreference index stood at 662.98 points. sive legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Compliance with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove The net expense in 2012 totaled €27 million (2011: €13 million). or mitigate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances While rights from the 2007 tranche were exercised at an average at various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous site value of €0.53, the rights from the 2008 and 2009 tranches were owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of removing exercised at the maximum value. As of December 31, 2012 a provihazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on its property sion of €41 million (2011: €38 million) had been established. Of this or neighboring areas, or rendering them harmless, without regard to amount, the intrinsic value of rights exercisable as of the closing date whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused the presence of accounted for €0 million (2011: €1 million). the contaminants, and often regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. As LANXESS stock plan This is an employee stock plan under which many of LANXESS’s production sites have a long history of industrial LANXESS staff may purchase shares in the company at a 50% disuse, it is not always possible to accurately predict the effects such count. Employees acquired a total of 165,446 LANXESS shares situations may have on the LANXESS Group in the future. under this program in 2012 (2011: 118,445 shares). These shares must be retained for at least three years. Since there are no further conditions attached to this stock plan, the discount was expensed immediately. Expense of €5 million was recognized for the stock plan in 2012 (2011: €3 million). Participation in this program does not confer any right to similar benefits in the future. 182 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility therefore canIt is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental protection not be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have and remediation because of many uncertainties concerning the legal occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in this regard could be requirements and the information available about conditions in the brought by government agencies, private organizations or individuvarious countries and at specific sites. Subject to these factors, but als. Such claims would then relate to the remediation of sites or other taking into consideration experience gained to date with matters of a land that the LANXESS Group acquired from the Bayer Group or from similar nature, we believe our provisions to be adequate based upon third parties, where materials were produced specifically for third parcurrently available information. However, the possibility that additional ties under contract manufacturing agreements or where waste from costs could be incurred beyond the amounts accrued cannot be exproduction facilities operated by the LANXESS Group was treated, cluded. LANXESS nevertheless estimates that such additional costs, stored or disposed of. should they occur, would not materially impact the Group’s financial position or results of operations. Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under legislation such as the U.S. environment law commonly known as “Superfund.” At Trade-related commitments Provisions for trade-related commitments locations in the U.S., numerous companies, including LANXESS, have mainly comprise those for rebates, customer discounts, product rebeen notified that the U.S. authorities or private individuals consider turns, outstanding invoices, impending losses and onerous contracts. such companies to be potentially responsible parties under Superfund or related laws. At some sites, LANXESS may be the sole responsible Provisions for restructuring Provisions for restructuring totaled €45 milparty. Remediation measures have already been initiated at most of lion on December 31, 2012 (2011: €60 million). Of this amount, the sites concerned. €27 million (2011: €45 million) comprised provisions for severance payments and other personnel expenses, and €18 million (2011: The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs relate €15 million) comprised provisions for demolition and other expenses. primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, recultivation of landfills, and redevelopment and water protection measures. The proSundry provisions The sundry provisions contain provisions for guaranvisions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present tees and product liability, and provisions for other liabilities. Provisions value of the expected commitments where environmental assessments for waste management that are not included in environmental provior clean-ups are probable, the costs can be reasonably estimated and sions or provisions for legal risks that are not included in a different no future economic benefit is expected to arise from these measures. category within other provisions are also included in sundry provisions. Costs are estimated based on significant factors such as previous experience in similar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels and new circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current environmental laws and regulations, the number of other potentially responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of the liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 183 Notes to the statement of financial position 15 Other non-current and current financial liabilities The following tables show the structure and maturities of other financial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2011 € million Current Non-current 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 > 2016 Total Bonds 401 497 199 496 1,192 Liabilities to banks 159 27 35 34 34 61 191 Liabilities under finance leases 11 35 7 4 5 22 73 Other primary financial liabilities 62 2 3 3 1 9 633 62 541 41 241 580 1,465 Other Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2012 € million Current Non-current 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 > 2017 Total Bonds 498 60 199 1,189 1,946 Liabilities to banks 75 41 34 34 39 22 170 Liabilities under finance leases 35 8 6 5 4 20 43 Other primary financial liabilities 57 3 2 2 0 1 8 167 550 102 240 43 1,232 2,167 The following bonds were outstanding on December 31, 2012: The weighted average interest rate for financial liabilities in the Bonds LANXESS Group at year end was 4.8% (2011: 5.3%). Issuance Nominal Carrying Interest rate Maturity amount amount % Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased assets million € million are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as the economic April 2009 500 EUR 498 7.750 April 2014 property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payments totaling September 2009 200 EUR 199 5.500 September 2016 €92 million (2011: €100 million), including €14 million (2011: May 2011 500 EUR 497 4.125 May 2018 February 2012 500 CNH 60 3.950 February 2015 €16 million) in interest are to be made to lessors in future years. April 2012 100 EUR 100 3.500 April 2022 April 2012 100 EUR 99 3.950 April 2027 Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest of €54 million November 2012 500 EUR 493 2.625 November 2022 (2011: €55 million) on financial liabilities. Of this amount, €52 million (2011: €53 million) relates to the above-mentioned bonds. The €500 million Eurobond issued in June 2005 with an annual Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the contractually coupon of 4.125% matured in fiscal 2012. The remaining nominal agreed payments, especially interest payments, is given in Note [35]. amount of €402 million was repaid in June 2012. 184 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 16 Non-current and current income tax liabilities The miscellaneous liabilities include commission payments to customers and reimbursements of expenses. As in the previous year, there The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprise: were no such liabilities to other affiliated companies. Income Tax Liabilities € million Dec. 31, 2011 18 Trade payables Non-current Current Total Trade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the previous Provisions 55 43 98 year, the entire amount totaling €795 million (2011: €766 million) Payables 8 6 14 63 49 112 is due within one year. Trade payables of €38 million (2011: €35 million) related to comIncome Tax Liabilities panies accounted for using the equity method and €757 million € million Dec. 31, 2012 (2011: €731 million) to other suppliers. Non-current Current Total Provisions 35 43 78 19 Further information on liabilities Payables – 2 2 35 45 80 Of the total liabilities, €1,238 million (2011: €586 million) had maturities of more than five years. The increase from the previous year was mainly due to the bonds issued in the fiscal year (see Note [15]). 17 Other non-current and current liabilities The other non-current liabilities totaling €74 million (2011: €89 milNotes to the income statement lion) mainly include asset subsidies of €67 million (2011: €71 million) granted by third parties. 20 Sales The other current liabilities are recognized at settlement cost. They Sales, amounting to €9,094 million (2011: €8,775 million), mainly comprise: comprise goods sold less discounts and rebates. Other Current Liabilities A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, is given in the segment information (see Note [37]). 2011 2012 Tax liabilities 59 66 Social security liabilities 24 23 21 Cost of sales Payroll liabilities 27 19 Miscellaneous liabilities 45 65 Cost of Sales 155 173 € million 2011 2012 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 4,570 4,664 Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own tax liabiliDirect manufacturing and other production costs 2,195 2,322 ties, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf 6,765 6,986 of third parties. Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contriDirect manufacturing costs include those for personnel, depreciation, butions that had not been paid by the closing date. impairments, energies, and goods and services procured. The other production costs mainly comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory discrepancies. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 185 Notes to the statement of financial position | Notes to the income statement 22 Selling expenses 26 Other operating expenses Selling Expenses Other Operating Expenses € million 2011 2012 € million 2011 2012 Marketing costs 440 484 Expenses for non-core business 72 82 Outward freight charges and Expenses for allocations to restructuring provisions 29 12 other selling expenses 292 279 Expenses for hedging with 732 763 derivative financial instruments 0 33 Write-downs of trade receivables and other current assets 3 4 The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal and exterLosses from the disposal of non-current assets 1 2 nal marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing, Miscellaneous operating expenses 107 57 packaging and the provision of advice to customers. 212 190 Miscellaneous operating expenses include expenses for designing 23 Research and development expenses and implementing IT projects, and costs incurred for corporate transactions. In 2011, allocations to environmental provisions were included The research and development expenses of €192 million (2011: in other operating expenses. €144 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating to the search for alternative products and production processes, and costs for applying the 27 Financial result results of research. The financial result is comprised as follows: 24 General administration expenses Financial Result € million 2011 2012 The general administration expenses amounting to €339 million Income from investments accounted (2011: €325 million) comprise costs not directly related to operafor using the equity method 7 1 tional business processes and the costs for the country organizations. Interest income 11 5 Interest expense (104) (101) Net interest expense (93) (96) Interest portion of interest-bearing provisions (21) (23) 25 Other operating income Net exchange loss (4) (5) Miscellaneous financial expenses (9) (1) Other Operating Income Dividends and income from other affiliated companies (1) (17) € million 2011 2012 Other financial income and expense (35) (46) Income from non-core business 93 91 Financial result (121) (141) Income from the reversal of provisions 29 41 Income from reversals of write-downs of receivables and other assets 4 2 Interest expense mainly includes payments of bond interest. This Gains from the disposal of non-current assets 3 2 amount has been adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of €23 milIncome from hedging with derivative financial instruments 16 0 lion (2011: €12 million). The interest portion of the lease payments Miscellaneous operating income 34 50 under finance leases amounting to €4 million (2011: €4 million) is in179 186 cluded in interest expense. The income from other affiliated companies was reduced by €18 million by the adjustment of the carrying amount of Gevo Inc., Englewood, United States, due to the development of this company’s share price. This item also includes accumulated losses of €10 million previously recognized in other comprehensive income and reclassified from equity to the financial result in fiscal 2012. 186 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 28 Income taxes The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the various items of the statement of financial position as follows: This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are computed on the Deferred Taxes basis of local tax rates. € million Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: tax tax tax tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Income Taxes by Origin Intangible assets 7 40 14 55 Property, plant and equipment 4 146 3 160 € million 2011 2012 Inventories 38 4 27 3 Current taxes (129) (118) Receivables and other assets 5 39 2 44 Deferred taxes resulting from Pension provisions 98 0 153 0 temporary differences 13 (61) Other provisions 110 0 98 11 statutory changes in tax rates (1) 0 Liabilities 49 11 39 3 loss carryforwards (31) 25 Loss carryforwards 50 – 69 – Income taxes (148) (154) 361 240 405 276 of which non-current 159 214 239 237 Set-off (165) (165) (194) (194) 196 75 211 82 The actual tax expense for 2012 was €154 million (2011: €148 million). This figure differed by €57 million (2011: €58 million) from the expected tax expense of €211 million (2011: €206 million). The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: The expected tax expense for the LANXESS Group is calculated by Changes in Deferred Taxes applying an unchanged overall tax rate of 31.5% for the German € million 2011 2012 companies. This comprises a corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a Deferred taxes as of January 1 130 121 solidarity surcharge (5.5% of corporation tax) and trade tax. Tax income/expense recognized in the income statement (19) (36) The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax result Changes in scope of consolidation (31) (7) Taxes recognized in other comprehensive income 41 53 is as follows: Exchange differences 0 (2) Deferred taxes as of December 31 121 129 Reconciliation to Reported Tax Income € million 2011 2012 The deferred income taxes recognized in other comprehensive income Income before income taxes 655 669 Aggregated income tax rate of LANXESS AG 31.5% 31.5% comprised €71 million (2011: €29 million) relating to actuarial gains Expected tax expense (206) (211) and losses, the impact of the asset ceiling and minimum funding reTax difference due to differences between quirements for defined-benefit pension plans, and minus €18 million local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate 75 55 (2011: €12 million) relating to financial instruments. Reduction in taxes due to tax-free income and reduction of tax bases 7 8 utilization of unrecognized loss carryforwards 25 0 Increase in taxes due to non-tax-deductible expenses (5) (11) Other tax effects (44) 5 Actual tax result (148) (154) Effective tax rate 22.6% 23.0% Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 187 Notes to the income statement | Other information Deferred tax assets of €16 million (2011: €35 million) related to tax 30 Personnel expenses jurisdictions in which losses were recorded in 2012 or 2011. In this respect, the LANXESS Group has taken into consideration tax planning The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: calculations and customary and feasible tax strategies. Personnel Expenses Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of € million 2011 2012 €69 million (2011: €50 million) were recognized on the €225 million Wages and salaries 985 1,097 (2011: €164 million) in tax loss carryforwards that represent income Social security contributions 174 193 likely to be realized in the future. Retirement benefit expenses 77 92 Social assistance benefits 8 10 Deferred taxes were not recognized for €182 million (2011: €206 mil1,244 1,392 lion) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this amount, €154 million (2011: €195 million) can theoretically be used over more than five years. FurThe increase compared with the previous year is principally due to ther, deferred tax assets were not recognized in 2012 for tax-deductible an increase in the number of employees, salary rises and acquisitions temporary differences of €63 million (2011: €45 million). Accordmade in 2012. Personnel expenses do not include the interest portion ingly, deferred tax assets on loss carryforwards of €49 million (2011: of personnel-related provisions, especially pension provisions, which €65 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-deductible temporary is reflected in the financial result (see Note [27]). differences of €22 million (2011: €15 million) were not recognized. Other information 29 Earnings and dividend per share 31 Employees The calculation of earnings per share for 2012 was based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding (83,202,670 shares) The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group in 2012 and only includes earnings from continuing operations. There were no was 16,962 (2011: 15,849). The increase compared to the previous accounting change effects to be considered. Since there are currently year was mainly due to new hires at various sites and to the acquisino equity instruments in issue that could dilute earnings per share, tions made in 2012. basic and diluted earnings per share are identical. Further information on equity instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future Employees by Function is contained in Note [12]. 2011 2012 Production 11,421 12,222 Earnings per Share Marketing 1,976 2,050 2011 2012 Change in % Administration 1,757 1,873 Research 695 817 Net income (€ million) 506 514 1.6 15,849 16,962 Number of outstanding shares 83,202,670 83,202,670 0.0 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) 6.08 6.18 1.6 LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €96 million for fiscal 2012 (2011: €115 million). The dividend payment to shareholders of LANXESS AG in 2012 amounted to €0.85 per share (2011: €0.70). 188 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 32 Contingent liabilities and other The respective payment obligations mature as follows: financial commitments Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2012 amounted to €28 mil€ million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, lion (2011: €12 million). They include contingent liabilities to invest2011 2012 ments accounted for using the equity method totaling €22 million Up to 1 year 39 54 (2011: €7 million). Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and 1 to 2 years 41 53 similar instruments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent 2 to 3 years 39 47 3 to 4 years 35 41 potential future commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain 4 to 5 years 29 35 events would create an obligation that was uncertain at the closing More than 5 years 235 266 date. An obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in 418 496 the event of delayed settlement or insolvency on the part of the debtor. As a personally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, LeverPayments under operating leases amounted to €48 million in 2012 kusen, Germany, LANXESS may be required to inject further capital (2011: €39 million). The year-on-year increase was mainly due to the into this company in the future. expansion of the operational business. Apart from provisions, liabilities and contingent liabilities, financial Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purcommitments also exist under operating leases. chase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and equipment and intangible As explained in the section on recognition and valuation principles, assets total €261 million (2011: €284 million). Of the respective operating leases are those which – unlike finance leases – do not payments, €131 million are due in 2013 and €130 million are due transfer substantially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership in 2014. of the leased assets to the lessee. In the LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for operational reasons and not as a means Description of the master agreement Under the master agreement that of financing. was concluded between Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takeover Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, The minimum non-discounted future payments pertaining to operaamong other things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification ting leases total €496 million (2011: €418 million). The increase in for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on special the amount of these future payments compared with 2011 mainly arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims in the areas relates to construction of a new site in Singapore and to the Group’s of product liability, environmental contamination and antitrust violations. new headquarters in Cologne. The master agreement also contains arrangements for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was subsequently spun off. 33 Related parties In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources materials, inventories and services from a large number of business partners around the world. These include companies in which LANXESS AG has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 189 Other information Transactions with companies accounted for in the consolidated In addition, service cost of €815 thousand (2011: €918 thousand) financial statements using the equity method and their subsidiaries relating to defined-benefit pension plans was incurred in 2012 for mainly comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, members of the Board of Management as part of their compensation infrastructure and logistics totaling €479 million (2011: €457 million). package. Past service cost of €860 thousand was incurred in 2011. As a result of these transactions, trade payables of €38 million (2011: The present value of the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2012 €35 million) and trade receivables of €4 million (2011: €6 million) was €18,248 thousand (2011: €13,166 thousand). existed as of December 31, 2012. Further, a provision of €29 million was recognized as of December 31, 2012 for the claim by Currenta Payments of €479 thousand (2011: €1,799 thousand) were made GmbH & Co OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, for the offsetting of a loss to former members of the Board of Management. The figure for 2011 for 2012. Payment obligations to these companies under operating included the above payments to one member who left the Board of leases or under purchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing Management during that year. The total obligation for former members capital expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and equipof the Board of Management was €11,411 thousand as of Decemment are immaterial. ber 31, 2012 (2011: €9,478 thousand). Contingent liabilities relating to investment accounted for using the The members of the Supervisory Board received total compensation equity method are outlined in the previous section. Information on the of €1,885 thousand in 2012 (2011: €1,931 thousand). The provicompensation of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board sions established for multi-year compensation for Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. members as of December 31, 2012 amounted to €1,800 thousand (2011: €1,500 thousand). 34 Compensation of the Board of Management In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board who are employees of the LANXESS Group received salaries under their employment contracts. The amounts of these salaries represented Total compensation of €10,830 thousand (2011: €9,370 thouappropriate compensation for the employees’ functions and tasks sand) was paid to the members of the Board of Management of within the Group. LANXESS AG for fiscal 2012, comprising €7,391 thousand (2011: €6,698 thousand) in annual compensation and €2,609 million (2011: Details of the remuneration system for members of the Supervisory €2,264 thousand) in multi-year compensation. In addition to the Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid are contained compensation payments reported as expense in the consolidated in the combined management report for fiscal 2012 in the section financial statements for 2012, further compensation of €830 thousand headed “Compensation report.” for 2011 was disbursed in 2012 (2011: €408 thousand for 2010). No loans were granted to members of the Board of Management or The multi-year compensation includes – among other amounts – paythe Supervisory Board in fiscal 2012 or 2011. ments made under the Long Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP). 1,531,875 stock-based compensation rights were granted in 2012 (2011: 1,822,125). The fair value of these rights at the grant date was 35 Financial instruments €765 thousand (2011: €910 thousand). Expenses for the LTIP and LTSP recognized in the consolidated financial statements amounted Primary financial instruments are reflected in the statement of financial to €3,826 thousand (2011: €934 thousand). position. In compliance with IAS 39, asset instruments are categorized as “loans and receivables,” “held at fair value through profit or loss,” In 2011, payments of €1,320 thousand were made to one member “held to maturity” or “available for sale” and, accordingly, recognized at who left the Management Board during that year. cost or fair value. Liability instruments that are neither held for trading nor constitute derivatives are carried at amortized cost. Details of the compensation system for members of the Board of Management and an individual breakdown of compensation are given in the „Compensation report” section of the combined management report for fiscal 2012. 190 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Risks and risk management The global alignment of the LANXESS Currency risks relating to operating activities are systematically moniGroup exposes its business operations, earnings and cash flows to a tored and analyzed. While the risks relating to changes in the value of variety of market risks. Material financial risks to the Group as a whole, receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are fully such as currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and commodity price hedged, the scope of hedging for currency risks relating to forecast risks, are managed centrally. transactions is subject to regular review. A substantial proportion of contractual and foreseeable currency risks are hedged using derivative These risks could impair the earnings and financial position of the financial instruments. Changes in the fair values of these instruments LANXESS Group. The various risk categories and the risk management are recognized in the financial result or, in the case of cash flow hedges, system for the LANXESS Group are outlined below. in other comprehensive income. Realized income/expense from the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognized in other operatThe principles of risk management are defined by the Board of Maning income/expenses. agement. At the regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Committee, which are chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reports on Currency risks arising on financial transactions, including interest, are the outcome of financial risk management and on current risks levels generally fully hedged through forward exchange contracts. are presented and any further action is decided upon. Simulations are performed to assess the impact of market trends. The implementation Since the LANXESS Group concludes derivative contracts for the of the Financial Risk Committee’s decisions and ongoing risk managegreater part of its currency risks, it believes that, in the short term, a ment are undertaken centrally by the Group Function Treasury. The rise or fall in the euro against other major currencies would have no aim of financial risk management is to identify and evaluate risks and material impact on future cash flows. In the long term, however, these to manage and limit their effects as appropriate. exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows should the LANXESS Group not be in a position to absorb them, for Currency risks Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions example, through the pricing of its products in the respective local in numerous currencies, it is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the currencies. relative value of these currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, against the euro. If the exchange rate for the euro had been 5% higher against all other currencies on the reporting date, this would have had a €20 million Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial instru(2011: €19 million) effect, mainly on other comprehensive income, ments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) arise mainly which would have improved accordingly. This effect mainly relates to when receivables and payables are denominated in a currency other the U.S. dollar. A correspondingly lower rate for the euro would have than the company’s local currency. had basically the opposite effect. Many companies in the LANXESS Group are based outside the eurozone. Since the Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in euros, the annual financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into euros for consolidation purposes. Changes in the average exchange rate of a currency from one period to the next can materially affect the translation of both sales and earnings reported in this currency (translation risk). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 191 Other information Unlike transaction risk, translation risk has no impact on Group cash The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is to collect flows in the local currency. all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is computer-assisted based The LANXESS Group has material assets, liabilities and businesses on the payment terms agreed with the customers. These are generally outside the eurozone that report in local currencies. The related longbased on the customary payment terms for the business or country. term currency risk is estimated and evaluated on a regular basis. In Reminders are sent out at regular intervals if payments are overdue. view of the risks involved in such cases, however, foreign currency hedging transactions are only concluded if consideration is being given The maximum risk of default on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, to withdrawing from a particular business and it is intended to repatriand near-cash derivative and other financial assets is reflected by their ate the funds released by the withdrawal. The effects of exchange rate carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. fluctuations on the translation of net positions into euros are reflected in other comprehensive income. Credit insurance has been concluded with a well-known European credit insurer to cover material credit risks relating to receivables from Interest rate risks Fluctuations in market interest rates can cause customers. After taking the deductible into account, these cover default fluctuations in the overall return on a financial instrument. Interest rate risks, especially in Europe and North America, in the mid-doublerisk affects both financial assets and financial liabilities. digit millions of euros. The maximum credit risk is further reduced by letters of credit in favor of LANXESS. In certain cases, prepayment is Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fixed agreed with the contracting partner. interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years will only have a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. The available liquidity In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title to goods until the is invested in instruments with short-term fixed interest rates, so that the contracting partner has paid the full purchase price. The vast majority LANXESS Group benefits quickly from rising interest rates. A general of receivables relate to customers with very high credit standing. change of one percentage point in interest rates as of December 31, 2012 would have altered Group net income by €3 million (2011: The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in the €3 million). financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS Group, especially in the selection of banks and financial partners for capital Credit risks Credit risks arise from trade relationships with customers investments and transactions involving financial instruments. LANXESS and dealings with banks and other financial partners, especially with therefore endeavors to undertake transactions with banks and other regard to the investment business and financial-instrument transactions. financial counterparties that have at least an investment grade rating. The derivatives and financial assets outstanding as of the closing date Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and managed, were almost all concluded with banks with an investment grade rating. using both internal and external information sources. Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially where the risk Credit risk management also includes global management of the profile is elevated. counterparty risk relating to banks and financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular attention to risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could jeopardize its existence. Through master agreements, the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. 192 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from potential financial shortfalls originally ran through November 2014. A further material credit line and the resulting increase in refinancing costs. The aim of liquidity for €200 million with the European Investment Bank had not been management in the LANXESS Group is to ensure that the Group has drawn at year-end 2012. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has sufficient liquidity and committed credit facilities available at all times short-term liquidity reserves of €797 million (2011: €528 million) in to enable it to meet its payment commitments, and to optimize the the form of cash and cash equivalents and investment in highly liquid liquidity balance within the Group. AAA-rated money market funds. Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position based on a broad range of financing instruments. A new €1.25 billion syndicated credit facility was signed in December 2012 and was virtually unused at year end. It runs until February The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) 2018 with two one-year renewal options. This credit facility reprecash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components sents early refinancing of a €1.4 billion syndicated credit facility which thereof and derivative financial instruments: Dec. 31, 2011 € million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 > 2016 Bonds (436) (70) (570) (32) (232) (541) of which interest (34) (70) (70) (32) (32) (41) Liabilities to banks (167) (33) (40) (38) (37) (63) of which interest (7) (6) (5) (4) (3) (2) Trade payables (766) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (14) (38) (9) (6) (6) (27) of which interest (3) (3) (2) (2) (1) (5) Other primary financial liabilities (62) (1) (3) (3) (2) (1) of which interest (56) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (447) (183) Receipts 417 173 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (788) (2) (13) (18) (24) Receipts 777 2 11 17 23 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (38) (2) Receipts 39 2 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (364) 0 0 (6) Receipts 370 2 0 6 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 193 Other information Dec. 31, 2012 € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 > 2017 Bonds (42) (593) (115) (252) (41) (1,343) of which interest (42) (93) (55) (52) (41) (143) Liabilities to banks (80) (46) (38) (37) (41) (22) of which interest (5) (5) (4) (3) (2) 0 Trade payables (795) of which interest 0 Liabilities under finance leases (38) (10) (7) (7) (5) (25) of which interest (3) (2) (2) (2) (1) (4) Other primary financial liabilities (57) (3) (3) (2) 0 (2) of which interest (54) 0 0 0 0 0 Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (170) (20) Receipts 162 19 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (260) (13) (19) (25) (9) Receipts 257 12 17 23 8 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (331) (172) Receipts 343 180 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (952) (5) (27) Receipts 967 5 28 The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities If all raw material prices had been 10% higher or lower on the closing due within one year from the reporting date contain accrued interest date, the changes in the fair values of the respective hedging instruof €52 million (2011: €53 million) relating mainly to the bonds. ments would have increased or decreased other comprehensive income by €0 million (2011: €2 million). Raw material price risks The LANXESS Group is exposed to changes in the market prices of commodities used for its business operations. Carrying amounts, measurement and fair value of financial instruIncreases in energy and raw material procurement costs are generally ments The table shows the carrying amounts of the individual classes passed on to customers. Where such increases cannot be passed on of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of in their entirety, the related risks are systematically monitored, evaluated measurement is also shown: and controlled as part of the financial risk management system. The aim is to achieve a deliberate and controlled reduction in the volatility of cash flows and thus the volatility of the company’s economic value by making systematic use of derivatives. Where cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting, changes in their fair values are recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged transaction is realized. 194 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount category Dec. 31, 2011 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,146 Receivables under finance leases – 6 Other financial receivables LaR 41 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 178 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 350 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 81 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 1 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 15 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,593) Liabilities to banks FLAC (350) Trade payables FLAC (766) Liabilities under finance leases – (84) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (71) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (38) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (15) Dec. 31, 2012 € million IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount category Dec. 31, 2012 Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,117 Receivables under finance leases – 4 Other financial receivables LaR 8 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 386 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 411 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 20 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 21 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 23 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (1,946) Liabilities to banks FLAC (245) Trade payables FLAC (795) Liabilities under finance leases – (78) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (65) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (8) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (6) LaR Loans and Receivables AfS Available-for-Sale Financial Assets FAHfT Financial Assets Held for Trading FLAC Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost FLHfT Financial Liabilities Held for Trading Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 195 Other information Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2011 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value Fair value (other comprehensive (profit or loss) income) 1,146 1,146 6 6 41 41 178 178 350 350 8 73 73 1 1 15 15 (1,593) (1,700) (350) (350) (766) (766) (84) (84) (71) (71) (38) (38) (15) (15) Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2012 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value Fair value (other comprehensive (profit or loss) income) 1,117 1,117 4 4 8 8 386 386 411 411 15 5 5 21 21 23 23 (1,946) (2,128) (245) (245) (795) (794) (78) (78) (65) (65) (8) (8) (6) (6) 196 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Category Fair Value Measurement Levels € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million Dec. 31, 2012 2011 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Loans and receivables 1,365 1,511 Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 431 431 Near-cash assets 411 – – Financial assets held for trading 15 23 Other available-for-sale financial assets 4 1 – 1,811 1,965 Derivative assets – 44 – Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (2,780) (3,051) Derivative liabilities – (14) – Financial liabilities held for trading (15) (6) (2,795) (3,057) Net result by category The following table provides an overview of the Fair value measurement Fair value measurement is based on a hierarnet results based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39: chy that reflects the significance of inputs in the valuation. This comprises three levels: Net Results by IAS 39 Category € million 2011 2012 Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities Loans and receivables 14 4 in active markets Available-for-sale financial assets (10) (9) Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices used within Level 1 that Assets and liabilities held for trading 0 0 are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (100) (96) prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) (96) (101) Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and expense The classification of financial instruments using the fair value hierarchy and remeasurement effects. is as follows: The net result for available-for-sale financial assets includes gains of Fair Value Measurement Levels €10 million (2011: losses of €7 million), which are reflected in other € million Dec. 31, 2011 comprehensive income. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 In addition, fees of €6 million were incurred in 2012 (2011: €8 milAvailable-for-sale financial assets lion) in connection with financial instruments. Near-cash assets 350 – – Other available-for-sale financial assets 72 1 – Derivative assets – 16 – Collateralization of financial liabilities Financial liabilities amounting Derivative liabilities – (53) – to €4 million (2011: €15 million) were collateralized by mortgages or other property claims. Mezzanine financing Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is given in Note [12]. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 197 Other information 36 Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows from the sale of units in money market funds and reimbursements of capital reserves totaling €20 million by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Explanation of the method used to calculate and present cash Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for at equity. The acquisiflows For a general explanation, please see the comments on the tion of subsidiaries resulted in a cash outflow of €44 million (2011: statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies €285 million) net of acquired cash and cash equivalents totaling and valuation principles.” €1 million (2011: €41 million) and subsequent purchase price adjustments. Cash inflows comprised €5 million (2011: €9 million) in interNet cash flow provided by operating activities The net cash inflow est received and €15 million (2011: €1 million) from other affiliates. from operating activities in 2012 amounted to €838 million (2011: This consisted mainly of inflows from retained earnings and from the €672 million). Income before income taxes, which is the starting point transfer to LANXESS of the pro-rata share of the income of Currenta for the statement of cash flows, amounted to €669 million (2011: GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, for 2011. The net cash €655 million) after depreciation, amortization and impairments of outflow for investing activities was €674 million (2011: €923 million). €378 million (2011: €325 million). Income taxes paid in 2012 amounted to €109 million (2011: €95 million). The balance of other Net cash provided by financing activities A net cash inflow of €46 milassets and liabilities showed a year-on-year decrease of €94 million lion (2011: €276 million) was recorded for financing activities. This (2011: €16 million). Cash outflows for the external financing of penincluded a €241 million (2011: €434 million) net inflow from borsion obligations (CTA) in 2011 comprised payments of €30 million to rowings, a €123 million (2011: €100 million) outflow for interest LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany. Further information paid and other financial disbursements, and a €72 million (2011: on external financing of the pension obligations is given in Note [13]. €58 million) outflow for the dividend paid by LANXESS AG, including €71 million (2011: €58 million) to shareholders of LANXESS AG. Net cash used in investing activities Purchases of intangible assets, Details of unused credit facilities are given in Note [35]. property, plant and equipment led to a cash outflow of €696 million in 2012 (2011: €679 million). Of this amount, two-thirds went for Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents (cash, checks, expansions and the remainder to maintain existing operating capacibank balances) amounted to €386 million (2011: €178 million). In ties. Cash inflows from financial assets mainly comprised proceeds accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition. 37 Segment reporting Key Data by Segment € million Performance Advanced Performance Reconciliation LANXESS Polymers Intermediates Chemicals 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 External sales 5,059 5,176 1,545 1,674 2,130 2,203 41 41 8,775 9,094 Inter-segment sales 1 0 52 53 10 9 (63) (62) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 5,060 5,176 1,597 1,727 2,140 2,212 (22) (21) 8,775 9,094 Segment result/EBITDA pre exceptionals 768 817 264 305 289 281 (175) (178) 1,146 1,225 Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (9) (9) (19) 6 (17) (17) (17) (45) (37) Segment assets 3,468 3,779 941 1,030 1,421 1,452 135 151 5,965 6,412 Segment acquisitions 219 36 120 5 339 41 Segment capital expenditures 447 455 117 104 113 139 23 36 700 734 Depreciation and amortization 159 207 63 67 77 85 13 15 312 374 Impairments 2 2 7 0 1 2 3 0 13 4 Segment liabilities 1,012 988 454 505 527 598 473 587 2,466 2,678 Employees (December 31) 4,977 5,348 2,883 2,841 5,819 6,031 2,711 2,957 16,390 17,177 Employees (average for the year) 4,748 5,237 2,875 2,862 5,574 6,019 2,652 2,844 15,849 16,962 198 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Key Data by Region € million EMEA (excludGermany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific LANXESS ing Germany) 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 External sales by market 2,546 2,526 1,569 1,577 1,458 1,611 1,201 1,185 2,001 2,195 8,775 9,094 Non-current region assets 706 746 937 1,043 438 454 431 397 575 781 3,087 3,421 Acquisitions 108 42 36 57 5 118 14 339 41 Capital expenditures 165 157 222 211 53 68 43 46 217 252 700 734 Employees (December 31) 3,357 3,442 7,846 8,072 1,427 1,553 1,585 1,626 2,175 2,484 16,390 17,177 Notes to the segment reporting The valuation principles applied in The majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation provide sersegment reporting correspond to the uniform recognition and valuation vices for more than one segment. They include technical service staff. principles used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle East, Africa), On December 31, 2012 the LANXESS Group comprised the followGermany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific. ing reporting segments: Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s place of Segment Operations business. In fiscal 2012, no individual customer of the LANXESS Performance Polymers Special-purpose rubbers for high-quality rubber prodGroup accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. ucts, e.g. for use in vehicles, tires, construction and footwear; engineering plastics, polyamide compounds Since the earnings figure used for management purposes within the Advanced Intermediates Intermediates for the agrochemicals and coatings industries; fine chemicals as precursors and intermediLANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciation and amorates for pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty tization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals, this is the amount reported as the chemicals; custom manufacturing “segment result.” It comprises gross profit, selling expenses, general Performance Chemicals Material protection products; inorganic pigments for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other administration expenses, research and development expenses and coatings; finishing agents for the leather industry; other operating income and expenses. It does not include, in particurubber chemicals; ion exchange resins for water treatment; plastics additives such as flame retardants and lar, depreciation and amortization or exceptional items, which relate plasticizers principally to restructuring activities. In light of the Group’s central financial management, interest income The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and reflects assets and expense and income tax income and expense are not reported and liabilities not directly allocable to the core segments including, in at segment level. particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. It also includes the €8 million (2011: €12 million) interest in investments accounted for Reconciliation of Segment Sales using the equity method and the corresponding income of €1 million € million 2011 2012 (2011: €7 million) (see note [3]). Total segment sales 8,797 9,115 Other/Consolidation (22) (21) The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transactions are Group sales 8,775 9,094 calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable circumstances (arm’s-length principle). Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 199 Other information Reconciliation of Segment Result Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities € million 2011 2012 € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 2011 2012 Total segment results 1,321 1,403 Depreciation and amortization (325) (378) Total segment liabilities 1,993 2,091 Net interest expense (93) (96) Other financial liabilities 2,098 2,334 Other financial income and expense (35) (46) Deferred tax liabilities 75 82 Exceptional items in EBITDA (45) (37) Income tax liabilities 112 80 Income from investments accounted for Derivative liabilities 53 14 using the equity method 7 1 Other/Consolidation 473 587 Other/Consolidation (175) (178) Group liabilities 4,804 5,188 Income before income taxes 655 669 Segment assets principally comprise intangible assets, property, plant 38 Audit fees and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. In particular, segment assets do not include cash and cash equivalents, income tax In 2012, audit fees of €2,429 thousand (2011: €2,714 thousand) for receivables, receivables from derivatives, or other financial assets. the auditor of the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as expenses. Of this amount, €1,292 thouInformation on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. It mainly sand (2011: €1,275 thousand) related to the auditing of financial comprises income from site services provided by Currenta GmbH & statements, €916 thousand (2011: €653 thousand) to audit-related Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not related to the operating services and €221 thousand (2011: €786 thousand) to other serbusiness of the segments. vices rendered to Group companies. The fees for financial statements audit services comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid Reconciliation of Segment Assets or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial statements € million Dec. 31, Dec. 31, of the LANXESS Group and the mandatory financial statements of 2011 2012 LANXESS AG and its German subsidiaries. Total segment assets 5,830 6,261 Near-cash assets 350 411 Deferred tax assets 196 211 39 Declaration of Compliance pursuant to Cash and cash equivalents 178 386 Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act Derivative assets 16 44 Other financial assets 109 14 Income tax receivables 64 41 A Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Other/Consolidation 135 151 Code has been issued pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Group assets 6,878 7,519 Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the LANXESS website. Capital expenditures made by the segments mainly comprise additions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. 40 Exemptions under Section 264 Paragraph 3 of the German Commercial Code All depreciation, amortization and impairments in fiscal 2011 and 2012 were recognized directly in profit or loss. In 2012, the following German subsidiaries made use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264 Paragraph 3 of the German Segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade payables and Commercial Code (HGB): other liabilities. In particular, segment liabilities do not include income tax liabilities, liabilities from derivatives, or other financial liabilities. • Aliseca GmbH, Leverkusen • IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin • LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Leverkusen • LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Leverkusen • LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Langenfeld • LANXESS International Holding GmbH, Leverkusen • Perlon-Monofil GmbH, Dormagen • Rhein Chemie Rheinau GmbH, Mannheim • Saltigo GmbH, Langenfeld • Vierte LXS GmbH, Leverkusen 200 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Leverkusen, March 7, 2013 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Leverkusen The Board of Management Dr. Axel C. Heitmann Dr. Bernhard Düttmann Dr. Werner Breuers Dr. Rainier van Roessel Consolidated Financial Statements 201 Responsibility Statement | Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Report We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by the of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial stateLANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Leverkusen, comprising the statement of ments of those entities included in consolidation, the determination financial position, the income statement and the statement of compreof the entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and hensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with company’s Board of Management, as well as evaluating the overall the group management report, which is combined with the managepresentation of the consolidated financial statements and the combined ment report of the company, for the business year from January 1 to management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable December 31, 2012. The preparation of the consolidated financial basis for our opinion. statements and the combined management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the E.U., and the additional requirements Our audit has not led to any reservations. of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) are In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated the responsibility of the parent company’s Board of Management. Our financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the E.U. responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant statements and the combined management report based on our audit. to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in with these provisions. The combined management report is consistent accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted stanwith the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a dards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opporder Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). tunities and risks of future development. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated finanCologne, March 8, 2013 cial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the combined management report are detected with PricewaterhouseCoopers reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the Aktiengesellschaft economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the combined management Bernd Boritzki Carsten Manthei report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework German Public Auditor German Public Auditor 202 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 About this Report Reporting methodology and data collection GRI The full report made here is aligned to national and international For the first time, we have produced the report in accordance with standards for financial and sustainability reporting: the International GRI Guidelines. The GRI Guideline we used is G3.1 issued in March Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Global Reporting Initiative 2011, which includes more than 120 indicators that describe the (GRI) and the principles of the Global Compact. It thus combines company, its sustainability information and the report itself. In future, financial and sustainability reporting by the LANXESS Group. reporting in line with GRI is to be done on an annual basis. The reporting period is 2012. In compiling the data, we applied the In the GRI Content Index, we list which criteria from the current GRI principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and Guideline are addressed in the LANXESS Annual Report 2012. In reliability. The report covers the Group companies that are included addition to the disclosures contained in this report, supplementary inforin the consolidated financial statements. mation can be found on the LANXESS Group website. Our disclosures have been made in accordance with GRI Application Level B. This has Safety and environmental protection data are collected only at those been confirmed by the Global Reporting Initiative in the context of an production sites in which LANXESS has a holding of more than audit (B+). To ensure the quality of the data, PricewaterhouseCoopers 50 percent. The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR), known as has audited selected indicators with limited assurance. These are MAQ (injuries for every million hours worked) in Germany, applies to identified accordingly in the report. all sites in which LANXESS has a holding of more than 50 percent. On account of their recent acquisition by the LANXESS Group, the following sites are not yet included: Little Rock and Gastonia, United States, and Brilon, Germany. In the case of other indicators which do not refer to the LANXESS Group, the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the report. We use a proprietary electronic system for the systematic global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of safety and environmental protection. With regard to data collection, we have additionally taken the following recommendations into consideration: Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), International Energy Agency (IEA). We use the global HR productive system to collect HR data worldwide. Further Information 203 About this Report | GRI Statement 204 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the environmental and safety performance The review performed by PwC relates exclusively to the German print data as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual version of the CR Report. The following text is a translation of the environmental and safety performance data which are reasonable in original German Independent Assurance Report. the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant To LANXESS AG, Leverkusen for the preparation of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2012. We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement for selected environmental and safety performance data including supplementing annotations for the period January 1, 2012 to DecemPractitioner’s Responsibility ber 31, 2012. These data can be found in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table in the “Health, safety, environment and Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work perclimate protection along the value chain” section of the “Corporate formed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2012 of LANXESS AG, cause us to believe that the selected environmental and safety perforLeverkusen (hereinafter LANXESS). mance data in the “Health, safety, environment and climate protection along the value chain” section of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2012 of Lanxess have not been prepared, in all Management’s Responsibility material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 of the GRI. The enviThe Board of Management of LANXESS is responsible for the preparonmental and safety performance data subject to our procedures are ration of the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter in the Annual Report marked with c). We also have been engaged to make recommenda2012 in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability tions for the further development of CR management and CR reporting Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the Global Reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement. Initiative (GRI): • Materiality We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard • Stakeholder Inclusiveness on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that • Sustainability Context we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assur• Completeness ance engagement to express our conclusion with limited assurance. • Balance • Clarity • Accuracy • Timeliness • Comparability • Reliability Further Information 205 HSEQ: Independent Assurance Report In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures climate protection along the value chain” section of the “Corporate are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement (for exResponsibility” chapter in the Annual Report 2012 for the period ample, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 have not been prepared, 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code), and in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of the Sustaintherefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance ability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the GRI. engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations We have performed procedures at the headquarters of LANXESS AG, Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following Leverkusen, as well as in site visits to production plants in Leverkusen, recommendations for the further development of CR management Dormagen and Krefeld-Uerdingen in Germany, Jhagadia in India and and CR reporting: Sarnia in Canada and in web-exchange based telephone interviews • Further development of the reporting processes as well as the control with ten additional production sites. environment based on consistent standards in order to ensure stable processes and high data quality. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the • Increased frequency of data collection in order to continuously imfollowing procedures: prove quality for the purpose of data management and reporting. • Interviews with employees who are responsible for reporting the environmental and safety performance data regarding the processes Cologne, February 27, 2013 and controls in place when collecting the environmental and safety performance data. PricewaterhouseCoopers • Inventory of the processes and inspection of the systems and proAktiengesellschaft cesses that are implemented to collect, calculate, analyze, verify and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft aggregate the environmental and safety performance data as well as sample testing. • Analytical evaluations of the environmental and safety performance data based on samples. Bernd Boritzki Hendrik Fink • Review of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports of Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer external services providers. (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected environmental and safety performance data in the “Environmental and Safety Performance Data” table in the “Health, safety, environment and 206 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Foreword by the Chairman of the Board pp. 4–7 of Management 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities p. 14, pp. 127–133 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization LANXESS AG 2.2 Primary brands, products or services Segment overview, inside front cover; p. 80 2.3 Operational structure, business units p. 79, pp. 165–167 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters Leverkusen, Germany 2.5 Countries where the organization operates pp. 80–81, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ sites-worldwide/ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 79 2.7 Markets pp. 91–94, p. 119 2.8 Scale of the organization Table of key data, inside front cover 2.9 Significant changes in the organization’s size, p. 79, pp. 165–167 structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 27, p. 29, p. 41 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period p. 202 3.2 Date of most recent previous report First report in accordance with GRI Guidelines 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 202 3.4 Contact point regarding the report Masthead 3.5 Process of defining report content pp. 39–40 3.6 Boundary of the report pp. 165–167, p. 202 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report p. 202 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced operations pp. 156–157, p. 202 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases p. 59, pp.163–164, of calculations p. 202 3.10 Effects of any re-statements of information provided pp. 58–59, p. 156 in earlier reports 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary or measurement p. 79, pp. 165–167 methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Content Index pp. 206–211 3.13 External assurance for the report pp. 204–205 Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further Information 207 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization pp. 36–37 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the p. 138 Supervisory Board 4.3 Independent members of highest governance body Not applicable, see p. 138 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to p. 44, p. 72, p. 109, provide recommendations or direction to the highest p. 140 governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of pp. 48–49, pp. 111–113 the highest governance and management bodies and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest pp. 37–38 are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the members of the pp. 8–9, highest governance body for guiding the organizahttp://lanxess.com/en/ tion’s strategy on economic, environmental and corporate/about-lanxess/ social topics management/board-ofmanagement/ 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct and principles pp. 36–38, p. 122 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overpp. 13–14, pp. 36–38 seeing the organization’s economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance pp. 111–113 body’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is pp. 120–121, addressed pp. 126–127 4.12 Participation in and endorsement of externally develpp. 38–39 oped economic, environmental, and social charters, principles or other initiatives 4.13 Important memberships pp. 38–39 4.14 List of stakeholder groups p. 39 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholder groups pp. 39–40 4.16 Engagement of stakeholder groups pp. 39–40, pp. 44–45 4.17 Response to key topics and concerns raised by pp. 39–40, pp. 44–45 stakeholder groups Economic performance indicators Management approach pp. 12–17, pp. 62–65 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 99, p. 106, p. 107, p. 150, p. 153 EC2 Financial implications of climate change pp. 13–17 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined-benefit pp. 48–49, p. 107 plan obligations EC4 Financial assistance received from government EC6 Selection of locally based suppliers p. 117 EC7 Hiring of local human resources p. 43, p. 45 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided p. 43, pp. 62–65 primarily for public benefit 208 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status Environmental performance indicators Management approach pp. 36–37, pp. 50–54, pp. 60–61 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 117 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities of input materials recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source pp. 58–59 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source pp. 58–59 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency p. 27, pp. 54–55 improvements EN6 Initiatives to increase energy efficiency or based pp. 21–25, p. 32, on renewable energies http://green-mobility.com/ en/home/ EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption p. 27, pp. 54–55 and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source pp. 57–59 EN11 Land in or adjacent to protected areas pp. 53–54 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected areas pp. 53–54 EN13 Habitats protected or restored pp. 53–54 EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity pp. 53–54 EN15 Impacts on threatened species pp. 53–54 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions pp. 55–56, pp. 58–59 by weight EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. 56 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions p. 32, pp. 55–56 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight pp. 58–59 EN20 NOX, SOX and other air emissions by type and weight pp. 58–59 EN21 Total water discharge pp. 58–59 EN22 Quantity of waste by type and disposal method pp. 57–59 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 1. When returning a plant to operation at the Marl site, a leakage of hexane occurred at a weld seam below the separation tank. 2. When restarting the chlorine compressor at the Dormagen site, a release of chlorine occurred. A maximum of 250 kilograms of chlorine escaped. 3. In Antwerp, 2.5 tons of cyclohexyl amine were released inside a building when starting a batch. In all cases, the necessary legal and safety engineering measures were taken. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts p. 23, pp. 29–30, p. 33, p. 53, p. 57, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/sustainabilityhome/mission-watersustainability/ EN27 Reclaiming of packaging materials EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting p. 56 products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further Information 209 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status Labor practices and decent work Management approach pp. 36–37, p. 41, pp. 60–61 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, region p. 45, p. 107 and gender LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender and region pp. 41–42, pp. 107–108 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees pp. 48–49, p. 109 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining p. 49, p. 109 agreements LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant p. 49, p. 109 operational changes LA6 Workforce representation in health and safety p. 48 committees LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases and work-related p. 51, pp. 58–59, p. 110 accidents LA8 Measures regarding serious diseases pp. 47–48, pp. 50–51 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal p. 48 agreements with trade unions LA10 Hours of training per employee pp. 43–44 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning pp. 43–44, p. 46 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular p. 43, p. 48 performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies pp. 8–9, p. 47, p. 143 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men LA15 Take-up of parental leave, by gender p. 47 210 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status Human rights Management approach pp. 36–38, p. 41, pp. 45–47, p. 109, p. 117 HR1 Investment agreements and contracts that include All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are subject human rights clauses or that have undergone human to a careful due diligence process to ensure that human rights rights screening are also respected by the target company. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. In fiscal 2012, we received no reports or other indications of human rights violations by our suppliers. HR2 Percentage of suppliers and contractors that have p. 39, p. 117 undergone human rights screening HR3 Employee training on human rights aspects We do not implement training dedicated to the topic of human rights. In our view, the principles set forth in human rights are so firmly anchored in LANXESS’s corporate culture that no further training appears to be necessary. There was no statistical measurement of the amount of time devoted to the topic of human rights in general compliance training. HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken We have received no reports or information that LANXESS systematically discriminates employees in terms of race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion, disability, labor union membership or political opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will never tolerate such misconduct, if verifiable, and it will always result in disciplinary sanctions up to and including dismissal. Such incidents are processed decentrally at LANXESS and there is no central reporting system. HR5 Violation of the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining HR6 Principles and measures to eliminate child labor The LANXESS Group does not use child labor. By accepting our Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use child labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the use of child labor by our suppliers. HR7 Principles and measures to eliminate forced or The LANXESS Group does not use forced or compulsory labor. By compulsory labor accepting our Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers also undertake not to use forced or compulsory labor. Significant suppliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier assessments that include aspects such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We have received no reports or other indications of the use of forced or compulsory labor by our suppliers. HR8 Security personnel training LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. HR9 Violations involving rights of indigenous people In fiscal 2012, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving the violation of indigenous rights. HR10 Operations that have been subject to human rights Our Compliance Management System (CMS) covers all of reviews and/or impact assessments LANXESS’s business activities. Like all LANXESS’s business entities, the CMS itself is subject to internal and external audits. On account of the full integration of our CMS in the LANXESS organization, all business activities are subject to permanent compliance monitoring, which also covers the respect of human rights. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed In fiscal 2012, we received no reports or other indications of grievances related to human rights. Status: Fully reported Partly reported Not reported T Core indicator T Additional indicator Further Information 211 GRI Content Index GRI Indicators Location Explanation Status Society Management approach pp. 37–38, p. 40, pp. 62–65, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ public-affairs/ SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local pp. 62–65 community engagement, impact assessments and development programs SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption The analysis and monitoring of risks related to corruption are the responsibility of our Internal Auditing Group Function. Various analytical approaches and scopes are applied: 1) Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption and general monitoring of the internal control system: all business units 2) Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption in the standard SAP system: approximately 80% of all transactions 3) Dedicated corruption scans in six countries which Transparency International deems to be particularly at risk: approximately 20% of all transactions SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption LANXESS applies a risk-oriented training concept. Corruption policies and procedures training targets exposed professional groups and countries. The proportion of employees from the total workforce who have received classroom-based training is around 15%. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption In fiscal 2012, we received no reports or other indications of cases of active corruption by LANXESS employees. In individual cases of verifiable corruption of LANXESS employees (passive corruption), we take disciplinary action (usually dismissal) and, if the legal chances of success are high enough, initiate civil damage claims (damages and criminal litigation). In fiscal 2012, we recorded nine cases of passive corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying p. 40, http://lanxess.com/en/ corporate/about-lanxess/ public-affairs/ SO8 Penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual pp. 53–56, p. 129 negative impacts on local communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented pp. 29–30, pp. 53–54 Product responsibility Management approach pp. 37–38, pp. 50–53 PR1 Health and safety impacts during product life cycles pp. 50–53, p. 117, pp. 119–122 PR3 Type of product and service information required pp. 51–53 by legislation PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and At the present time, neither our compliance organization nor the voluntary codes concerning product and service Internal Auditing Group Function yet has a system for recording information such cases. We met the labeling and reporting deadlines resulting from the REACH and GHS regulations for all affected substances in our portfolio. PR5 Customer satisfaction including results of surveys p. 40 measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and Our communication and marketing activities comply with the voluntary codes related to advertising relevant laws and regulations, our corporate values and the Code for Legal Compliance and Corporate Responsibility at LANXESS. The same applies to product marketing and advertising. PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy In fiscal 2012, we received no reports or other indications of and losses of customer data complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 212 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Glossary ISO 50001 International standard which defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. ISO 9001 International standard which defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. Polyamide A synthetic polymer with very good mechanical and electrical properties and high resistance to chemicals and wear. Industry-specific terms REACH Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization CLP and GHS CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and and Restriction of Chemicals. The E.U. REACH Regulation stipupackaging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains new provisions for the lates the registration, assessment and approval of chemicals before classification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to It was announced on December 31, 2008 and has already entered determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and estimate into force. their impact on health and the environment. This new regulation is based on the Globally Harmonized System of Synthetic rubber Synthetic rubber is the term used for elastic Classification and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which polymers produced from petrochemical raw materials. It is the starting ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. product for rubber production. With a 50 to 60 percent share of The use of internationally agreed classification criteria and labeling production volume, styrene-butadiene rubber is the most important elements is aimed at making things easier for distributors and at of the synthetic rubbers. It is used especially in the manufacture of protecting people and the environment worldwide from the hazards car tires. that may be caused by chemicals. VOC emissions Volatile organic compounds is the collective term for Compounding facility A facility for processing and finishing engineerorganic carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become ing plastics to enhance their functional properties. gaseous at low temperatures. Elastomers Stable yet elastic and formable polymers that are used Vulcanization Vulcanization is a process that applies heat and to manufacture tires, rubber bands and sealing rings, for example. pressure over time to make rubber more durable. It destroys the plastic properties of the rubber or rubber blend and makes it elastic. Hot commissioning This is a phase in the start-up of a production plant. In contrast to cold commissioning, the plant is tested under real operating conditions and all operating, threshold and nominal parameters are set before starting trial operation. ISO 14001 International standard which supports organizations in introducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental targets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental management system. Further Information 213 Glossary Financial glossary GDP Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Capital employed This is defined as total assets less deferred tax for consumption. assets and interest-free liabilities. Goodwill Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company. This is Cash flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Corporate governance Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned with long-term value creation. It comprises Hedging An investment position intended to limit or offset certain the observance of laws, regulations, recognized standards and clearly identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest recommendations as well as the implementation and application rate changes. of company guidelines and management and control structures. IAS/IFRS International Accounting Standards/International Financial Deferred taxes Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the Reporting Standards. These are uniform international accounting future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of assets and with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial stateliabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in future from unused ments and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. loss carryforwards or tax credits. Joint venture A contractual agreement between two or more partners Due diligence The careful investigation and analysis of a company, concerning an economic activity which they manage jointly. particularly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial condition and its performance in the areas of technology and the Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and nonenvironment. It is undertaken especially by potential purchasers current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) involved in acquisition projects. less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before Net working capital The sum of all inventories and trade accounts deduction of interest and income taxes. receivable less trade accounts payable. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortiPurchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition zation: the operating result before deduction of interest and income to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. taxes plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing. Ratings are issued assets. by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa region banks applying their own criteria. Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in affiliated ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre companies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. changes in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets of the affiliated company. Sell-side analysts Sell-side analysts work for banks and brokerages. They produce industry-specific analyses of listed companies. These Euro Benchmark Bond Bond issued in euros which, on account of are used to assess the stock of the companies analyzed and to its issue volume, can be used as a reference value for comparable make investment recommendations. Published in the form of issuers. research studies, these recommendations are targeted at external users, especially institutional investors, and are intended to provide Financial covenants Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreeinvestment ideas. ments and term sheets. These are contractually binding promises by the borrower or obligor during the term of the loan agreement, for example, that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined multiple of an earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. 214 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Index I Income statement 88ff., 150, 184ff. Inorganic Pigments 28ff. Ion Exchange Resins 28ff. K Keltan Elastomers 20ff. L Leather 28ff. Liquidity 100, 134 A Acquisitions 16f, 25, 29, 165f M Advanced Industrial Intermediates 26f. Markets 20ff., 80, 85f, 119, 124 Advanced Intermediates 26f, 80, 93f, 132 Material Protection Products 28ff. Annual Stockholders’ Meeting 72, 140 Megatrends 14, 20ff., 81, 131f Awards 27, 29, 41, 62, 75 Multi-period overview 105 B N Board of Management 8f, 110ff., 138, 142 Net financial liabilities 84, 96f, 104 Bonds 73, 101ff. O Business conditions 84ff., 123f Offices 142f Butyl Rubber 20ff. Opportunities 131ff. C P Capital expenditures 15f, 20ff., 98ff., 135 Performance Butadiene Rubbers 20ff. Compensation 48f, 110ff. Performance Chemicals 28ff., 80, 94f, 134 Compliance 37f, 137 Performance Polymers 20ff., 80, 92f, 134 Corporate governance 136ff. Products 20ff., 51ff. Corporate responsibility 13, 36ff., 122 Customer industries 80, 85f, 119, 124 R Rating 73, 101 D Research and development 119ff. Declaration of compliance 136f Rhein Chemie 28ff. Demography 47f Risk management 124ff. Directors’ dealings 141 Rubber Chemicals 28ff. Diversity 41ff. Dividend 73, 135 S Sales 88ff. E Saltigo 26f Earnings per share 89, 187 Segment reporting 92ff., 197ff. EBITDA pre exceptionals 14, 82, 89ff. Sites 80f EBITDA margin 90, 92ff. Stakeholders 39f Education initiative 62ff. Statement of cash flows 100, 153, 197 Employees 41ff., 107ff. Statement of financial position 96ff., 149, 168ff. Environmental protection 50ff. Stock 68ff. Equity 97, 152, 173ff. Strategy 12ff., 81f, 131ff. F Subsidiaries 79, 166f Financial management 101ff. Supervisory Board 138ff., 143ff. Forecasts 123f, 131ff. Supervisory Board Committees 140 Functional Chemicals 28ff. Sustainability 12ff., 20ff., 36ff. G T GRI content index 206ff. Targets 12ff., 60f, 131ff. Growth 12ff., 20ff., 86ff. Technical Rubber Products 12, 21, 80 H High Performance Elastomers 20ff. High Performance Materials 20ff. HR Policy 41ff. HSEQ Targets 60f Further Information 215 Index | Graphics and Tables Graphics and Tables Combined Management Report 79 Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of LANXESS AG 80 Performance Polymers in Brief 80 Advanced Intermediates in Brief 80 Performance Chemicals in Brief 81 LANXESS has a Presence Throughout the World 82 Value Management and Control System 84 Net Financial Liabilities 84 GDP and Chemical Production in 2012 85 Value of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro 86 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2012 Cover 87 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2012 F2 Key Data 88 Key Financial Data F2 Sales by Region 88 Group Sales F2 Employees by Region 88 Effects on Sales C2 Performance Indicators: Performance Polymers 89 Sales by Segment C2 Performance Indicators: Advanced Intermediates 90 EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment C2 Performance Indicators: Performance Chemicals 90 EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 90 Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income Strategy 91 Sales by Market 12 Business Model 92 Sales by Segment 13 Corporate Responsibility 92 Performance Polymers: Overview of Key Data 14 EBITDA Growth 93 Performance Polymers: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 15 Major Capital Expenditure Projects 93 Advanced Intermediates: Overview of Key Data 17 Acquisitions 94 Advanced Intermediates: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 94 Performance Chemicals: Overview of Key Data Corporate Responsibility 95 Performance Chemicals: EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals 38 The Ten Principles of the Global Compact 95 Reconciliation: Overview of Key Data 39 The Most Important CR Issues 96 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position 41 HR Strategies 96 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets 41 New Employees 97 Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Equity and Liabilities 42 Turnover 98 Ratios 45 LANXESS Employee Structure 98 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures vs. Depreciation and Amortization 51 Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees Resulting in Absence 99 Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment from Work (LTIFR) 99 Selected Capital Expenditure Projects 2012 52 REACH Implementation Schedule 100 Cash Flow Statement 54 Energy Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold 101 Development of LANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2008 55 Energy Consumption by Segment 102 Financing Structure 55 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) in Relation to Volumes Sold 103 Maturity Profile of LANXESS Financial Liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2012 55 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) in Relation to Volumes Sold 103 LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. BBB Corporates Index 55 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) by Segment 105 Business Ratios – Multi-Period Overview 56 VOC Emissions in Relation to Volumes Sold 106 LANXESS AG Income Statement 57 Water Consumption in Relation to Volumes Sold 107 LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position 57 Wastewater in Relation to Volumes Sold 108 Employees by Region 57 Total Waste in Relation to Volumes Sold 108 Employees by Segment 58 Waste for Disposal 108 Employees by Functional Area 58 Environmental and Safety Performance Data 111 Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management 60 HSEQ Targets 111 Compensation of the Board of Management 63 Social Activities by Topic 113 Compensation of the Supervisory Board 63 Social Activities by Region 119 Selling Costs 119 Shares of Sales by Industry Sector Investor Information 120 Research and Development Expenditures 69 Stock Performance since Listing 120 Number of Employees in Research and Development 69 Stock Performance 2012 123 Expected Growth in GDP 70 Performance Data 2012 123 Expected Growth in Chemical Production 71 Capital Market Information 124 Expected Evolution of Major User Industries 72 Stockholder Profile as of December 31, 2012 127 Main Sources of Risk 72 Geographical Breakdown as of December 31, 2012 130 Financial Risks 72 Recommendations as of January 31, 2013 73 Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds Corporate Governance 142 Offices Held by Board of Management Members 143 LANXESS AG Supervisory Board 216 LANXESS Annual Report 2012 Financial Calendar 2013 May 8 Interim Report Q1 2013 May 23 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting August 6 Interim Report H1 2013 November 12 Interim Report Q3 2013 Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or comments. Contact Corporate Communications Tel. +49 214 30 31872 E-mail: mediarelations@­lanxess.com Contact Investor Relations Tel. +49 214 30 23851 E-mail: ir@­lanxess.com This Annual Report was published on March 21, 2013. Masthead LANXESS AG 51369 Leverkusen Germany Tel. +49 214 30 33333 www.lanxess.com Agency Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Photography Claudia Kempf, Wuppertal (Cover and employees) Andreas Pohlmann, Munich (Management) mutesouvenier | Kai Bienert (Page 64) LANXESS archive English edition Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG Language Service Printed by Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany Publisher lanxess AG 51369 Leverkusen Germany www.lanxess.com
