Nuqul Group Sustainability Report 2012 Executive Summary Nuqul Group adopted the principles of sustainable development in 2007 when the Group became signatory to the UN global Compact and its ten principles. Since then Nuqul Group has made every effort to integrate sustainability into its business approach. In 2010, the group’s second communication on progress report to the UN Global Compact was developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, and in the same year the Group’s sustainability strategy and management framework has been established focusing on 5 strategic focal areas. In 2011 an internal sustainability position, under the auspices of the operations department has been created to manage and report on the sustainability performance of the group’s companies across the region. The adoption of sustainability in Nuqul Group stemmed from its believe that in order to ensure the continuity of its business in the present and the future times, the Group is required to conserve natural resources and operate in the most efficient manner, which will collaterally result in cost savings and profit generation. For this year, the fifth annual sustainability report was developed in accordance with the GRI G3.1 guidelines and a stakeholder council for the group has been established comprising representatives from all the Group’s key stakeholders and mandated to review Nuqul Group’s sustainability performance on annual basis, advise on strategic direction for sustainability in the group, and issue an independent assurance statement regarding the content and quality of its sustainability reports. This council is considered to be a best practice in terms of sustainability management and governance as it demonstrates the Group’s commitment to the highest levels of transparency and integrity. The year 2012 has witnessed variations in its sustainability performance when compared to the targets set in the previous year, and these variations were mainly attributed to increased production levels. Nevertheless the Group also witnessed several pioneering events including the following:  Nuqul Group is the first in the region to conduct life cycle assessment for two products.  Nuqul Tissue Egypt is the first in the industry in the region to secure the ISO 50001 Energy Management certification  Nuqul Group Head Office is among the first in the region to start the implementation of a systematic approach to manage health and safety in an office environment with the aim to become OHSAS certified.  Nuqul Tissue in Egypt registered its cogeneration project as a Clean Development Mechanism project under the Kyoto protocol  Fine converting facilities in Jordan, Egypt, KSA and Dubai achieved zero manufacturing waste sent to landfill, by selling all manufacturing waste for contractors to be used/recycled for other purposes  Fine classic facial tissue received the Product of the year for 2012 in Lebanon Nuqul Group’s economic performance and impact has recorded an improvement based on 2011 levels; he Group’s revenues (for only Fine Hygienic Holding FHH Companies) increased by almost 1% and the financial contribution made by the Group towards community development through the Group’s CSR program in Al – Koura District has increased by twice fold as compared to 2011 levels. The economic impact of Nuqul Group’s business through the economic empowerment of its employees, is demonstrated by the fact that the salary provided front liners in the Group’s companies across the region is above the minimum wage set in several countries including (Jordan, Sudan, Algeria and Morocco). 1 As for environmental impact, Nuqul Group’s total water consumption has decreased by 3.4% as compared to 2011, while the total electricity consumption of the Group increased by 3% however the electricity per unit product has decreased in NT, PPP and SPIC facilities as per the table below: Electricity (MWh) 2012 2011 2010 2012 achievement Per One Million Pulls Converted tissue Produced 0.77 0.71 0.76 8.5% increase Per One Million Diapers Produced 24.89 22.13 23.83 12.5% increase Per One Ton Tissue Produced 1.17 1.18 1.19 0.9% decrease Per One Million Boxes Produced 7.45 8.48 8.94 12.2% decrease Per Ton Non-Woven Produced 1.51 1.54 1.57 2% decrease Nuqul Group’s operational fuel consumption has decreased by 1.7% as compared to 2010 levels (in 2011 a major gas turbine was shut down in NT Egypt thus 2011 cannot be used as the reference year for comparison) while vehicle fuel consumption has increased by 51% based on 2011 consumption rates. This increase is attributed to an increase in FHH sales (13% in tissue by volume and 23% in adult briefs by volume) as well as an increase in the number of vehicles within FHH distribution fleets. Due to the increase in the total energy consumption (electricity, operational fuel and vehicle fuel) the Group’s total GHG emissions have increased by 0.8% as compared to 2010 levels. The total waste generated in Fine converting facilities decreased by 2.4%, however these facilities achieved zero waste sent to landfill as all of the manufacturing waste is sold to contractors for further use. Looking at the human resources aspect; in 2012 the total number of employees in FHH companies increased by 1.25%, the turnover rate increased by 0.4% and the percentage of female employees in workforce increased by 0.6%. Nuqul Group’s employees come from 27 different nationalities and the average age for its employees as of 2012 was 35.4 years. The number of employees at all levels receiving training in 2012 increased twice fold as compared to the previous year, while the average number of training hours per employee increased by 0.5% based on 2011. The Accident Frequency Ratio in Nuqul Group companies decreased by 42.5% from 2011 and the Accident Severity Ratio decreased by 25.7%. zero cases of grievance related to human rights violations were communicated in the Group, and none of its operations recorded any incident of discrimination, violation of the right of association and collective bargaining, child labor and forced or compulsory labor, and based on this none of Nuqul Group’s operations were subject to human rights reviews. As for product responsibility, the total number of justified customer complaints for Fine converting product categories (Absorbent and Facial-Tissue-Kitchen products) in Jordan, Egypt and KSA in 2012 decreased by 29.4% as compared to 2011, while the average lead time to resolve customer complaints went down to 10 days which is the target that was set for the year. Nuqul Group’s will continue to uphold the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as part of its commitment to sustainable development and will continuously strive to improve its performance so as to achieve continual sustainable growth for its business and all its stakeholders. 2 Table of Contents Message from the CEO 4 List of Acronyms 6 Glossary of Terms 7 2012 Highlights 8 Sustainability in Nuqul Group 9 Key Sustainability Issues 11 Nuqul Group Sustainability Performance Trends 13 Organizational profile 17 Report Profile 19 Governance at Nuqul Group 20 Nuqul Group Stakeholders 22 Economic Performance of Nuqul Group 24 Environmental performance of Nuqul Group 28 Human Resources Management in Nuqul Group 35 Human Rights in Nuqul Group 39 Society and Nuqul Group 40 Product Responsibility in Nuqul Group 42 Data Scope, Sources and Calculation Basis 44 GRI Index 47 UN Global Compact Index 55 Independent Assurance Statement 56 3 Message from the CEO This report marks out fifth year for disclosing our sustainability performance, and celebrates our renewed commitment to the UN Global Compact with its ten principles. For this year, our report is compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting initiative G3.1 guidelines covering all core indicators required to achieve an A level report. Moreover, we have created a stakeholder council comprising our key stakeholders mandated to review our sustainability report, provide advice on strategic direction for sustainability in the group and issue an assurance statement concerning the content and quality of the report. Our sustainability strategy aims to address all key sustainability challenges that face our business. Our industry relies heavily on the availability of water and energy resources, both of which are at the threat of being depleted by over consumption. This poses a great risk on the continuity of our business; thus it is imperative for us to explore means of reducing our dependence on these resources, so as to ensure a stable and sustainable growth for our organization and all its stakeholders. We are now exploring different options for utilizing alternative energy resources so as to reduce our dependence on polluting and costly fossil fuels as this would not only support our efforts to improve our overall ecological footprint, but also reduce the financial burden posed by the increasing prices of conventional fuels. Our Nuqul Tissue operations in both Jordan and Egypt, are constantly striving to reduce water consumption per unit product and we have proven successful in producing top quality tissue with water consumption rates fifty percent less than that of the industrial average. In 2012 our total electricity consumption increased as compared to the previous year; however we managed to decrease the consumption levels per unit product in our Nuqul Tissue, Perfect Printing Press and Specialized Industries Company operations. Our water consumption levels have decreased by more than three percent based on 2011 levels, and we have achieved a zero waste sent to landfill in all our fine converting facilities. We have launched our “Generation S” program, which aimed to establish business sustainability and cost savings projects in all our business units, as well as integrating the sustainability culture among all our employees through consistent and constant communication and engagement activities at all levels. We continue to implement human development initiatives for all our employees, as we believe that our employees are key to our continued success as a one family. In 2012 the number of front line employees receiving training increased by more than forty six percent, and we reduced our Accident Frequency Ratio by more than forty percent. Our turnover rate is maintained within healthy levels as we continue to offer competitive compensation and benefits packages based on regional market benchmarks. 4 Additionally as we strive to achieve gender balance in our workforce, we have adopted systems and procedures that ensure favorable working conditions for women such as work from home, reduced working hours for working mothers and part time contract basis among others, which has helped us in increasing the percentage of female employees of the workforce especially in the North African and Arabian gulf region. Our community development program in Al-Koura District in the Northern parts of Jordan has continued successfully for the fifth year in a raw, were the volume of the investment we made in this program in 2012 has almost doubled from that recorded in 2011, as we signed a pioneering partnership agreement with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Municipality of Dair Abi Sa’eed to build upon our effective CSR platform in Al-Koura district and to ensure strong impact of the program. Moreover in the same year we have launched a packaging and labeling unit in Al Koura, providing income opportunities for six women from the local community. We have launched the new look for our tissue products (Fine brand rebirth) promising a care free world, and with this new look we have integrated environmental sustainability aspects into its value proposition, acknowledging our responsibility towards the global forests. We are looking forward to harnessing the fruits of sustainability, for both the present and the future. In 2013 we are aiming to integrate sustainability into product innovation by establishing product life cycle performance baselines which will translate into product improvement opportunities. Moreover we will be working with our main suppliers to identify key sustainability issues and means to address these issues so as to extend our sustainability impact beyond our operations. We are also targeting to proactively engage all our key stakeholders in an attempt to achieve maximum sustainability, and we will explore means of integrating sustainability aspects into our branding strategy for tissue and diaper, so as to promote the adoption of a sustainable life style among all our consumers in the region. Salim Karadsheh Chief Executive Officer Fine Hygienic Holding 5 List of Acronyms ADL Acquisition distribution layer AFR Accident Frequency Ratio API Arabian Peninsula and Iran ASR Accident Severity Ratio CDM Clean Development Mechanism CEO Chief Executive Officer CNTO Chief Nuqul Tissue Officer CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EDANA European Disposables and Nonwovens Association EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management EOSQ Egyptian Organization for Standardization & Quality FHH Fine Hygienic Holding FMCG Fast Moving Consumer Goods FSC Forest Stewardship Council GHG Greenhouse Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSM Group Standards Manual HSE Health, Safety & Environment ILO International Labor Organization ISO International Organization for Standards JABA Jordanian American Business Association JEBA Jordanian European Business Association JOCABA Jordanian Canadian Business Association LCA Life Cycle Assessment LLC Limited Liability Company NA North Africa OHS Organizational Health Survey PDR Performance Development Review PEFC Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PPP Perfect Printing Press PR Public Relations SMTW Self-Managed Team Work SPIC Specific Industrial Company UNGC UN Global Compact YEA Young Entrepreneurs Association YPA Young Presidents Organization 6 Glossary of Terms Aspect Element of an organization’s activities, products or services that can interact with a specific management dimension. The highest-level executives are usually called C-level or part of the C-suite , referring to the 3-letter C-Suit initials starting with C and ending with O (for Chief ... Officer ); the traditional three such officers are Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Operations Officer (COO), and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Carbon footprint The total sets of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused by an organization, event, product or person. A significant and lasting change in the statistical distribution of weather patterns over periods ranging Climate Change from decades to millions of years. A set of rules outlining the responsibilities of or proper practices for an individual, party or organization. Code of conduct Related concepts include ethical codes and honor codes. Fast Moving Products that are sold quickly and at relatively low cost. Consumer Goods Greenhouse Gas A gas in the atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range. Impact A change that could have a negative effect on the on an organization ISO 14001 A family of standards related to environmental management. ISO 18001 A Standard for occupational health and safety management systems ISO 50001 A family of standards related to energy management system. Materiality One of the GRI’s central reporting principles. It is the threshold at which an issue or indicator becomes sufficiently important that it should be reported. Precautionary The precautionary principle or precautionary approach states if an action or policy has a suspected risk of Principle causing harm to the public or to the environment, in the absence of scientific consensus that the action or policy is harmful, the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those taking an act. Pulp A lignocellulosic fibrous material prepared by chemically or mechanically separating cellulose fibers from wood, fiber crops or waste paper. Shareholder A shareholder or stockholder is an individual or institution (including a corporation) that legally owns a share of stock in a public or private corporation. Stakeholder A Stakeholder (corporate), a person, group, organization, member or system that affects or can be affected by an organization's actions. A business approach that creates long-term consumer and employee value by not only creating a green Sustainability strategy aimed towards the natural environment, but taking into consideration every dimension of how a business operates in the social, cultural, and economic environment. A mode of human development in which resource use aims to meet human needs while ensuring the Sustainable sustainability of natural systems and the environment, so that these needs can be met not only in the development present, but also for generations to come. UN Global A United Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially Compact responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. 7 2012 Highlights  First in the region to conduct life cycle assessment for two products  First in the industry in the region to secure the ISO 50001 Energy Management certification for our Nuqul Tissue operation in Egypt  Among the first in the region to start the implementation of a systematic approach to manage health and safety in an office environment with the aim of achieving OHSAS certification.  Nuqul Tissue in Egypt registered its cogeneration project as a Clean Development Mechanism project under the Kyoto protocol  Our Fine converting facilities in Jordan, Egypt, KSA and Dubai achieved zero manufacturing waste sent to landfill, by selling all manufacturing waste for contractors to be used/recycled for other purposes  Fine classic facial tissue received the Product of the year for 2012 in Lebanon  Launched a packaging and labeling unit in Al Koura, providing income opportunities for six women from the local community.  Launched the Nuqul Group Sustainability Platform, an internal communication platform using the Group’s internal portal to spread awareness regarding sustainability dimension among all employees of the group. 8 Sustainability in Nuqul Group Since Nuqul Group’s inception in 1952, we have realized the importance of a strong commitment to responsible and sustainable business, and have made every effort to meet the challenges of sustainable development in a manner that ensures sustainable added value for all our stakeholders. Through our sustainability management framework, which is based on the precautionary approach, a review of our internal systems and procedures, benchmarking with key issues reported by our peers and competitors in their sustainability reports, as well as key issues identified by industrial associations (e.g. EDANA1), and national regulatory requirements and international agreements (e.g. UN Global Compact2). We have identified the key sustainability trends that affect the continuity of our business and influence our relationships with our stakeholders. After we have identified the key sustainability trends, we conducted a materiality based on the extent of the impact of the trend on our business and the level of concern from stakeholders to these issues. The matrix below shows our classification of the sustainability trends pertaining to our business. 1. High Concern-Low impact 2. High concern-High Impact • Human Rights •Natural resources stewardship •Health and safety •Anti-corruption policies and procedures •Human resources management •Innovation •Stakeholder enegagement •Quality •Community investment 3. Low concern-Low impact 4. Low Concern-High Impact •Sustainable supply chain •Climate change •Life cycle thinking Nuqul Group Materiality Analysis Matrix Our sustainability section is responsible for monitoring our sustainability performance across these trends and reports on the performance to our C-Suite, moreover the sustainability section provides prescription for all our business units on required measures to improve the performance of the business units, where performance targets are set annually and communicated to concerned departments at all levels in the business units to ensure compliance with these targets. In 2012, we have integrated sustainability requirements in the internal systems and procedures for operations, marketing and administration, and these requirements will be audited annually to ensure proper implementation starting in 2013. Moreover, we are closely working with other departments including Human Resources and Business Planning and Development to identify means to integrate sustainability approaches into their internal systems and procedures. 1 http://www.edana.org/industry-initiatives/sustainability 2 http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.html 9 The table below provides a detailed description of our key sustainability trends including implications for Nuqul Group and our stakeholders as well as the opportunities arising from these trends. Internal Sustainability Reporting in Nuqul Group In 2012, we have established an internal procedure for sustainability reporting, whereby all Fine Hygienic Holding companies are required to report on their sustainability performance on monthly basis using an automated database on our internal portal. this database provides the monthly FHH sustainability dashboard report which is then sent to the CEO. The companies report on Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that reflect our significant sustainability impact and are related to our annual sustainability reports. Our Sustainability dashboard report contains the following: Reported data by companies Computed data Total water consumption Total electricity consumption (From the grid) GHG emissions by source (electricity, Total operational fuel consumption operational fuel, vehicle fuel) Total vehicle fuel consumption Total GHG emissions Total waste generated Number of female employees in workforce % of female employees from total workforce Number of female employees in management % of female employees in management Number of employees in workforce positions positions Number of employees In management positions Number of accidents Accident Frequency Ratio (AFR) Number of lost days due to accidents Accident Severity Ratio (ASR) Total number of working hours Number of vehicle crashes Number of fatalities FSC/PEFC certified pulp purchased % of FSC/PEFC certified pulp of total pulp Total pulp purchased purchased The performance trends, within the above indicators, are discussed with all companies on monthly basis, where by anomalies are identified and investigated and a course for corrective action is defined for follow up. The executive report sent to the CEO, describes performance trends in relation to production and sales for the following performance categories:  Water consumption  Electricity consumption  Operational fuel consumption  Vehicle fuel consumption  Waste generated All other data provided in our sustainability dashboard in addition to data from other departmental dashboards are used for our annual sustainability report. 10 Key Sustainability Issues Trend and Description and implications Related opportunities description Natural resources  Reflects increased recognition of natural resources constraints as a key sustainability issue,  Resource efficiency measures stewardship including water scarcity and risks, energy costs and need for an understanding of resource  Sustainable supply chain management depletion footprint of products.  Product life cycle impact management  Implications include: o Impact on cost efficiency o Impact on environmental footprint of products o Impact on resource availability for all stakeholders Process and products  Reflects ability to reduce health and safety risks for employees during production process, as well  Health and safety process certification Health and Safety as health and safety risks associated with the use of our products.  Third party assurance for health and safety of  Implications include: products o Impact on manufacturing processes  Health and safety audits for suppliers o Impact on employee morale  Raw material supplies with improved health o Impact on public image of brands and products and safety performance through supplier audits and third party certification Anti-corruption  Reflects the ability of the organization to reduce risk of financial corruption and to maintain  Anti-corruption training for high risk policy and financial integrity operations procedures  Implications include: o Impact on financial competitiveness o Impact on public image of corporation Human resources  Reflects the ability of the organization to recruit and retain top talent, maintain healthy levels of  Competitive compensation and benefit system management employee morale, encouraging gender diversity in the workplace, and empowering women to  Fast track career programs for women take leadership roles within the organization.  Employee engagement activities  Implications include: o Impact on employee morale o Impact on employee retention rates o Impact on productivity o Impact on public image as an employer of choice innovation  Reflects the ability of the organization to meet stakeholders’ demands as pertains to products,  Sustainable innovation training and the ability to withstand the constantly changing market requests, taking into consideration  Innovation promotion programs within the environmental, social and economic dimensions organization  Implications include:  consumer co-creation platforms o Impact on market share and market penetration o Impact on public image of products and brands o Impact of financial health Stakeholder  reflects willingness of the organization to engage all stakeholders in defining the way forwards  Stakeholder engagement programs engagement for the organization in a manner that ensures optimum added value for all stakeholders  Sustainability stakeholder council 11 Trend and Description and implications Related opportunities description  implications include: o Impact on stakeholder relations o Impact on public image of organization Quality  Reflects the ability of the organization to meet customer demands and expectations in terms of  Interactive customer satisfaction monitoring product quality program  Implications include:  Customer engagement programs o Impact on customer satisfaction o Impact on market share and market penetration Community  Reflects the organization social responsibility to support effective and efficient local community  Strategic community investment programs investment development  Employee engagement in social responsibility  Implications include: activities o Impact on the wellbeing of local communicates o Impact on stakeholder relationships o Impact on public image of corporation Climate change  Reflects the commitment of the organization to reduce its contribution to global warming  Renewable energy technology investment  Implications include:  Clean technology investment o Impact on global climatic trends  Carbon emissions reduction trading o Impact on natural resources availability o Impact on public image of corporation Human rights  Reflects the organizations commitments to upholding international human rights practices  Inclusion of human rights considerations in  Implications include: contractual dealings o Impact on employee moral  Suppliers audits for human rights o Impact on public image of the corporation Sustainable supply  Reflects the ability of the organization to influence its supply chain to become more sustainable  Supplier sustainability performance evaluation chain and in turn reduce the negative sustainability impact of offered products programs  Implications include:  Supplier sustainability audits o Impact on supplier relationship o Impact on cost efficiency o Impact on product life cycle performance Life cycle thinking  Reflects the ability of the organization to managed the life cycle impact of its products in a  Product life cycle assessment tools sustainable manner  Product life cycle training for related  Implications include: departments o Impact on environmental footprint of product o Impact on cost efficiency o Impact on public image of products and brands 12 Nuqul Group Sustainability Performance Trends Key Performance 2012 Justification 2013 Target Indicator Target Achievement % Achievement of target Percentage of 100% 100% 100% According to Board of Directors’ 100% business units requirements, all Nuqul Group companies audited for fiscal are required to undergo annual internal responsibility (new) audits to ensure that adequate internal controls are in place to achieve fiscal responsibility. Percentage of 12.5% 12.5% 100% Our internal audit department provided this 12.5% internal audit training for one employee out of the eight in employees trained the department so as to establish the knowhow of anti-corruption policies and on anti-corruption procedures within the department. policy and procedures (New) Percentage of 57% 64% 112% We included 9 out of our 14 facilities in our 78.5% business units for sustainability dashboard instead of 8 which sustainability performance is tracked on monthly basis (New) Water consumption -4% -3.4% 85% Production in our Nuqul Tissue facilities has -3% increased as compared to 2011, however our water consumption per ton product has decreased by 7% from last year. Indirect energy -4% +3% 0% Production in all of our facilities increased as -3% consumption compared to last year, electricity Electricity consumption per unit product decreased as Consumption per the table in page 28 Direct energy -4% -1.65% as 42% The comparison is based on 2010 levels, as a -3% consumption compared with gas turbine in Nuqul Tissue Egypt was shut Operational Fuel 2010 levels down in 2011. The reduction achieved is due Consumption to the implementation of energy efficiency measures in our Nuqul Tissue operations. Direct energy -4% +51% 0% Due to an increase in sales volume of tissue -3% consumption by 13% and in adult briefs by 23%, Vehicle Fuel additionally the number of distribution Consumption vehicles for our Egypt and KSA markets has increased. Direct GHG emissions -4% +1.75% (as 0% While the total GHG emissions increased, the -5% (Operational and compared to GHG emissions for our tissue, tissue boxes distribution fuel|) 2010 levels) and non-woven products has decreased (see table in page 32), however the GHG Indirect GHG -4% +1.44% 0% emissions for our converted tissue (facial, -5% emissions Toilet and Kitchen) as well as diaper products (Electricity) has increased due mainly to the increase in their distribution GHG emissions. For this we are working to implement effective distribution management systems that will help to reduce fuel consumption and accompanying GHG emissions 13 Key Performance 2012 Justification 2013 Target Indicator Target Achievement % Achievement of target Waste Generation -30% -2.4% 8% we have started the production of a new -3% absorbent product, and during the initial production of this product the waste generated increased on our way to achieve top quality of this product, however our converting facilities established plans to reduce this waste in 2013, all of our converting facilities in Jordan, Egypt, KSA and UAE have achieved zero waste sent to landfill. Turnover rate -4% +0.4% 0% Stable compensation and benefits packages -3.38% on within an unstable economy has helped us average maintain our turnover rate within healthy turnover levels, moreover our salary structure is based upon extensive market research that ensures that we maintain a competitive market advantage for hiring and recruitment Female participation No +0.6% NA We have in 2012, worked with our facilities NA in workforce Target in North Africa and the Arabian Peninsula Set and Iran to increase the number of female employees in the workforce by establishing working conditions that are favorable for women in these regions. In North Africa the number of female employees increased by 17% and in the Arabian peninsula and Iran the number increased by 42%. Percentage of No +0.5% NA In 2012, the number of female employees in NA females in Target management positions increased in our management Set facilities in the Levant and North Africa, and positions this comes as part of our effort to increase the percentage of female employees in our operations. Accident Frequency -25% for AFR -42.6% AFR 170% Diligent follow up on health and safety -25% Ration (AFR) and both ASR 102% within all our facilities Accident Severity AFR and ASR -25.7% Ratio (ASR) ASR Proportion of FSC +4% -2.4% 0% Purchase is dependent upon demand +2% /PEFC certified pulp Number of justified -20% -26.9% 135% Diligent follow up on customer complaints -10% of root customer complaints and root cause analysis causerepeated customer complaints Average lead time to Reduce Target met 100% Diligent follow up on customer complaints 10 days resolve customer to 10 and root cause analysis complaints days 14 Nuqul Group Sustainability Management Framework Nuqul Group Mission Statement Nuqul Group Sustainability Mission Nuqul Group is a leading enterprise devoted to “As a leading corporate citizen, Nuqul Group providing customers with the highest quality seeks to make Sustainability synonymous with products and services. We strive to achieve its business activities and corporate culture, to success in our investment, always adhering to ensure sustainable growth, added value for its the strictest ethical and world class standards. stakeholders, and the prosperity of future generations.” We place high priority on investing in our human resources and in servicing our communities. Our corporate belief “Growing Together” stems from our conviction that the growth of our business cannot be achieved or maintained unless such growth is accompanied by achieving sustainable benefit for all our stakeholders. At Nuqul Group we believe that our purpose is to work towards improving life and we seek to shine in all we do towards this goal. We employ our mind and body in a way which satisfies our conscience, and we have entrenched this belief into our core values “Our World, Our Soul and Our Pride” Our World ... Playing our part Nuqul Group believes that success and sustainability are interconnected and can only be achieved by Nuqul Group Core Values recognizing that we are a small part of a large world. We commit to listen carefully to the needs of our customers, employees, suppliers and stakeholders and to balance those needs, acting with responsible behaviour towards the environment, our communities and governments. This belief is embodied in our motto ‘Growing Together’ – employing collaboration and clear communications in our quest to make our world better. Our Soul ... The strength within At Nuqul Group we believe that the human conscience is the ultimate judge of our performance. We expect our employees to act in the most brilliant and ethical ways towards our stakeholders. To support this endeavor, we will commit to equal opportunity employment, fair work practices, skills development, trust, reward and accountability, a family/work balance and a healthy, happy working atmosphere. The conduct of our business is always legal and ethical, and we share our success with our community through our CSR activities. By satisfying our soul we are sure we have all delivered our best to ourselves and our world. Our Pride ... Feeling great about what we do Nuqul Group employees acknowledge that in an ever faster changing world only outstanding performance can create the growth needed to reward all stakeholders. We constantly strive for exceptional results, delivered with unwavering commitment and at a terrific speed to produce marvelous products, services and agreements to create a dazzling image. To enable this, we run value system, leverage technology, promote synergy and teamwork and encourage creativity and innovation. We believe our customers are the source of all value creation and always seek to exceed their expectations. By gaining customer approval we create pride and satisfaction. 15 Based on our core values, and the materiality analysis Nuqul Group Key Priority Areas of our key sustainability trends, we have identified a list o Environmental stewardship of key priority areas that affect our operations and our o Stakeholder engagement sustainable growth including environmental, social and o Human resources management economic issues. This list formulated the ground for o Community investment and development defining our way forward to achieve sustainability. o Product life cycle thinking Accordingly, we have developed our Group wide o Product and process innovation o Anti-Corruption policies and procedures sustainability strategy which aims to improve our o Customer satisfaction performance across all key priority areas. This strategy is divided into 5 main strategic directions: o Inspire Customers and Communities (Consumer Focus) o Product and Service innovation (Product Focus) o Strive for Maximum Sustainability (Performance Focus) o Adopt life Cycle Management (Process Focus) o Inspire with Sustainability (Workforce focus) The graph below shows our 5 point sustainability strategy, which is built upon the entrenchment of a sustainability culture among all of our employees, as we believe that such direction will trickle up to influence the key elements of our business. NG Sustainability Strategy Strategy Point Purpose 2012 completed action Inspire with We aim to use sustainability elements to foster an unprecedented  Integrated sustainability aspects into Sustainability wave of inspiration and focus within our workforce, to be translated operations, marketing and into benefits for our stakeholders. administration systems and procedures Adopt life Cycle We aim to influence actors at all life cycle phases to adopt this  Conducted the first of a kind in the Management management approach so as to achieve maximum sustainability for region Life Cycle Assessment for two our products. of our products Strive for We strive to reduce our net environmental impact towards zero  Monthly sustainability performance Maximum over the long-term and better understand our economic and social reports are reported to the Chief Sustainability impacts and presence, and systematically improve them Executive Officer of the Group accordingly. Product and We aim to generate a new range of products driven by  Started exploring the use of oxoService innovation sustainability insights and build a brand reputation where the use of biodegradable plastic for our plastic our products serves as a respected signal that the user is a packaging conscientious champion of sustainability. Inspire Customers We aim to improve customer satisfaction, while increasing overall  Communicated sustainability in the and Communities appreciation for sustainability and inspiring actions by others. context of Nuqul Group through a variety of communication channels including, newspapers, press releases and social media. 16 Organizational profile Nuqul Group, being a privately owned business, was established in 1952 by Our Brands the founder and Chairman of the Board, Mr. Elia Nuqul as Nuqul Brothers Fine Tissue Products Company. With a modest business start, the company specialized in Smile Tissue Products importing and distributing foodstuffs. In later years, the group’s management Lido Tissue Products ventured on to invest in a business model focused on integrated industries, Nawras Tissue Products Fine Baby Diaper which resulted in the group’s expansion and diversification to become a Baby Fine Diaper recognized name across the entire Arab region. The company’s core business Finee Diaper is hygienic products, and all our core companies are incorporated under one Baby Lido Diaper commercial entity (Fine Hygienic Holding – FHH LLC.). Our product portfolio Fine Lady and Baby incorporates a multitude of tissue and diaper products, and we are present in Sweety Diaper 40 markets across the globe. Our facilities employ over 5,000 staff member Smile Diaper mainly within the Middle East and North Africa region. Mama Diaper Finies Diaper Our customers include retails shops businesses, while the end users of our Fine Life Adult Briefs products are individuals. Our Head Office is located in Amman – Jordan and employs over 120 professionals who are responsible for setting the strategic direction and following up on the performance of all Nuqul Group companies. Our operations are located in 10 areas across the region including countries in the Levant, the Arabian Peninsula and Iran (API) and North Africa. FHH is a large scale industry with horizontal expansion, it includes Nuqul Tissue operations, Fine Hygienic Companies (converting facilities) in addition to non-woven manufacturing (Specialized Industries Company SPIC) and a packaging and printing press (Perfect Printing Press PPP). Our organizational structure, a decentralized hierarchy where our board of directors defines the strategic direction of the group, and the C-Suite ensures compliance to the chosen strategic direction. Our hierarchy ensures open communication channels across different levels. Our sustainability section reports to the corporate chief operations officer of the group, who in turn report to the chief executive officer (See organizational structure on the next page). During this reporting period no significant changes occurred regarding, size, structure, or ownership. FHH Purpose Fine adds joy and prosperity to the world through a thoughtful growth recipe designed to reward our shareholders so they may invest in our development, which in turn enables us to expand our activities to touch more lives. We expand our business and that of customers and suppliers by inspiring our employees to delight consumers through innovative new solutions to their hygiene necessities. Happy consumers appreciate our work and reward us with healthy growth. Healthy growth enables us to satisfy our communities’ increasing needs and to invest in environmentally friendly practices and processes so we may contribute to a happier17world. 18 Report Profile This report is the 5th annual sustainability report we have published since becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact and it stands as our communication on progress against the ten principles of the compact. The report provides information in qualitative and quantitative terms regarding Nuqul GroupFHH performance in the fiscal year 2012. Performance data provided in this report is monitored and reported internally to the CEO on monthly basis and is based on our 2011 sustainability report issued on July 7, 2012. The sustainability context for our operations has been taken into consideration for defining the content of this report and significant sustainability aspects and impacts are identified through our sustainability strategy and consultation with our key stakeholders, while also addressing relevance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The data in the report pertains to the key sustainability aspects of our FHH subsidiaries (where we exert full control while excluding joint venture and outsourced manufacturing) in the following locations (except where stated otherwise): o Jordan o Egypt o KSA o UAE o Iran o Kuwait o Sudan Our 2012 sustainability report complies with the GRI’s reporting principles for defining contents as indicated in the Nuqul Group Stakeholder Council Independent Assurance Statement (Page 56-58) This report achieved an A+ GRI application level in accordance with the GRI G 3.1 Guidelines and as declared by Nuqul Group. This application level indicates the highest level of disclosure and transparency as set by the GRI Reporting Guidelines C C+ B B+ A A+ Self-Declared Mandatory Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked The report is consolidated by the Sustainability Section/Corporate Operations Support Department at Nuqul Group, for any information you may contact us at sustainability@nuqulgroup.com 19 Governance at Nuqul Group We realize the importance of good governance practices as a Our Board of Directors sets the driver for stability and excellence in our business and accordingly strategic direction of the group we chose to separate ownership from management by creating and reviews the business, and Nuqul Group Board of Directors as the entity responsible for: reputation risks identified by o Defining the risk appetite of the group, our business planning and o Overseeing the overall group strategy, development department, to o Evaluating and compensating the Group’s ensure that appropriate risk executives and mitigation plans and methods o Protecting stakeholders’ interests. are in place. The risks identified The roles, responsibilities of the Board are outlined in the Board of may include environmental, Directors Charter as well as the charters for the Board’s audit social and economic risks that committee and management development and compensation affect the viability and committee. The chairman of the board of directors of the group represents the owners, our CEO is appointed by the board of continuity of our business directors to manage and oversee the performance of the group, and to avoid any risks of conflict of interest within the board of the directors, the charter sets clear instructions to avoid such conflict and to ensure the implementation of prudent and effective controls. In addition to the group owners and the CEO, there are two independent members; the following is a list of the 6 members currently on our board of directors: o Mr. Elia Nuqul , Chairman o Mr. Ghassan Nuqul, Vice chairman o Mr. Marwan Nuqul, Member o Mr. Salim Karadsheh, Member, CEO FHH o Sami Haddad, member, General Manager and Executive Director, Byblos Bank SAL o Maher Kaddoura, member, General Manager, Al Jude for Scientific Care (Non for Profit) The members of the Board of Directors are selected based on criteria determining the required qualifications and expertise as outlined in Nuqul Group Board Charter. While there are currently no female members of the board of directors, the charter encourages diversity in gender and nationality within the board. The board of directors’ charter includes a provision regarding the annual review of the board’s performance and the performance of its committees with regards to their commitment to the Board’s Function. Sustainability performance is not included in this We have been a signatory to the review unless linked to financial performance, and the group UN Global compact since 2007, and C-Suite executives are all compensated based on the financial performance of the group since then we have issued our communication on progress report The Board of Directors work as well as the business approach against the ten principles of the of all subsidiary companies is directed by our mission compact on annual basis. This statement and core values (See Nuqul Group Sustainability report represents our 5th Management Framework section) , and all our businesses are required to comply with all the stipulations in both the mission submission pertaining to our statement and the core values. sustainability performance in 2012 and against the UN global compact We seek to reinforce the values found in our Code of Conduct principles as well as our Mission Statement through various actions from 20 awareness sessions, to our web portal, to email correspondence and official circulars and regular department meetings. Our commitment to and compliance with national and international laws and standards such as the UN Global Compact (UNGC) is ensured through financial and business audits that are conducted periodically The communication between employees and the board of directors is governed by the following two mechanisms: o The chain of command: employees can communicate concerns and/or suggestions through the chain of command o The corporate integrity hotline: the integrity hotline, is a specialized toll free phone service, which is designated to communicate any conduct of employees that violates our code of conduct, the cases reported and the associated actions are communicated directly to the audit committee of the board of directors on a case by case basis. Mr. Ghassan Nuqul the vice chairman of Nuqul Group Board of Directors, is currently holding the following positions:  Member of the National Council for Competitiveness and Innovation.  Member of the Ministerial Advisory Board on partnership between Private and Public Sector.  Member of Private Equity Advisory Board, National Bank of Kuwait  Ex-Chairman and Member of the Jordan Chapter of the Young Presidents Organization (YPO).  Member of the Board of Trustees of the Jordan University of Science & Technology.  Member of the Board of Trustees of Amman Baccalaureate School.  Chairman of the Employment Support and Vocational Training Theme / National Agenda.  Member of the Board of the National Center for Culture & Performing Arts/ King Hussein Foundation.  Member of the Board of Trustees of the Royal Health Awareness Society.  Member of the Board of Trustees of the Jordan Medical Aid for Palestinians.  Member of the Board of Trustees of the Jordanian Hashemite Fund for Human Development.  Member of the Jordanian Businessmen Association.  Member of the Young Entrepreneurs Association (YEA).  Founding Member of the Jordan Exporters Association.  Member of the French – Jordanian Business Club  Member of the Jordanian European Businessmen Association (JEBA).  Member of the Jordanian American Businessmen Association (JABA).  Founding Member of the Jordanian Canadian Business Association (JOCABA).  Member of the Jordanian Engineering Association.  Chairman of the Board of SCA-JV (Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget Join Venture) Mr. Salim Karadsheh, the CEO of Fine Hygienic Holding – Nuqul Group, also holds the following positions:  Board member – Injaz – Jordan.  Board member – National Corporate Governance Commission – Jordan. Nuqul Group Memberships:  Member of EDAMA, a local Jordanian NGO working for promoting sustainable business within the Jordanian context.  Member of the Network for Jordanian Industrial Sustainability 21 Nuqul Group Stakeholders Our stakeholders are identified through an extensive mapping process that defines the parties that are impacted by our decisions, operations and products in addition to the parties that influence the sustainable growth of our business. Stakeholder Examples How we engage Key issues Our response Owners  Owners of Nuqul  Board of Directors meetings  Fiscal continuity of the business  Regular and diligent internal audits to ensure appropriate Group  Regular reporting from senior  Good public image controls are implemented across all functions. management  Customer Satisfaction and high  Continuously updated systems and procedures to ensure quality products compliance of all business units with regulatory requirements and stakeholder demands  Regular engagement for public relations issues. Government  Chamber of  Regulatory inspections and audits  Compliance with government  Continuous compliance with government regulations commerce  Official letters/websites regulations  Participation in several regulatory committees  Chamber of Industry  Regular inspections by civil defense  Provision of products and services in  Participation in Governmental workshops and seminars  Memberships in Government accordance with safety and hygiene  Participation in national awards competitions associations standards Employees  Trade unions  Strategy & business planning process  Compensation and benefits  Complying with the local labor law  All employees  Management review meetings and  Feedback and performance reviews  Continuous market surveys regarding compensation and retreats  Training, talent management and benefits  Collective labor agreements development  Development opportunities  Team and company meetings  Optimum work conditions and fair  Motivation programs and awards  Organization Health Survey (OHS) benefits  Clear authorities and responsibilities  Self-Managed Team Work (SMTW)  Employee engagement, motivation  Collective bargaining agreements  Newsletters, bulletins and and empowerment  HR strategies for improvement Intranet/Portal  Constant exposure to relevant  Policies/Systems & Procedures knowledge and experience  Employee Performance Development Review (PDR)  Social activities and events Suppliers  Pulp suppliers  Prequalification meetings  Timely payment  Establishment of partnerships with the suppliers for baby  SAP suppliers  Day to day liaison  Proactive engagement and fair diapers raw material on the baby diaper re-engineering  Regular performance review contracts project  Favorable working conditions  Ongoing project with Henkel aimed at reducing the  Opportunities for growing consumption of glue for our diaper production partnerships Customers  Consumer  Events & tradeshows  Value for Money  Procedure for customer services and orders handling associations  Promotional material  Quality of products and services  Customer visits from technical and sales teams  Retail customers  Customer service center  Effective and efficient customer  Customer survey, feedback and complaints handling  Business to business  Website and social media service system customers  EFQM Surveys  Customer engagement  Effective quality control and monitoring systems  Offers of promotions and rebates Communities  Local communities  Community engagement for social  Investing in addressing contentious  Development projects tailored to address community where we operate needs assessment community issues such as youth needs and in line with our direction at the same time  Al-Koura district  Media involvement through news, education, poverty alleviation, skills  Working with the youth in the area to create a network of community exposure and interview opportunities development among others graduates who are ready to enter the market  NGO such as Injaz,  Direct campaigns organized by our  Equipping the community with the required skills that will EDAMA, etc employees interacting with the generate a positive impact and represent a direct  Academic community response to their needs. 22 Stakeholder Examples How we engage Key issues Our response institutions  Workshops and events in the area:  Collaborating with local partners to ensure sustainable micro venture approach, launch of support of community specific projects library among other projects Environment  Ministry of  Monitoring  Reducing our significant  Environmental management plans Environment  Protection environmental impacts  Compliance with existing regulation to protect  Measurements  Investing in addressing contentious environment and future generations  Programs environmental issues such as water  Improving the environment by implementing shortage environmental programs regarding noise, illumination,  Improving our products and services and energy savings environmental impact  Reduction of our solid waste  Re-engineering of products to improve the used raw material and its consumption, accordingly to improve the environmental parameters 23 Economic Performance of Nuqul Group Management Approach Our corporate slogan “Growing Together” prescribes our direction towards the creation of sustainable growth and value for all our stakeholders. We have operations in 10 different locations within the Middle East and North Africa region which support the economic growth of the countries where these operations are located, create jobs for local talented and qualified employees, and support partnerships with local suppliers. We also support community development and investment where we operate through our Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility program which aims to achieve effective community development. This program is based on a thorough investigation of socio-economic needs of the community, and is built to address those needs in an effective and efficient manner. We realize that our operations are impacted by climate change, and we are always seeking opportunities to mitigate such risks through programs and projects that aim to reduce our own contribution to climate change. We abide by the regulations of the countries we operate in concerning pension plans, where we fully deliver on our commitments to pension through an end of service remuneration or payments to government managed pension funds. Our financial dealings with governments is determined through local laws and regulations. Economic Performance Direct economic value Our revenues in 2012 increased slightly by 0.7% compared to 2011 performance due to the Total Revenues market challenges and the political economic 680 instability that was observed in the Middle East 657 652 660 and North Africa region .However, we were still 640 able to maintain revenues close to those 620 602 achieved in 2011 through the successful and 600 stable market penetration and resulting market 580 share of our products in the different market 560 segments. 2012 2011 2010 The fluctuations in payments to government on a year to year basis are mainly due to changes in local tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. Indicator Unit 2012 2011 2010 Total Revenues Million USD 657 652 602 Income Tax paid to government Million USD 10.5 5.0 3.6 Employee wages and benefits (including bonus, incentives, Million USD 72.6 67.3 59.5 pension, medical insurance and education program) Our economic performance is also reflected on the economic value we provide for our employees, in 2012 the employee wages and benefits (including bonus, incentives, pension, medical insurance and the 24 educational allowance) increased by 8% compared to 2011, and this due to an increase in the number of employees accompanied by the annual salary raises which increased the total for the salaries paid for our employees. Employees compensation and benefits Our compensation and benefits packages are designed in a manner that ensures a competitive advantage for our group in the job market, and it has enabled us to attract top talent and high competencies to work for us. Our compensation and benefits package includes the following:  Competitive basic salary based on market research and benchmarks.  Performance related annual bonus, production incentives and sales commission.  Medical insurance package  Pension/retirement fund (depending on local regulations, either paid to government controlled pension funds, or met directly by the group)  Educational allowance covering 50% of the tuition fees within a specific cap for employees children  Commuting allowance, transportation facilities for employees  Reduced number of working hours per day for working mothers who served 5 years or more in the group.  Flextime for our head office employees All our pension obligations have been fully met; the financial obligations are included within employee wages and benefits expenditure. Country Type of pension plan Jordan Compulsory -Government controlled pension plan paid as follows:  12.25% of the wages to be paid by employer on monthly basis  6.5% of wages to be paid by employees in monthly basis Egypt Compulsory for Egyptian employees  14% of fixed wages (981 EGP) and 11% of variable (1050 EGP) wages to be paid by employee  26% of fixed wages (981 EGP) and 24% of variable (1050 EGP) wages to be paid by employer For expats, it is settled directly by the group Financial implications of climate change We understand and recognize the financial implications imposed by climate change on our operations such as its effect on water resources availability, availability of forest areas, temperature variations and their climatic consequences, and while we don’t quantify the risks in financial terms, we have incorporated those risks in our business approach through our business risks register so as to identify the most effective means of reducing their financial impacts, when and if such risks are identified as high level risks (with a significant impact on the group and/or imposes significant financial ramifications) the board of directors of the group will insure that mitigation plans are set in place in an effort to avoid all the negative impacts associated with these risks. 25 Risks and opportunities associated with climate change Risks Opportunities Fluctuations in rainfall leading to fluctuations in Renewable energy, energy efficiency and clean water availability technology investments Receding vegetative cover due to climatic Carbon emissions mitigation and trading variances, which could compromise raw material availability Temperature variances which could impact our Sustainable supply chain and Sustainable product manufacturing processes, product quality and design durability Financial Assistance from Government We receive tax deductions and relief as provided by local laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. As a privately owned company, financial information concerning the value of this assistance cannot be disclosed. Market presence Standard Entry Level wage As an organization aspiring to be an employer of choice, our salary scale is designed to pay more than the minimum wage for our entry level workers as set by local laws and regulation, and it is set in a manner that ensures no variation among genders. This standard is set for all of our operations. The table below shows how we perform against the standard entrylevel wage set by local laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. Country Unit Local minimum wage % variation of average entry level wage from minimum wage Jordan Jordanian Dinar 190 27% above Sudan Sudanese Pound 425 6% above Morocco Moroccan Dirham 2427 7% above Algeria Algerian Dinar 18000 38% above Relationship with Local Suppliers The local markets were we operate are lacking of suppliers for the raw material that is used in our products, thus we do not have set policies and procedures that give preference to local suppliers, however, where possible for some of the material required for the packaging, adhesives and spare parts, we always seek to contract local suppliers taking into consideration quality, cost and delivery time as well as specific aspects of operations management (environmental and health and safety management certification). Local Hiring We are equal opportunity employers, yet we rarely hire employees from outside the localities where we operate, since these localities are capable of providing us with the caliber of talent that we seek to hire, however, In certain countries of the gulf (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) We abide by local regulations concerning local hiring where we are requested to meet targets for the percentage of local in workforce (i.e. Saudization) 26 Indicator Target 2012 2011 2010 Job Saudization 25% or above 21% 20.11% 23% Locals in C-suite positions NA 90% 90% 90% Indirect Economic Impacts As a regional group, and a producer of fast We have developed a unique corporate social moving consumer goods, we understand responsibility model since 2007, which was based on a the influence of our operations and social needs assessment. This assessment resulted in the products on all our stakeholders, on the adoption of Al-Koura community located in the northern regional and local levels, and we aspire to parts of Jordan. Throughout the program we have put our influence, through operations and established several community development activities products, to good use in a manner that that aimed to address all the specific social needs to Alguarantees sustainable economic Koura community. The table below demonstrates the development for all our stakeholders. In financial investments made in this program for the past 3 this regard we report the following: years. In addition to this CSR program we have established a partnership with Injaz, an independent non Our increased demand on specific profit Jordanian organization with the mission to inspire supplies has prompted some of our and prepare young Jordanians to become productive main suppliers to increase their members in their society and succeed in the global productivity economy. Through this partnership we encourage our  Our products target different market employees to volunteer with Injaz as educators for school segments, including low-income and university students and showcase their experience in consumers the job market to these students.  Our partnership with Injaz has helped develop the skills of youth in schools 2012 2011 2010 and universities to become more Community investments (Thousand 274 144 235 employable within the current job USD) market context. List of main activities in Al-Koura district during 2012 Month Activity January Presenting Plays in Al Koura in cooperation with the National Center for Culture and Arts April Strategic expansion of our corporate social responsibility initiative in Al-Koura district and in partnership with “Q-Perspective” to implement new projects in the District June Signing of the first pioneering collaboration in the Kingdom with The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Municipality of Dair Abi Sa’eed to build upon our effective CSR platform in Al-Koura district and to ensure strong impact of the program August Launched our Ramadan Campaign in the Adopted Al Koura District in Partnership with Tkiyet Um Ali December Launched a packaging and labeling unit in Al Koura, providing income opportunities for six women from the local community 27 Environmental performance of Nuqul Group Management Approach We fully understand and act upon our responsibility to Our World ... Playing our part the planet that supports our very existence, and we Nuqul Group believes that success and acknowledge our responsibility for mitigating any sustainability are interconnected and can negative environmental impact that might result from only be achieved by recognizing that we are our operations, and as producers of fast moving a small part of a large world. We commit to consumer goods we realize that the continuity of our listen carefully to the needs of our customers, employees, suppliers and business is depending upon the availability of resources stakeholders and to balance those needs, including raw material, water and energy, and we make acting with responsible behavior towards the every effort to operate within the limits of these environment, our communities and resources implementing environmental management governments. This belief is embodied in our programs and systems that are in compliance with ISO motto ‘Growing Together’ – employing 14001 certification standard, and we abide by local, collaboration and clear communications in regional and international laws governing our quest to make our world environmental performance. Moreover, our core values encourage employees’ commitment to sustaining earth’s natural resources (as demonstrated in the first of our core values – Our World), reducing our negative environmental impact and working with all our stakeholders towards achieving sustainable development. In 2012 we have conducted a first -of -itskind exercise in the region to assess the impact of two of our products across the life cycle that we directly influence. This step helped us set the baseline to improve our impact on the product level, and we are working to integrate a product life cycle management approach within our existing systems and procedures to influence the way we operate and the way we design our products to become more sustainable. Working within the constraints of water shortage, we constantly optimize our processes to conserve the existing water resources while supporting a growth in our production, and we are committed to achieving energy efficiency across all of our operations, not only to reduce the financial burden of the energy bill, but also to reduce the environmental impact imposed by the use of conventional fuel resources. Accordingly, we are constantly working to reduce the Greenhouse Gas emission of our operations and distribution fleet via energy efficiency measures and the use of cleaner fuels. In terms of clean technology, we are seeking to invest in renewable energy applications where possible and feasible, and we are establishing partnerships with governmental, private and non-governmental organizations (e.g. Membership in EDAMA) to support this endeavor. We strive to reduce solid waste resulting from our manufacturing and non-manufacturing activities, and in 2012 we have introduced a system that aims to reduce the waste resulting from our nonmanufacturing activities. As for our raw materials, we only work with pulp suppliers who implement renewable forest management practices, ensuring that for any tree cut other trees are planted, and we have initiated a pilot for a supplier sustainability index for all our raw materials to help our suppliers identify means to improve their sustainability performance. 28 Materials As a producer of hygienic products (tissue and absorbent) we require a wide range of materials (see table in nest page), and the supply of this material is correlated with the demand for our products in the market, however we strive to reduce our raw material consumption through diligent waste control procedures, and constantly attempt to explore means to recycle waste into the process. Material Unit 2012 2011 2010 Tissue Ton 88,505 84,218 69,900 Pulp Ton 22,602 23,692 27,137 SAP Ton 7,617 9,424 8,326 Back sheet Textile SQM 38,929,238 10,251,316 9,402,217 Non-woven SQM 396,652,492 410,183,400 400,157,290 Acquisition distribution layer (ADL) SQM 16,062,804 18,565,063 13,428,828 Tape SQM 7,285,715 8,929,617 8,709,114 Hot-melt Ton 1,423 1,432 1,346 Core board Ton 2,111 1,891 1,818 Nylon Ton 7,715 7,975 7,112 Elastic thread Ton 83 105 103 Cardboard Ton 11,995 9,829 9,852 Ink Ton 21 15 15 Glue Ton 21 16 18 Non-woven Granules Ton 8,616 8,187 7,816 Our pulp sourcing policy ensures that all of our pulp comes from forests that are managed in a renewable manner; we have adopted this policy in order to conserve forests and reduce the indirect impact of our operations on biodiversity. Our Nuqul Tissue operations in Egypt provide a supply of FSC certified tissue in response to demand from customers, thus the percentage of FSC certified pulp purchased for our NT operations is dependent upon the demand of our customers. In 2012 the percentage of certified pulp purchased dropped from 7.7% in 2011 to 5.3% in 2012. However, we are committed to raising awareness among all our customers concerning the sustainable advantages of certified pulp, and will develop a communication program with our customers in order to increase the demand for certified pulp. Pulp Consumption at Nuqul Tissue Unit 2012 2011 2010 Total pulp consumption Ton 157,302 151,633 151,901 Total FSC/PEFC pulp consumption Ton 8,377 11,703 8,973 Percentage of FSC/PEFC pulp from total pulp consumed % 5.3 7.7 5.9 In our non-woven manufacturing facility, we have ventured into recycling the waste of the non-woven product back into propylene granules, part of which is re-entered into our process and the rest is sold for the use of other manufacturing processes. In 2012 the percentage of recycled propylene has slightly decreased as compared to 2011, this decrease is due to product quality requirements, where an increase in the use of the recycled granules could affect the quality of our products. Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Percentage of propylene granules recycled into the process for 10.16% 10.52% 8.76% Non-woven manufacturing 29 In our Nuqul Tissue operation, we set annual targets to improve the pulp yield in our process, pulp yield is the ratio of original pulp weight to the dry pulp retrieved, the lower the percentage the more efficient the use of pulp. In 2012 we reduced our pulp yield by 0.3 percent for 2011, and our pulp yield ratio is considered to be a best performance on a global level since perfect conversion of pulp to tissue with no waste, in principal would be, 950 Kilos of tissue from 1000 kilos of as received pulp, which equates to a yield of 1.052 which is the yield we have achieved in 2012. Pulp Yield Unit 2012 2011 2010 Consumed pulp Ton 157,303 151,633 151,901 Net pulp used in production Ton 149,512 143,619 143,843 Pulp Yield Ratio 1.052 1.056 1.056 Nuqul Group 2012 Quality Day Awards “Creative Sustainability” As part of the Nuqul Group Quality Day awards competition which focused on the theme of “creative sustainability”, Nuqul Tissue in Egypt won the award by designing and implementing a process optimization project which aimed to reduce water and fiber consumption within the process. The project resulted in saving 90 tons of pulp, and 15,000 cubic meters of water within a year. Energy Our Nuqul Tissue operations are the largest consumers 2.50 Total Million Giga Joules of energy (electrical and thermal) upon all our facilities, 2.00 Operational Fuel while our converting facilities use energy for 1.50 Consumption manufacturing in the form of electricity from the grid, 1.00 Total as well as fossil fuels for their distribution fleets. Distribution Fuel 0.50 Consumption In 2012 our consumption of operational fuel has 0.00 Total Direct decreased by 1.65% as compared to 2010 (the 2012 2011 2010 Energy reference year is set for 2010 because in 2011 one of Year Consumption our gas turbines in Nuqul Tissue Egypt was shut down). Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (Giga Joules) 2012 2011 2010 Operational fuel consumption Kerosene 273,054 105,074 102,410 Heavy Fuel Oil 293,919 294,809 270,739 Natural Gas 1,338,133 1,052,436 1,350,652 LPG 621 205,828 215,515 Diesel 4,601 4,002 3,086 Sub Total 1,910,328 1,662,149 1,942,402 Distribution fuel consumption Diesel 69,097 48,304 59,805 Gasoline 48,620 29,501 21,960 Sub Total 117,717 77,805 81,765 Total 2,028,045 1,739,954 2,024,167 Indirect Energy Consumption Electricity consumption (MWh) 242,710 235,338 238,552 30 Our distribution fuel consumption in 2012 significantly increased by 51% as compared to 2011, due to an increase in the number of vehicles in the distribution fleets, as well as an increase in sales volume (23% for adult briefs and 13% for tissue products). To manage our vehicle fuel consumption, we have established efficient routing guidelines to be implemented by all our distribution departments. Our total electricity consumption in 2012 increased by 3% as compared to 2011, which is due to an increase in production, and while the total consumption value has increased, the consumption per unit product in the different facilities has decreased. Product Specific Performance Operational Fuel (GJ) 2012 2011 2010 Per One Million Pulls Converted tissue Produced 0.01 0.01 0.01 Per One Million Diapers Produced 0.27 0.21 0.26 Per One Ton Tissue Produced 12.72 11.52 13.44 Per One Million Boxes Produced 0.00 0.00 0.00 Per Ton Non-Woven Produced 1.02 0.93 1.10 Vehicle Fuel (GJ) Per One Million Pulls Converted tissue Sold 13.80 10.03 13.01 Per One Million Diapers Sold 1.07 0.64 0.88 Per One Ton Tissue Sold 0.18 0.13 0.16 Per One Million Boxes Sold 19.71 14.35 16.83 Per Ton Non-Woven Sold 0.18 0.16 0.19 Electricity (MWh) Per One Million Pulls Converted tissue Produced 0.77 0.71 0.76 Per One Million Diapers Produced 24.89 22.13 23.83 Per One Ton Tissue Produced 1.17 1.18 1.19 Per One Million Boxes Produced 7.45 8.48 8.94 Per Ton Non-Woven Produced 1.51 1.54 1.57 Nuqul Tissue in Egypt is the first in the industry (regionally) to be certified with the ISO 50001 energy management certification AL Sindian-Nuqul Tissue Egypt received the new ISO 50001 certificate for the Energy Management System, which was handed over by SGS Company and the president of Egyptian Organization for Standardization & Quality (EOSQ) during the celebration of the “World Standards Day” held and organized in Egypt on the 14th of October 2012 by the (EOSQ), which was attended and sponsored by the minister of industry and foreign commerce of Egypt. Water As we operate in some countries that are characterized with a low water supply, we realize that if we do not manage our water demand efficiently, our business and our stakeholders will suffer. Thus we made a conscious choice to implement sustainable water management measures, especially in our Nuqul Tissue operations, a water dependent operation. In 2012 we have managed to reduce our water consumption by 3.4% as compared to 2011. Our tissue jumbo rolls still maintain water consumption per ton ratio which is 50% lower than that of the industry average without compromising the quality of the tissue. 31 Water consumption (Cubic Meter) 2012 2011 2010 Water from national grid 665,209 705,409 702,401 Water from ground water resources (Artesian wells) 530,172 531,948 552,033 Total water consumption 1,195,381 1,237,357 1,254,434 We are constantly seeking ways to further reduce our impact on water availability, and we are encouraging water savings in administrative activities through communication with our employees. Waste water from our Nuqul Tissue operations in Jordan is treated and the resulting grey water is used to water an olive farm close to the facility while the sludge is sold to a contractor to dispose of as per local regulations. In 2012 the estimated sludge amounts resulting decreased by 8.3 % from 2011. Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Total estimated sludge generated in Nuqul Tissue Jordan (Tons) 753 822 757 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions We realize that our operations contribute to climate change, and we aim to reduce this contribution through diligent energy efficiency measures. In 2012 our GHG emissions increased by 0.8% as compared to 2010 levels (2010 is set as the reference year since in 2011 a major gas turbine was shut in Nuqul Tissue Egypt). This increase is due to an increase in production and increase in sales, based on which the carbon foot print for most of our products has decreased as compared to 2010 except for converted tissue and diaper, for which the carbon footprint has increased due to an increase in vehicle fuel consumption per unit product.(See table on page 32). 400,000 GHG from Ton CO2 Equivalent 300,000 Operational fuel 200,000 GHG from 100,000 distribution fuel 0 GHG emissions from 2012 2011 2010 electricity Year Total GHG emissions Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Ton CO2 Equivalent) 2012 2011 2010 GHG emissions from operational fuel Kerosene 19,701 7,581 7,389 Heavy Fuel Oil 21,617 21,683 19,913 Natural Gas 86,161 67,765 86,967 LPG 39 12,998 13,610 Diesel 342 298 229 GHG from Operational fuel 127,860 110,325 128,108 GHG emissions from distribution fuel Diesel 5,209 3,642 4,509 Gasoline 3,451 2,094 1,559 GHG from distribution fuel 8,661 5,736 6,068 GHG emissions from Electricity GHG emissions from electricity 153,541 151,355 153,587 Total GHG emissions 290,062 267,416 287,763 32 Product Specific Performance GHG Emissions (Ton CO2 Equivalent) 2012 2011 2010 Trend Justification Per One Million Pulls Converted tissue Produced 0.55 0.50 0.54 Vehicle fuel consumption increased Per One Million Diapers Produced 20.25 16.78 18.43 Vehicle fuel consumption increased Per One Ton Tissue Produced 1.59 1.52 1.66 Both electrical and thermal power consumption are decreased through process optimization and energy efficiency measures Per One Million Boxes Produced 4.80 5.51 5.81 Electricity consumption decreased due to the implementation of energy efficiency measures Per Ton Non-Woven Produced 1.03 1.05 1.09 Electricity consumption decreased due to the implementation of energy efficiency measures Nuqul Tissue Egypt – CDM project registration In 2012 Nuqul Tissue Egypt completed the registration of its first Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project in Egypt under United Nations’ Kyoto Protocol. The registered project is Al-Sindian 13 MW Natural Gas based co-generation power project, developed by Al-Sindian Paper Mill, and is located in 6th October industrial city, close to Cairo. The co-generation project falls under United Nations’ category of renewable energy projects, diversifies the sources of electricity generation, and reduces dependence on grid-supplied electricity. The project contributes to Egypt’s goals for sustainable development by reducing electricity and heat supply to the paper mill through fossil fuels. The project will promote use of renewable energy in the region and encourage other companies in the country to register CDM projects and contribute to national sustainable development goals. Waste All of the waste generated in our facilities is sold to third party contractors to be reused for other manufacturing facilities, in 2012 the waste generated decreased by 2.4% (the waste share for each of our products has also increased, see product specific performance), but we have achieved zero waste sent to landfill by all our facilities in Jordan, Egypt, KSA and UAE. Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Total solid waste generated (Ton) 5,260 5,391 6,776 Product Specific Performance Waste (Ton) 2012 2011 2010 Per One Million Pulls Converted tissue Produced 0.65 0.69 0.92 Per One Million Diapers Produced 2.23 2.30 3.08 Per One Million Boxes Produced 1.08 1.30 1.69 Per Ton Non-Woven Produced 0.10 0.11 0.14 33 Product Life Cycle Assessment In 2012 we commissioned the first of a kind life cycle impact assessment (LCA) for two of our main products, this assessment was conducted in accordance with ISO 14040 guidelines on life cycle assessment, and has helped to set the baseline for impact of the two products, and we plan to implement this study on 7 more of our products to identify opportunities for improvement in design, processing and performance of the products. Compliance We did not incur any monetary fines or nonmonetary sanctions for incompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 34 Human Resources Management in Nuqul Group We believe that our employees are our family and we always strive to achieve what is in their best interest. The human resources departments at the Head office, in collaboration with human resources departments at our facilities, are responsible for managing all labor related issues at the facility level as well as the group level. The human resources departments are responsible for organizational design, recruitment, training and career development, performance management, compensation and benefits and succession planning among other activities. We are always on the look for the best talent and we partner with local academic institutions to provide internship opportunities to future graduates, through which we identify talented young minds that can fit our caliber and work within our organization. We are an equal opportunity employer and we ensure that all prospective employees are selected based on merit. Our internal communication systems ensure open channels of communication between labor and management. Our grievance system sets procedures for employees to express their concerns regarding their relationship with the management; our suggestion system provides opportunity for all our employees to place suggestions concerning all aspects of our business. We implement a group wide employee training and development system that aims to identify skill needs for our employees and find training opportunities that meet those needs. Additionally, we implement on the job training that facilitates knowledge transfer among employees at all levels and across all functions. Our compensation and benefits system is based on a unified salary scale, market research and benchmarks, that ensure equal remuneration among genders, and we have set in place benefit systems for working mothers and women to provide for stable retention rates among our female employees. Our Environment, Health and Safety Department is responsible for ensuring compliance with internal and external health and safety regulations and improving the health and safety working conditions of our employees. We fully abide by the laws and regulations governing employment procedures and labor-management relations in the related Total number of employees country of operations. FHH 4,600 Total Workforce 4,431 4,376 Our headcount in 2012 has increased by 1.3% 4,400 from 2011, the rate of new hires for the 4,148 4,200 group in 2012 decreased 1.8% as compared to 2011, this is due to the high retention rate 4,000 among the new hires. 2012 2011 2010 35 Indicator Unit 2012 2011 2010 Total number of employees FHH-Levant Employees 1,610 1,645 1,582 Total number of employees FHH-API Employees 1,441 1,407 1,339 Total number of employees FHH-North Africa Employees 1,380 1,324 1,227 Total Number of Employees – FHH Employees 4,431 4,376 4,148 Indicator Unit 2012 2011 2010 Total number of new hires FHH – Levant Employees 291 422 368 Total number of new hires FHH – API Employees 385 324 411 Total number of new hires FHH – North Africa Employees 186 181 229 Total Number of new hires – FHH Employees 862 927 1,008 Rate of new hires – Levant % 19.6% 27.8% 25.4% Rate of new hires – API % 26.7% 23.0% 30.7% Rate of new hires North Africa % 13.5% 13.7% 18.7% Rate of new hires – FHH % 20.0% 21.8% 25.1% Our turnover rate increased by 0.4% from 2011, but it is still maintained within healthy levels. As for maternity leave, our policies are in full compliance with local laws and regulations; we encourage and practice return to work after maternity. Turnover rate FHHTotal 21.0% 20.7% 20.0% 18.8% 19.0% 18.4% 18.0% 17.0% 2012 2011 2010 Indicator Unit 2012 2011 2010 Turnover rate FHH – Levant % 20.3% 25.4% 23.8% Turnover rate FHH – API % KSA: 27.2% KSA: 19.6% KSA: 23.6% UAE: 7.5% UAE: 7.6% UAE: 11.0% Iran: 45.9% Iran: 39.2% Iran: 33.9% Kuwait: 38.4% Kuwait: 66.3% Kuwait: N/A Turnover rate FHH – North Africa % Egypt: 10.1% Egypt: 5.5% Egypt: 14.7% Morocco: 4.9% Morocco: 1.4% Morocco: 25.9% Algeria: 0% Algeria: 0% Algeria: NA Sudan: 25.4% Sudan: 26.9% Sudan: 15.6% Turnover rate FHHTotal % 18.8% 18.4% 20.7% 36 Health and Safety Health and safety of our employees come first on our list of priorities. In 2012, our accident frequency ratio decreased by 42.6% from 2011 levels, while our accident severity ratio decreased by 25.7% for the same year. Our non-woven manufacturing facilities achieved zero accidents and zero lost time in the whole of 2012. indicator Unit 2012 2011 2010 Total number of accidents Accident 30.00 52.00 54.00 Total number of lost days Day 649.00 863.00 1261.00 Total number of working Hour 12,486,407 12,342,890 10,628,980 hours Total number of fatalities Fatality 0 1 0 Accident Frequency Ratio Accident/1000 0.58 1.01 1.22 employees/month Accident Severity Ratio Lost days/1000 12.47 16.78 28.47 employees/month Breast Cancer Awareness In 2012 we conducted a breast cancer awareness session for our female employees in the head office and in cooperation with Al Hussein Cancer Center in Amman Jordan, the awareness session provided information to women on early detection for breast cancer, risk factors contributing to possible breast cancer awareness as well as course of treatment upon detection. In 2012 we have started the process of implementing a health and safety management system at our Head Office, which is the first to be implemented within an office working environment. The Head Office health and safety policy has been formulated and signed off by our chief executive officer, and a health and safety committee has been established to follow up on progress of implementing the management system. Self-Managed Team Work (SMWT) Employee Training and Development As the main driver for business continuity and We have implemented the SMWT model in our productivity, we believe that the development of Fine KSA, Fine Jordan and PPP facilities, in order employees’ capabilities is conducive to our to engage and empower employees to expedite growth and success. Our Performance issues related to safety, quality and production Development Review (PDR) system is set to as we believe that such empowerment would evaluate the performance of our employees and conducive to increased productivity. define their skill development needs, based on which we identify matching development programs. Our sustainability strategy is based on a workforce focus, as we believe that the workforce exerts the most influence in promoting the uptake of sustainability within our operations and products and amongst customers and communities. Therefore we aim to use sustainability principles through training, performance reviews and communication so as to influence the course of development for all our stakeholders towards more sustainable levels. We target employees at all levels to improve their professional and interpersonal skills, however for 2012 we have put focus on the development of employees in middle management positions. 37 Indicator unit 2012 2011 2010 Average number of training hours per employee – FHH Hours 16.81 16.72 16.74 Number of employees at chief executive and director level taking Employees 16 9 55 training Number of employees at upper management level taking training Employees 131 57 185 Number of employees at officer to middle management level Employees 1174 478 1235 taking training Number of employees at front line level taking training Employees 861 587 2737 As we believe that performance evaluation drives performance improvement of employees, our performance development and review system ensures that 100% of all our employees receive annual performance appraisals. Diversity and Equality Our core values provide us with guidance regarding the way we deal with our employees, we always strive to create a work environment that promotes diversity and rejects all forms of discrimination amongst our staff, our business partners and in our employment practices. Our Code of Conduct commands respect of people, culture and traditions, and encourages all of our employees to embrace the differences arising from gender, age, ethnicity and religion. As of 2012 we have employees from 27 nationalities working in our facilities in the MENA region, and the average age for our employees is 35.4 Years. As our compensation and benefit system is based upon a salary scale that reflects the job value, there is no discrimination in wages between men and women. In 2012 the percentage of female employees of the workforce increase by 0.6% from 2011 levels, while the percentage of female employees in management positions increased by 0.4% compared to 2011. Unit 2012 2011 2010 Total number of female employees FHH-Levant Employees 113 117 110 Total number of female employees FHH-API Employees 71 50 45 Total number of female employees FHH-North Africa Employees 87 74 61 Total Number of Female Employees – FHH Employees 271 241 216 percentage of female employees in the workforce –Levant % 7.0% 7.1% 7.0% percentage of female employees in the workforce API % 4.9% 3.6% 3.4% percentage of female employees in the workforce North Africa % 6.3% 5.6% 5.0% percentage of female employees in the workforce Total FHH % 6.1% 5.5% 5.2% Group Percentage of female employees in management positions FHH % 13.0% 12.9% 9.9% – Levant Percentage of female employees in management positions FHH % 4.3% 6.0% 7.0% – API Percentage of female employees in management positions FHH % 18.4% 13.7% 11.4% – North Africa Percentage of female employees in management positions – % 11.7% 11.2% 9.3% Total FHH 38 Human Rights in Nuqul Group As an active participant and signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are committed to maintaining a work environment which upholds human rights and condemns any human rights violations, including child labor and all forms of forced or compulsory labor. We operate in countries supporting the International Labor Organization (ILO), and we are committed to achieving the goals of the ILO’s article CO29, addressing the concerns regarding all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Furthermore, we comply with all local laws and regulations concerning forced or compulsory labor and collective bargaining. All of our facilities are required to abide by our internal code of conduct which ensures their commitment to upholding human rights in all aspects of operations. Our integrity hotline and our grievance system ensures that all incidents related to human rights violations and discrimination are communicated promptly to our internal conduct committee, and our integrity hotline targets our internal as well as external stakeholders, and provides for a clear and safe channel to report any incident of violation of our code of conduct. As for our suppliers, we work with suppliers from the European Union, North America, Japan and Taiwan where they follow stringent local human rights regulations that ensure elimination of human rights violations. Investment and Procurement Activities Our contractual system stipulates that our business partners should abide by ethical business principles; however we do not include specific clauses pertaining to human rights in our agreements and contracts, including investment contracts, suppliers’ contracts and any other business contracts. On this basis we do not conduct human rights screening or audits for these types of contracts. As for our operations, our code of conduct includes clauses regarding the respect of human rights and all of our facilities and employees are required to comply with this code. Labor rights in the work place As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and an equal opportunity employer we strive to establish a work environment which is completely free of discrimination. We fully support the right of collective bargaining in all our operations, where permitted in accordance with local laws and regulations. Moreover, all our operations are prohibited from encouraging any form of child labor and /or forced or compulsory labor and are audited for such an annual basis. Accordingly we report that zero cases of grievance related to human rights violations were communicated and none of our operations recorded any incident of discrimination, violation of the right of association and collective bargaining, child labor and force or compulsory labor, and based on this none of our operations were subject to human rights reviews. 39 Society and Nuqul Group We have adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) model that ensures the implementation of effective and efficient community development projects, this CSR model runs under one umbrella of Nuqul Group (comprising FHH and the Promise). The model is based on social need and impact assessment, through which we adopted one poverty pocket in the northern district of Jordan, and developed a series of activities that addressed the identified gaps and needs of this community in order to support its strategic development and eliminate poverty. Our code of ethics explicitly commits to preventing corruption and all forms of anti-competitive behaviors in all aspects of business, and our internal audit department ensures compliance with this code. We constantly participate in stakeholders’ engagement activities concerning aspects of public policy that influence our operations, however we do not hold any public policy positions and we do not engage in lobbying. We comply with all local laws and regulations regarding all aspects of our work. Community Engagement and Development Our community development activities are focused within one CSR program targeting Al-Koura community in the northern parts of Jordan, through this program we identified community needs and designed development programs that aim to address those needs through capacity building activities, infrastructure construction and the creation of effective partnerships with governmental and nongovernmental agencies. We have also established a micro-finance venture for Al-Koura district to support the establishment of community based projects. Social Impact of Nuqul Group We understand the social impact associated with our operations, mainly in terms of affecting resource availability for the communities where we operate. Our Nuqul Tissue operations are both water and energy dependent, and we strive to sustain our operations while maintaining those resources in a manner that does not jeopardize their availability for the surrounding communities. In Nuqul Tissue Jordan, water supply is not provided through the local water grid, but through an artesian well close to the facility, more over annual targets are set to reduce the resource consumption per ton product to avoid resource depletion. Corruption In addition to the existing anti-corruption policies found in the Group’s Code of Conduct, we have launched a Corporate Integrity Hotline to provide the employees in the organization with a system to report unethical behavior. This initiative began with an organization-wide employee training that covered: identifying incidents of corruption, proper use of the Hotline, methods of reporting, and the impact of such cooperation on the organization. Our internal audit department is responsible for conducting audits concerning the implementation of proper internal controls across all departments and in all of our facilities, and we have provided 40 specialized training for 12.5% of the employees in this department regarding anti-corruption policies and procedures. Once a corruption claim is identified, an investigation is conducted by our internal audit department and if the claim is proved, the party responsible for this claim would be held accountable and appropriate measures are taken against them. Participation in Public Policy As a regional organization, head quartered in Jordan, we are constantly engaged in stakeholders’ consultations concerning different aspects of public policy through our involvement in local policy advocacy groups and associations (e.g. EDAMA, Jordanian Businessmen Association), however our organization does not hold any official position in public policy formation and we do not participate in any lobbying activity. We abide by all local and regional laws and regulations and we report that we incurred no monetary fines or non-monetary sanction due to non-compliance with any laws and regulations. AL KOURA INITIATIVE In Jordan, Nuqul Group chose Al Koura district after closely examining and analyzing its priorities and needs. Working with a number of specialized and experienced NGOs, the Group initiated projects to support and meet the needs of families by providing them with food necessities and empowering their members with specific training. The second stage involved creating a network of youth ambassadors in the area through Nuqul Group’s partnership with a local NGO, offering extensive training courses on success, employability and life skills: opening doors of opportunities for youth in the district. To further its commitment to social entrepreneurship, Nuqul Group also formed a micro venture capital fund to create capacity building platforms. In 2012, Nuqul Group made a strategic decision to institutionalize its work in Al Koura as part of its commitment to sustainability in all its aspects of work. Building on the excellent credibility and work with local and national partners in the areas of socio-economic security, education and food security, Nuqul Group pursued a strategic partnership with the Ministry of Municipalities and the municipality of Deir Abi Saeed, the central municipality in Al Koura district. Through this partnership, Nuqul Group committed to establish, operate, and widely promote a number of small and medium socio-economic, educational, food security and culture and arts projects in Al Koura over the next five years. The municipality and Ministry of Municipal Affairs agreed to dedicate lands, buildings and playgrounds in the Al Koura district for the benefit of the local community. In 2012, Nuqul Group established a packaging and labeling workshop in one location – the urban district – in Deir Abi Said, and provided income opportunities for six women currently working in the workshop. A farm spread over 8,000 m2 in Kufr Al Ma in the district was also cultivated using chemical –free agriculture methods, and a building on the same land was used to establish a food processing unit. A number of training and awareness raising activities were conducted with the local community, municipal staff, and direct beneficiaries of the project, and the assets provided by the municipality are gradually being operated. 41 Product Responsibility in Nuqul Group Customer health and safety is at the top of our priorities, and we thrive to ensure that the products delivered to the consumer are safe to handle and use, our internal health and safety system ensures that health and safety risks within our production process are assessed and prevented, our Steripro™ sterilization process ensures the elimination of germs in our products prior to packaging. Our brand guidebook entails that we clearly communicate the specific attributes of our products to all our consumers, and all cultural aspects are taken into consideration when developing all marketing material. We abide by all local laws and regulations concerning marketing communications. Customer Health and Safety We report that we incurred no accidents of incompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of our products Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement Life cycle Yes No Percentage of Scope and methodology products assessed Development of  100% All new products Product Concept Research and  NA NA Development Certification  100% Our Steripro™ label is used for all our products, and indicates that an effective sterilization methodology has been used during the production process. Manufacturing  100% All our manufacturing facilities are OHSA certified, and Production and are annually audited internally and by a third party, to ensure compliance with acceptable occupational health and safety standards. Marketing and  100% The Steripro™ label is clearly communicated through Promotion our marketing channels, highlighting the safety of our products. Storage  NA The storage, distribution and supply of our products Distribution and do not impose any significant health and safety risks. Supply The storage of RM is based on our health and safety system and ensures that any hazardous material is stored within optimum health and safety conditions. Use and Service  100% Our products do not impose any significant health and safety impacts during use. Disposal, Reuse or  This will be tackled as part of our direction to raise Recycling the awareness of our consumers, regarding safe and environmentally friendly disposal of our products. Customer Satisfaction Our Fine operations in addition to Nuqul Tissue have over 17,000 customers in their customer base, to which we are committed to delivering high quality products that rise above our customers’ expectations. Fine, our class A tissue brand, has been successful in achieving its place among consumers as the brand of choice, and we are constantly seeking to maintain this reputation in every product we develop. 42 Our “Customer Complaint Index System” acts as the channel through which we communicate with our customers. The Operations Support Department is responsible for addressing customer complaints by analyzing and benchmarking the Group’s performance on a monthly basis, identifying root causes and implementing corrective and preventive measures to improve customer satisfaction levels. Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Number of justified complaints (complaints) 595 843 897 Average lead time to resolve complaint (days) 10 29 21 In 2012 the number of customer complaints for our Fine converting operations (in Jordan, Egypt and KSA) dropped by 26.9%, while the average lead time to resolve customer complaints decreased by 76.8% This is mainly due to the implementation of a diligent follow up mechanism that ensure that all complaints are resolved in 10 days or less. Justified Complaints per Number of Days to Year Resolve Complaints 1100 50 Number of Justified 900 700 0 500 2009 2010 2011 2012 Complaints 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of Days to Resolve Complaints Number of Complaints Trend Trend EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) As part of compliance with King Abdullah II Award for Excellence which is based on the EFQM Excellence model, some of our business units in Jordan including Fine Jordan and PPP adopted this model so as to become eligible for this award. The EFQM Excellence Model is a non-prescriptive framework for organizational management systems, promoted by EFQM(the European Foundation for Quality Management) and designed for helping organizations in their drive towards being more competitive and consumer centric. Communications with Customers We do not comply with voluntary standards concerning marketing communication, however our brand guidebook provides for the basis on which we design our marketing material. We constantly attempt to design and disseminate advertising material that is credible, culturally sensitive and accurate, and we have received no complaints in regards to our communication and advertising material. Moreover, we did not incur any monetary fines or non-monetary sanctions for incompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 43 Data Scope, Sources and Calculation Basis Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions Total revenues Form Finance and employee FHH collective Department at Head NA wages and Office benefits Form Finance Payments to FHH collective Department at Head Based on total sum of taxes paid to governments governments Office Average entry level Percentage wage from HR variation of department at HO, average entry local minimum wage As indicated in the table level wage in FHH as provided by local *100 from local regulations published minimum wage on the world wide web Percentage From HR department Fine KSA Saudization in Fine KSA *100 Directly from business Nuqul Tissue Jordan, excellence and Pulp and Material Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine operations Actual consumption data consumption Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine departments at KSA, Fine UAE, SPIC, PPP business units Percentage of recycled poly propylene Directly from granules recycled SPIC production into *100 department in SPIC manufacturing in Non-woven production Directly from Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Ratio of consumed pulp to amount of pulp used in Pulp Yield operations Nuqul Tissue Egypt production department Electricity consumption, Sustainability Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Water Dashboard and Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine consumption, business excellence Actual consumption data Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine fossil fuel departments at KSA, Fine UAE consumption and business units waste generated Electricity consumption data provided by the Fine converting products sustainability Electricity dashboard, NT, Fine converting, PPP consumption per production data and SPIC Nuqul Tissue, PPP and SPIC unit product provided by technical dashboard and production departments at business units Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Calculated from energy consumption data based on the GHG protocol formula Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine and the IPCC guidelines and emission factors. GHG emissions Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine Electricity GHG emission factors are taken from the International Energy KSA, Fine UAE, PPP and Agency. SPIC Total sludge Nuqul Tissue Jordan From operations Estimate based on material balance 44 Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions generated department in Nuqul Tissue Jordan Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine Human Resources Employee Algeria, Fine Morocco, (HR) Department at Number of employees at end of year headcount Fine Sudan, Fine KSA, the Head Office Fine UAE, Fine Kuwait, Fine Iran and the Head Office for Nuqul Group Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine Human Resources Number and rate Algeria, Fine Morocco, (HR) Department at Number of employees hired until year end of new hires Fine Sudan, Fine KSA, the Head Office Fine UAE, Fine Kuwait, Fine Iran and the Head Office for Nuqul Group Human Resources Employee As indicated in the table Department at the *100 turnover rate on page 29 Head Office Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Accident Directly from health Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine frequency ratio and safety department Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine (AFR) at Business Units KSA, Fine UAE Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Directly for health and Accident severity Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine safety department at ratio Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine Business Units KSA, Fine UAE Average number Human Resources of training hours FHH collective Department at the per employee Head Office Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine Percentage of Human Resources Algeria, Fine Morocco, female employees (HR) Department at *100 Fine Sudan, Fine KSA, of total workforce the Head Office Fine UAE, Fine Kuwait, Fine Iran and the Head Office for Nuqul Group Nuqul Tissue Jordan, Nuqul Tissue Egypt, Fine Percentage of Jordan, Fine Egypt, Fine Human Resources female employees Algeria, Fine Morocco, (HR) Department at *100 in management Fine Sudan, Fine KSA, the Head Office positions Fine UAE, Fine Kuwait, Fine Iran and the Head Office for Nuqul Group Number Human From HR department Rights related FHH collective at the HO grievances Community Nuqul Group Collective From PR Agency Total community contributions at year end contributions Percentage of employees trained Audit department at *100 in anti-corruption FHH collective the head office policies and procedures 45 Indicator Scope Source(s) Calculation assumptions Operations support Number of department and Fine Jordan, Fine Egypt, customer Business excellence Number of customer complaints at year end Fine KSA complaints departments in Business Units Operations support Average lead time department and to resolve Fine Jordan, Fine Egypt, ∑ Business excellence /number of months customer Fine KSA departments in complaints Business Units 46 GRI Index Application Level A+ Assured by Nuqul Group Stakeholder Council Profile Description Reporting Page Reason for omission Disclosure status 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 4-5 organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 10-12 2.1 Name of the organization. 17 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 17 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main 18 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 17 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and 17 names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 17 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 17 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 17 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Not None to report size, structure, or ownership. reported 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 8 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 19 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 19 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 19 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 19 contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. 10-12, 23-24 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, 19 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 19 the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 19 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 44-46 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Not None to report provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such rereported statement (e.g. Mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Not None to report scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the reported report. 47 Profile Description Reporting Page Reason for omission Disclosure status 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 47-54 the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 19, 56-58 assurance for the report. 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including 20 committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body 20 is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 20 the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 21 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 20 governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 20 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and 20 expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 15 of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 20 the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's 20 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 20 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 20 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry 21 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 22-23 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 22-23 whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 22-23 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 22-23 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 48 G3.1 Description Reporting Page Reason for omission Disclosure on Status management Approach Aspects Economic performance 24 Economic Market presence 24 Indirect economic impacts 24 Aspects Materials 28 Environment Energy 28 Water 28 Biodiversity Not Not Applicable Reported Emissions, effluents and waste 28 Products and services 28 Compliance 28 Transport 28 Overall 28 Aspects Employment 35 Labor Labor/management relations 35 practices Occupational health and safety 35 Training and education 35 Diversity and equal opportunity 35 Equal remuneration for women and men 35 Aspects Investment and procurement practices 39 Human Rights Non-discrimination 39 Freedom of association and collective 39 bargaining Child labor 39 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor 39 Security practices Not Not Applicable Reported Indigenous rights Not Not Applicable Reported Assessment 39 Remediation 39 Aspects Local communities 40 Society Corruption 40 Public policy 40 Anti-competitive behavior 40 Compliance 40 Aspects Customer health and safety 42 Product Product and service labeling Not Not Applicable Responsibility Reported Marketing communications 42 Customer privacy Not Not Applicable Reported Compliance 42 49 Performance Reporting Description page Reason for Omission Indicator status Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Some information may not be EC1 employee compensation, donations and other Partially 22 disclosed community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities due 25-26 to climate change. Coverage of the organization's defined benefit EC3 25 plan obligations. Significant financial assistance received from Not Information cannot be EC4 26 government. Reported disclosed Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Only where minimum wage is EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage at Partially 26 instated by government significant locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of 26 operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of EC7 senior management hired from the local 26-27 community at significant locations of operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 27 public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the extent 27 of impacts. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 29-30 Percentage of materials used that are recycled EN2 29 input materials. Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3 30-31 source. Not EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not Applicable Reported Energy saved due to conservation and Not EN5 Not Applicable efficiency improvements. Reported Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 31,34 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Not EN7 Not Applicable and reductions achieved. Reported EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 31-32 Water sources significantly affected by EN9 31-32 withdrawal of water. Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not EN10 Not Applicable and reused. Reported Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Not EN11 Not Applicable areas of high biodiversity value outside Reported protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Not EN12 Not Applicable protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Reported value outside protected areas. Not EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Applicable Reported Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Not EN14 Not Applicable managing impacts on biodiversity. Reported 50 Performance Reporting Description page Reason for Omission Indicator status Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Not EN15 Not Applicable affected by operations, by level of extinction Reported risk. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16 32-33 emissions by weight. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not EN17 Not Applicable emissions by weight. Reported Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Emissions reductions for the EN18 Partially 33 and reductions achieved. CDM project are not quantified Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not EN19 Not Applicable weight. Reported NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not EN20 Not Applicable by type and weight. Reported EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 32 Total weight of waste by type and disposal EN22 33 method. Not EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Applicable Reported Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Not EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, Not Applicable Reported and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Not EN25 Not Applicable significantly affected by the reporting Reported organization's discharges of water and runoff. Description of life cycle Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of assessment exercise, extent of EN26 products and services, and extent of impact Partially 34 improvement to be measured in mitigation. later years Percentage of products sold and their Not EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed by 0% Reported category. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN28 34 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 30-33 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Total environmental protection expenditures and Not EN30 0 investments investments by type. Reported Total workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region, broken down 35-36, 38 by gender. Info pertains to rate and number Total number and rate of new employee hires of total new hires broken down LA2 and employee turnover by age group, gender, Partially 36 by region not broken down by and region. age or gender Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Not LA3 not provided to temporary or part-time Not Applicable Reported employees, by major operations. Return to work and retention rates after parental LA15 36 leave, by gender. Where permitted by local laws and regulations, all our Percentage of employees covered by collective Not employees that are part of trade LA4 bargaining agreements. Reported unions, are covered by collective bargaining agreements 51 Performance Reporting Description page Reason for Omission Indicator status Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Not LA5 operational changes, including whether it is Not Applicable Reported specified in collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and Not LA6 Information not readily available safety committees that help monitor and advise reported on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost LA7 days, and absenteeism, and number of work37 related fatalities by region and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or 37 community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal Not LA9 Not Applicable agreements with trade unions. Reported Average for all of our employees is provided not Average hours of training per year per broken down by gender, but LA10 employee by gender, and by employee Partially 38 number of trained employees category. per employee category is provided Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Not LA11 Not Applicable employability of employees and assist them in Reported managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development reviews, 38 by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Information provided broken LA13 category according to gender, age group, Partially 20, 38 down by gender only minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of LA14 women to men by employee category, by 38 significant locations of operation. Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that HR1 include clauses incorporating human rights 39 concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have HR2 39 undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights Not HR3 Not Applicable that are relevant to operations, including the Reported percentage of employees trained. Total number of incidents of discrimination and HR4 39 corrective actions taken. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR5 association and collective bargaining may be Partially 39 Only for our operations violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child HR6 Partially 39 Only for our operations labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 52 Performance Reporting Description page Reason for Omission Indicator status Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced HR7 or compulsory labor, and measures to Partially 39 Only for our operations contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning Not HR8 Not Applicable aspects of human rights that are relevant to Reported operations. Total number of incidents of violations involving Not HR9 Not Applicable rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Reported Percentage and total number of operations that HR10 have been subject to human rights reviews 39 and/or impact assessments. Number of grievances related to human rights HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal 39 grievance mechanisms. Percentage of operations with implemented SO1 local community engagement, impact 40 Group wide program assessments, and development programs. Operations with significant potential or actual SO9 40 negative impacts on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 40 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Percentage and total number of business units SO2 40-41 analyzed for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in SO3 organization's anti-corruption policies and 40-41 procedures. Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 40-41 corruption. Public policy positions and participation in public SO5 41 policy development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Not SO6 to political parties, politicians, and related No contributions to report Reported institutions by country. Total number of legal actions for antiNot SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Not Applicable Reported practices and their outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for non41 compliance with laws and regulations. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant 42 products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 health and safety impacts of products and 42 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Not PR3 Not Applicable significant products and services subject to such Reported information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not PR4 Not Applicable product and service information and labeling, by Reported type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, PR5 42-45 including results of surveys measuring customer 53 Performance Reporting Description page Reason for Omission Indicator status satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 43 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not PR7 marketing communications, including None reported advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints Not PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Not Applicable Reported losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 43 concerning the provision and use of products and services. 54 UN Global Compact Index Principle Page(s) Commitment System Action Performance Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of 39 39 39 39 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 39 39 39 39 in human rights abuses Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association 39 39 39 39 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: businesses should support the elimination of all forms of 39 39 39 39 forces and compulsory labor Principle 5: businesses should support the effective abolition of 39 39 39 39 child labor Principle 6: businesses should support the elimination of 38 38 38 38 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to 28 28 28-34 28-34 environmental challenges Principle 8: businesses should undertake initiatives to promote 28 28 28-34 28-34 greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: businesses should encourage the development and 28 28 28-34 28-34 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all forms, 40 40-41 40-41 40-41 including extortion and bribery 55 Nuqul Group Stakeholder Council th June 20 , 2013 The Board of Directors Nuqul Group P.O.Box 154 Amman 11118, Jordan Independent Assurance Statement Establishment Nuqul Group established the Nuqul Group Stakeholder Council to comply with international best practices for sustainability management, and in order to provide Nuqul Group with advice, views, guidance and recommendations from a variety of informed perspectives about the sustainability management and reporting of Nuqul Group operations in pursuit of its mission. The Council’s members comprise representatives of major stakeholders from different sectors that are directly related to the sustainability vision and commitments of the Nuqul Group. Functions and Duties of the Stakeholder Council:  Provide advice on key sustainability issues for Nuqul Group, including but not limited to; sustainable labor practices, community development, natural resource efficient utilization and preservation, pollution control and prevention, climate change, human rights and anti-corruption.  Provide views, advice, recommendations and informed opinions on the Group’s Sustainability Strategy and its implementation within Nuqul Group companies and also when dealing with key stakeholders.  Review and provide recommendations on Nuqul Group’s sustainability commitments and policies prior to signoff by the CEO.  Review performance of the group against targets set in the sustainability report on annual basis and provide advice on areas of development.  Address and give views on specific matters related to sustainability where Nuqul Group may require informed opinions and advice.  Assist Nuqul Group to enhance and strengthen collaboration with the constituencies represented on the Council.  Provide a signed third party verification statement for Nuqul Group Annual Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Stakeholder Council Members Stakeholder Group Member/Organization Owners Rula Salah – Director of Corporate Affairs – Nuqul Group Employees Nicola Billeh – HR Director – Nuqul Group Customers Deema Gammoh – Landmark Hotel (Business Customer) Suppliers Matheen Sait – 3M Academia Dr. Muna Al Banna – German Jordanian University Community/NGOs Yazan Majaj – Q Perspective Public Relations Nadine Tadros – Tactix Consulting 56 Review Approach The sustainability assurance process was planned and organized by the sustainability section in Nuqul Group, where by all members of the stakeholder council were invited to convene to review mandate, scope and expected outcomes of the assurance review. Members were provided with the draft 2012 sustainability report for Nuqul Group alongside a checklist formulated in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report content and quality parameters and tests. Each member of the stakeholder council was asked to review the report separately and undertake the following actions:  Provide input for materiality analysis provided in the report.  Provide input on possible improvement in report content and quality.  Provide recommendation in terms of sustainability strategy.  Evaluate the report content and quality based on the GRI report evaluation checklist, and provide an independent measurement of all relevant Sustainability Key Performance Indicators. Once the individual evaluations were completed by the members, the council convened again to discuss the individual evaluations, provide inquiries regarding content and quality to the sustainability section representative. The council reached consensus on all areas of clarification and improvement within the draft report , and the responding efforts of the sustainability section to address all areas of clarification and improvement are at the core of this assurance statement. Level of Assurance This assurance statement is designed to obtain third party endorsement by all stakeholder representatives regarding all report content and quality parameters as prescribed by THE GRI G3.1 reporting guidelines. Scope of Assurance The scope of assurance covers information and indicators reported in Nuqul Group 2012 Sustainability Report and the procedures and processes related to data collection and presentation. Observations and Conclusions: The observations on the report are as follows: Report Content  Materiality: this report takes into consideration all topics (and included associated indicators) that reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders (as addressed in materiality analysis matrix). This includes main issues raised by stakeholders, issues reported on by peers, competitors and industry association, national and regional laws and regulations, international agreements and standards and guidelines including the GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, moreover as exemplified in the materiality analysis matrix, the key sustainability issues are prioritized according to impact on the organization as well as stakeholder concern. 57  Stakeholder inclusiveness: the report identifies all key stakeholders and outlines how they are engaged by Nuqul Group on regular basis, Nuqul Group’s understanding of their interests and expectations, and how the group has responded to these interests and concerns. Nuqul Group has established a stakeholder council in order to proactively engage all key stakeholders for the purposes of developing the content of this report.  Sustainability context: the report takes into consideration the sustainability context of Nuqul Group operations, taking into account global sustainable development agendas and trends such as the UN Global Compact, the report partially presents performance in a manner that attempts to communicate the magnitude of the impact and contribution within appropriate geographical context. The report, in some cases, also describes how sustainability topics relate to long term organizational strategy, risks, and opportunities excluding supply-chain topics.  Completeness: the scope of the report pertains to all entities directly owned by the group and partially covers and prioritizes information that should reasonably be considered material on the basis of the principle of materiality, sustainability context and stakeholder inclusiveness. It sufficiently reflects significant economic, environmental and social impacts related to the reporting period, and enables stakeholders to objectively assess the reporting organization’s performance in the reporting period. Report Quality:  Balance: the report presents both the favorable and unfavorable performance results for Nuqul Group, as it presents information in a format that allows users to see positive and negative trends in performance on a yearto-year basis. Moreover the report emphasizes issues as demonstrated in the materiality analysis matrix.  Comparability: Wherever possible the report provides year on year data, and have attempted wherever possible to follow the GRI G 3.1 Indicator Protocols in order to facilitate comparison of Nuqul Group performance against industry peers and other companies using the same reporting protocol, for this year several new performance indicators were added as indicated in the Nuqul Group Sustainability Performance table on pages 13-14.  Accuracy: the report indicates where estimations or other limitations to the data are involved; it also adequately describes the data measurement techniques and basis for calculations. As most of the information presented is based on actual performance data, the margin of error for quantitative data is not considered sufficient to substantially influence the ability of stakeholders to reach appropriate and informed conclusions on performance. The qualitative assessments in the report are considered valid on the basis of other reported information and other available evidence. There are no GRI Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) sector supplements that can be used for this report.  Timeliness: Nuqul Group sustainability report is published annually in July of each year in accordance with their commitment to the UN Global Compact, data collection for the sustainability report is conducted on monthly basis through their sustainability dashboard.  Clarity: Sustainability is a relatively new concept in the region and as such the report provides introductory information where useful to facilitate reader understanding of the report content.  Reliability: the information and processes used in the preparation of this report are gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed and disclosed in a way that is subject to examination and that established quality and materiality of the information. For Nuqul Group Stakeholder Council Yazan Majaj Chairperson 58
