UN Global Compact COP ikp PR & Lobbying Vienna, Austria, January 2013 ikp. Communication that differentiates ikp Wien PR und Lobbying GmbH, Liechtensteinstrasse 12/10, 1090 Vienna, Austria; T +43 (0)1 5247790; F +43 (0)1 52477905; wien@ikp.at; www.ikp.at Registered at the Vienna provincial court, reg. no FN 279214i Contents 1. About ikp .............................................................................................................................. 3 2. About this report .................................................................................................................. 4 3. Editorial ................................................................................................................................ 5 4. Pro bono work – social projects ........................................................................................... 6 5. Key stakeholders: our people .............................................................................................. 8 6. Sustainability ...................................................................................................................... 11 7. Focus on improving the PR industry’s image in Austria.................................................... 13 Page 2 of 15 1. About ikp ikp PR & Lobbying has been one of Austria’s leading PR agencies for over 20 years. It employs about 45 staff in Dornbirn, Salzburg and Vienna, and offers a comprehensive range of integrated communication management tools. The long-term communication solutions ikp develops are currently benefiting some 55 clients across a wide spectrum of industries. ikp is Austria’s fourth-largest public relations agency, with clients in the financial, manufacturing, retail, IT, telecom, high tech, tertiary, pharmaceutical, health and wellness, non-profit and public sectors. ikp's services encompass the full array of integrated communication management tools, from corporate identity and design development through to corporate and product PR, media relations and crisis communication, as well as lobbying and public affairs, corporate style guides, corporate publishing, online relations and impact tracking. The agency is the longstanding Austrian partner of Porter Novelli, one of the world’s largest international PR networks. This gives ikp access to an extensive network of agencies in CEE, Germany, Switzerland and Austria, and enables it to draw on the expertise of over 100 offices in 65 countries for its cross-border projects. At a glance Facts and figures  Ranked among the top four Austrian PR agencies  Fee revenue in 2011: EUR 3.46 million (m)  Offices in Dornbirn, Salzburg and Vienna, and partners in Graz and Klagenfurt  Independent and owner managed since 1990  CMS II certified Awards  Numerous Austrian National Awards for Public Relations, category wins and nominations (1992, 1993, 1995, 1996, 1999, 2003, 2008, 2010 and 2012)  1995 IPRA Golden World Award  2006 and 2007 Best PRactice Awards  2009 Goldenes Skalpell, and platinum and gold Effie International network  Exclusive Austrian partner of Porter Novelli  Global network with over 100 offices in 65 countries Memberships Page 3 of 15 2. About this report ikp PR & Lobbying GmbH committed to the UN Global Compact in late 2007. This is our third communication on progress (COP). As our key stakeholders are based in Austria, this report appears in German as well as English. The structure of our first report was based on the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. For each of the principles we detailed the nature of our commitment, the importance of the principle in our sphere of influence and the action taken in the previous two years. Like the second report, this third COP highlights actions taken and activities introduced since its predecessor, and tracks the progress of ongoing initiatives. For the first time, the current report discusses not only activities related to our employees and clients, and the environment but also looks at the PR industry, as we have also been focusing on efforts to improve its public image. This third report should have appeared last year. However, as the member of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) task force who was responsible for compiling it moved to another firm, and the difficult business environment forced us to concentrate on client relations, the UN Global Compact granted us a grace period up to the end of January 2013. All our communications on progress are available for download on our site (www.ikp.at) and at www.unglobalcompact.org. Page 4 of 15 3. Editorial Dear reader, We accept responsibility and act accordingly. We take care to husband natural resources, and make our business decisions with an eye to social and environmental sustainability as well as the financial consequences. Stakeholder dialogue and responsible management are articles of faith for us. Because of this we see CSR not as something to be imposed from above but as a common goal, arrived at by consensus. We developed our values, mission and vision collectively, and our people are regularly asked whether they can still identify with the texts. We hold workshops to reformulate our statement of values. These values are fundamental to the way we interact with each other and our clients. Beside the Global Compact, we are committed to the high ethical standards set by the local and international public relations associations, including the PRVA code of conduct. We see working for ongoing development of, and compliance with these standards as part of our social responsibility. This report outlines what CSR means to our company in practice, and how we live out our values in our everyday work. It stresses our awareness of the obligations that go with membership of the Global Compact, and renews our commitment to the goals of this initiative, which we support wholeheartedly. Susanne Hudelist In the name of ikp’s CSR task force Page 5 of 15 4. Pro bono work – social projects We would like to give others the benefit of our expertise, as well as our paying clients. We wish to make an active contribution to social progress, and therefore support initiatives that serve this end by offering them our services free of charge. The following is an account of our pro bono activities. 4.1. Reporters Without Borders We strongly support global advocacy of human rights and efforts to ensure that they are respected. Because of this we have been assisting an international organisation, Reporters Without Borders (ROG), with its media relations work in Austria since the start of 2008. Reporters Without Borders Austria fights for press freedom throughout the world, and supports the families of journalists killed or imprisoned in the course of their work. This independent Paris based organisation, which has a branch in Austria and over a hundred correspondents around the world, campaigns for respect for human rights, invoking Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on the freedom to receive and impart information. In 2011 and 2012 we supported ROG by providing standard media relations support for the following activities, among others. Press conference to mark World Press Freedom Day The new Reporters Without Borders magazine, press.freedom.now was launched on World Press Freedom Day. The “magazine for freedom of information” is a forum for experts in the workings of power behind the scenes. It is a mouthpiece for everyone whose voice might otherwise not be heard, at home or abroad, and for journalists with their finger on the pulse of events – whether or not they have already made a name for themselves. What counts is the story. Press Freedom Award – a Signal to Europe Reporters Without Borders Austria launched the Press Freedom Award – a Signal to Europe 11 years ago. This accolade goes to journalists whose work puts them in the front line of the struggle for democratic values. In 2012 the award went to Italian journalists Emanuela Zuccalá and Alessia Cerantola. Page 6 of 15 4.2. Apropos – the Salzburg street paper Our Salzburg office is continuing to assist the Apropos street newspaper on a pro bono basis. Apropos sets out to provide quick, low-threshold assistance for people in need. Vendors receive the first 20 copies free, and retain half of the cover price of EUR 2.50 for the rest of the papers they sell. For some, selling the street paper is a top-up for welfare benefits or early retirement pensions, but for many it is their sole source of income. From the outset, part of the idea behind Apropos was to give a voice to victims of poverty, addiction or homelessness, and about one-third of stories are written by them. Last year ikp Salzburg devised a campaign to mark the paper’s 15th anniversary, and this is due to kick off in March 2013. Apropos again had a stand with two vendors selling the paper and the project’s book at ikp’s traditional Christmas tree felling party. 4.3. Netz für Kinder Our westernmost office does pro bono work for children. It supports Netz für Kinder (Network for Children) – a non-profit support group that runs child welfare projects, providing volunteers and funding. For example, Netz für Kinder has its own refuge where children who are victims of domestic violence, neglect or abuse receive professional day care. Its comprehensive services include one-year children’s groups that help children through difficult situations and oneweek intensive, small-group family support programmes. Naturally, the parents are involved in the long-term healing process. ikp Vorarlberg staff not only pitch in with the association’s activities but also advise on its communications, and provide press relations and copywriting assistance. Page 7 of 15 5. Key stakeholders: our people 5.1. Our team The ikp team consists of people with widely differing personalities, and outstanding social and professional skills. What unites us is a passion for our jobs. We want our people to enjoy their work. We want employees to accept new challenges, develop fresh, creative ideas, and implement them quickly and efficiently. Regular information exchanges between teams and offices play a part in this. Besides attractive workplaces, performance related pay and good long-term career prospects, we attach great importance to a pleasant working atmosphere. We currently employ a total of about 45 people at our offices in Dornbirn, Salzburg and Vienna. Women make up over 70% of the workforce. We frequently employ interns as well as permanent staff. The work placements give students of journalism and other relevant subjects at universities and universities of applied science a taste of working life in our industry. The students perform important ancillary work for the teams, and pick up valuable knowledge and experience that will help them in future careers in our industry. 5.2. Staff development at ikp In order to step up our staff training and development effort we launched an internal training scheme, the ikp Academy, in 2006. Employees share their knowledge by giving talks, and outside speakers are invited to broaden our teams’ professional, social and personal skills. Academy seminars held in 2011 and 2012 dealt with:  Press photography  Image copyrights  Gender-neutral wording  How to use market studies: rights and wrongs in market research  How to sell yourself  Crisis communication  Basics of graphic design and print – from grid to letter-fold brochure  Social media update  Negotiation skills  Flippable pdfs and YouTube channels  Presentations Page 8 of 15 We also organise excursions on relevant topics. For example, in November 2012 the ikp Salzburg team were treated to an interesting look behind the scenes of a daily newspaper when they visited the Salzburger Nachrichten offices. Besides the internal staff development activities, all our PR staff have opportunities to attend external training courses. The latter are selected during the annual performance review discussions on the basis of individuals’ knowledge and interests. 5.3. Family friendly work practices We also devote a lot of attention to our people’s work-life balance. Like any other business, ours goes through peak periods when staff are exposed to unusually heavy workloads. This is all the more reason to ensure that employees can reconcile their professional obligations with their family commitments and leisure needs. We understand that their physical and emotional wellbeing is crucial to their performance and job satisfaction. Family and employee friendly policies are an everyday reality at ikp. We take account of employees’ family and in-service training commitments when assigning work and approving requests for leave. Our account management back-up system gives us increased flexibility. At least two staff members are assigned to every client as account executives and consultants. This creates continuity in our client relationships, at the same time as giving our employees more leeway to cope with the demands of family and training. However in cases where it is no longer possible to fit in work, family and leisure our people can temporarily change over to half-day working. In 2012 our Dornbirn office, where the proportion of young parents is particularly high, won the Ministry of Economy, Family and Youth’s Most Family Friendly Business award. This accolade, which follows a nomination for the award in 2010, shows that ikp’s progressive family policies include action to enhance employees’ work-life balance. 5.4. Employee participation Transparency is a top priority at ikp. Employees are given the opportunity to participate in shaping company policy. During the quarterly interim reviews, which are attended by all staff members, senior executives give presentations on our finances, management and communications, customer care and satisfaction, new business, HRM, and business Page 9 of 15 development and planning. These events keep staff up to date with our current business performance. They are followed by discussions during which everyone has an opportunity to contribute ideas. This approach gives our people a direct role in developing our business strategy, and this reinforces their bonds with the company. 5.5. Sharing new experiences In the interests of a good working atmosphere we regularly organise social activities and excursions. There is an evening social programme, arranged by two staff members in consultation with the management board, after every quarterly interim review. For instance, last year employees got to know each other better during an excursion to Vienna’s Prater park and a guided tour of the city. The Salzburg team baked Christmas biscuits together. Among the social highlights of 2012 were joint excursions for staff from all our offices. These included an entertaining weekend in Munich that introduced employees to the charm of the Beer Festival city. Such shared experiences helped strengthen team spirit and mould our corporate culture. Page 10 of 15 6. Sustainability Our business decisions are always aimed not just at financial success and social responsibility but also at minimising the environmental impacts of our activities. Energy conservation is central to the “planet” dimension. We try to minimise our consumption of all natural resources in the interests of sustainability. Our environmental guidelines are not just paper commitments, we apply them in our daily work. These policies are explained to all our staff, and are given particular prominence in our induction training for new recruits. One of the points we emphasise is the difference apparently minor details can make. What we are doing:  Buying environmentally friendly paper  Always printing paper on both sides  Only using colour printers when absolutely necessary  Turning off all equipment left on standby (lights, computer screens, etc.) before leaving the office  Avoiding overheating rooms, and doing without air-conditioning  Using energy efficient ventilation systems  Using modern, energy efficient appliances and office equipment (refrigerators, dishwashers, computers, etc.)  Waste separation both in office areas and kitchens  We communicate our environmental policies to the outside world, as well as internally. For instance, we have informed our stakeholders that we are making a major effort to reduce unnecessary transport related CO2 emissions. Actions such as issuing staff from consultant level upwards with one-year season tickets for local public transport and using car sharing services help keep our carbon footprint to a minimum. Page 11 of 15 Staff at our Salzburg office have decided it is time to get on their bikes for the environment. As part of the “Ride and win” campaign – an initiative for businesses in Salzburg Province – two employees were honoured for clocking up the largest number of cycling days and the most kilometres ridden at ikp. Page 12 of 15 7. Focus on improving the PR industry’s image in Austria The image of the local PR industry took a battering in 2011. Scandals surrounding artificially inflated fees, insider trading, political influence, agency closures and summonses to appear before a number of parliamentary committees of inquiry gave PR and lobbying agencies a bad name. As one of the oldest Austrian PR agencies and a longstanding member of all the trade associations that represent our industry, we continue to see it as our duty to educate the public about professional public relations work and to raise our voice against mispractices in the industry. We are doing this through our association activities and our own press relations work. We have also been focusing on improving the quality of our work and increasing its transparency. And we have encouraged our employees to take responsible management training, as well as pressing ahead with internal efforts to raise standards. Influential positions  Peter Hörschinger was a long-serving vice-president of the PRVA (Austrian Public Relations Association).  Martin Dechant is a founder member and board member of the recently established PRVA West.  Maria Wedenig has been the vice-president of the ÖPAV (Austrian Public Affairs Association) since 2011, and is the ÖPAV board member in charge of media relations.  Susanne Hudelist used to be a member of the PRVA’s ethics commission, and played a part in the establishment of the Austrian PR Ethics Council and the revision of the PR Code of Ethics. Quality drive  ikp belongs to PR Quality Austria – the association of CMS certified agencies in Austria.  We obtained CMS II recertification in 2011; to do so, an agency must pass the audit with a score of over 90%.  We want to be judged by our success – our fees are on a pre-agreed contingency basis. Page 13 of 15 Employees as multipliers  The CSR task force has been reorganised and now has three members: Silvana Grissemann, Paloma Schretter and Susanne Hudelist.  Susanne Hudelist completed the PRVA CSR management training course in 2010. Silvana Grissemann and Paloma Schretter attended the PRVA’s series of CSR seminars in 2012.  Paloma Schretter began teaching at the University of Vienna Department of Communication in 2013.  In February 2013 Silvana Grissemann and Paloma Schretter will attend the first Global Compact General Meeting in Vienna.  We are currently working on a new annual CSR plan for 2013 with specific targets. Page 14 of 15 Published by ikp Wien PR & Lobbying GmbH Liechtensteinstrasse 12/10 1090 Vienna T +43 (0)1 5247790 ikp Salzburg PR & Lobbying GmbH Alpenstrasse 48a 5020 Salzburg T +43 (0)662 633255100 ikp Vorarlberg PR & Lobbying GmbH Gütlestrasse 7a 6850 Dornbirn T +43 (0)5572 398811 Page 15 of 15
