UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Statement of the CEO on the progress report to the UN Global Compact “Right from the earliest days, sustainability has been an important part of Kärcher’s corporate culture. So when we joined the Global Compact in 2011, it marked a logical step in the continuing development of our sustainable management and operations. Since the most recent Global Compact Report, we have once again made great strides in this area. We have set ourselves ambitious targets for the coming years within our “Sustainability Excellence” strategy to further develop our company in the areas of environment, economy and social responsibility. We will be pursuing these goals with the utmost determination.” Hartmut Jenner Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Management Board UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress / 10.09.2013 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Communication on progress: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Practical actions in the period under review Measurement of outcomes in the period under review § All suppliers have to commit compliance with the Kärcher § In the period under review 283 new suppliers have Code of Conduct, including social and environmental committed compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct standards based on UN Global Compact § Kärcher conducts supplier audits and internal audits to § In the period under review 199 suppliers have been take corrective actions when necessary audited worldwide § An assessment of compliance with the Kärcher Code of § 28 suppliers have assessed. Deviations have not been Conduct, ILO and SA 8000 Standards was carried out for identified. Even in BSCI risk countries suppliers comply 1st tier suppliers with the requirements § A SA 8000 pre-audits were carried out by the TÜV § Deviations have been identified in the pre-audit in organization at manufacturing sites in Romania and China Romania and China and corrective actions have been defined. A certification according to SA 8000 in Romania is targeted in 2013. UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress / 10.09.2013 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Communication on progress: Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Practical actions in the period under review Measurement of outcomes in the period under review § All suppliers have to commit compliance with the Kärcher § In the period under review 283 new suppliers have Code of Conduct, including social and environmental committed compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct standards based on UN Global Compact § Kärcher conducts supplier audits and internal audits to § In the period under review 199 suppliers have been take corrective actions when necessary audited worldwide § An assessment of compliance with the Kärcher Code of § 28 suppliers have assessed. Deviations have not been Conduct, ILO and SA 8000 Standards was carried out for identified. Even in BSCI risk countries suppliers comply 1st tier suppliers with the requirements § A SA 8000 pre-audits were carried out by the TÜV § Deviations have been identified in the pre-audit in organization at manufacturing sites in Romania and China Romania and China and corrective actions have been defined. A certification according to SA 8000 in Romania is targeted in 2013. UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress / 10.09.2013 3 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Communication on progress: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Practical actions in the period under review Measurement of outcomes in the period under review § All suppliers have to commit compliance with the Kärcher § In the period under review 283 new suppliers have Code of Conduct, including social and environmental committed compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct standards based on UN Global Compact § Kärcher conducts supplier audits and internal audits to § In the period under review 199 suppliers have been take corrective actions when necessary audited worldwide § An environmental management software that is § The number of manufacturing sites using the new established at our German plants since 3 years was rollout software has increased by 40% from 10 in 2012 to 14 in to 4 production sites in Italy. A worldwide rollout is 2013 scheduled within the next 12 months. § The process of considering environmental aspects in § An environmental checklist for product development is product development has been adapted now an integral part of the specification sheet § Kärcher joined a new initiative focusing on resource § Saving potentials up to 17% were identified at our efficiency and climate protection in Baden-Württemberg production in Bühlertal in a first pilot project (Germany) UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress / 10.09.2013 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2013 Communication on progress: Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Practical actions in the period under review Measurement of outcomes in the period under review § All suppliers have to commit compliance with the Kärcher § In the period under review 283 new suppliers have Code of Conduct, including social and environmental committed compliance with the Kärcher Code of Conduct standards based on UN Global Compact § Kärcher conducts supplier audits and internal audits to § In the period under review 199 suppliers have been take corrective actions when necessary audited worldwide § An assessment of compliance with the Kärcher Code of § 28 suppliers have assessed. Deviations have not been Conduct, ILO and SA 8000 Standards was carried out for identified. Even in BSCI risk countries suppliers comply 1st tier suppliers with the requirements § A SA 8000 pre-audits were carried out by the TÜV § Deviations have been identified in the pre-audit in organization at manufacturing sites in Romania and China Romania and China and corrective actions have been defined. A certification according to SA 8000 in Romania is targeted in 2013. UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress / 10.09.2013 5
