Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report − 2 012 Web version − Every year the Daikin Group reports on its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. On the Sustainability section of the Daikin Web site, we have past years’ data and related information so that you can read the details of all activities we are involved in. This PDF file contains all the fiscal 2011 information from the Sustainability section of our Web site. You may download and print it out. Note: The printed version of the CSR Report 2012 focuses on our main activities and efforts. It can also be downloaded as a PDF file. Contents Editorial Policy 2 Environmental Management 135 Environmental Management System 137 Daikin's CSR 6 Environmental Audits 141 Business Overview 7 Environmental Risk Management 142 Chairman's Message 9 Environmental Accounting 145 CSR Philosophy 11 Environmental Education 148 Participation in the Global Compact 16 Environmental Communication 149 CSR Management 17 Environmental Forums and Exhibits 150 CSR Promotion Activities 20 Environmental Education Corporate Governance 22 and Awareness Activities 153 Compliance and Risk Management 24 Protecting Biodiversity 156 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 28 Protecting Biodiversity 157 Prohibiting Bribes 28 Biodiversity Awareness 163 Information Security 29 History of Environmental Activities 164 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 30 Respect for Human Rights 31 Responsibility to Stakeholders 166 CSR Targets and Achievements 33 Responsibility to Stakeholders 167 Honors for Daikin 38 Customers 170 Independent Opinions 42 Product Quality and Safety 172 Customer Satisfaction 179 Key Activities 44 Protecting Customer Information 185 List of Fiscal 2011 Key Activities 45 Employees 186 Daikin CSR in China 47 Employee Evaluation and Treatment 190 Environmental Solutions around the World 53 Workplace Diversity 192 Promoting Dialogue with Customers 60 Work-Life Balance 198 Training Employees for Global Manufacturing 64 Labor Management Relations 202 Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko 67 Occupational Safety and Health 203 Fostering Human Resources 208 Environment 70 Business Partners 213 Overview of Environmental Impact 71 Philosophy on Suppliers 215 Environmental Action Targets and Achievements 73 Working Closely with Suppliers 217 Low-Impact Products 75 Green Procurement Guidelines 221 Environmentally Conscious Design 78 Shareholders and Investors 222 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 86 For Shareholders 223 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space Information Disclosure Policy 226 and Hot Water Heaters 87 Communities 227 Products That Help Customers Save Energy 89 Promoting Art and Culture 229 Environmentally Conscious Promoting Sports 231 Fluorochemical Products 96 Contributing to Education 233 Low-Impact Refrigerants 98 Environmental Contributions to Society 238 3R & Repair 101 A Good Corporate Citizen Low-Impact Production 106 —Activities in Each Community 241 Preventing Global Warming — Production, Transportation 109 Data 265 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners 117 Overview of GRI Guidelines 281 Green Procurement 122 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1) 282 Compliance with J-Moss 126 Management of Chemical Substances 129 Reducing Waste and Water 131 1Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Editorial Policy 2Editorial Policy Editorial Policy This site details the Daikin Group's CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities: basic CSR philosophy, performances in fiscal 2011, and plans for the near future. Information that, due to space limitations, could not fit into the CSR Report 2012 (printed version) released in June 2012 is included on this website. We divided the CSR Report by what we consider to be the key themes of our CSR activities: the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. Each chapter deals with the Daikin Group's major areas of activity and subjects in which our stakeholders are most interested. You'll find features on the Daikin Group's human resource training and on our efforts to curb global warming, which has been a major focus for us in recent years. This website is divided into sections on our environmental protection activities and on each stakeholder group: customers, suppliers, shareholders and investors, employees, and local communities. This allows readers easy access to important information concerning Daikin. Environment (Page 70) Responsibility to Stakeholders (Page 166) We also give specific examples of how Daikin and its bases around the world contribute to key efforts of working to prevent global warming and to foster human resources. Key Activities (Page 44) To ensure an objective assessment of our activities and of this report, and to deepen dialogue with stakeholders, we have included independent, third party opinions. Independent Opinions (Page 42) 3Editorial Policy Reference Guidelines Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal 2012 edition) released by the Ministry of the Environment Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ISO 26000 Note In reporting on fiscal 2011 environmental protection activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual results and information reported for fiscal 2010. Also, because figures are rounded off, totals may not equal the sum of individual figures. Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Daikin Industries, Ltd., and its subsidiaries (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be aware that these are assumptions and judgments made based on the information available at the time this report was written and thus incorporate a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a risk that events occurring in the future may turn out differently from the forecasts, expectations, and plans stated in this report. What This Report Covers Term Covered This report covers fiscal 2011 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012). Daikin Organizations Covered This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd., production bases; eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 41 production subsidiaries overseas. Starting this year, this report will also cover O.Y.L. Industries Bhd., which joined the Daikin Group in 2006, and its subsidiaries. Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. Head Office Tokyo Office Sakai Plant Air conditioning/refrigeration equipment, compressors Shiga Plant Air conditioning equipment, compressors Fluorochemical products, hydraulic equipment, air-conditioning equipment, precision defense Yodogawa Plant equipment Kashima Plant Fluorochemical products 4Editorial Policy 8 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Sheet-Metal Co., Ltd. Daikin Piping Co., Ltd. Daikin Hydraulic Engineering Co., Ltd. Daikin Rexxam Electronics (Japan) Ltd. Daikin Sunrise Settsu Ltd. Toho Kasei Co., Ltd. Kyoei Kasei Industries, Ltd. Nippon Muki Co., Ltd. Overseas 41 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. OYL Condair Industries Sdn Bhd Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. J&E Hall Refrigeration Sdn Bhd Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd. OYL Technology Sdn Bhd Daikin Europe N.V. OYL Steel Centre Sdn Bhd Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Shenzhen McQuay Air-Conditioning Co., Ltd. McQuay Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Ltd. Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. OYL Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. McQuay Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o Ltd. Daikin Industries Czech republic s.r.o. AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Huizhou American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Branch) Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. AAF-McQuay Inc.(Delaware) Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. J&E Hall Limited(United Kingdom) Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Coulstock&Place Engineering Co.Limited(United Kingdom) Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. McQuay(UK)Limited(United Kingdom) Daikin America, Inc. AAF-Limited(United Kingdom) Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. AAF-International B.V.(The Netherland) Rotex Heating Systems GmbH AAF Internation sro(Slovakia) Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. McQuay Italia S.p.A.(Italy) OYL Manufacturing Company Sdn Bhd 5Editorial Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Daikin's CSR Business Overview 7 Chairman's Message 9 CSR Philosophy 11 Participation in the Global Compact 16 CSR Management 17 CSR Promotion Activities 20 Corporate Governance 22 Compliance and Risk Management 24 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 28 Prohibiting Bribes 28 Information Security 29 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 30 Respect for Human Rights 31 CSR Targets and Achievements 33 Honors for Daikin 38 Independent Opinions 42 6Daikin's CSR Air Conditioning and Chemical Technologies Work Hand-in-Hand Contributing to Society with World-Leading Technologies as a Pillar to Environmental Contribution The Daikin Group offers products utilizing technologies in both air conditioning and fluorochemicals to provide living spaces with comfort. Through our strength in energy-efficient technologies, we develop and bring to market products and services that reduce energy consumption, thus contributing to sustainable development in society. Daikin Group Business Air Conditioning Business Achieving Both Comfort and Environmental Consciousness to Meet All Global Air Conditioning Needs Chemicals Business World's Leading Lineup of Fluorochemicals Oil Hydraulics, Defense Systems Business Proprietary Technologies at Work in a Range of Industries 7Daikin's CSR Worldwide Business Contributing to Development of Local Communities while Respecting the Diverse Cultures and Values of Each Country The Daikin Group does business around the world in countries and regions like China, Southeast Asia, Oceania, Europe, and North America. Overseas sales now account for 60% of the Daikin Group's total, and three-fourths of the Group's employees work outside Japan. By respecting the cultures and values of each country and region, by coming out with products that match regional needs, and by building a workplace that motivates employees and brings out their unique personalities, Daikin is contributing to development in communities around the world. Daikin Group The Daikin Group does business in Japan, China and the rest of Asia, Oceania, Europe, and the United States with the goal of maximizing corporate value to become a truly global and excellent company. In fiscal 2006, we further expanded our geographical area and markets through the acquisition of O.Y.L. Industries (headquarters: Malaysia), which has solid air conditioning business networks in North America and Asia. As we continue to grow worldwide, we are striving even further to contribute to society in respecting the diverse cultures and values of the countries and regions where we operate and by hiring locally to ensure our products and services meet local needs. People are the force behind improving corporate value. To become a company trusted throughout the world, all Group employees must understand and implement our Group Philosophy, and our company must create a work environment in which employees can maximize their unique traits and work with enthusiasm and pride. We will continue to reward stakeholders-customers, shareholders, employees, and local citizens-through our corporate growth. In the process, we will think globally while being a good citizen of the Earth and acting in the best interests of each community in our goal of becoming a truly first-rate company. 8Daikin's CSR While dealing with a wide range of social issues, companies find it increasingly important to contribute to society through their businesses. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, Japan has faced a major energy shortage. Because air conditioners account for approximately half of the peak time electricity consumed by buildings in Japan in summer, Daikin is fully aware of its enormous responsibility to help society save energy. Consequently, we have been offering customers various energy-saving solutions relating to air conditioners and last summer contributed to energy savings of 600,000 kW across Japan. Energy shortages are not unique to Japan. We believe that there will be a growing worldwide need for energy-saving solutions—a need we intend to answer by using Daikin's power conservation and energy-saving technologies to help the world meet its energy requirements in the medium and long term. Helping Emerging Countries Achieve Both Maximum Economic Growth and Minimal Environmental Impact Two CSR pillars of the Daikin Group are to provide the world with environmentally conscious products and services and to train the human resources who will make these products and services a reality. In fiscal 2011, we started the five-year Fusion 15 strategic management plan with fiscal 2015 as the target year. This year we continue to aim for a balance between active contributions to solving global environmental problems and business expansion as we strive in our growth strategy of contributing through the pursuit of sustainable growth in emerging countries and a greater emphasis on environmental business. Amid the rapid economic growth of these countries, society must determine a way for them to keep their expanding energy consumption in check. To solve this problem, it is crucial that Daikin provide the markets in emerging countries with high-quality, energy-efficient products at a price people can afford. In 2012, we established a new factory in Suzhou, China, one of the Daikin Group's largest factories. We are also upgrading production bases in countries like India and Turkey and manufacturing products that will help emerging countries both grow their economies and protect their environments. Daikin is helping make it possible for markets to choose refrigerants with minimal environmental impact. We are working toward this end by providing information to governments and industry groups around the world. 9Daikin's CSR Other issues we are stressing include minimizing emissions of greenhouse gases during production processes and protecting biodiversity. Under our most recent five-year plan, we succeeded in reducing fiscal 2010 greenhouse gas emissions by more than 50% compared with fiscal 2005. The goal under our current action plan is to reduce fiscal 2015 greenhouse gas levels to just one-third of those of fiscal 2005 levels. On the biodiversity front, in 2011 we began an initiative to protect the ecosystem of Shiretoko, Hokkaido, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Human beings enjoy the blessings of nature, and private companies also benefit in their businesses operations from the environment. Daikin doesn't just try to reduce its environmental impact; it also does everything possible to protect our precious natural surroundings. Through People-Centered Management, Fostering Employees Capable of Leading Their Local Daikin Bases Daikin believes that the cumulative growth of all Group members serves as the foundation for the group's development. That's why we strive to create a work environment conducive to each employee using his or her talents to the fullest. In fiscal 2011, more than 60% of the sales of the Daikin Group came from outside Japan. In order to grow, we must localize our operations; in other words, it is imperative that we respond to the needs of the countries and regions where we do business by quickly coming out with products that are planned and developed by Daikin employees native to the base where they are working. With fostering globally minded employees, one of the core strategies of Fusion 15, we are training local employees to manage our worldwide bases. To achieve such a localization of operations at worldwide bases, it is crucial that we train local employees to be leaders who truly understand People-Centered Management, the basis of the Daikin Group's strength. By staffing our worldwide bases with local leaders who believe in people's potential and are capable of maximizing the diverse talents of employees, we will achieve sustainable growth for these local bases and contribute to the betterment of the society in which they operate. Continuing to Meet Worldwide Stakeholders' Expectations by Contributing to Society As a global corporation, the Daikin Group has a management philosophy clarifying a code of conduct. We also participate in the United Nations Global Compact under which we abide by principles including the support of human rights and labor rights, protection of the environment, and the abolition of corruption. We also plan and implement CSR-related activities in accordance with the ISO 26000 standard for social responsibility. With the world's framework for government, economy, and society undergoing drastic changes, we must become a sustainable company that meets the demands of stakeholders. We believe the Daikin Group can flexibly and smartly adapt to these changes and in the process spur new growth and development. In doing so, we can continue to be a company that meets the expectations of, and contributes to, society. We look forward to your continued support in our endeavors. June 2012 10 Daikin's CSR Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management Our Group Philosophy is the basis for all action aimed at becoming a corporate group that is trusted by customers worldwide, and that instills pride in Daikin employees around the globe. Daikin's People-Centered Management, meanwhile, is based on the belief that employee growth generates corporate growth and is implemented with the goal of creating a workplace where employees can use their talents to the fullest. The Daikin Group believes that if both employees and company executives put Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management into practice, then we can achieve sustainable development and growth. Daikin Fulfills Its Responsibility to Listen and Respond to What Customers Want Daikin strives to meet a variety of stakeholder expectations by implementing Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management. In line with international standards like the UN Global Compact and the ISO 26000 social responsibility standard, we implement CSR while listening to what stakeholders say. Responsibility to Stakeholders (Page 166) 11 Daikin's CSR 4 Key Themes: (1) Human Resources Are the Driving Force behind Our Ef forts in (2) the Environment, (3) Quality and Customer Satisfaction, (4) and Social Contribution As a major global manufacturer of both air conditioners and fluorochemicals, our business plans are built on the four key themes of the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. In particular, a core philosophy of the Daikin Group is People-Centered Management. We believe that human resources form the basis of all our activities, and we focus on building a corporate culture in which employees take pride and find reward in their jobs, can work with enthusiasm, and ultimately grow as human beings. CSR Targets and Achievements in line with our key CSR themes (Page 33) Our Group Philosophy 1. Create New Value by Anticipating the Future Needs of Customers 2. Contribute to Society with World-Leading Technologies 3. Realize Future Dreams by Maximizing Corporate Value 4. Think and Act Globally 5. Be a Flexible and Dynamic Group 6. Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices 7. With Our Relationship with Society in Mind, Take Action and Earn Society's Trust 8. The Pride and Enthusiasm of Each Employee Are the Driving Forces of Our Group 9. Be Recognized Worldwide by Optimally Managing the Organization and its Human Resources, under Our Fast & Flat Management System 10. An Atmosphere of Freedom, Boldness, and Best Practice, Our Way 12 Daikin's CSR How We View CSR in the Daikin Group 1. By ensuring implementation of Our Group Philosophy, the Daikin Group will execute our social responsibilities globally in relations with all our stakeholders, and thereby raise our corporate value and contribute to the sustainable development of society. 2. Based upon thorough observance of legal compliance and corporate ethics, the Daikin Group will carry out our CSR initiatives with priority on contributing to society through our business activities such as: Creating and offering new value by anticipating the future needs of customers; Taking initiatives to sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, and promoting the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world; Building friendly yet competitive relations with all our business partners such as suppliers; and Cultivating workplaces that foster pride and enthusiasm in each employee. Furthermore, as a good corporate citizen the Daikin Group will make beneficial contributions to each community in which we are based by being highly receptive to its needs. 3. Instead of simply giving consideration to CSR, the Daikin Group will proactively incorporate CSR initiatives in all our business activities, and fuse and integrate such initiatives with these activities in order to ensure truly ongoing CSR initiatives and lead to the improvement of our business performance. 4. The Daikin Group will pursue CSR in our unique way by riding on our strengths, such as our atmosphere of freedom and boldness, thorough customer-oriented management, and warm hospitality and other valued traditions and culture, as well as world-leading technologies. 5. The Daikin Group will fulfill our CSR by promoting interactive communications widely with society, achieving accountability, and maintaining high transparency. Environmental Philosophy Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices As we continue developing our business operations in various fields, it is our mission to proactively develop initiatives to respond to environmental issues. Incorporating environmental initiatives throughout our management must be a priority for us. In all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing and sales, we need to formulate initiatives that sustain and improve the environment. Meanwhile, we need to promote the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world. Under the precept environmental response is an important management resource, we must integrate environmental initiatives into our corporate management since they can lead to business expansion, improved business performance, and further enhancement of our credibility with outside parties. We intend to continue being a leading company in the practice of environmental management, thus contributing to a healthier global environment as a good citizen of the earth. 13 Daikin's CSR Action Guidelines 1. Ensure that all members of the Group deepen our understanding of environmental issues and take responsibility for the impact our actions have on society in general. 2. Establish, promote, and continuously improve an Environmental Management System to actively and effectively implement Environmental Management as a Group. 3. Develop and implement environmental initiatives in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, production, sales, distribution, services, and recycling. In particular, be a leader in society by developing products, technologies, and business opportunities that contribute to sustaining and improving our environment. 4. Implement environmental initiatives that are globally consistent as well as promote initiatives that respond to the particular circumstances of each country and region. Furthermore, actively promote cooperation and alliances with related companies, external organizations, and institutions. 5. Disclose environmentally related information in a truthful and fair manner. Listen to the views of people both inside and outside the company to continuously improve our environmental preservation efforts. Group Compliance Guidelines These compliance guidelines set forth the basic premises to observe as a basic framework for compliance for all Group companies as well as each and every one of their executives and employees in the worldwide expansion of the Daikin Group. Each company of the global Group shall draft specific criteria based on these guidelines as a code of conduct that corresponds to differences in laws and customs of each country and region and thoroughly maintains compliance. 1. Providing Safe, High Quality Products and Services We shall make every effort to ensure the safety and quality of our products and services from the standpoint of our customers. Should a problem occur regarding safety, we shall immediately take appropriate action. 2. Free Competition and Fair Trading We shall perform fair corporate activities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to fair competition and fair trade of each country and region. 3. Observing Trade Control Laws We shall not participate in any transactions that may undermine the maintenance of global peace and security and world order in compliance with all applicable export and import related laws and regulations of each country and region as well as Daikin Group Policy. 4. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Recognizing that intellectual property rights are important company assets, we shall strive to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights and effectively utilize them. Furthermore, we shall respect and make every effort not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies. 5. Proper Management and Utilization of Information We shall properly manage and effectively utilize the confidential information of our company, the confidential information obtained from other companies, and the personal information of our customers and employees and shall not obtain any information through improper means. We shall thoroughly execute IT security management for our computer systems and the data-resources saved on them. 14 Daikin's CSR 6. Prohibition of Insider Trading To maintain the trust of the securities market, we shall not use non-public information about the Daikin Group or other companies to buy or sell stocks or other securities (insider trading). 7. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Corporate Information Aiming to be an open company with high transparency and earn the respect of society, we shall actively convey corporate information in a timely fashion not only to shareholders and investors but also to a wide spectrum of society, and engage in two-way communication. 8. Preservation of the Global Environment We shall observe all applicable environment laws and regulations of each country and region and practice initiatives that sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, and services. Also, each and every one of us shall strive to promote environmentally conscious actions. 9. Ensuring the Safety of Operations We shall take all possible precautions for safe operations and act with a mindset of Safety First to ensure the safety of the workplace and further gain the trust of people in the regions we serve. 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity in the Workplace and Observance of Labor Laws We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and diversity in values and approach to work while striving to create a workplace that is safe and comfortable to work. We shall also observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances sanction the labor performed under compulsion or against a person's will (forced labor), or labor of children who do not meet the minimum age requirements for labor as regulated by laws and regulations of each country and region (child labor). 11. Protection of Company Assets We shall properly manage the tangible and intangible assets of our company to protect and utilize effectively these assets. 12. Proper Handling of Accounting Procedures We shall comply with all accounting standards and tax laws of each country and region as well as internal company rules in properly performing accounting procedures and shall make every effort to improve internal controls. 13. Practicing Moderation in Entertainment and Gift Exchanges We shall exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment and exchange of presents performed relating to our business. In particular, we shall neither entertain nor provide gifts of monetary value to public officials at home and abroad in violation of applicable laws and regulations in each country and region. 14. Maintaining a Firm Attitude against Anti-social Activities We shall take a firm attitude against anti-social force or organization that threatens the safety and order of the citizens of society. 15. Observing Various Business Law and Regulation We shall accurately comprehend and observe all business laws and regulations of each country and region applicable to our business activities. 15 Daikin's CSR Participation in the Global Compact Building a System for Unified Group Action In October 2008, Daikin Industries' participation in the United Nations Global Compact was acknowledged. The United Nations Global Compact, proposed by former United Nations SecretaryGeneral Kofi Annan in 1999 at the World Economic Forum, presents a unique strategic platform for companies to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. In August 2008, we established our Group Compliance Guidelines. And in September 2008, we revised our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, adding items such as the abolition of forced labor and child labor. In this way, we are incorporating the spirit of the Global Compact into our Group management strategy and putting it into action in our business activities as we strive to contribute to a sustainable society and raise the Daikin Group's corporate value. See Group Compliance Guidelines (Page 14) See Compliance and Risk Management Efforts (Page 25) Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group believes that CSR is the meticulous practice of Our Group Philosophy on a daily basis. We also create systems for our worldwide bases that promote corporate ethics and legal compliance as the foundation of our CSR. CSR Promotion Activities Building a System for Unified Group Read more (See page 20) CSR CSR Management Structure The Daikin Group has systems for the comprehensive, CSR Promotion Plan cross-organizational promotion of CSR activities throughout the entire group. Corporate Governance Outside Viewpoint Ensures Sound Read more (See page 22) Transparent Management Corporate Governance Daikin Industries' corporate governance system aims for Corporate Governance (as of March 31, 2012) fast decision-making and execution by having the two together in an integrated management framework. We also have mechanisms that ensure the soundness and transparency of our management. The board of directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and the Disclosure Committee, all of which work to ensure that corporate governance is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. 17 Daikin's CSR Compliance and Risk Management Daikin in UN Global Compact Since 2008 Read more (See page 24) The Daikin Group has systems for carrying out integrated Management Structure action in compliance and risk management. Corporate Ethics and Risk Management We have given all employees our Handbook for Corporate Compliance and Risk Management Efforts Ethics, which summarizes employee rules for action and Education behavior. And in October 2008, we joined the United Help-Line Nations Global Compact. Risk and Measures Preparing for Earthquakes See Participation in the Global Compact (Page 16) Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings The Daikin group strives for fair business practices Read more (See page 28) through measures for complying with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and the Subcontract Act. Prohibiting Bribes We do our utmost to ensure that business entertainment Read more (See page 28) and gift-giving related to business are conducted within the laws and customs of each country and region. Information Security We have built an information management system with Read more (See page 29) specific in-house protocols in efforts to ensure complete control over information security. Proper Management and Use of Information And we constantly ensure that this system is being Personal Information properly implemented and improved through regular audits and other checks. 18 Daikin's CSR Respect for Intellectual Property Rights We recognize intellectual property as one of a company's Read more (See page 30) most valuable assets. We carry out proper and fair exercise of rights in response to violation of intellectual Respect for Intellectual Property Rights property as well as respect other companies' intellectual Encouraging Employees to Create Intellectual property. Training is held for each management level of Property employees and thorough checks are carried out during development of new products and technologies to ensure there is no infringement on the intellectual property of other companies. Suppliers Must Be in Legal Compliance Management That Achieves Legal Read more (See page 217) Compliance throughout the Supply Chain The Daikin Group urges its suppliers to abide by laborrelated laws. Before taking on new suppliers, in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, we inquire into things like their management policies and labor situation. The Chemicals Division carries out unscheduled audits and monitors suppliers for improper labor practices such as excessive work hours. Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy of Respect for Human Read more (See page 31) Rights and Diversity, and Compliance Policy and Management Structure with Labor Laws Human Rights Education Daikin Industries makes employees aware of human rights Preventing Harassment issues as part of its goal of creating a corporate culture free of discrimination where each individual is respected. The Handbook for Corporate Ethics states our policy of respecting human rights and diversity in the workplace and abiding by labor laws, and we constantly remind employees to be aware of this. 19 Daikin's CSR CSR Management Structure Comprehensive, Cross-Organizational Action Group-Wide Firmly grounded in corporate ethics and legal compliance, the Daikin Group's CSR efforts are aimed at contributing to society through its business activities. The CSR Committee chaired by officers in charge of CSR sets Daikin's CSR direction and monitors the progress of CSR activities. Under this committee, their staff in the CSR & Global Environment Center lead comprehensive, crossorganizational CSR activities throughout the entire group. See How We View CSR in the Daikin Group (Page 13) See Participation in the Global Compact (Page 16) CSR Promotion Plan Deepening Focus on Key Issues in Response to Society's Expectations In the 10 years since we formulated Our Group Philosophy, Daikin has rapidly expanded as a global corporate group, and with this expansion have come greater demands from society and greater corporate social responsibility (CSR). We have striven to fulfill our CSR by responding to the expectations of our various stakeholders while implementing our Group management philosophy. In 2011, the Daikin Group set targets for the coming five years that will determine our future. These targets reflect our resolve to step up our past activities and continue being a company that earns the trust of society. Daikin Formulates Our Group Philosophy as Its Basic Philosophy of Business Daikin formulated Our Group Philosophy with the aim of becoming a corporate group trusted by worldwide customers and where employees in all countries could work with pride. By sharing Our Group Philosophy as the fundamental business philosophy of the entire Group, it has become the cornerstone of all employees' thoughts and actions. The management policies and plans of Daikin Industries and all other Group companies were created in line with Our Group Philosophy, and we believe that the embodiment of this philosophy has brought us closer to becoming a truly global and excellent company. Our Group Philosophy (Page 12) 20 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group Defines Its Philosophy on Responsibility towards Stakeholders We believe that the Daikin Group's CSR is to conduct business that puts Our Group Philosophy into practice and fulfills our responsibility to society by meeting the expectations of shareholders. How We View CSR in the Daikin Group (Page 13) Daikin Establishes Key Themes with Consideration for Business Plans and Impact on Stakeholders In light of the unique characteristics and business plans of Daikin, a global manufacturer of air conditioners and fluorochemicals, we conduct CSR based on key themes in four areas: the environment, quality & customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. Key CSR Themes (Page 12) Active CSR Based on the Fusion 15 Strategic Management Plan In fiscal 2011, we launched our Fusion 15 strategic management plan, under which we strive to achieve mediumand long-term CSR goals and respond to the demand of society. CSR Targets and Achievements (Page 33) 21 Daikin's CSR Corporate Governance Ensuring Sound, Transparent Management Unlike the committee system* in the United States, where decision-making and execution are completely independent of each other, the Daikin Group employs an integrated management framework in which directors assume responsibility for both management and execution. This integrated management framework effectively speeds up decision-making and execution. We also have mechanisms that ensure the soundness and transparency of our management. We appoint two or more outside board members with no vested interest in our company. Besides objectively monitoring and leading management, these outside board members sit on the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, where they discuss and deliberate on directors' personnel and compensation matters. We also appoint two external audit & supervisory board members who not only sit in on the Audit & Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors Meeting but also on key meetings such as the Executive Officers Meeting where they monitor and manage the execution of policy. We also strive to raise soundness and transparency through the Corporate Advisors, who offer unbiased operational advice. Of the 12 board members, there is one female, and as of fiscal 2011, one non-Japanese (Belgian). * Committee system: A system with a committee comprising mostly outside directors instead of audit & supervisory board members to raise management transparency. Strengthening Governance in the Daikin Group Worldwide to Protect Stakeholders' Profit The Independent Committee was formed to ensure that when there is a large-scale purchase of Daikin shares, Daikin's corporate value and shareholders' joint profit are protected. The committee helps provide our shareholders with impartial information so that there is transparency in our paperwork and dealings, as well as a high degree of objectivity. To ensure that the interests of stakeholders other than shareholders are respected and protected, the board of directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and the Disclosure Committee, all of which work to ensure that corporate governance is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. To ensure governance throughout the entire Group, including companies acquired by Daikin, the Group Management Meeting aims for action based on unified opinion throughout the Group. It does this by sharing important Group policies and basic strategies, as well as providing support for problem-solving in Group companies. The Group Auditors Meeting, made up of auditors from the main Group companies, works to strengthen auditing and control functions throughout the Group and ensure that these functions are working to the fullest. The Group will pursue various ways to ensure optimal corporate governance grounded in CSR by looking at ways that we can revise our next-term strategic management plan Fusion15. 22 Daikin's CSR Corporate Governance (as of March 31, 2012) 23 Daikin's CSR Management Structure Conducting Integrated Group-Wide Promotion of Compliance and Risk Management The Daikin Group has a unified system for the promotion of compliance and risk management. The Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee is the organ for leading group-wide corporate ethics activities. It is headed by the Officer in Charge of Compliance and Corporate Ethics and made up of general managers and presidents of major Group companies in Japan. As a rule, this committee meets twice a year to discuss and work towards solving a variety of issues. Monthly meetings are held by compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs), who are appointed in each division and major Group company in Japan. The goal of the CRLs is to follow the state of compliance and risk management activities, share information, and ensure that measures are in place to prevent non-compliance and unnecessary risks. Building Compliance and Risk Management Systems for Overseas Group Companies Modeled on Daikin Industries in Japan, a compliance and risk management system has been built for each country and world region to match particular local needs. Each of these systems has compliance committees and Corporate Ethics Handbooks, and they conduct regular self assessments and risk management checks. As well, Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee members of Daikin Industries regularly visit overseas Group companies to join compliance committee meetings, where they confirm the state of compliance and risk management, and share information. This process Compliance meeting in China (attended by representatives of 14 Group companies in China) enables Daikin Industries and its overseas companies to share and implement each other's best practices. 24 Daikin's CSR Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Compliance and Risk Management Efforts Handbook for Corporate Ethics, and Regular Self Assessments Daikin's Handbook for Corporate Ethics summarizes employee rules for action and behavior to ensure compliance in Japan. As well, employees in Japan have been given compliance cards and are urged to carry these with them at all times to ensure that they always follow rules and ethics. In the area of legal compliance, compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) in each division gather the latest legal information and check to see if laws are reflected in company rules and manuals. There are also monthly daily triple checks to ensure everyone is following Handbook for Corporate laws and company rules and manuals. In 1995, we introduced self assessments, a Daikin Ethics initiative, which are conducted once a year in all divisions and Group companies to ensure soundness in both legal compliance and risk matters. Based on the results of these self assessments, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center conducts legal audits in divisions and Group companies, while the Internal Auditing Department confirms legal compliance through audits. In the area of risk management, all divisions conduct risk management checks along with self assessments. If any major risks are identified by these checks, measures are drawn up to reduce such risks. See Group Compliance Guidelines (Page 14) Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain (Responsibility to Business Partners) (Page 217) 25 Daikin's CSR Education Educating Employees Towards Thorough Compliance We strive to make every employee constantly aware of compliance through numerous educational activities. We constantly improve these through better compliance education tools and improved ways to relay the importance of compliance. For example, employees who are studying look at case studies related to legal matters in specific areas, such as management, production, and procurement. Education is also divided by employee category, with courses Updated version of collection of case studies on compliance issues for specially assigned for directors, new employees, newly appointed managers, and CRLs. employees And to raise employees' compliance awareness, training is supplemented by sessions with individual division heads and managers, who tour workplaces to talk about the importance of compliance from their own experience. In fiscal 2011, we continued to raise compliance awareness through the use of an illustrated training manual for specially appointed employees that was created in fiscal 2010. As of August 2012, the illustrated manual had 19 episodes. In China, Daikin employees train using a Chinese-language version of the illustrated training manual. Help-Line Help-Line for Corporate Ethics Offers Counseling and Gathers Opinions We have a Help-Line for Corporate Ethics in the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center, where employees can give opinions or receive consultation on all corporate ethics matters. The names of all employees who call are kept confidential. The Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center investigates all queries and opinions to the Help-Line, and works with related company divisions to decide on measures to prevent the reoccurrence of problems. This makes for the smooth creation of measures and the solution of problems. To ensure that the help-line is well publicized, the help-line's contact information is provided on the compliance card that all employees carry with them at all times. 26 Daikin's CSR Risk and Measures Identifying the Most Important Risks, then Formulating and Implementing Measures With the Daikin Group expanding rapidly around the globe, we have introduced company-wide, cross-organizational risk management in order to quickly get an overall picture of risks from a global point of view and reduce the risks. All divisions carry out annual risk assessments in which they determine important risks and create measures to deal with them. Based on the results of these assessments, the most important company-wide risks are determined, with measures proposed and implemented to deal with them in order to reduce risk. In fiscal 2011, the most important risks were identified as earthquakes, product liability and quality, information leaks, and the building of a system for managing global Group intellectual property rights. Management. Measures were thus taken to deal with these. Preparing for Earthquakes Preparing for Earthquakes through Measures Including Building Reinforcement and BCP Following the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, for fiscal 2011 Daikin made rebuilding of earthquake measures an important theme for its compliance and risk management. Teams were formed to discuss and create measures to deal with individual issues related to earthquakes. For building reinforcement and tsunami measures, as well as conferring with the Central Disaster Management Council of Japan's Cabinet Office, Daikin checked on the necessity of earthquake reinforcement, as well as when and what type of reinforcement would be necessary. At locations like the chemical plant of the Yodogawa Plant and the Rinkai Factory of the Sakai Plant, we are preparing for possible flooding and liquefaction caused by a tsunami by installing emergency power sources, planning evacuation shelters, and drawing up evacuation routes. As part of the creation of a business continuity plan (BCP), we are looking into alternative suppliers so that we can ensure stable procurement of parts and materials. By the end of fiscal 2013, we plan to have types of substitutes for the 247 main electronic components that make up our air conditioners. We have also switched to directly sourcing electronic components that we used to get from printed circuit board manufacturers. Other measures include increasing our stockpiles and bringing in satellite phones. In fiscal 2012, we will continue to step up measures to deal with earthquakes. 27 Daikin's CSR Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings Thorough Compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and Subcontract Act Based on our Group Compliance Guidelines, which state that we conduct free competition and fair business dealings, the Daikin group strives for fair business practices through measures for complying with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and the Subcontract Act. For example, annual training plans are made based on the needs of each division. As necessary, these division-based training courses will be assigned experts such as lawyers and instructors from the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center. In this way, communication with each division ensures the most effective training. At the same time, self assessments include checks that relevant laws are being obeyed. For more information, see Education. (Page 26) Reasonable Business Entertainment and Gift-Giving Thorough Measures to Prevent Bribes The Group Compliance Guidelines state that we shall conduct business entertainment and gift-giving within the laws and customs of each country and region. We are especially strict in enforcing this in relation to gifts and entertainment for government officials. To this end, we hold company-wide training so that employees obey rules on sound and transparent relations with government offices, are compliant with the Political Funds Control Law and the Public Offices Election Act, and conduct reasonable entertainment and gift-giving with suppliers. 28 Daikin's CSR Proper Management and Use of Information Proper Management and Use of All Confidential Information Including That of Other Companies The Group Compliance Guidelines state that we manage and use confidential information appropriately. Information managers in each division follow in-house protocols in thoroughly managing confidential information, be it our own or that of other companies. To ensure information is being properly handled, continuous improvement of the system takes place as employees carry out their own self assessments, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center carries out legal audits, and the Internal Auditing Department conducts audits. Personal Information See Protecting Customer Information (Responsibility to Customers) (Page 185) 29 Daikin's CSR Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Acquire Intellectual Property Rights While Respecting That of Other Companies As Well We recognize that intellectual property rights constitute a valuable company asset. We thus strive to both protect these rights and use them effectively. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state that we will respect other companies' intellectual property rights and ensure that our inventions do not infringe on these companies. Using the guidelines, we formulated more detailed points in our Compliance Action Guidelines, which state that we will acquire patents and avoid infringement by having the person in charge of R&D at Daikin be the person responsible for a patent and having the researcher/developer understand that he/she is the sole developer of the product or invention. To actively support researchers/developers, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center assigns an intellectual property manager in each division. The intellectual property managers keep in contact with each other, and manage the variety of intellectual property matters that come up daily (filing/acquisition of rights, reduction of risk of infringement upon and infringement by other companies, etc.). They also educate employees at various levels on intellectual property, reward Daikin patent awardees, form patent networks with researchers/developers to foster strategic patent applications, and strengthen global intellectual property survey functions. In new product and new technology development, part of the design review process involves verifying that these products and technologies do not infringe on existing patents. In collaborations with other companies, confidential technologies and know-how disclosed to the other party is designated as such and kept out of reach. There is an increasing number of patent applications in China, and we are strengthening intellectual property rights protection systems at bases in China and other countries. In fiscal 2011, to make use of patents not acquired by Daikin, we licensed patents from companies in India and other countries. In our chemicals divisions, we are preparing to be ready for patent infringement lawsuits launched by other companies. We will continue to conduct precise surveys so that we can not only acquire worldwide patents for successful R&D but also ensure that we avoid inadvertently infringing on the intellectual property of other companies. Encouraging Employees to Create Intellectual Property See Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property (Resposibility to Employees) (Page 212) 30 Daikin's CSR Policy and Management Structure Respecting Human Rights in Action Guidelines Based on the U.N. Global Compact Daikin Industries makes employees aware of human rights issues as part of its goal of creating a corporate culture free of discrimination where each individual is respected. To this end, regular self assessments by employees ensure that no human rights violations occur. There is also human rights education when necessary for officers and other management levels. In October 2008, Daikin Industries took part in the United Nations Global Compact for aligning operations to universally accepted principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Prior to that, we revised our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, and as one of the guidelines in the Group Compliance Guidelines, we stated our policy of no forced labor or child labor, respect for individual human rights and for diverse values and ways of looking at work, and the creation of a safe and employee-friendly workplace. The Group Compliance Guidelines were revised to create the Compliance Action Guidelines, which detail the laws and regulations that Daikin Industries and the Daikin Group in Japan must follow. Based on the Global Compliance Guidelines, the Handbook for Corporate Ethics for each major overseas group company was revised to ensure thorough respect for human rights in the workplace. See Participation in the Global Compact (Page 16) Human Rights Education Holding Training for All Job Descriptions including Officers, Managers, and New Employees Part of Daikin Industries' human rights awareness efforts is the annual Antidiscrimination Committee meetings, under which is held human rights training for job descriptions including officers, managers, and new employees. Other efforts to raise human rights awareness among employees include articles in the company newsletter and human rights slogan contests at the factories. We are also a member of the Corporate Report Association of Human Rights Issues and the Osaka Corporate Human Rights Promotion Council, through which we take part in extensive human rights awareness activities that will make our own employees more conscious of human rights. 31 Daikin's CSR Preventing Harassment Educating Managers on Sexual and Power Harassment The Compliance Action Guidelines promote respect for human rights and diversity and compliance with labor laws in the workplace. It is our policy to respect human rights by building a fair workplace that is free of sexual harassment and power harassment. In fiscal 2011, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center led a total of 10 training sessions at bases and workplaces on the topic of power harassment. 32 Daikin's CSR In fiscal 2011, we launched our Fusion 15 strategic management plan under which we seek to meet the needs of society by achieving medium term goals in line with our key CSR themes. 33 Daikin's CSR Providing the World with Spread use of environmentally Environmental Solutions around the Products That Help conscious products in developing World (Page 53) countries, where growth is Reducing Environmental Impact of Customers Reduce CO2 particularly remarkable. Refrigerants (Page 98) Emissions Introducing more inverter air conditioners and other energy-efficient Spread use of inverter products products could reduce CO2 emissions (Page 86) by 30 million tons of CO2. Spread use of heat-pump type Create global demand in the power heating systems (Page 87) conservation business. Offer energy-saving solutions Develop technologies and introduce (Page 89) products that comply with refrigerant Develop future refrigerants restrictions. (Page 98) Minimizing Environmental By 2015, reduce greenhouse 62% Reduction in Greenhouse Impact in Production gas emissions to one-third of Gases (Page 109) fiscal 2005 levels Reducing greenhouse gas emissions (Page 109) Effectively using water and other resources (Page 131) Reducing chemicals (Page 129) 34 Daikin's CSR Expanding a Green Heart * Protecting biodiversity Protecting Biodiversity around the world Reforestation and tree-planting At Three Levels: Globally, Locally, (Page 238) and at Daikin Sites (Page 157) Environmental education (Page 153) Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko * Green Heart: think of the Earth and take care of the environment Giving Customers Unmatched Daikin's quality standard gives Promoting Dialogue with Customers Satisfaction superior, optimal products that earn (Page 60) customer trust. Safety & Quality: Products are We have a system for developing designed from the perspective of products that meet the needs of the customer to assure safety and customers, wherever in the world quality. they live. Customer Satisfaction: We strive Our development system consists of 10 to achieve the ultimate in quality bases in six world regions, as well as service: speed, accuracy, and good marketing research functions in eight world manners. regions. Product Quality and Safety (Page 172) Customer Satisfaction (Page 179) 35 Daikin's CSR Through People-Centered Becoming a corporate group with Daikin CSR in China (Page 47) Management, We Create a global values by working A Green Company Fostering Human autonomously and freely in line with Resources and Localizing Business Workplace Where Employees Our Group Philosophy and shared Can Demonstrate Their policies and strategies. Abilities Communication between head office and local bases. Human Resource Development: Making greater use of women and The entire Daikin Group trains experienced employees. human resources to match business Training Employees for Global growth. Manufacturing (Page 64) Diversity of Employees: We strive to build a diverse workplace where everyone can play an important role by respecting each other regardless of age, sex, nationality, or physical disabilities. Balancing the Responsibilities of Work and Family: We allow employees to work flexible schedules so that they can have quality time with their families. Occupational Safety & Health: We strive for employee satisfaction by building a safe, comfortable workplace where employees can enjoy both mental and physical well-being. Fostering Human Resources (Page 208) Workplace Diversity (Page 192) Work-Life Balance (Page 198) Occupational Safety and Health (Page 203) 36 Daikin's CSR Employees Take the Initiative Contributing to society while Protecting the Natural Environment in Local Grassroots Action expanding business as a company of Shiretoko (Page 67) with strong ties to communities Through contributions to around the world. environmental protection, human Striving for both profits and social resource development, and arts and contribution as a respected and culture, Daikin employees take the trusted company. lead in community service aimed at providing each region with the Social Contribution with Strong support it needs. Community Ties (Page 241) Communities (Page 227) 37 Daikin's CSR Overall CSR (Include SRI) Daikin Group Socially Responsible Investment Indexes Sustainable Management Chosen for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Received a Silver Class rating for corporate sustainability Indexes from Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), a Swiss (for 10 consecutive years up to FY2011) asset management company Chosen for inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index Environmental Protection Daikin Industries VRV Energy-Saving Tuning Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the 8th Excellent Company Award in category of air purifiers in the Excellence Awards from Frost & Sullivan Japan Eco-Product Awards DESICA System Daikin Ales Aoya Excellent Stage 2 ranking under the Social Invention Award from the Minister of Economy, Trade and and Environmental Green Evaluation System Industry at the 2011 National Commendation for (SEGES) Invention 38 Daikin's CSR McQuay International Daikin Australia Dayton Warehouse Head office building received 5.5 stars in Australia's Warehouse certified for Energy Star NABERS system for ranking energy-efficient buildings Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Received Green Industry Award 2011 from Thai Ministry of Industry Social Contribution Recognition of Customer Satisfaction Daikin Industries Daikin Australia Received Fiscal 2011 Manual of the Year Award in the Most Satisfied Award in the fiscal 2011 Canstar Blue air Japan Manual Contest 2011 for the Daikin ECOCUTE conditioner survey user manual 39 Daikin's CSR Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Fastest Growing Brand Award at the 3rd China Brand & F Series Residential Air Conditioner Communication Forum Good Design Award from China Testing & Inspection Institute for Household Electric Appliances (CHEARI) Flash Streamer Air Purifier 2011 Most Influential Brand in China Air Conditioner Market from the China Indoor Environment Tracking Committee Consumers' Favorite Air Conditioner Brand from the Shanghai Household Appliances Association Excellent Business Partner in the air conditioner category of the 2012 China Real Estate Developers Top 500 Outstanding Company in National After-Sales Service Award, sponsored by China General Chamber of Commerce and Chinese Consumer Protection Fund Association Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Daikin Altherma Trusted Brand 2011 Award in the air conditioner category Innovation for Environmental Technology in the 2011 from Reader's Digest Asia Environmental and Energy Award Product Innovation of the Year in the National Heat Pump Award 2011 40 Daikin's CSR Recognition of Occupational Safety and Health Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ranked BizSafe Star Level* * Ranked according to the implementation level of occupational safety and health Recognition of Personnel Systems Daikin Industries Daikin Europe N.V. Best Employers for Workers Over 50 Award from the Chosen for the Top Employers 2012 awards* for the AARP (formerly known as the American Association of seventh year in a row Retired Persons) * In recognition of companies with outstanding human resource systems 41 Daikin's CSR Outside Expert Comments on Daikin Group CSR (June 2012) I have provided a third-party opinion on the Daikin Group's CSR activities described in this report and on the way the Group disclosed relevant information, from the perspective of a provider of corporate information to financial institutions to serve their decisionmaking regarding socially responsible investment. When I was a child, air conditioners were a luxury. Air-conditioned trains were a joy to ride, and going into an air-conditioned department store was like stepping into a different world. At that time, we couldn't imagine a home with air conditioners in every room. Today, air conditioners are an absolute necessity for older people's homes. Even local governments urge citizens to use air conditioners set at the proper temperature and Eiichiro Adachi humidity. Research Chief, Head of ESG Research Center, Center for In Japan, there are an increasing number of sweltering-hot days and nights, while at the the Strategy of Emergence, same time we are being pressed to save as much energy as possible. How will the Daikin The Japan Research Institute, Group think and act in response? Can it change its course to deal with this new reality? Limited This is a crucial point in thinking about the relationship between private enterprise and Profile society. Conducts industry surveys and The heat dispensed by air conditioners contributes to the heat island effect. There's no corporate assessments on denying that air conditioners make things comfortable for the user. However, air CSR with a focus on conditioners impact the environment, and they impact other people besides the user. So environmental issues. Provides corporate information to a company's biggest responsibility to society is to continually strive to decrease this financial institutions to serve impact in any way possible. There was once a car manufacturer president who said that their decision-making the more of his company's cars were on the road, the cleaner the air would be. This is regarding socially responsible what we are talking about. investment and environmental investment. From March 2005 This report talks about the issues of increasing air conditioner demand, global warming, to May 2009 was a Japanese and ozone layer depletion due to CFCs. Daikin is very convincing when it talks about expert on the ISO 26000 developing and spreading the use of high-quality and energy-efficient air conditioners, Working Group. His published and choosing refrigerants with less environmental impact. works include Introduction to Environmental Management In relation to this, I have three requests for Daikin. First, since air conditioners are (2009, Nikkei Publishing Inc.), essential to protecting people's health, I would like Daikin to make it possible for the The Evolution of elderly and the needy to enjoy air conditioning. Inexpensive air conditioners are no longer Environmental Risk Strategy just necessary for people in developing countries. Second, besides simply selling air Among Financial Institutions conditioners in emerging countries, Daikin should educate consumers in matters like (2011, Kinzai Institute for keeping heating and cooling temperatures just right and not too hot or too cold. As part of Financial Affairs, Inc.), and No this, Daikin should get into the facilities management business or collaborate with Time to Waste! Energy and facilities management companies. Third, instead of its current target of contributing to Carbon Management (2012, CO2 emission reductions by spreading the use of inverter air conditioners in developing The Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun) countries, Daikin should focus on reducing emissions through sales worldwide, and work to reduce emissions despite the uncertainty of such a goal. 42 Daikin's CSR I hope the Daikin Group will be a world leader in responding to these requests. That way, 100 years from now, children will say, Long ago people strove to make air conditioners a product essential for our survival, instead of saying People long ago harmed our environment by using more and more air conditioners. This opinion does not express a view on whether this report represents, in all material respects, matters measured, calculated, and prepared in accordance with environmental reporting guidelines generally accepted. 43 Daikin's CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Key Activities List of Fiscal 2011 Key Activities 45 Daikin CSR in China 47 Environmental Solutions around the World 53 Promoting Dialogue with Customers 60 Training Employees for Global Manufacturing 64 Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko 67 44 Key Activities Environment: Spread the Use of High-Energy-Efficiency Inverter Products Human Resources: Raising Employee Motivation and Enthusiasm through People-Centered Management Quality and Customer Satisfaction: China R&D Center Responds to Chinese Climate and Market Needs Quality and Customer Satisfaction: Human Resource Development Raises Quality Social Contribution: Fostering the Next Generation of Education and Culture as a Company with Deep Roots in China Southeast Asia: 35% Energy Savings by Using Air Conditioner Waste Heat to Warm Water China: Multi-functional VRV Uses Heat Recovery Technology in East China China: Securing Stable Heat Sources in Northern China by Using Geothermal Heat Europe: NEXURA Heat-Pump Type Air Conditioner with Radiant Heat Panels Helping Japan Save Energy Nationwide Building and Energy Management System (BEMS) ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Uses Fluorine's Characteristics 45 Key Activities Worldwide Challenges and Background Listen Directly to Customer Concerns, Come up with Solutions Together RAKUAIR: The Air Conditioner Customers Helped Make Solving Sleep Worries with SOINE Worldwide Challenges and Background Raising Awareness and Initiative Disseminate PDS to Train Local Employees Who Can Manage Their Companies Quality Manufacturing Integral to Daikin Growth in India Social Challenges and Background Protect Our Forests, Nature's Air Conditioner Protecting Shiretoko's Abundant Nature 46 Key Activities China is the world's largest producer and consumer of air conditioning products-and it's only going to get bigger. As the Daikin Group steps up its business here, it must fulfill ever-greater corporate social responsibilities (CSR). The greatest of these responsibilities is to somehow keep China's increasingly growing energy use to a minimum. By fostering human resources and localizing operations, Daikin is working to contribute to the environment and other facets of CSR. Environment Spread the Use of High-Energy-Efficiency Inverter Products Ever since starting local manufacture of commercial air conditioners in 1996, the Daikin Group has focused on expanding business in China. In order for us to achieve both sustainable growth and social contribution in the burgeoning Chinese market, it is imperative that we constantly listen to local stakeholders and reflect their opinions in our management policies and actions. 47 Key Activities China's energy consumption has risen with its recent economic growth, and the government is implementing energyefficiency regulations. This is contributing to the rapid spread of inverter air conditioners, which offer high energy efficiency. The Daikin Group has been introducing inverter technologies to the Chinese government and industry groups to help hasten the spread of these products. In order to keep the increase in China's energy consumption in check, we believe it is crucial to provide highly energy-efficient products to a wider range of customers. That's why we are developing products that match the specific needs of the Chinese market by sourcing more parts in China and having the Product Reliability Assessment Department of the R&D Center ensure these parts are of the highest possible quality. In April 2012, we opened the Suzhou Factory, which has one the largest production capacities of the Daikin Group. The factory has high-efficiency production lines that allow us to make affordable air conditioners for more people. The factory itself is eco-conscious, and we plan to open a showroom displaying how Daikin can offer other companies solutions for building green manufacturing facilities. Eco-consious Suzhou Factory 48 Key Activities Human Resources Raising Employee Motivation and Enthusiasm through People-Centered Management The slogan People-Centered Management represents the Daikin Group's belief that employee growth is linked to corporate growth. In China, Daikin is creating a corporate climate conducive to growth by fostering human resources and thus spurring employee enthusiasm. For example, business project teams turn young employee ideas into products. But these project teams do more than just boost young employees' motivation: they have already put innovative and popular new products on the market. An example is an air conditioner that allows customers to print their favorite photos on the product's panel. We are also helping local human resources to lead company management by training employees who can put into action the Daikin Group philosophy that employee growth is linked to corporate growth. By listening to customer opinions and promptly and precisely reflecting these in products and services, Daikin is creating a new air conditioner culture in China. 49 Key Activities Quality and Customer Satisfaction China R&D Center Responds to Chinese Climate and Market Needs China's climatic regions cover the entire spectrum, from subarctic to desert to tropical monsoon. This means each region has its own unique air conditioning performance needs. The country's economic development has also been causing air conditioning needs to change at lightning speed. This combination of numerous climatic regions and rapidly changing market conditions prompted Daikin to establish the China R&D Center in May 2010. Under the philosophy of products for Chinese developed by Chinese, the center's 170 employees, the majority of them Chinese, have managed to shorten the product development cycle from more than two years to about six months. Daikin can now quickly develop and release products to meet local market needs. For example, Daikin developed a system for water heating and floor heating by connecting the heat-pump type space heaters popular in Europe to building air conditioners, which were originally introduced by Daikin and that have become the standard for high-end apartment buildings in China. The China R&D Center is also developing products that use geothermal heat and solar heat. Environmental Solutions around the World (China) (Page 54) China: The Many Climates and Daikin Air Conditioner Bases (Daikin, McQuay) 50 Key Activities Quality and Customer Satisfaction Human Resource Development Raises Quality The Daikin Group has a system for ensuring that defective products never leave our factories: we inspect parts upon delivery and at supplier factories, and we conduct inspections in our own product factories. But it's difficult to maintain and improve quality when there is periodic replacement of employees who work in the factories. In China, many people are intent on furthering their careers and so they often move on to new jobs. That's why Daikin strives to retain its employees and earn their trust by creating a workplace where people can continue to grow and advance their careers. Under the Excellent Technician certification program, employees take training to advance their skills, and even have the chance to take training in Japan. Employees can also start as factory workers and eventually become managers. This human resource development extends beyond Daikin Group companies. We offer retailers and installers courses that help improve their selling and installation techniques so that they can join us in raising the level of customer satisfaction. 51 Key Activities Social Contribution Fostering the Next Generation of Education and Culture as a Company with Deep Roots in China The Daikin Group contributes to the development of regional society by creating jobs and sourcing materials locally. It also contributes to society as community-based company. We place a particular emphasis on training the next generation of engineers. Working with eight universities, we offer courses that cover air conditioner technologies and design, and in fiscal 2011 a total of 381 students learned advanced technologies in building air conditioners and other areas. In November 2011, we established a practical training center at Beijing University of Technology. Since fiscal 2010, Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd., has sponsored the Daikin Air Conditioning Cup Chinese Air Conditioning University Student Contest. In the fiscal 2011 contest, over 700 students submitted research papers and essays on the topic of energy-efficient and environmentally-conscious air conditioning technology. Daikin has also sponsored concerts since 2007 with the aim of promoting art and culture in China. 52 Key Activities Air Conditioning Situation and Energy Efficiency Challenges Buildings in Singapore require air conditioning all day and every day. In 2008, the country introduced a mandatory energy efficiency labeling system, a move that put energy-efficient air conditioners in the spotlight. Most water heaters in Singapore are small, electrically heated units; this is because of the limited installation space in the high-rise apartment complexes that are common in the country. 35% Energy Savings by Using Air Conditioner Waste Heat to Warm Water Daikin's multi-split type air conditioners with waste heat Multi-Split Type Air Conditioners with Waste Heat utilization for hot water uses heat emitted through the Utilization for Hot Water: How They work outdoor units to warm water for the shower and other purposes. This makes effective use of heat which would otherwise be wasted. This air conditioner has earned 4 tick the highest level of Singapore's energy efficiency labeling system. And compared to using an air conditioner and electric water heater separately, this water heating system combining water heating technology and the effective use of air * Calculated under the following conditions: Exterior air conditioner waste heat uses up to 35% less electricity. temperature: 27°C (9 p.m.-7 a.m.) and 33°C (7 a.m.-9 p.m.); hot water stored: 75 liters Incoming water temperature: 25°C; outgoing water temperature: 60°C 53 Key Activities Air Conditioning Situation and Energy Efficiency Challenges China encompasses the entire spectrum of climatic regions and is called a microcosm of the world's air conditioner market. With air conditioner demand rapidly rising and the government tightening energy efficiency regulations, the country intends to get 15% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. Multi-functional VRV Uses Heat Recovery Technology in East China In East China, a region with a climate similar to Japan's, Multi-functional VRV: All-in-one Air Conditioning, Floor Daikin offers the multi-functional VRV, which combines air and Hot Water Heating conditioning, floor heating, and water heating all-in-one for high-end residential housing. Driven by inverter technology,* this product combines a superbly energyefficient VRV air conditioner, which has earned the highest rating under China's inverter regulations, with floor heating and water heating functions. And because it uses a heat pump, it gives off less CO2 and air pollutants that conventional gas combustion-type water and space heaters. It also uses heat recovered during air conditioning for hot water heating. * Inverters are frequency conversion devices that enable precision control of room temperature and thus reduce power consumption. Securing Stable Heat Sources in Northern China by Using Geothermal Heat Daikin provides building air conditioners that use Using Renewable Energy renewable energy such as geothermal heat and the heat contained in rivers and groundwater as the heat source for space heating. These air conditioners have proved popular because they allow owners living in sub-zero-temperature regions to secure a stable source of heat. Daikin is also conducting research into water heating using solar heat. 54 Key Activities Air Conditioning Situation and Energy Efficiency Challenges In Europe, instead of heating delivered by a stream of warm air, people tend to prefer to gently warm the entire room using radiant heat from electric heaters or radiators. NEXURA Heat-Pump Type Air Conditioner with Radiant Heat Panels NEXURA offers the rapid heating of an air conditioner and the quiet, windless warmth provided by radiators. Because it uses heat pump technology, NEXURA contributes to CO2 emissions far lower than those of conventional electric heaters or radiators. Daikin listened to European customers in designing the NEXURA to ensure that it blends unobtrusively into a home's interior. 55 Key Activities Air Conditioning Situation and Energy Electricity Demand at Time of Peak Use (2 p.m.) Efficiency Challenges Japan is facing a severe energy shortage, and people across the country will need to do everything possible to save power in the summer of 2012. Air conditioners account for about half of the electricity consumed in Japanese office buildings during peak consumption times. While air conditioning equipment must be made more energy efficient, it is also increasingly Source: Estimate of Demand Make-Up of Maximum Energy Use important to introduce energy management systems in Summer, by Agency service area for Natural Resources and Energy (Tokyo Electric Power Company) (EMS), which monitor an entire building's energy use and automatically make energy-efficient adjustments. This has prompted Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to introduce and promote the use of the Building and Energy Management System (BEMS). Helping Japan Save Energy Nationwide 30 Ways to Save Energy in Air Conditioning In May 2011, Daikin Industries, Ltd., established a power-saving control center in the Tokyo Electric Power Company service area. The center's approximately 200 employees visited customer sites to suggest and implement about 30 different measures for saving power on commercial air conditioners. The wide range of measures included cleaning filters on interior units and measures during operation such as monitoring by customers or remote monitoring by Daikin. This activity was expanded nationwide in June 2011. The result of all this was energy savings of approximately 600,000 kW in summer and 160,000 kW in winter (Daikin calculations). Daikin will continue this energy-saving advice service in the summer of 2012. And because there are many customers who want to save energy on the use of their entire building and not just air conditioning, Daikin is also offering consultation on matters like high-efficiency lighting and solar power generation. Approximately 1,000 dedicated Daikin staff will visit customers nationwide to help them save energy. 56 Key Activities As a result of a variety of nationwide measures for saving energy, Daikin contributed to power reductions of 600,000 kW in summer and 160,000 kW in winter (Daikin calculations). Power-saving campaign for general customers Visitors like getting ideas for saving energy immediately. VRV Energy-Saving Tuning is one way to save energy. By having the control panels of their existing air conditioners' outdoor units tuned, users can save up to 20% in energy. 57 Key Activities Building and Energy Management System (BEMS) Contributing to Building Energy Efficiency as a BEMS Aggregator Energy management systems (EMS) are an effective way to save energy while keeping the building comfortable. In April 2012, Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry started a project to hasten the introduction of EMS. Under this project, Daikin was selected as a BEMS aggregator: a company charged with managing a BEMS. This effort is aimed at hastening the realization of a system that can achieve precise demand control and thus give both a comfortable building temperature and energy-saving operation; and that can use weather forecast data to automatically set equipment so that it operates in the most energy-efficient and energy-saving manner possible. Air Conditioning Network Service System for Buildings Daikin D-irect Energy Management System for Retailers ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Uses Fluorine's Characteristics Applying ZEFFLE to Existing Buildings Reduces Air Conditioning Burden Long-Term As part of our fluorochemicals business, we offer customers ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating. This reflective coating reflects away the infrared rays of the sun to prevent the indoor temperature from rising. By simply painting ZEFFLE onto existing buildings, customers can reduce the burden on air conditioning and achieve greater energy efficiency. Besides its superior heat-shielding ability, ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating has fluorine's ability to resist weathering, fouling, and rusting. Just one application can last for 15 to 20 years. Using its know-how as an air conditioner manufacturer, Daikin can Applying ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating to the conduct simulations of how much energy can be saved by painting a roof lowers the inside temperature by up to 7°C and building with ZEFFLE. Besides showing the changes in room reduces the burden on air conditioning by 12.5%. temperature after applying ZEFFLE, the highly accurate simulations can also show how much energy can be saved on air conditioning. This means we can present customers with the precise details of how effective ZEFFLE will be for them. 58 Key Activities Features of ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Example of Energy-Saving Simulation Into the simulation software are input a range of data: information about the building itself, such as color and measurements of roof and exterior walls, and type and thickness of insulation material; information about the air conditioning system and its operating conditions; and local weather data. The simulation software uses this to give detailed estimates on roof and room temperature as well as the amount of energy consumption and CO2 emissions that will be reduced through the use of ZEFFLE. 59 Key Activities Worldwide Challenges and Background Customer Questionnaire (Most Important Purchase Factor for Air Conditioners) To realize its philosophy of creating new value by anticipating the future needs of customers, the Daikin Group has taken the opinions of customers, gathered through contact centers and face-to-face interaction with customers, and reflected these preferences in its products and services. But today's consumers have a diverse range of needs and concerns. To boost customer satisfaction, we have to gather as much information as possible and in as many ways as possible so that we can obtain a range of opinions from the market. By increasing the amount of dialogue with customers, we can better reflect market needs in our products. Source: 2010 Daikin Customer Questionnaire (mail-in survey from purchasers of Daikin products) Listen Directly to Customer Concerns, Come up with Solutions Together fuha:TOKYO Showroom In December 2011, Daikin opened the Daikin Solution Plaza fuha Tokyo, a showroom where the company could offer consumers a better way to meet air conditioning, heating, and ventilation needs. Here, Daikin specialists listen to visitor concerns about living space and air conditioning and come up with optimal solutions. The showroom allows visitors to experience such solutions firsthand so they can select the air conditioner right for them. The Daikin Solution Plaza welcomes people considering air conditioning equipment for new or renovated homes, owners of stores, buildings, and factories, architects, contractors, and civil engineering students. 60 Key Activities By talking to consumers at this showroom, Daikin can keep on top of changing user needs and come out with products that anticipate what the market wants in air conditioning products. In February 2012, fuha Tokyo visitors surpassed the 10,000 mark, a month earlier than Daikin's original target. The showroom is expected to attract 40,000 visitors annually. 61 Key Activities Developing Products That Address Customer Concerns RAKUAIR: The Air Conditioner Customers Helped Make First Product in Japan Certified for Design Psychology The name RAKUAIR means easy air. Released in April 2012, it was given this name because it is easy to operate and easy on the human body. About 20% of the people 60 years of age and older surveyed (by Daikin) complained that products with too many functions are confusing to operate. Daikin developed the RAKUAIR easy-to-use remote controller jointly with design psychology researchers at Chiba University. The design team objectively assessed remote controllers from numerous psychological and engineering points, including ease of indicator viewing, safety, ease of use, and impression. As a result, they made the buttons and indicators for the most commonly used functions large, and they put the less frequently used function buttons behind a semi-transparent panel for when they are needed. 62 Key Activities Automatic Operation Easy on the Human Body People with a low metabolism, like elderly people and women, tend not to like the way air conditioning makes them feel chilly. Daikin teamed up with the Yokohama National University to find the optimal temperature, humidity, and wind speed for people with low metabolism. They achieved air conditioner operation in which people feel less humidity yet do not feel any colder; this means less burden on a person's body. Solving Sleep Worries with SOINE Adjusts Air Conditioning to Sleep Rhythms Many people in Japan set their air conditioners to run for a set number of hours during the hot summer nights—but when time runs out, people wake up feeling hot. Daikin solved this problem by developing the SOINE controller. It detects an individual's unique sleep rhythms and uses these to automatically set a temperature ideal for that person. In the process it also saves electricity. Website Gathers Direct User Input Daikin's Idea Shop In June 2011, Daikin opened a website where customers can purchase the SOINE controller. Called Daikin's Idea Shop, the site brings together customers and Daikin product developers, and includes a suggestion box and surveys for customers to express their ideas, opinions, and concerns on air conditioning. Site visitors can also read short articles by Daikin product users and get useful lifestyle information. The site is frequently updated so that it can best meet user needs and help Daikin develop even better products. Daikin's Idea Shop Website 63 Key Activities Worldwide Challenges and Background Global Employees (by Region) One of the most important things for a globally operating company is to gear management at each overseas base to the characteristics of that locale by addressing the challenges and needs of the region. In emerging countries, besides offering quality products affordable to local consumers, a company must create steady jobs for the local workforce and teach them technological skills that will help stimulate the economy and advance progress in that society. Overseas employees account for over 70% of Daikin's global workforce, and sales outside Japan are on the increase. Daikin is focusing on giving local employees higher levels of manufacturing skills. We are also training local employees to take on company management positions, because management by local personnel for local employees will better equip local bases to meet market challenges and needs, and allow Daikin companies to grow and prosper with the communities in which they operate. Raising Awareness and Initiative Daikin-Style Manufacturing PDS (Production of Daikin System) Under its PDS system, Daikin Industries trains manufacturing employees to carry on the philosophy and tradition of Daikin style manufacturing. Essential to PDS is finding wasted energy, resources, and inconsistencies hidden in the work process, and then dealing with these through a PDCA cycle. For example, imagine some kind of dirt gets on products while they are being assembled on the lines. In this case, employees are trained to notice such problems, stop the production line, and check on the problem in detail. If it turns out that the problem is due to wasted energy, a resource, or an inconsistency somewhere, the concerned divisions immediately get together and work to remedy the problem. By continuing to do this in a coordinated way, the company can come out with high-quality products in an effective manner. To this end, Daikin believes that employees must be trained not just to conduct work according to their superior's instructions or a manual, but also to keep a constant watch for even the smallest variation, to take the initiative to find new challenges in their jobs, and to involve the employees around them in solving problems. 64 Key Activities Training Employees for Global Manufacturing * SSM: Stress Strength Model; framework for preventing problems by predicting them. Checklists for finding wasted energy, resources, and inconsistencies Disseminate PDS to Train Local Employees Who Can Manage Their Companies Daikin Representatives Foster Next-Generation Leaders Worldwide The Daikin Group is making PDS an integral part of its worldwide production bases. PDS is spread across the Daikin Group as Daikin representatives, called PDS expert, gather and train the next generation of leaders, who then return to their companies to teach their own employees PDS. Disseminating PDS in this way also fosters a new generation of workers who will carry on Daikin-style management into the future. PDS is a method for fostering employees' awareness and initiative so they can improve production lines. But PDS cannot function if it is only understood by workplace leaders. All concerned employees, no matter what their jobs are, must understand and jointly implement the principles of PDS. The leaders are not supposed to force PDS upon their employees; rather, they must pool everyone's knowledge and enthusiasm in making workplace improvements; in doing so they will give employees the power to find and solve problems on their own. This is what is meant by localizing a company. Daikin Thailand began PDS training immediately after its establishment in 1990. Trainees become workplace leaders specializing in improvement. With PDS expert conducting periodic follow-up, the PDS training system makes for efficient manufacturing. In the more than 20 years since, PDS graduates have gone on to become managers and workplace leaders, and PDS as a whole has fostered the human resources that run Daikin Thailand. To disseminate PDS, Daikin has trained PDS expert, who in turn have trained employees to be workplace leaders at worldwide production bases. PDS training passes on Daikin-style manufacturing ideas to employees at worldwide production bases 65 Key Activities Quality Manufacturing Integral to Daikin Growth in India PDS Training Accompanies Full-Scale Production Start at Daikin Airconditioning India India is projected to experience a dramatic increase in air conditioner demand, and the country is positioned as a key market under Daikin's Fusion 15 strategic management plan. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. started production in the spring of 2009, and PDS training was introduced with the start of full-scale production in late 2010. A total of 50 production managers and workplace leaders took part in two-week classroom and on-the-job improvement training at the company factory. Training covered issues unique to Daikin's Indian factory, such as how to handle increased production capacity with increasingly fewer workers. Although all participants thought this impossible at first, they PDS training and on-site improvement practice at began timing how long it took to do their jobs and watched videos of Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd., where how work is done at Japanese factories. This prompted them to notice production capacity is increasing and eliminate wasted energy, resources, and inconsistencies, and take it upon themselves to do things like standardize the amount of work they do and re-think the details of their jobs. The result was that one production line improved production efficiency by 145% over a three-month period. 66 Key Activities Social Challenges and Background Forest Functions and Quantitative Assessments Functions of a forest Assessed value Biodiversity is the coexistence of human beings and a diverse range of living organisms in an interconnected CO2 absorption 1.2391 trillion yen habitat. Human beings benefit from the many services Prevention of provided by our ecosystem; for example, water, oxygen, 28.2565 trillion yen surface erosion food, wood, and a stable climate. Prevention of soil disasters Prevention of Forests are a particularly crucial element, carrying out shallow 8.4421 trillion yen many functions including absorbing CO2 from the landslides atmosphere, purifying the air and water, preventing soil Alleviation of erosion, and alleviating flooding. Protecting biodiversity is 6.4686 trillion yen Source water flooding intricately tied to maintaining mankind's safe and abundant replenishment Storing of water lifestyle. 8.7407 trillion yen resources Water purification 14.6361 trillion yen Source: Assessment of Multiple Functions of Farming and Forests As They Relate to the Natural Environment and Human Life, by the Science Council of Japan Protect Our Forests, Nature's Air Conditioner Protecting Biodiversity with Those Who Benefit from It In forests, photosynthesis not only generates oxygen; it Daikin's Philosophy for Biodiversity Protection also produces a cooling effect by giving off water vapor that keeps atmospheric temperature from rising. As a company whose job it is to provide comfortable air environments, Daikin likes to call forests nature's air conditioner. That's why we do all we can to protect the world's forests. But protecting forests requires more than just planting trees. It is also important that we create systems for continuous protection of nature by getting the people who benefit from the goodness of forests to understand how essential they are. That's why we support education activities that teach people how protecting forests is intricately tied to their way of living. Daikin also encourages its employees to take part in volunteer eco-activities that help raise awareness of the need to protect nature. 67 Key Activities Daikin also conducts biological surveys that determine how the forest restoration affects the ecosystem. We work with governments, NGOs and NPOs, and local citizens in efforts to protect and revitalize nature. Protecting Shiretoko's Abundant Nature Working Together with Locals A UNESCO World Heritage Site, Shiretoko has a rich ecosystem and an abundance of rare flora and fauna. However, this place is not without problems: humans are destroying nature, and human contact with certain animal populations is causing dangers. In July 2011, Daikin Industries, the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, and the towns of Shari and Rausu signed an agreement aimed at solving these problems. For a period of five years until March 2016, Daikin is offering financial support and sending employees to take part in protection activities, hoping to restore the forest and river ecosystems Setting up a fence to prevent Sika deer from eating and bring humans and nature into peaceful and prosperous seedlings will help restore the riparian forest coexistence. Project to Restore Japanese Judas Trees and Life-Giving River One Daikin initiative is to restore a Japanese Judas tree forest and a life-giving river in the town of Shari. The Iwaobetsu River basin used to be covered in a riparian forest consisting mainly of Japanese Judas trees, but major flood damage in 1981 felled many of the trees. Because the seedlings planted in the area were eaten by the Sika deer, no progress was made in restoring the forest. A fence was set up to keep the Sika deer out of the area, and inside the fenced enclosure young trees were planted to start the forest on its way. In October 2011, 11 Daikin employees volunteered to help erect the fence, and in May 2012, 12 employee volunteers joined in work to Planting native seedlings and restoring the riparian take seedling samples. forest of Japanese Judas and other trees, as well as the river environment. This will entice wildlife to In the past, improvement work done on the Iwaobetsu River gave the return. river a simplified, artificial flow that was not conducive to the life of natural organisms. This is being remedied by digging deep pools and giving the river a more meandering flow, which has made it a more suitable habitat for the cherry salmon, char salt-water trout, and other fish that live there. Along with this work, biological surveys are being conducted in efforts to return Shiretoko to its original, natural state. 68 Key Activities Project to Promote Human-Brown Bear Coexistence In the town of Rausu on the southeast of the Shiretoko Peninsula, there is little flat terrain and the forests where bears live are right behind people's homes. When bears enter the unfamiliar territory of human neighborhoods, they run around in a panic and create a dangerous situation for both themselves and humans. Under the Project to Promote Human-Brown Bear Coexistence, bear and human territory is physically separated for the protection and safety of both species. In November 2011, fences with a light electrical charge were erected in a test area. If they are found to be effective, they will be erected in other areas as well. (Top) Brown bear and cubs (Bottom) A fence to separate the bears' habitat from that of humans 69 Key Activities Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Environment Overview of Environmental Impact 71 Compliance with J-Moss 126 Environmental Action Targets and Achievements 73 Management of Chemical Substances 129 Low-Impact Products 75 Reducing Waste and Water 131 Environmentally Conscious Design 78 Environmental Management 135 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 86 Environmental Management System 137 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space Environmental Audits 141 and Hot Water Heaters 87 Environmental Risk Management 142 Products That Help Customers Save Energy 89 Environmental Accounting 145 Environmentally Conscious Environmental Education 148 Fluorochemical Products 96 Environmental Communication 149 Low-Impact Refrigerants 98 Environmental Forums and Exhibits 150 3R & Repair 101 Environmental Education Low-Impact Production 106 and Awareness Activities 153 Preventing Global Warming Protecting Biodiversity 156 — Production, Transportation 109 Protecting Biodiversity 157 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons Biodiversity Awareness 163 from Customers' Air Conditioners 117 History of Environmental Activities 164 Green Procurement 122 70 Environment Reducing CO2 and Fluorocarbon Emissions is a Top Priority Environmental Themes Low-Impact Products (Page 75) Low-Impact Refrigerants (Page 98) 3R & Repair (Page 101) Environmental Themes Dissemination of EnergyEnvironmental Themes efficient Air Conditioners Green Procurement (Page 89) (Page 122) Transportation Efficiency Reduction of Greenhouse (Page 114) Environmental Gas Emission (Page 109) Themes Management of Chemical Recovering and Substances (Page 129) Destroying Reducing Waste and Water Fluorocarbons (Page 131) (Page 117) Promotion of Recycling (Page 105) The Daikin Group focuses on reducing both fluorocarbon emissions generated during product manufacture and electricity used during air conditioner use, the major contributors to global warming. Likewise, we strive to reduce environmental impact through the recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons during the processes of production, maintenance, and product disposal. In product development, we are shifting to refrigerant alternatives that do not deplete the ozone layer as we continue to work toward lessening the impact our business has on the environment. 71 Environment Overview of Environmental Themes and Impact from Business Activities Data on this page is only from Daikin Industries in FY2011. Figures in parentheses are global Group totals. 72 Environment Overview of Fiscal 2011 Environmental Action Plan 2015 Underway Environmental Action Plan 2015 focuses on three pillars: (1) Providing Environmentally Conscious Products, (2) Eco-conscious Factories and Offices, and (3) Environmental Cooperation with Stakeholders. For (1), one action target is to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions through the provision of products. Our goal is to reduce CO2 emissions by 30 million tons in emerging countries in 2015, and in fiscal 2011 we were able to reduce emissions by 17 million tons. For (2), we have set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from production in fiscal 2015 to just one-third of fiscal 2005 levels (a 67% reduction). In fiscal 2011, we achieved 62% emission reductions through efforts that included reducing fluorocarbon emissions in our chemicals divisions. For (3), our action target is to work with stakeholders such as local citizens, governments, and NPOs to make environmental contributions that meet local needs. In fiscal 2011, we began support of environmental protection at Shiretoko, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Environmental Action Plan 2015 Action targets FY2015 target values FY2011 results Providing Environmentally Conscious Products Provide the world with products that help customers reduce CO2 emissions. Spread use of energy-efficient air conditioners to reduce Through expansion in the widespread CO2 emissions. use of energy-saving products such as 17 million ton those using inverters, aim to help curtail Spread use of heat-pump type heating systems. curtailment CO2 emissions to 30 million tons for Offer energy-saving solutions. Develop future refrigerants. developing countries. 73 Environment Action targets FY2015 target values FY2011 results Eco-conscious Factories & Offices Minimize environmental impact from production and other activities. Reduce fiscal 2015 levels to 1/3 (67%) 62% reduction of the level compared with fiscal 2005 Reduce per-unit CO2 from Japan energy use by 20% against 26% reduction Greenhouse gases Reduce CO2 emissions. fiscal 2005. Reduce per-unit CO2 from Overseas energy use by 10% against 8% reduction fiscal 2010. Machinery-related: Reduce Machinery-related: per-unit emissions by 5% 7% reduction against fiscal 2010. Japan Reduce overall amount of Chemical-related: Reduce Chemical-related: Waste waste by effectively using direct-to-landfill amount by 21% reduction resources. 50% against fiscal 2010. Reduce per-unit emissions Overseas by 10% against fiscal 2010 7% reduction at all bases. Reduce by 5% against Japan 3% reduction fiscal 2010. Water Reduce amount of water used. Reduce per-unit emissions Overseas by 10% against fiscal 2010 5% reduction at all bases. Reduce PRTR substances 10% reduction by 15% against fiscal 2010. Japan Minimize emissions of Reduce VOCs by 20% 9% reduction Chemicals environmentally harmful against fiscal 2010. substances. Reduce per-unit VOCs by Analyzed data on Overseas 10% against fiscal 2010 at substances all bases. Achieve environmentally Have major production sites certified as Green Heart Factories 8 bases in Japan friendly plants. Green Heart Factories. Achieve environmentally Have major bases in Japan certified as Efforts began at all Green Heart Offices friendly offices. Green Heart Offices. bases in Japan. Environmental Cooperation with Stakeholders Expand the Green Heart circle to Daikin worldwide. Join local governments, Carry out environmental and social citizens, and NPOs to make Began support of contribution activities (forest restoration, Environmental and social environmental and social environmental tree-planting, environmental education, contribution activities contributions at each global protection at protection of biodiversity within Daikin base according to regional Shiretoko, etc. bases) at worldwide bases. characteristics. 74 Environment The Daikin Group is developing products with minimal environmental impact by raising energy efficiency, switching to refrigerants with the least possible burden on the environment, and making products easier to recycle. We are also striving to reduce the impact that chemicals have on human health and the environment. Environmentally Conscious Design Reducing Products' Environmental Read more (See page 78) Impact through Life Cycle Assessment Environmentally Conscious Design through Product We assess products starting from the planning and design Assessment stages to ensure that they are energy efficient and Product Assessment Items recyclable. We conduct quantitative environmental Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners assessments for each product life cycle so that we can Sample of LCA: Comparison of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions(energy-induced CO2) make the next product release less of an impact on the Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption environment. Efficiency (residential air conditioners) Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (commercial air conditioners) Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 2009 Joint Venture with Major Chinese Read more (See page 86) Manufacturer to Tap World Inverter Inverter Technology Product Market Promoting the Use of Inverter Products The Daikin Group aims to provide more highly energy efficient inverter air conditioners worldwide and thus reduce the amount of CO2 emissions from energy consumption during product use. 75 Environment Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Promoting Heat-Pump Products in Read more (See page 87) Space and Hot Water Heating Market Heat Pump Systems for Space Heating and Water The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water Heaters heaters using highly energy efficient heat-pump Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters technology. In heat-pump technology for air conditioning, Features of the MEGA-Q heat is drawn from the air and transferred for use as Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q cooling or heating. Compared to space or water heating Large-Scale Commercial Heat Pump Water Heating methods that burn fossil fuels directly, it produces less than System versus Combustion-Type Boiler one-half the CO2. Products That Help Customers Save Energy Daikin Helps Customers Reduce CO2 Read more (See page 89) Emissions with Air Conditioners, Air Conditioning Products Chemicals, and Oil Hydraulic Products Power-Saving Control Center Air Conditioning Network Service System II Room air conditioners, large commercial air conditioners, VRV Energy-Saving Tuning fluorochemical products, and oil hydraulic products—Daikin DESICA Commercial Humidity Controlling Heat develops environmentally conscious products so it can Recovery Ventilation System Daikin Develops Products Compliant with EU's ErP offer complete packages for helping customers reduce Directive their overall CO2 emissions. SKY SOLAR, Residential Solar Power System Fluorochemical Products ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Fluorine Characteristics Help Solar Cells Last Longer Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Efficient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Hybrid Construction Machinery 76 Environment Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products The Unique Characteristics of Fluorine Read more (See page 96) are Applied in Fields Such as Fuel Cells Fluorochemical Products That Contribute to and Solar Cells Environmental Protection Environmental Solutions Pioneered with Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to become Fluorochemical Products compounds that are highly stable and have useful Cross-section of three-layer fuel hose using functions such as the ability to resist heat and repel fluoroelastomer chemicals. Reducing PFOA Emissions Daikin uses the unique characteristics of fluorine to bring consumers a range of products that help protect the environment. Low-Impact Refrigerants Daikin is developing refrigerants that do Read more (See page 98) not deplete the ozone layer and that Protecting the Ozone Layer have low global warming potential. Switching to HFC Refrigerants Around the World We can offer the most adequate refrigerant for each case, Low-Impact Refrigerants we are conducting R&D that will achieve practical use of Daikin's Stance on the Environmental Impacts of Refrigerants everything from natural refrigerants to HFC fluorocarbons, which have a relatively low global warming potential. 3R & Repair Designing Products that are Easy to Read more (See page 101) Dismantle and Separate: Recycling 3R & Repair Used Air Conditioners 3R & Repair: Approach 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources The Daikin Group strives to use resources as effectively Recycling as possible by carrying out the 3Rs—reducing, reusing, Reducing and recycling—along with repairing under its 3R & Repair Amount of Packaging per Product (wood, cardboard, initiative. styrofoam, etc.) We develop products that are smaller and lighter, and that Reusing use materials and designs that are easy to separate and Repair recycle. Daikin Service Network Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2011 (Japan) 77 Environment Environmentally Conscious Design through Product Assessment Only Products that Pass 14 Assessment Items Make it to Market Besides factors like performance and ease of use, the Daikin Group stresses environmental performance in product development. We strive to raise this environmental performance by incorporating product assessment in the planning and design stages for new products. Product assessment consists of 14 assessment items that we strictly adhere to in developing products. We also assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the LCA (life cycle assessment) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. Products only make it to market after we have assessed them against their predecessor products to confirm they exert less environmental impact. Product Assessment Items For details on product assessment items, see the following website (Page 81) Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners Boosting APF (Annual Performance Factor) and Reducing Standby Power Consumption In the life cycle of an air conditioner, from design and manufacture to use and disposal, the majority of the CO2 that is emitted occurs during product use: over 90% in fact. That is why when we revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2007, we tightened our criteria for energy efficiency in the product use stage in order to improve the energy efficiency of products. In fiscal 2011, we strove to boost the APF (annual performance factor) and reduce the standby power consumption of products including commercial air conditioners and air purifiers. 78 Environment Sample of LCA: Comparison*1 of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions(energy-induced CO2) More than 90% of the CO2 emissions (energy-induced CO2) during the life cycle of an air conditioner come during product use. That's why we put the majority of our efforts into making products more energy efficient. *1 Based on Daikin standards for 14-kW class commercial air conditioners and 2.8-kW class residential air conditioners. *2 The seasonal power consumption is calculated in accordance with the standard of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association for commercial air conditioners and the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) for residential air conditioners. Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (residential air conditioners)*1 *1 Calculated for Daikin 2.8-kW class air conditioners. Under JIS conditions. *2 For products with prescribed measurements Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (commercial air conditioners)* 79 Environment * Calculated for Daikin 14.0-kW class air conditioners. Under conditions of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association, and JIS (Japan Industrial Standards). In 2006, the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy was partially revised: residential air conditioners of 4.0 kW or smaller now have to achieve not only the COP standard values, but also APF standard values with fiscal 2010 as the target year, and commercial air conditioners have to achieve APF standard values with fiscal 2015 as the target year. * COP APF: COP (coefficient of performance): The value of kW of cooling or heating capacity generated per 1 kW of power consumption. Calculated as follows: Cooling or heating capacity (kW) divided by electricity consumption (kW). APF (annual performance factor): The ratio of the total heat quantity (Wh) required to cool and heat a room during both the cooling and heating period to the total power consumption (Wh) during the same period. This allows calculation of an efficiency figure that more closely approximates the figure during actual use. 80 Environment Product Assessment Items Assessment item Assessment standard 1-1 Weight reduction of product Has product weight been reduced? 1-2 Weight reduction of main Have main materials and parts been reduced, or materials and parts been used in improved yield? 01. Weight reduction of products 1-3 Weight reduction of scarce Have fewer scarce materials been used? materials 1-4 Reduction of refrigerants, Has less refrigerant (HFC) been used, or has use of natural refrigerants refrigerant with low GWP been used? 2-1 Use of recycled plastics Have recycled plastics been used? 2-2 Labelling use of recycled Have parts been labelled as using recycled 02. Use of recycled materials plastics plastics? and parts Have reused parts been used, and are these of 2-3 Use of recycled parts standard quality? Has the overall possible recycling ratio of the 3-1 Raise recycling ratio 03. Raise possibility of reuse of product been raised? resources 3-2 Raise possibility of use of Have easy-to-recycle plastics been used? plastics 4-1 Improve durability of Are products more durable? products 4-2 Improve durability of parts Have durable parts and materials been used? and materials Does construction allow for easy consumables 4-3 Improve ease of parts replacement, and is information provided on how to replacement replace consumables? Have parts requiring maintenance and repair been clearly indicated? 04. Product life extension 4-4 Make it easier to maintain Are parts common across products? and repair Does construction allow for easy maintenance and repair? Has information been provided to end users and repair outlets on how to get longer use out of 4-5 Tell customers how to get products? longer use out of products Have repair outlets been provided with information on repair diagnosis and repair measures, and safety? 81 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard Have items been loaded evenly and balanced, and can collection and transport take place 5-1 Make work of collecting and safely? 05. Ease of transporting easier For heavy, bulky items, are handles and wheels collecting/transporting properly positioned? 5-2 More efficient loading when Is it easy to improve loading efficiency, and is there collecting and transporting no danger of items falling off? 6-1 Make it easier to Does construction allow for easy removal of items disassemble and separate to be disassembled and separated by hand? items by hand Are construction and assembly such that disassembly by hand is easy? Are there few screws that need to be removed 6-2 Make disassembly easier during disassembly by hand? 06. Ease of disassembly and Has information been provided that makes separation of materials by hand disassembly easy? 6-3 Reduce compound Has compound material been reduced? materials 6-4 Use common materials Have common materials been used across across products products? 6-5 Label types of materials to Have plastic parts been properly labelled as such? make separation easier Is shredding with a shredder easy? Can products and parts fit into a shredder? 7-1 Make shredding easier Has there been a check to ensure that there are 07. Ease of no substances that may damage or dirty the shredding/classifying for equipment or the materials that will be reused? recycling Are there any foreign materials containing similar properties? 7-2 Make classifying easier Have common materials been used across products? 82 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard Has packaging weight been reduced, and 8-1 Reduce weight of packaging simplified? packaging, simplify packaging Is used packaging compact, or is it easy to take apart, collect, and transport? Has the use of compound materials been reduced? Is it easy to separate each type of material in 8-2 Make it possible to recycle compound materials? more packaging Have common materials been used across 08. Packaging products? Has packaging reuse been considered? 8-3 Reduce or eliminate Has there been a check to ensure that there are no hazardous or poisonous substances used that are harmful to human health, packaging materials or that will hinder proper processing or recycling? 8-4 Use recycled packaging Has recycled packaging material been used? materials 8-5 Have labelling identifying Does labelling identify packaging materials packaging materials according to laws? 9-1 Improve safety in the Is the production process safe? production process 9-2 Improve safety in Is transportation safe? distribution 9-3 Improve safety during Is it safe to use the product? 09. Safety product use 9-4 Improve safety during Is product servicing safe? servicing Is it safe to recycle the product? 9-5 Improve safety during Is it safe to disassemble and separate the recycling product by hand? 83 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard 10-1 Ensure compliance with legal restrictions on Are amounts of environmentally harmful substances environmentally harmful within legal limits? substances Are products free of prohibited substances on the list of designated chemical substances in 10-2 Remove environmentally the Green Procurement Guidelines (4th harmful substances from edition)? products Prohibited substances are (1) previous prohibited substances, F gas from foaming agents, (2) RoHS substances. 10-3 Reduce PVC Has the amount of PVC been reduced? Has it been ensured that during disassembly, environmentally harmful substances will not leak or will not pose a danger to workers? Has it been ensured that the recycling facilities 10-4 Ensure environmental will not be harmed in any way by the recycling protection during recycling and process? 10. Environmental conservation disposal Have substances that may cause environmental capabilities impact during recycling or afterwards been reduced to the minimum? Is it easy to remove parts containing environmentally harmful substances? Have users been given important information at time of purchasing? Have users and repair persons been informed of important points to keep in mind during product use, repair, and movement? Does the user manual and other documents 10-5 Provide information to give users important points to keep in mind persons at all stages of the life when disposing of product? cycle Can retailers, or those transporting, installing, or collecting products easily know important points to keep in mind during product collection and transport? Are important points to keep in mind written on the product itself for those recycling and disposing of the product? 11-1 Include energy and Are there energy and resource saving functions? resource saving functions 11-2 Improve energy efficiency Has the product been made more energy efficient 11. Energy and resource during use during use? conservation in use 11-3 Reduce energy Has the product been made more energy efficient in consumption in standby mode standby? 11-4 Reduce amount of product Has the amount of consumables been reduced? consumables 84 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard 12-1 Label product, parts, user Is labelling of product, parts, user manual, and manual, packaging, etc. packaging in line with labelling guidelines? 12. Disclosure of information Are there sufficient documents (treatment manuals) 12-2 Provide information on with information on safety during processing so as recycling and waste treatment to promote recycling and environmental protection? 13. Reduction in environmental 13-1 Reduce emissions from Has the amount of by-products (emissions from impact in the manufacturing manufacturing manufacturing) been reduced? process 14-1 Determine the Has environmental impact been determined for the environmental impact at each material, production, transport, use, and disposal lifecycle stage stages? 14. LCA 14-2 Consider how to reduce environmental impact during the Is it possible to reduce environmental impact? lifecycle 85 Environment Inverter Technology Can Reduce Power Consumption by Approx. 30% Inverters are frequency conversion devices that control electrical voltage, current, and frequency. Since inverter technology enables the minute control of room temperature, air conditioners equipped with inverters can reduce annual power consumption by approximately 30% compared to non-inverter models (Daikin estimate for residential air conditioners). What is Inverter Technology? Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Manufacturing Low-Cost Inverter Products in China to Sell Worldwide The Daikin Group aims to provide more highly energy efficient inverter air conditioners worldwide and thus reduce the amount of CO2 emissions from energy consumption during product use. The motor rotation in an inverter type air conditioner is variably controlled, which reduces energy use by about 30% compared to non-inverter models. While most air conditioners in Japan today are inverter models, most in use outside Japan are non-inverter models. Making inverter air conditioners more affordable is key to achieving their widespread use. To this end, in March 2009, Daikin Industries and major Chinese air conditioner manufacturer Gree Electric Appliances, Inc of Zhuhai established two joint venture companies to manufacture key components and molds for highly efficient, low-cost inverter air conditioners. Manufacturing began at these companies in October 2009. In April 2012, we began operations at a new factory in Suzhou, China, one of the Daikin Group's largest factories. This marks a new start in Daikin's efforts to increase the use of inverter models in markets where their use is not yet widespread. For details, see Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Daikin CSR in China (Page 47) 86 Environment Heat Pump Systems for Space Heating and Water Heaters Less than Half the CO2 Emissions Compared to Burning Fossil Fuels In the heat-pump method used in air conditioners and other products, thermal energy stored in the air or water is extracted and transferred to perform cooling and heating. Compared to carrying out space and water heating using methods in which fossil fuels such as gas, oil, and coal are directly burned, heat pump systems emit less than half the CO2. The Heat Pump Mechanism Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Bringing More CO2-Reducing Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters to the European Market The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using energy-efficient heat pump technology. This technology, which is also used for air conditioning, involves drawing heat from the air and transferring it for use in cooling and heating. Compared to space or water heating methods that burn fossil fuels directly, it produces approximately one-third the CO2. The EU has set a target of having renewable energy such as wind and solar power account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. In January 2009, heat pumps were recognized in the EU as technology that captures renewable energy and heat pump heaters are being recommended as part of this target. In 2006, the Daikin Group began selling a heat-pump type hot water heaters and heating system in Europe and we have been expanding the product lineup since then. While Daikin is taking the opportunity provided by EU energy policy to spread the use of heat pump products throughout the continent, it is also doing the same in other markets around the world. For details, see Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Environmental Solutions around the World (Page 53) 87 Environment Increasing Sales in the Commercial Market for Products Including the MEGA-Q Large-Scale Heat Pump Hot Water System Daikin's heat-pump technology is incorporated into ECOCUTE heat pump water heaters and Hot Eco-Floor heat-pump hot-water floor heaters. The Daikin Group is also developing space and hot water heaters for the commercial market as well using highly energy efficient heat-pump technology. In Japan, the ECOCUTE heat pump hot water heater is becoming more prevalent. And in April 2009, we released a commercial heat pump water heating system (MEGA-Q) for large-scale facilities such as hotels and hospitals that can supply up to 120 tons of hot water a day while attaining about a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to combustion-type water heaters. It also allows running cost reductions of approximately 60%. Facilities like hospitals and golf courses require changing volumes of hot water daily, and Daikin meets this challenge with a hybrid hot water supply system that switches to boiler operation during peak periods. As well, we are working to spread the use of the Danzen Heat system for commercial facilities, which cuts CO2 emissions by 52% compared to an oil-powered hot-air space heater. We are contributing to energy efficiency by replacing combustion type water heaters with heat pump models. Features of the MEGA-Q Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler 88 Environment Air Conditioning Products Daikin Installs Power-Saving Control Center for Commercial Air Conditioner With Japan facing the danger of an electricity shortage during the summer due to the effects of the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, the government set a target of reducing electricity across the board for summer and winter in homes and the private sector. In April 2011, Daikin installed a power-saving control center for commercial air conditioners in the jurisdiction of Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO). There are currently about 30 different measures for helping commercial air conditioners save power, with approximately 200 dedicated staff visiting customer sites to offer one or more powersaving measures (fee-based service). The power-saving measures are a collection of those that had previously been offered by various Daikin divisions. From cleaning filters on interior units, to measures during operation—such as monitoring by customers, or remote monitoring by Daikin, to ensure energy-efficient control—a variety of measures can add up to energy savings between 20 and 30%. And these measures cover air conditioners of other manufacturers, not just of Daikin. There are approximately 900,000 commercial air conditioners just in the jurisdiction of TEPCO (based on number of exterior units). If all of these were to adopt energy-saving measures, it would save between 500,000 and 1 million kW, the equivalent of the capacity of one nuclear reactor. In June 2011, we also set up a power-saving control center as our West Japan base in the jurisdiction of Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO), thus allowing us to offering energy-saving measures across the country. Air conditioner sales companies around Japan are offering power-saving options and these have been promoted to retailers and customers. We will continue to offer ways for customers to save energy on their existing air conditioners as well as step up our marketing strategy with the aim of securing upgrade sales of new energy-efficient models. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: A Range of Power-Saving Solutions to Alleviate Japan's Energy Shortage (Page 56) 89 Environment Air Conditioning Network Service System II Remotely Monitors Building Air Conditioning and Suggests Ways to Improve Energy Efficiency Air conditioning accounts for about 40% of the energy consumed by commercial buildings in Japan. Daikin strives to bring more energy-efficient air conditioners to market. But we also know that how these air conditioners are used can greatly affect the amount of energy consumed. That's why we offer the Air Conditioning Network Service System II to remotely support energy-efficient air conditioner operation. This service started out as a maintenance function to monitor air conditioner operation in order to prevent malfunctions or breakdowns before they occur. But to add more value, we came up with a remote energy-saving tuning function, which keeps air conditioners at the most energy-efficient operation level by monitoring product use and weather conditions. This service was recognized for energy savings of up to 20% and reduction of CO2 emissions and in December 2008 was awarded the Minister of the Environment Prize in the 5th Eco-Product Awards in Japan. In March 2009, we added an energy saving improvement support function to the Air Conditioning Network Service System II. Using an online screen showing daily operational data of the air conditioning system in a customer's building, Daikin monitors operation in each room for four criteria that help avoid wasted energy: that rooms are not overheated or overcooled, that lights are turned off, that filters are properly cleaned, and that electricity use is not exceeding targets. Daikin then makes suggestions based on these. Daikin Begins Service to Boost Energy Efficiency of Existing Building Air Conditioners VRV Energy-Saving Tuning The Revised Rationalization in Energy Use Law went into effect in April 2010 in Japan, obligating smalland medium-size companies to report energy use and set non-binding targets for energy-saving measures. In response, since September 2010 we have been offering our VRV Energy-Saving Tuning service, which helps customers who have purchased Daikin building air conditioners we have been selling since before 2006 save energy. Customers don't need to purchase another air conditioner and tuning takes only a short time. And annual savings are up to 20%. Customers have praised this service, which keeps on saving energy for several years until customers upgrade to a new air conditioner. Also as part of our total energy support, we have ENE-FOCUS, a system that allows companies with multiple buildings to efficiently manage their energy use and report to the government authorities in accordance with the Rationalization in Energy Use Law. In fiscal 2011, we received a large number of requests to provide our VRV Energy-Saving Tuning service to electric utilities, particularly Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) and Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO), to meet their demands for saving energy. We installed approximately 12,000 systems for this service. In recognition of Daikin's installation of so many units of this highly energy-efficient system, in December 2011 we received the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the 8th Eco-Product Awards. 90 Environment DESICA Commercial Humidity Controlling Heat Recovery Ventilation System Invention Award from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry at the 2011 National Commendation for Invention Requiring no water drainage or supply pipes, DESICA instead uses outside air to control humidity, either humidifying or dehumidifying. Equipped with the Hybrid DESICA Element, which contains both highly efficient water absorption material and a heat exchanger, it consumes just one-sixth the energy of conventional humidity controlling devices (according to Daikin tests). This superb performance earned Daikin the Invention Award form the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry at the 2011 National Commendation for Invention in June 2011. Receiving the National Invention Award 91 Environment The DESICA Commercial Air Conditioning System Daikin Develops Products Compliant with EU's ErP Directive The ErP Directive sets eco-design requirements for energy-using products (since July 2005) and energy-related products (since November 2009). In 2013, it will include energy efficiency regulation values for air conditioning equipment up to 12 kW, meaning that products Daikin sells in Europe in future will have to comply with the ErP Directive. Daikin has developed Seasonal Smart, commercial air conditioners for offices and retailers that satisfy the ErP Directive values. We released these in 2011, ahead of the start of the ErP regulation values in 2013. SKY SOLAR, Residential Solar Power System Aiming to Achieve Zero Net Energy Balance in the Home In April 2012, Daikin Industries released its SKY SOLAR residential solar power generation system. By giving the system air conditioning and water heating run by highly energy efficient heat pump technology, Daikin is meeting customers' energy needs. The aim of this system is to eventually help home-owners achieve a zero net energy balance. SKY SOLAR, residential solar power generation system 92 Environment Fluorochemical Products An Easy to Install Air Conditioner : ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Daikin developed ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, a Example of Use of ZEFFLE Infrared fluororesin-based paint that reflects the sun's infrared rays off building Reflective Coating roofs. Compared to conventional paints, ZEFFLE reduces building roof Ship surface temperature by as much as 15-20°C, thus keeping inside temperature down. It also reduces power consumption by approximately 15% to make a major contribution to saving energy in the summer. ZEFFLE could almost be called a easy-to-install air conditioner. Used in combination with an energy-efficient air conditioner, ZEFFLE can help reduce electricity consumption. Besides the roof and outer walls of a building, ZEFFLE is effective in blocking heat and preventing weathering in other ways. For example, by applying it to water storage tanks such as those holding drinking water, it prevents the temperature from rising, thus maintaining sanitation. On On this ship, ZEFFLE helps prevent salt corrosion, water and ice storage tanks, it maintains the cooling effect and saves keep temperatures down, and maintain the energy. As well, it is being used increasingly on the top deck of marine appearance vessels to keep cargo space from heating up, and to prevent Oil tank deterioration due to salt water and ultraviolet rays. Daikin is heavily promoting ZEFFLE for use on detached housing units in Japan, and it is aggressively expanding the regions where it is sold to include China, Europe, and the Middle East. Features of ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating By keeping the temperature down, ZEFFLE helps prevent the transpiration of oil vapor inside the tank 93 Environment Fluorine Characteristics Help Solar Cells Last Longer Making the most of fluoropolymers' chemical resistance, heat resistance, and weather resistance, Daikin provides materials that contribute to the spread of solar cells. For example, the fluororesin (ETFE)* used for the surface protection film on solar cells has high light transmittance and lasts for more than 20 years under the sunlight. Compared to the glass film conventionally used for surface protection, such protection film allows for the creation of versatile flexible solar cells that bring solar energy to a wider range of applications. ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, which is used for the back sheet to prevent the infiltration of infrared rays and moisture, both of which harm the interior of solar cells, is thinner than conventional fluoropolymer film while offering the same weather-proofing and durability. * ETFE: A fluoropolymer with superb chemical resistance and insulation qualities. It is used as coating for items such as electrical wires. Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Efficient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit Energy Savings and Lower CO2 Emissions in Factories Daikin also leads the industry in making energy-efficient hydraulic units for factory production lines. The energy-efficient hybrid hydraulic Super Unit employs the same motor inverter technology that is used in Daikin's energy-efficient air conditioners. The Super Unit determines the load on the machine, depending on whether it is in standby, operation, or pressure holding mode, and electronically controls the pump at the necessary RPM. The result is energy savings of more than 50% in pressure holding mode (compared to Daikin piston pumps). For use on presses, molding equipment, and inspection devices, the Super Unit contributes to energy savings and lower CO2 emissions. The Super Unit is widely used on molding equipment around the world and is popular for its superior precision and energy efficiency. In January 2011, we established Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., an oil hydraulic equipment sales company, to expand sales in this field. Electricity Consumption of Super Unit and Conventional Hydraulic Unit 94 Environment 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Contributes to High-Precision Machine Tools and 45% Greater Energy Efficiency In machine tools, precision is dramatically affected by the temperature control for the lubricating oil and cooling oil. With increasingly precise machine tools comes a growing demand for detailed temperature control. Released in June 2012, Daikin's 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit allows temperature adjustment to ±0.1°C. In addition, with inverter control and the most advanced compressor, it offers 45% greater energy efficiency than conventional on/off controllers. As well, it has already been certified for the EU's RoHS Directive*. Daikin's 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit thus helps companies protect the environment, save energy, and boost productivity. * RoHS Directive: 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive is an EU directive that restricts the use of certain hazardous materials in the manufacture of various types of electronic and electrical equipment in order to reduce harmful impacts on human health and the environment. 95 Environment Fluorochemical Products That Contribute to Environmental Protection Contributing to Environmental Protection in a Range of Areas Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to become compounds that are highly stable and have useful functions such as the ability to resist heat and repel chemicals. Daikin uses the unique characteristics of fluorine to bring consumers a range of products that help protect the environment. Examples that save customers energy include ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, which can be painted onto buildings to prevent rising temperatures inside and reduce the load on air conditioning, and Neoflon ETFE, which prolongs the life of solar cells. For details, see Fluorochemical Products (Helping Customers Save Energy). (Page 93) Environmental Solutions Pioneered with Fluorochemical Products 96 Environment In the Automotive Industry, Fluoride Materials Reduce Leaking of VOCs Fluororesins and fluoroelastomers, which are used to Cross-section of Three-layer Fuel Hose Using make automobile fuel hoses, prevent leaking of VOCs Fluoroelastomer (volatile organic compounds) and keep the permeation of gasoline at a low level even while the car engine is hot. Daikin's newly developed DAI-EL Fluoro TPV can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel to about one-twentieth compared to our previous fluoroelastomers. In China and other emerging countries where automobile production is on the rise, fluoride materials are replacing non-fluoride materials to comply with stricter environmental regulations. This is creating increasing demand for DAI-EL Fluoro TPV and other Daikin fluoride materials. Fluoride Materials Reduce Environmental Impact in Various Applications Fluoride materials contribute to reduced environmental impact in a range of other applications as well. FEP fluororesins have superb flame resistance, which allows them to replace metal pipelines as covering for LAN wiring and thus save resources; and PTFE fluororesins prevent air pollution and save resources when used as highly efficient, long-lasting dust-collecting bag filters in incinerators and power stations. Reducing PFOA Emissions Gradually Reducing Emissions Towards Total Elimination by 2012 Daikin has set a target of totally eliminating its use of Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA), a fluorochemical compound concerned to have environmental effects, by the end of 2012. Daikin uses PFOA as a polymerization aid for some fluororesins and fluoroelastomers that are used in a wide range of fields including semiconductors, information and telecommunication, automotive, and aerospace. As well, minute quantities of PFOA are given off as a by-product in the production process of fluorochemical products that are applied to the surface of clothing and carpets to repel water and oil. While stable, it does not readily degrade in the environment, and if it is ingested by living organisms, it may remain for relatively long periods in the body. Therefore, in 2006 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced the creation of the 2010/15 PFOA Stewardship Program. Daikin and seven other of the world's leading fluorochemical manufacturers are participating in this program. As a result of an in-house reduction program, Daikin is gradually switching to substitutes. Besides reducing PFOA emissions, we are switching to polymerization aids as substitutes, and switching to products that do not give off PFOA as a by-product during production. As of the end of fiscal 2010, we had reduced our PFOA use by 95%. And as of the end of fiscal 2011, we had totally eliminated the use of PFOA in Japan and now aim to do the same at our bases in other countries as well. 97 Environment Protecting the Ozone Layer Switching to Substitute Refrigerants and Recovering Fluorocarbons Refrigerant is used to transport heat between the interior and exterior units of an air conditioner. HCFC used to be the major refrigerant used, but in the 1980s experts suspected it was depleting the ozone layer, so under the Montreal Protocol developed nations agreed to completely phase out its production in developed countries by 2020. Daikin has for years worked to prevent ozone layer destruction by developing substitute refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer. In 1991 we began the first mass-production in Japan of HFC, a refrigerant with an ozone depletion potential of zero, and in 1995, we began selling air conditioners that use HFC as the refrigerant. Besides switching to HFC refrigerants, we have also been working to ensure that there is no leakage into the atmosphere: we design and develop products that are easy to recover refrigerant and prevent its leakage, and we recover refrigerant during the manufacturing stage and product repair. In April 2002, we began a fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business in which we recover and properly dispose of refrigerants from used air conditioners. Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners (Page 117) Switching to Refrigerants with Zero Ozone Depletion Potential outside Japan The Daikin Group is phasing out conventional HCFC refrigerants and switching to HFC, a refrigerant with an ozone depletion potential of zero. Daikin sells only products using HFC in Japan and Europe. We were also the first company in China to offer HFC VRV, and we currently provide HFC residential air conditioners as well. In Southeast Asia and other countries where HCFC air conditioners are the norm, we are offering HFC models (where possible given current infrastructure) and promoting their benefits. Switching to HFC Refrigerants Around the World Japan The majority of air conditioners sold use HFC refrigerant Europe We sell only products using HFC Australia We sell products using HFC U.S. We sell products using HFC China We sell HFC VRV systems Other parts of Asia, rest of world We sell HFC VRV systems 98 Environment Low-Impact Refrigerants Research into a Wide Range of Next-Generation Refrigerants Although HFC has an ozone depletion potential of zero, it contributes to global warming if released into the atmosphere. The Daikin Group is conducting research aimed at achieving practical use of next-generation refrigerants that contribute less to global warming than HFC, currently the most widely used refrigerant. In conducting research aimed at eventually releasing products using such next-generation refrigerants, we focus not only on their direct effect on global warming but also on their effects throughout the entire lifecycle, including energy efficiency during air conditioner use. We are also making decisions based on all contributing factors: besides the environmental impact of refrigerants themselves, we look at safety factors like combustibility and toxicity, the cost of the refrigerant, and the cost of producing air conditioners that use the refrigerant. Different characteristics are required of refrigerants, depending on whether they are used in, for example, residential or commercial air conditioners, water and space heaters, or freezing/refrigeration equipment. So that we can offer the most adequate refrigerant for each case, we are developing a range of refrigerants: everything from natural refrigerants to HFC fluorocarbons, which have a relatively low global warming potential. We are also providing opportunities for dialogue at international conferences and trade shows in efforts to provide the public with information on the global warming impact of refrigerants and on what can be done to prevent this. Environmental Forums and Exhibits (Page 150) 99 Environment Daikin's Stance on the Environmental Impacts of Refrigerants Refrigerants ODP GWP* Flammability Refrigerant characteristics Daikin's stance Production to be completely phased out in developed Current countries by 2020. refrigerants in In emerging countries, HCFC22 0.055 1,500 Nonflammable emerging production to be decreased countries starting in 2013 and completely phased out by All of the major models 2030. completed refrigerant switchover from HCFC Because propane has no to HFC impact on the ozone layer Current and has the same global refrigerants in HFC410A 0 1,725 Nonflammable warming potential and developed efficiency as HCFC22, it is countries being adopted in developed countries. No impact on the ozone layer and a low global Slightly HFO1234yf/ze 0 4-6 warming potential. flammable Flammable. Safety and price issues. Seen as a possible refrigerant in the future No impact on the ozone Slightly layer, and one of the lowest HFC32 0 650 flammable global warming potentials among HFCs. Flammable. Put into commercial Next-generation production as No impact on the ozone refrigerants refrigerants for hot layer and low global warming water supply units, for CO2 0 1 Nonflammable potential. Low efficiency which performance is when used for air equivalent to that of conditioning. conventional refrigerants No impact on the ozone Technical development layer and low global warming is needed to adopt as Highly potential. An efficient Propane 0 3 refrigerant for air flammable refrigerant, but highly conditioners in order to flammable and susceptible ensure safety to explosion. Note: Source: IPCC Second Assessment Report, other documents. HFO1234yf/ze values from ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers). 100 Environment 3R & Repair Stressing Effective Use of Resources in Design The Daikin Group strives to use resources as effectively as possible by carrying out the 3Rs-reducing, reusing, and recycling-along with repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. This initiative plays a key role in our product design and development. Based on product assessment, we design and develop products that are smaller and lighter, and that use materials and construction that make them easy to maintain, separate, and recycle. Environmentally Conscious Design through Product Assessment (Page 78) 3R & Repair: Approach Reduce Make products smaller and lighter, Use recycled materials Reuse Use parts from end-of-life products Design products that are easy to separate and recycle Use plastics that are easy to recycle Development Recycle Indicate the materials used Construct products that are easy to disassemble After use Recycle end-of-life products Development Design products that are easy to maintain Repair After disposal Have a repair support system that contributes to long-lasting products 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources 101 Environment Recycling Designing Products for Easy Disassembly Product design stresses 3R & Repair based on product assessment. Since 1997, we have designed products so that their construction makes them easy to disassemble. Reducing Maker Smaller and Lighter Products that are Still Energy Efficient Making products smaller and lighter means they will use fewer resources. When making air conditioners, we set weight reduction targets for both the entire product and its components. However, it is technically difficult to achieve this without sacrificing energy efficiency. If making it smaller and lighter means that it consumes more energy, then the product's environmental performance throughout the entire lifecycle has not yet been improved. When the Daikin Group develops new products, we establish weight reduction targets for each product on the condition that the APF (annual performance factor) does not decrease. For example, the Eco-ZEAS 80, released in May 2012, is approximately 26% lighter than our previous model thanks to innovations such as an all-aluminum heat exchanger, the first for a heat-pump-type air conditioner, and more compact electronic components. Product Packaging Weight Reduced by 1% Since Fiscal 2010 We set a target of reducing the amount of packaging for air conditioning products by 6% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2011, our distribution and design divisions worked together to make our new models stronger and develop a new structure for packaging to reduce the amount of packaging. As a result, we achieved our goal of a 1% reduction in packaging weight compared to fiscal 2010. We are currently developing new packaging material to reach our fiscal 2012 goal of reducing packaging weight by 2% compared to fiscal 2010. Amount of Packaging per Product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) 102 Environment (1)Simulation Technology Leads to an Approximately 15% Reduction in Packaging Material Because the phenomenon of products dropping happens at such a high speed, it is difficult to understand exactly where the force of impact is concentrated on the packaging material. That's why Daikin decided to adopt simulation technology to make it easier to decide what shape of packaging shape would provide optimal protection against the force of impact at high velocity. Simulations allowed Daikin to reduce packaging material by 15% on the bottom of packages for exterior units for commercial air conditioners. (2)Product Design Changes Lead to an Approximately 5% Reduction in Packaging Material Conventionally, the top of products had protruding parts (an air outlet grille), which required packaging material to prevent these from getting damaged. Daikin's design division solved this problem by giving the product's top a flat surface and eliminating the need for protective packaging material. This allowed us to use 5% less packaging material for the exterior unit of building air conditioners. 103 Environment Reusing Repair and Reusing Parts that have Already Been Replaced In the Daikin Group, we try to use resources efficiently. We take parts that have already been replaced and that contain multiple components, such as printed circuit boards, and we repair any malfunctions or replace the worn-out components. These parts (the printed circuit board, for example) are then tested for quality by ensuring that they are functioning properly and, with the customer's permission, are used as replacement parts when performing repair on a product. Repair Reinforcing the Global Repair System Making products that last longer means that fewer resources are used. To this end, the Daikin Group is strengthening its repair system by establishing service outlets around the world to take customer repair requests and questions and enquiries regarding products. 104 Environment In Japan, the Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take inquiries, while 55 service outlets across the nation carry out product repair and maintenance. We will continue to strive for even greater customer satisfaction by improving the technical expertise and etiquette of our service engineers. With Daikin picking up the pace of its overseas expansion in recent years, it is crucial that we strengthen our service network in each country. We have added service bases in countries like Spain, Singapore, and Italy through the integration of the service system of O.Y.L. Industries Bhd, which Daikin acquired in 2006. In North America and China, Daikin is working with O.Y.L company McQuay International to exchange employees and utilize networks so as to improve the service system. Daikin Service Network Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Daikin Achieves Recycling Ratio of 86%, Well above Obligations under Home Appliance Recycling Law The Home Appliance Recycling Law obligates manufacturers to recycle at least 70% of the material from their own air conditioners as well as recover and then reuse or destroy refrigerants. In fiscal 2011, we recovered about 200,000 products totaling 9,017 tons. The recycling ratio was 86% and the amount of refrigerants recovered was 128 tons. Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2011 (Japan) 105 Environment The Daikin Group strives to reduce environmental impact during production (including procurement and transportation). Besides making it a priority to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases during production, we do all we can to manage and reduce emissions of chemicals and reduce waste. We are also working to achieve targets that our manufacturing bases around the world have set for recovering and destroying fluorocarbon refrigerants during production process and during maintenance or final disposal of air conditioners. Preventing Global Warming — Production, Transportation Aiming to Reduce Emissions to Read more (See page 109) One-Third of Fiscal 2005 Levels by Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Fiscal 2015 Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group (during production) The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions of the Reducing Fluorocarbon Emissions Daikin Group emit during production four kinds of HFC and PFC Emissions and Global Warming fluorocarbons (HFC, PFC, CFC, and HCFC) that are Impact greenhouse gases. We therefore make it a top priority to CFC and HCFC Emissions and Global Warming reduce fluorocarbons by preventing their leakage during Impact production processes and by recovering and properly Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process destroying them. Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 We also reduce CO2 emissions during production and Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Sales transportation by introducing energy-efficient technologies Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation and raising transportation efficiency. CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (air-conditioning) Green Heart Factories and Green Heart Offices Saving Energy at Overseas Bases 106 Environment Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Proper Recovery of Refrigerants during Read more (See page 117) Air Conditioner Disposal and Repair Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons from Prevents Release into the Atmosphere Customers' Air Conditioners Efforts to Prevent Environmental Burden from CFC To protect the ozone layer and help curb global warming, it Emissions is crucial that we prevent release of air conditioner Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants refrigerants (fluorocarbons) into the atmosphere. The Efforts in Japan Daikin Group has a system for recovering and treating Unified Management System of Refrigerant refrigerants so that they are not released into the Recovery and Destruction atmosphere during the maintenance, upgrading, or Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) disposal of air conditioners. Types of Fluorocarbons Recovered during Maintenance (Japan) Daikin strives to prevent refrigerant emissions post-sales. Recycling System for Commercial Use Air We have a fluorocarbon recovery and destruction Conditioners business in which we take requests from customers for Efforts Overseas refrigerant recovery. Green Procurement Picking Up the Pace of Overseas Green Read more (See page 122) Procurement: 98% in Thailand, 91% in Green Procurement China, 81% in Europe, and 87% in Green Procurement Rate (Japan) Oceania Green Procurement Rate by Region Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 6th Edition Whenever possible, the Daikin Group purchases only green parts and materials from suppliers and throughout Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals the entire supply chain. Specified Chemical Substance List (for products) Since fiscal 2000, we have been urging our suppliers to comply with our Green Procurement Guidelines in order to conduct their business in an environmentally conscious manner. *Green procurement rate: The percentage of our suppliers that have scored at least 82% on the green procurement survey. 107 Environment Compliance with J-Moss For Daikin room air conditioners, we report which of the Read more (See page 126) six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking of presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical Compliance with J-Moss and electronic equipment) are contained in our products. Substances Contained in Room Air Conditioners Management of Chemical Substances Goal to Reduce PRTR Substances in Read more (See page 129) Japan by 15% Against Fiscal 2010 Management of Chemical Substances The Daikin Group has voluntary restrictions that its uses to Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant strictly manage the chemical substances used in Release and Transfer Register Law (Japan) Compilation of PRTR Substances in FY2011 (PRTR production processes in the Chemicals Division. We have substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) set a goal of reducing emissions of PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry) substances by 15% by fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2010. Reducing Waste and Water Reducing Overall Waste Emissions and Read more (See page 131) Water Usage Reducing Waste The Daikin Group strives to reduce the amount of waste Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials (FY2011) generated and make effective use of waste through efforts Recycling Efforts including material and thermal recycling. Using Water Resources Water Used And through measures such as improving production processes and reusing waste water, we strive for effective use of water resources. 108 Environment Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Fiscal 2011 Emissions Down 62% from Fiscal 2005 One of the key environmental targets of the fiscal 2010 Fusion 15 strategic management plan is to reduce total Group CO2 emissions to one-third of fiscal 2005 levels by fiscal 2015 (67% reduction). As a result of efforts towards this target, overall Group greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2011 were 1.56 million tons-CO2, down by 62% over fiscal 2005. Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group (during production) Note: Fiscal 2015 targets include emissions of the OYL Group. The calculation standard for fluorocarbons has been unified; therefore, data back to fiscal 2005 has been revised. Success in meeting Japan's 6% reduction target The Daikin Group in Japan emitted 290,000 tons-CO2 of gases designated by the Kyoto Protocol (CO2, HFC, and PFC) in fiscal 2011, a reduction of 97% compared to the 10.33 million tons-CO2 emitted in the base year of the Kyoto Protocol (FY1990 for CO2, FY1995 for HFC and PFC). Success in reducing gases not designated by the Kyoto Protocol Although CFC and HCFC are not indicated by the Kyoto Protocol as targeted gases, the Daikin Group is working to reduce these emissions. In fiscal 2011, emissions of these two gases were 530,000 tons-CO2. Kyoto Protocol An international agreement under which developed countries are obligated to reduce overall greenhouse gases by at least 5% compared to 1990 between 2008 and 2012. It was passed in 1997 at the 3rd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto. Greenhouse gases designated by the Kyoto Protocol are CO2, methane, N2O, and three CFC alternatives (HFC, PFC, and SF6). Major developed nations are obligated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: Japan by 6%, the United States by 7% (although the United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol), and the EU by 8%. In March 2008, Japan's Cabinet approved a revised plan for targets that includes additional measures to improve the energy efficiency in the residential and construction sectors. The government is also aiming to achieve Japan's targets through revision of the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming. 109 Environment Reducing Fluorocarbon Emissions Greenhouse Gases HFC and PFC Reduced by 73% in Fiscal 2011 Against 2005 The Daikin Group emits two kinds of greenhouse gases: CO2 from energy use, and fluorocarbons handled in the production processes. Of these, there are four kinds of fluorocarbons released during Daikin's production processes: HFC and PFC, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol, and CFC and HCFC, which are not. We have set reduction targets for each of these fluorocarbons. In fiscal 2011, we reduced PFC emissions in fluorochemical production processes and succeeded in lowering emissions by 100,000 tons-CO2 over the previous year. As a result, fiscal 2011 emissions of the HFC and PFC covered by the Kyoto Protocol were 170 tons (960,000 tons CO2 equivalent), a 73% reduction over fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2011 emissions of CFC and HCFC were 1 ton and 348 tons respectively, a 57% decrease over fiscal 2005. HFC and PFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact CFC and HCFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact Fluorocarbon Recovery Equipment Ensures Proper Destruction of Refrigerants (Chemicals Division) The fluorocarbons emitted in the Chemicals Division are raw materials and by-products in the production of fluorochemical products. To prevent such emissions, we have been installing recovery equipment on production lines and properly destroying the fluorocarbon gases recovered. We also take the fluorite generated during the destruction process and use it as raw material for the production of fluorochemical products. 110 Environment Ensuring No Leaks When Filling Air Conditioners with Refrigerant (Machinery Divisions) During the air conditioner manufacturing process, we do everything possible to ensure no refrigerants (HFC, HCFC) leak during filling. These measures include the following: We inspect all pipes for leakage before refrigerant filling. If operation inspections show that a product must be fixed, we do so after recovering all the refrigerant from it. We take every precaution possible during refrigerant filling to ensure there are no leaks. All this and other related work is done by certified technicians according Recovering refrigerant to maintenance manual procedures. Technicians also undergo training every year based on the manual. 111 Environment Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Daikin Industries carries out three inspections for refrigerant leaks during the residential air conditioner production process. This gives customers highly reliable products and prevents refrigerant emissions due to product defects. 1. Air-tightness and pressure 2. Gas leak inspection 3. Pre-delivery inspection resistance inspection After ensuring there are no leaks, When the product is completed and Before we insert refrigerant, we pump air refrigerant is sealed inside and a packed, a refrigerant detector is once at an extremely high pressure of 4.2 MPa refrigerant detector is used to inspect all again used to ensure no refrigerant has to check for leaks at the welded sections, brazed parts. leaked. pipes, and other parts refrigerant passes through. 112 Environment Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 Production Volume Rises by 8% Over Fiscal 2010 but Energy-Induced CO2 Rise Kept to Just 2% In fiscal 2011, Daikin carried out a number of measures in response to energy shortages in Japan in the summer. These included shifting more work to night-time, running cogeneration systems at full capacity, reducing peak electricity by using in-house power generation equipment, and having all employees do every little thing possible in their daily work to save electricity. At the Sakai Plant, we installed solar panels in two locations, and we installed LEDs and other energy-efficient lighting. Overseas as well, we installed solar panels and energy-efficient lighting Daikin Europe N.V. installed 1,932 solar panels wherever possible. At Daikin Europe N.V., 1,932 solar panels were installed and will generate an estimated 400,000 kWh a year. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. installed LED lighting in product and parts warehouses and for outside lighting. These will contribute to reducing total CO2 emissions by approximately 90 tons-CO2. As a result of these efforts, fiscal 2011 energy-induced CO2 was up by just 2% over fiscal 2010 to 590,000 tons-CO2, despite a production volume increase of 8%. Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Sales Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. installed LEDs for outside lighting Daikin manufacturing bases in Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, and France purchase green energy CO2 emissions per sales The amount of CO2 emitted by net sales. The lower this figure, the less CO2 a company emits per unit of production and thus the more efficiently that company can make products. 113 Environment Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation Shifting Means of Transport Reduced CO2 Emissions by 2.5% Over Fiscal 2010 Daikin Industries set a goal of decreasing CO2 emissions (per sales) from transportation by 2% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 by switching from trucks to trains and ferries. As well, we increased the use of direct shipping from overseas production sites to Japan to ensure the shortest possible transportation route. As a result of these efforts, the modal shift rate (percentage change in means of transport) was up 2 points to 30%, and CO2 emissions (per sales) during transport were down 2.5% over fiscal 2010, exceeding our 2% target. For fiscal 2012, our aim is to increase modal shift and direct shipping to achieve a 4% decrease in CO2 emissions over fiscal 2010. CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (air-conditioning) Reducing Other Environmental Impact during Transportation 114 Environment Daikin Receives First Eco-Rail Mark Certification for Air Conditioning Products In November 2010, Daikin Industries and five Daikin air conditioning products were certified for the Eco-Rail Mark from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. This is the first time an air conditioning product has been certified for this system, which certifies products that travel solely on land or, if not, at least 500 kilometers on land and 30 percent or more of the goods are carried on railways. Eco-Rail Mark Daikin will continue shifting more products to railway shipping. Green Heart Factories and Green Heart Offices Daikin Launches Green Heart Office Initiative The Daikin Group has been certifying environmentally conscious plants under its in-house Green Heart Factories initiative since fiscal 2005. As of the end of fiscal 2011, five bases had been certified as Green Heart Factories by scoring at least 85 points out of 100 on five criteria, and three bases had been certified as Super Green Heart Factories by scoring at least 95 points. In fiscal 2011, Daikin began the Green Heart Office initiative to improve environmental consciousness at non-production bases. Activities began with a contest that invited employees to design a poster to promote and raise awareness of Green Heart Offices. The winning poster has been put up in Daikin offices. Green Heart Office promotion poster Saving Energy at Overseas Bases Overseas Bases Certified for Energy-Efficient Buildings In fiscal 2011, the McQuay International parts warehouse in Dayton, Ohio earned Energy Star certification for meeting strict criteria including comfort and energy performance. In addition, Daikin Australia's head office building was one of just a handful to receive a rating of 5.5 stars in NABERS (National Australian Built Environment Rating System) ratings. Certificate of NABERS certification 115 Environment LEED® Gold Certification for Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center in the United States In December 2010, the Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center in Minnesota earned LEED® Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council for its energy efficiency and green design. The facility was highly rated for a green design that includes major facilities equipped with an inverter air conditioning system, test equipment using heat recovery technology, and energy-efficient lighting. More than 90% of the center's energy is used for development testing (cooling and heating water, etc.), and 75% of this energy is recovered and reused to make the facility energy efficient. At the awards ceremony Daikin Takes Part in Government Energy-Reduction Project Daikin Europe N.V. is participating in an energy-reduction project being carried out by the government of Flanders, Belgium. Between 2009 and 2013, based on an in-house energy-reduction plan, the company is striving to reduce its energy use through measures including converting equipment to inverters and recovering heat from test equipment. Using Renewable Energy in Thailand Daikin Thailand, a major plant in Southeast Asia, uses renewable energy, such as hydropower that utilizes the in-house cooling water, and wind and solar power. In fiscal 2011, the company generated 4,500 kW from hydropower and 4,248 kW from wind power to run lighting inside and outside the factory. Wind power built by employees Hydropower utilizing cooling water from the plant 116 Environment Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Thorough Recovery during Production, Maintenance, and Upgrading The fluorocarbons used as refrigerants in air conditioners have a global warming impact that is approximately 2,000 times more than that of CO2. As an air conditioner manufacturer, Daikin has taken responsibility to prevent fluorocarbons from entering the atmosphere. We are also conducting research and development into refrigerants with a low global warming potential and preventing the release of fluorocarbons (refrigerants) into the atmosphere during production and post-sales. At all worldwide production bases, we recover and destroy refrigerants placed in air conditioners during testing and other processes. During maintenance and upgrading of customers' air conditioners, the service or installation staff always start by thoroughly recovering the refrigerant. We also constantly improve the skills of installation staff to ensure the work is done properly and that no refrigerant leaks during product use. Efforts to Prevent Environmental Burden from CFC Emissions 117 Environment Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants Efforts in Japan Refrigerant Recovery Network System In Japan, we are thorough in our recovery of fluorocarbons (refrigerants) from commercial air conditioners. In September 2006, we created a network system for the integrated management of all information from recovery to destruction of refrigerants. By computerizing all previously written records, from amount of refrigerant recovered to amount destroyed, we have made it easier to accurately keep track. The companies recovering and destroying the refrigerants add up the totals and these are reported annually to the prefectural governments in Japan. Because these reports can be generated from the system, these companies can work more efficiently. 118 Environment Unified Management System of Refrigerant Recovery and Destruction With each instance of refrigerant recovery, details such as the model of air conditioner and number of units, and the amount of refrigerant recovered, are entered into the electronic manifest. This makes it possible to get an accurate picture of the refrigerant recovery rate. Taking Calls 24 Hours a Day, 365 Days a Year for Recovery and Destruction (Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction Business) We take requests from retailers and other businesses for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants. The Daikin Contact Center takes calls all day, every day, and the recovered refrigerants are taken to our Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan where they are properly destroyed. In fiscal 2011, 353 tons of fluorocarbons were recovered. Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) Fluorocarbon destruction facilities (Yodogawa Plant) Maintenance Only After Thorough Recovery of Refrigerant During the parts replacement that takes place during maintenance of air conditioners, refrigerant can leak out into the atmosphere. To prevent this, the Daikin Group has recovery equipment at service outlets across Japan that carry out such maintenance, and this equipment is used to recover refrigerant before any repair work begins. In fiscal 2011, a total of approximately 320 tons of refrigerants was recovered at all service outlets. 119 Environment Types of Fluorocarbons Recovered during Maintenance (Japan) Training for Refrigerant Recovery Personnel The recovery of refrigerants requires special knowledge and skills. Daikin Industries provides the necessary training for the sales, technical, installation, and service staff who will be recovering refrigerants. After one of these training programs, the technician training course, participants take a final test and if they pass are registered as refrigerant recovery technicians by the Refrigerants Recycling Promotion and Technology Center. In fiscal 2011, 1,274 people, mostly from retailers and installers, passed the test. Of all those registered as refrigerant recovery technicians in Japan, 37.6% took the Daikin technician training course. Training courses also As well, 251 employees of Daikin Industries and Group companies passed training in leak include environmental detection sponsored by the Japan Federation of Construction Contractors. education Daikin Begins Certification System for Refrigerant Pipe Installation Technicians On April 1, 2011, Daikin started a certification system for refrigerant pipe technicians with the goal of preventing faulty pipe installation, one of the causes of refrigerant leaks. We also became the first manufacturer to establish an in-house system for certifying that refrigerant pipe installers have outstanding knowledge, techniques, skills, and ethics in this area. As of the end of fiscal 2011, 552 retailers and installers had been certified. Refrigerant pipe installation training Visual Representations of Refrigerants in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Equipment The refrigerants used in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment are colorless, odorless, and tasteless gases that, although not harmful to humans, must be prevented from leaking into the atmosphere since these refrigerants have a great impact on global warming. In 2009, the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association announced a policy of displaying the effects of global warming caused by these refrigerants: a 'visualization' of their movement. Since that time, the Daikin Group in Japan has placed stickers on its refrigeration and air conditioning equipment for the Japanese market that show that fluorocarbons are being monitored. These same stickers are placed on products made overseas for the Japanese market. As of March 2011, stickers were being placed on all relevant products. We are improving the placement of stickers and designing products so that stickers are highly visible to end-users and installers and so that we can improve the recovery rate. 120 Environment Fluorocarbon 'visualization' sticker (for indoor unit) Recycling System for Commercial Use Air Conditioners Covering Multiple Regions, System Properly Recovers and Destroys Refrigerants Under the Home Appliance Recycling Law, manufacturers are obligated to recover refrigerants, materials, and parts from used residential air-conditioners for recycling. But there is no similar law for commercial air-conditioners. For this and other reasons, manufacturers cannot get a clear picture of the recovery situation. While metallic materials are recycled, many manufacturers view recovery and destruction of refrigerants as economically unfeasible, which makes it difficult to build a system to do this. Against this background, the Daikin Group is working with companies specializing in recycling, waste processing, and recovery and destruction of refrigerants in an effort to build a system for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants from commercial air-conditioners. This recycling system went into operation in fiscal 2004 in the Osaka, Chukyo, and Niigata districts of Japan and in fiscal 2005 in the Kyushu, Kanto, and Chugoku districts. Conventional Disposal Process for Commercial Air-conditioners New Recycling System Efforts Overseas Training Personnel in Refrigerant Recovery and Installing Recovery Equipment At the Daikin Europe Academy, training is held to teach the knowledge and skills needed to carry out refrigerant recovery. Course content is also in line with the EU regulations to prevent the release of refrigerants into the atmosphere. In China and other parts of Asia, all service bases have refrigerant recovery equipment. As we recover refrigerants, we remind customers how important this activity is to environmental protection, irrespective of the cost. 121 Environment Green Procurement Green Procurement Guidelines Revised to Cover Biodiversity The Daikin Group established its Green Procurement Guidelines in fiscal 2000 and requires suppliers in Japan and overseas to abide by these in the procurement of materials and parts used in manufacturing. We revised these guidelines in January 2012, adding provisions for biodiversity and changing requirements for chemicals in materials. Meetings were held to explain the revised guidelines to suppliers. Overseas, we began new green procurement activities in India and other emerging countries, while in countries like Thailand and China, which already have a high green procurement rate, we are devising higher procurement standards. Striving for a Higher Green Procurement Rate In fiscal 2011, Group companies in Japan had a green procurement rate of 96%. We also designated suppliers who scored 100 points on the survey as 'green suppliers', and for those that did not we are discussing individual measures that will remedy their particular problems. In fiscal 2011, green suppliers accounted for 53% of all our suppliers. Our air conditioner production bases in Southeast Asia, China, Europe, and Oceania also strive for green procurement. Surveys conducted in these countries showed that the fiscal 2011 green procurement rate was 84% for all regions. We will continue to hold meetings for suppliers to explain the importance of green procurement and further raise the green procurement rate. Green Procurement Rate (Japan) Green procurement briefing in Suzhou, China Green Procurement Rate by Region (%) Other countries North Japan China Thailand in Asia and Europe All regions America Oceania FY2009 99 89 97 85 63 83 FY2010 99 89 97 85 82 45 87 FY2011 96 91 98 87 81 3 84 Value of goods procured from suppliers Green procurement rate = who meet our assessment criteria Value of all goods procured 122 Environment Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 6th Edition Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Establishing Standards for Managing Chemical Substances in Products The Daikin Group has a list (shown below) of 30 substances not allowed in products, as well as SVHC (substances of very high concern) under the REACH Regulation*, which will be added in future. Daikin requires suppliers to ensure that they comply with the Daikin Group Green Procurement Guidelines. When the Green Procurement Guidelines were revised in October 2009, we updated the list of restricted substances and increased the number from 26 to 30. We will continue to make the necessary additions and changes to our guidelines based on data newly released by relevant organizations. * The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into effect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. 123 Environment Specified Chemical Substance List (for products) Control levels Substance name Cadmium and cadmium compounds Hexavalent chromium compounds Lead and lead compounds Mercury and mercury compounds Tributyl tin oxide (TBTO) Tributyl tins (TBTs) compounds *1 Triphenyl tins (TPTs) compounds *1 Dibutyl tin compounds (DBTs) *1 Dioctyltin compounds (DOTs) *1 Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) Deca-Bromodiphenylether (Deca-BDE) *2 Prohibited Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) Polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) *2 Polychloronapthalenes (C1=>3) Short chain chlorinated paraffins Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOSs) *3 F gas (HFC, PFC, SF6) *4 Asbestos Azocolourants and azodyes which form certain aromatic amines *5 Ozone depleting substances (other than HCFCs) *6 Radioactive substances Phenol,2-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl) *2 Dimethlyfumarate (DMF) *7 Vinyl chloride polymer (PVC) *8 Reduced Ozone depleting substances (only HCFCs) Beryllium oxide (BeO) *2 Phthalates (DINP, DIDP, DNOP) *2 Perchlorates *2 Nickel and nickel compounds *9 Managed Brominated flame retardants (other than PBBs, PBDEs, HBCDDs) Formaldehyde *2 EU REACH Regulation (SVHC: substances of very high concern) group (Prohibited materials specified by this guideline are excluded) *10 *1 The use of TBTs and TPTs is prohibited as of July 2010. The use of DBTs is prohibited as of January 2012 (January 2015 for certain substances). The use of DOTs is prohibited as of January 2012. However, only Commodities that touch the skin and Two-component normal temperature silicone modules will be prohibited. *2 Materials added to JIG representation material (July 2009). *3 The use of PFOSs is prohibited as of May 2009 under the POPs Agreement. Prohibited as of April 2010 under Japan's Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances (except for applications in semiconductors, etching, and business photographic film). *4 The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc) is prohibited in one-component foams (except when required to meet national safety standards). (Banned in the EU starting in July 2008.) The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc.) is permitted for refrigerants. *5 Limited to applications in azo dyes and pigments which constitute the specific amines defined by the German Consumer Goods Ordinance and which come into contact with the human body for long hours. *6 The use of HCFC for the production of foams shall be prohibited, and the use as refrigerants for Japan and EU models shall also be prohibited. *7 Use prohibited as of May 2009 (formerly used as a fungicide in leather products and furniture before being prohibited in the EU). *8 There are fewer substances that can be used as PVC substitutes. *9 In cases in which the nickel comes into contact with the human body for long hours. *10 All SVHC (substances of very high concern) added in future shall be managed. Postscripts do not need to be added in future. 124 Environment Daikin Group Worldwide Complete Registration for REACH To ensure compliance with the REACH Regulation on chemical substances, Daikin Group companies share information through the REACH Liaison Conference in Japan and the REACH Shared Conference in Europe sponsored by Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin has built a system for the disclosure of substances of very high concern (SVHC) and has completed full registration in compliance with REACH. Proper Management of All RoHS Directive Substances The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive; full name is Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment) went into effect in July 2006, and restricts the use of six hazardous materials: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). To this list, the Daikin Group added azo compounds to make seven substances that it prohibits in parts from suppliers. As of March 2006, Daikin had eliminated the use of all of these in relevant products for the European and Japanese markets. If we suspect that RoHS substances are contained in parts, we examine them with a fluorescence spectrometer or conduct a survey of toxicity using the MSDS-Plus, a comprehensive database of more than 200,000 material safety data sheets. If necessary, we have analysis done by third-party institutions. Daikin Eliminates Substances Ahead of the Chinese Version of RoHS In March 2007, the Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation (China RoHS) was enacted. This directive specifies the same six substances (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, specified bromide fire retardants) designated by the European RoHS Directive. Although the directive does not cover air conditioners, the products that the Daikin Group is selling in China do not contain RoHS substances. And we are gradually introducing products without these substances in Southeast Asia, where there are still no equivalent regulations banning their use. And like in the EU, if we suspect that these substances are contained in parts, we examine them, for example, with an X-ray fluorescence spectrometer to determine the amount. Determining Suppliers' CO2 Emissions to Comply with the ErP Directive November 2009 marked the start of the ErP Directive, which requires energy-using and energy-related products to incorporate eco-design. To comply with this directive, Daikin's green procurement survey for suppliers determines energy-induced CO2. Product assessment makes possible traceability through a system for determining CO2-equivalent values by type of fuel and energy-based CO2-equivalent values by country. For details, see Products That Help Customers Save Energy in the section Low-Impact Products. (Page 92) 125 Environment Compliance with J-Moss We release information on the presence in our products of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment). Daikin room air conditioners are covered by J-Moss. Since 2001, Daikin has been determining and controlling chemical substances contained in products and we have stopped using substances specified under J-Moss. As a result, all models of our air conditioners (produced since July 2006) contain none of the substances exceeding the amounts under the standards. We will continue to actively provide information about our environmentally conscious products so that we can offer customers a peace of mind when making purchases. J-Moss Also known as JIS C 0950, J-Moss is an abbreviation of The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment. J-Moss requires the labelling of electrical and electronic products containing six substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). There are seven types of products covered: (1) personal computers, (2) unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) electric refrigerators, (5) electric washing machines, (6) microwave ovens, and (7) clothes dryers. Daikin Products The substances contained in Daikin room air conditioners are shown on the table below. Note that the room air conditioners shipped in Japan starting in 2007 bear the Japan's Green Mark eco-label. Substances Contained in Room Air Conditioners Green Mark eco-label Product type: Room air conditioner (interior/outdoor units) Model: All models produced since in July 2006 (see note 3). Chemical substance code Class Pb Hg Cd Cr(VI) PBB PBDE Manufactured parts ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant system parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Electrical/electronic parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Compressor N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Accessories ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ JIS C 0950:2008 Note: 1 A ◯ symbol means that the substance contained does not exceed the allowable amount under the standard. Note: 2 N/A means the substance is not applicable for labelling. Note: 3 Models designated below. Indoor unit: Wall mount, embedded ceiling cassette (single flow, double flow), embedded wall, built-in amenity, floor standing Exterior unit: For the following: Pair type, System Pack, Multi-Split System, Wide Select Multi, Equipped with Hot Water Floor Heating function 126 Environment Overview of J-Moss Under Japan's Law for the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, relevant equipment must meet J-Moss standards. J-Moss (JIS C 0950) The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment Gist of the Standards Indicating on labelling which of the specified chemical substances are contained in electrical and electronic equipment is meant to achieve the following: Management of chemical substances will be improved in all stages of the supply chain and life cycle. End consumers can easily understand the substances contained. It will lead to more effective use of resources and less impact on the environment. Spread the use of electrical and electronic equipment in which substances are properly controlled. Products Covered (1) Personal computers, (2) Unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) Electric refrigerators, (5) Electric washing (6) Microwave ovens, (7) Clothes dryers machines, Specified chemical substances Chemical substance Code Standard for % by weight Lead Pb 0.1 Mercury Hg 0.1 Cadmium Cd 0.01 Hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyls PBB 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyl ether PBDE 0.1 127 Environment Content Labelling If the content of the specified chemical substance exceeds the standard values, its content must be indicated on the product itself, the packaging, and on catalogs and other documentation. This information must also be put on the company's Web site. The content of some of the chemical substances does not need to be indicated on the labelling, and other chemical substances do not need to be indicated on labelling if they are Label indicating below the standard value. However, these must still be shown on the company's Web site. substances contained in product Green Mark Labelling Electrical and electronic equipment whose content of the specified chemical substances does not exceed the standard values may bear Japan's Green Mark eco-label on the conditions stated in the Guidelines for Using the Green Mark for Specified Chemical Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Green Mark Note: The Guidelines are recognized by the following groups. Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association (JEMA) Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) 128 Environment Management of Chemical Substances Emissions of PRTR Substance Down by 10% The Daikin Group in Japan is working towards a target of reducing emissions of PRTR substances in fiscal 2015 by 15% compared to fiscal 2010. We raised our collection rate for methylene chloride and in fiscal 2011 emitted 115 tons, down 10% against fiscal 2010. Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (Japan) Note: Under revisions to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (effective October 1, 2009), the number of designated substances increased from 354 to 462. PRTR Law (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law) Enacted in Japan in 1999, the PRTR Law is a legal framework in Japan for the calculation and publicizing of the amounts of certain hazardous chemical substances that are emitted or transferred as waste into the environment (air, water, and soil) or into public sewage systems. Other countries have similar regulations. The PRTR Law was revised in 2009. Compilation of PRTR Substances in FY2011 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) Amount emitted(tons) Amount transported (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways 104 Chlorodifluoromethane (also called HCFC-22) 51.67 0.00 0.00 2.99 0.00 Dichloromethane (also called methylene 186 40.44 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 chloride) 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (also called 103 10.86 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC-142b) 129 Environment Amount emitted(tons) Amount transported (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways 300 Toluene 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 384 1-bromopropane 1.60 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-Chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (also called 105 1.29 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC-124) 80 Xylene 1.14 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 392 Normal hexane 0.88 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 127 Chloroform 0.73 0.00 0.00 0.11 0.00 53 Ethylbenzene 0.67 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 240 Styrene 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hydrogen fluoride and other water-soluble 374 0.21 0.00 0.00 106.69 0.00 salts 232 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 5.85 0.00 13 Acetonitrile 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.37 0.03 4 Acrylic acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 21.62 0.00 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (those whose 407 alkyl group carbon number is between 12 and 0.00 0.29 0.00 72.47 0.00 15, or compounds of these) 71 Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.93 0.00 336 Hydroquinone 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.68 0.00 1 Water soluble lead compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.98 0.14 31 Antimony and antimony compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.39 0.00 460 Tritolyl phosphate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 453 Molybdenum and molybdenum compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 413 Phthalic anhydride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 416 Methacrylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl ester 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 20 2-aminoethanol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 149 Carbon tetrachloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 28 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble copper salt (except complex 272 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 salts) Total 112.94 0.29 0.00 221.31 0.48 130 Environment Reducing Waste Waste Generated Per Unit Reduced by 1% Besides working to reduce the amount of waste generated, the Daikin Group is making effective use of waste through methods such as material and thermal recycling. The machinery divisions have set targets for waste reduction per unit: a 5% reduction in fiscal 2015 against fiscal 2010 at production bases in Japan, where such measures have been implemented a relatively long time; and a 10% reduction at overseas production bases, where there is still plenty of room to achieve reductions. In the Chemicals Division, we have set a target to reduce waste to landfill by 50%. In fiscal 2011, the entire Daikin Group achieved a 1% reduction in waste per unit against fiscal 2010. The recycling ratio was 81%. Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials (FY2011) 131 Environment 132 Environment Using Water Resources Proper Water Use through Regular Monitoring At our plants, we periodically repair and patrol equipment that uses water in the production processes. We also measure the amount of water used and try to reuse as much waste water as possible. As targets for fiscal 2015 against fiscal 2010, we aim to reduce water use by the Daikin Group in Japan by 5% and water use per unit at overseas bases by 10%. In fiscal 2011, we focused on improving the management of equipment that uses water at Japanese plants, and the result was a 3% reduction in water used against fiscal 2010. Overseas, through efforts such as reducing water use by improving production processes, and reusing waste water for toilets and other purposes, water use per unit was down 5% over fiscal 2010. We aim to further reduce waste water amounts, and we are looking into a waste water recycling system as one way to do this. Water Used 133 Environment 134 Environment We are striving to strengthen environmental audits, eliminate environmental risks, and provide environmental education with the aim of establishing the integrated group environmental management system. Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification at All the Major Read more (See page 137) Bases around the World Environmental Management System A common goal of the entire Group is to build and operate System Driving Environmental Management ISO 14001-based environmental management systems Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification (FY2011) (EMS) that will boost our environmental activities. Daikin bases certified for ISO 14001 (Japan, overseas) In Japan, all Daikin bases and subsidiaries come under an Global Environmental Meetings integrated EMS. We are currently working to establish an EMS that encompasses the systems at all worldwide bases. In fiscal 2011, we began creating environmental management systems at our worldwide bases, including companies in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. Environmental Audits Internal Auditors Conduct Strict Audits Read more (See page 141) The Daikin Group has regular annual environmental audits: Environmental Audits internal audits by Daikin itself and audits by third-party Report from Audits (FY2011) certification institutes. These help us check and constantly improve the functioning of our systems. 135 Environment Environmental Risk Management Audits and Regular Disaster Drills Read more (See page 142) Reduce Environmental Risk Environmental Risk Management A company-wide internal environmental auditing team Monitoring Environmental Standards carries out regular legal audits once a year to ensure Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution environmental risk is kept to a minimum. Storage and Treatment of PCBs Daikin's Storage of PCBs If any accidents or calamities should occur, manufacturing bases and production subsidiaries are prepared to deal with the problem thanks to regular disaster drills for all employees. Environmental Accounting In FY2011, we spent 12% more on Read more (See page 145) research and development related to Environmental Accounting energy efficiency and refrigerants Accounting Method Breakdown of Environmental Conservation Costs Environmental accounting gives a quantitative (% of total) representation of the costs and effects of environmental Cost of environmental conservation measures and constitutes an important item of Effects of environmental conservation Economic benefits of environmental conservation environment information. As well, it is a tool for managing efforts (monetary benefits) the overall environmental impact of our global group and for coming up with the most efficient and effective ways to reduce this impact. Environmental Education E-learning Boosts Environmental Read more (See page 148) Awareness Environmental Education The Daikin Group has a variety of environmental education FY2011 Environmental Education (All Daikin Group programs that get employees to take action by deepening Companies in Japan) their understanding of things like environmental management systems and Daikin's effect on the environment. Part of this education is done via e-learning over our intranet for employees in Japan. 136 Environment Environmental Management System Creating Integrated Group Environmental Management The diagram below shows the organization for the Daikin Group's environmental management system (EMS). Overseas, environmental meetings are held once a year in each of four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). Besides sharing Group policy and medium and long-term targets, these meetings allow attendees to share a variety of information with the aim of achieving an integrated group environmental management system. The creation of environmental management systems is also proceeding at companies in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. The ratio of Daikin Group employees (including those of the OYL Group) belonging to facilities that have obtained ISO 14001 certification is 87%. In fiscal 2011, we began pursuing environmental management, with the OYL Group included in our mediumand long-term action plan and aiming for the same targets as the rest of the Daikin Group. System Driving Environmental Management 137 Environment Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification (FY2011) Building an Integrated EMS and Taking Environmental Action in Japan In 1996, individual production bases in the Daikin Group in Japan began creating and operating their own EMS for the sake of environmental protection. In 2004, based on a policy that advocated the integration of environmental and business activities and the full-fledged pursuit of environmental management, all bases and subsidiaries (including non-production bases) in Japan received integrated certification for ISO 14001, and this gave us a system for conducting environmental management across the entire group in Japan, including non-production bases such as sales companies. Each company division conducted business in its own environment-friendly way; for example, sales divisions carried out environmentally conscious marketing and design divisions designed products for minimal environmental impact. Global Environmental Meetings Boosting Environmental Action by Sharing Information and Discussing Challenges To ensure the continuous improvement of the Daikin Group's environmental management, environmental meetings are held once a year in four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). These meetings allow attendees to share Group policy and medium and long-term targets, as well as a variety of other valuable information. An environmental meeting in Europe Daikin Bases Certified for ISO 14001 (Japan, Overseas) Daikin Bases Certified for ISO 14001 (Japan) Japan 1996: Daikin Industries Group in Japan* * Sakai Plant certified in October 1996. Certification followed at Daikin Industries' bases and domestic manufacturing subsidiaries. In March 2004, certification for the Daikin Industries Group in Japan was upgraded to integrated certification. 138 Environment ISO 14001 Certification for Overseas Subsidiaries (as of March 2012) Date Subsidiary certified Sep. 1997 Daikin America, Inc. Feb. 1998 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Feb. 1998 Daikin Europe N.V. Nov. 2001 Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Nov. 2001 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2002 Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Nov. 2002 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Huizhou Branch Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand ) Ltd. Jan. 2004 Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Germany GmbH Jun. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Spain S.A. Nov. 2004 Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. Dec. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning France S.A.S. Dec. 2004 Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. Jan. 2005 Siam Daikin Sales Co., Ltd. Jan. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Central Europe Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Poland Sp. zo.o Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A Mar. 2005 Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. Mar. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Asia Servicing Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Belgium N.V. Dec. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Dec. 2005 Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2006 Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Jun. 2006 Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Jul. 2006 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2006 Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Dec. 2006 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Mar. 2007 OYL Technology Sdn. Bhd. May 2007 McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. May 2007 Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Jul. 2007 PT. OYL Sentra Manufacturing Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Malaysia) Sdn., Bhd. 139 Environment Date Subsidiary certified Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong) Ltd. Nov. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Shanghai), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Beijing), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Guanghou), Ltd. Dec. 2007 O.Y.L. Manufacturing Co. Sdn. Bhd. Jan. 2008 Cri-Tech Inc. Jan. 2008 AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Beijing Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Branch Mar. 2008 Daikin America, Inc. (Orangeburg) Jun. 2008 Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH Jun. 2008 McQuay Suzhou Jul. 2008 Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Sep. 2008 Daikin Airconditioning Portugal S.A. Nov. 2008 OYL Research & Development Centre Sdn Bhd Jan. 2009 Daikin Airconditioning Greece S.A. Jan. 2009 American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Mar. 2009 OYL Steel Centre Sdn Bhd Jun. 2009 OYL Condair Industries Sdn Bhd Aug. 2009 J&E Hall Refrigeration Sdn Bhd Apr. 2009 Daikin Air Conditioning South Africa Dec. 2009 Daikin Turkey A.S. Jan. 2010 J&E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Jan. 2010 McQuay Italia S.p.A.(Italy) Jan. 2010 McQuay (Faribault) Jan. 2010 McQuay (Owatonna) Jan. 2010 AAF (UK)-Ltd May 2010 McQuay (Dayton) Jul. 2010 Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2010 AAF Internation sro (Slovakia) Nov. 2010 McQuay (Auburn) Jan. 2011 AAF-International B.V. (The Netherlands) Mar. 2011 Daikin Airconditioning Netherlands B.V. Mar. 2011 AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Mar. 2011 AAF (Columbia) 140 Environment Environmental Audits Audit by Internal Auditors and Third-Party Institutes Daikin Group companies in Japan undergo annual internal audits performed by third-party certification institutes based on ISO 14001. In fiscal 2011, internal audits were performed by 68 auditors. Besides conducting comprehensive inspections on the environmental risks involved in constant operation of factories with consideration for factors like earthquakes and revisions in laws, the auditors confirmed that the bases were taking environmental measures to develop and sell environmentally conscious products. Daikin will continue to make improvements based on audit results. Report from Audits (FY2011) Problems found from internal environmental Problems found by third-party certification audits institutes Major 2 0 non-conformance Minor 38 0 non-conformance Items improved 219 5 Training Internal Auditors There are currently 73 internal auditors undergoing training and skills improvement at the Daikin Group in Japan. New and experienced auditors work in pairs so as to pass on skills from one generation to the next. Internal auditors also improve their skills through training once a year. 141 Environment Environmental Risk Management Auditing and Improving Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations Once a year, the Daikin Group in Japan has company-wide environmental auditing teams conduct audits to check for legal compliance and ensure there are no environmental risks. We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at the production site of Daikin or a subsidiary. We also maintain close relations with neighborhood associations through factory tours and other activities so that we can have a joint system of emergency measures with local communities. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Measures and Drills Prepare Bases for Earthquakes and Tsunamis We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at Daikin production sites around the world. The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions created the Disaster Prevention Manual, which details how to deal with emergencies like chemical and oil leaks and spills. The manual is the basis for regular emergency drills. In fiscal 2011, we strengthened measures to prepare for earthquakes at bases in Japan, and we held disaster drills to practice what to do in case of an earthquake or tsunami. At the Yodogawa Plant, which manufactures fluorochemical products and oil hydraulics products, we Disaster prevention drill (Yodogawa Plant) reinforced measures in order to be ready for a magnitude 6 earthquake and subsequent two-meter tsunami two hours later. We also created a hazard map with provisions for the emergency shut-down of the plant before the arrival of the tsunami and methods for handling dangerous chemicals. An evacuation drill involving 2,000 employees was also conducted. Daikin's overseas bases also carry out regular drills that simulate a range of emergency situations. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. holds a Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. holds drill Ltd. holds drill in preventing chemical leaks disaster prevention drill in dealing with oil leaks Preparing for Earthquakes (Page 27) 142 Environment Close Communication with Communities to Prepare for Emergencies We place the utmost priority on ensuring the safety of residents living near our plants. Particularly with regards to facilities like our Yodogawa Plant, which is located in a residential area, we use risk assessment to eliminate as much risk as possible. We also strive to keep the public informed and communicate with government organs based on the principles of responsible care*. In recent years, we have conducted regular exchanges with the public through neighborhood community association gatherings and plant tours, and we are working to establish systems of communication with these bodies so that both Daikin and the surrounding communities are prepared for emergencies. * Responsible care: An initiative by the chemical industry in which companies strive to improve their environmental, safety and health performance in all stages from development and production to distribution, use, and final consumption of chemicals. It also covers disclosure of the results of these efforts in order to keep the public informed. For details on Daikin's efforts to create a relationship of trust with communities, see A Good Corporate Citizen in the Responsibility to Local Communities section of the website. (Page 242) To Totally Eliminate PFOA Emissions in Fluorochemical Products by 2012, We are Accelerating the Switch to Substitutes The Daikin Group is working towards its target of totally eliminating the use of PFOA (a fluorine compound that persists indefinitely in the environment) by 2012. PFOA is used in the production of fluorochemical products and is present in minute quantities in some products. For details, see Reducing PFOA Emissions (Page 97) Monitoring Environmental Standards Strict Management at Manufacturing Bases Exceeds Legal Restrictions The Daikin Group controls air and water pollution, as well as noise and vibration, using voluntary standards that are stricter than national and local government standards. We regularly measure our various environmental impacts and work to either prevent or decrease them. Monitored environmental data for Daikin Industries' four manufacturing bases is on the Daikin Web site. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) 143 Environment Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution Groundwater Cleanup Continues at Kashima Plant In 2000, the concentration of organic chlorine-based compounds in groundwater at the Kashima Plant was found to exceed environmental standards. We therefore removed and cleaned the contaminated soil, pumped out and cleaned the groundwater, and took precautions to prevent pollution from spreading to outside the plant and to remediate all types of pollution. Thanks to continuous cleaning of the groundwater, the concentration of pollutants decreased. We will continue these cleanup efforts to bring the levels down to within environmental standard values. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Storage and Treatment of PCBs Implementing Strict Management and Disposal of Equipment Containing PCBs Daikin abides by national laws in properly managing equipment containing PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls). We have already begun disposing of some of this equipment through early registration with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO) and based on a JESCO PCB disposal plan. In fiscal 2009, the Sakai Plant completed disposal of all of its condensers (two only). In fiscal 2011, the Shiga Plant disposed of three of its five condensers. Because JESCO does not yet have a disposal plan for ballasts, the remaining two will be disposed of sometime after fiscal 2013. Daikin's Storage of PCBs Disposal plan (cost is Items disposed of (item and cost*1) Plants and products stored approximated) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 and on Shiga Plant: 3 condensers 2 condensers, 5 condensers, (approx. 1.8 million 126 ballasts 126 fluorescent ballasts yen) (approx. 5 million yen) Sakai Plant: 2 condensers 4 ballasts, 2 condensers, (1.16 million 36 liters of insulating oil 4 ballasts, yen) (approx.100,000 yen) 36 liters of additional insulating oil 12 condensers Yodogawa Plant: (approx. 17 million yen), 6 transformers*2, 6 transformers 12 condensers, (approx. 16 million yen), 476 ballasts 448 ballasts (approx. 15 million yen) *1 Cost is approximated, includes costs to recover, transport, and dispose of PCBs. *2 In fiscal 2010, PCB was found to be contained in minute quantities. 144 Environment Environmental Accounting Daikin's Environmental Accounting Philosophy Daikin believes that environmental accounting, a measure of the cost and effectiveness of environmental efforts, is a vital part of the environmental information we provide, as well as an important tool in our environmental management. Environmental accounting is thus the basis for the Daikin Group's efforts to most effectively and efficiently lessen the worldwide environmental impact of its worldwide business activities. FY2011 Environmental Accounting Figures Total environmental protection costs in FY2011 were ¥21.4 billion (investment in equipment: ¥4.1 billion; expenses: ¥17.3 billion), up 12% over the previous year. Research and development costs accounted for 71% of this. For the air-conditioner business, we focused our R&D efforts on developing technologies for energy efficiency and refrigerants. Amidst rising concern about global warming, we have been developing basic technologies and equipment in a number of areas including inverters for improving air conditioner energy efficiency and heat pumps for use in space and water heating. Accounting Method 145 Environment Breakdown of Environmental Conservation Costs (% of total) FY2011 Environmental Costs (¥ million) Cost of environmental conservation FY2010 FY2011 Category Major activities Amount of Amount of equipment Expenses equipment Expenses invested invested Cost in business area 985 3,372 955 3,678 Introduction, maintenance, and management of pollution prevention facilities/equipment, 1. Pollution prevention expenses for measurement/analysis of air 372 967 170 959 pollution control, water pollution control, vibration, and noise. Introduction of energy efficient 2. Global environmental facilities/equipment, reduction of fluorocarbon 566 551 727 619 conservation emissions in the production process, and recovery of fluorocarbons. Reduction or recycling of waste, 3. Resource circulation subcontracting of waste disposal, and 47 1,855 59 2,100 resource conservation activities. Recycling of used products, and recovery, Upstream/downstream recycling, and destruction of fluorocarbons in 0 104 1 263 used products or products still in service. 146 Environment FY2010 FY2011 Category Major activities Amount of Amount of equipment Expenses equipment Expenses invested invested Running of company organization for environmental matters, environmental Management activities education, environmental information 26 771 13 1,096 disclosure, and establishment/maintenance of environmental management systems. Work on three major tasks for air Research and conditioners, and development of 2,579 10,959 3,107 12,083 development fluorochemical products with minimized environmental impact. Provision of personnel and monetary aid to environment-related organizations, and Social activities 1 126 0 126 environmental protection activities in local communities. Costs for purification of polluted groundwater Environmental damage 0 133 2 81 and soil. Total 3,590 15,466 4,078 17,326 Total of investment in facilities within the period 28,800 48,300 Total of investment in R&D activities within the period 30,800 33,000 Effects of environmental conservation FY2010 FY2011 Effects figures figures 97,483 34,203 1. Effects of the resources Energy consumption tons-CO2 tons-CO2 Effects used for business activities Reduction in water consumption 2,543,323m3 573,664m3 corresponding with costs within business 2. Effects against Reduction in fluorocarbon emissions 110 tons 6 tons area environmental impacts and waste resulting from business activities Reduction in waste materials 497 tons -47 tons Number of residential air Effects associated with conditioners collected 250,000 units 203,000 units Effects to upstream/ benefits and services that are Amount of fluorocarbons recovered 345 tons 353 tons downstream costs calculated and based on Amount of packaging material 145.6 tons 134.8 tons business activities recycled (¥ million) Economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts (monetary benefits) Effects FY2010 FY2011 Profit Profit from sale of recycled waste 621 1,426 Reduction in energy expenses resulting from energy conservation efforts 515 366 Reduction in expenses Reduction in waste disposal expenses resulting from resource conservation or -363 -22 recycling resources 147 Environment Environmental Education Environmental Education that Leads to Employee Awareness and Action Be it through educational or on-the-job opportunities, the Daikin Group promotes employee awareness of how our business affects the environment to encourage employees to take positive action for its preservation. In Japan, we hold e-learning on the intranet once a year in order to enhance employees' understanding about the environmental issues most important to Daikin. We have an in-house environmental newsletter that introduces actions that each company division are taking. The intranet and Daikin newsletter also provide the useful tips to reduce the environmental impact at home such as how to save electricity and water usage. Employees Take Eco-Action for World Environment Day To coincide with World Environment Day on June 5, since fiscal 2008, Daikin divisions in Japan have conducted a range of environmental activities at the company and employees' homes. Eco-action in fiscal 2011, included saving workplace electricity in every way possible and turning off all lights and air conditioning before leaving the company at the end of the day. PR and educational tools to raise employees' environmental awareness E-learning textbook In-house environmental newsletter FY2011 Environmental Education (All Daikin Group Companies in Japan) The Daikin Group in Japan conducted the following company-wide education. Individual company divisions also conducted their own educational activities. Name of activity Personnel involved No. of times held Environmental e-learning All employees Once With the goal of raising environmental awareness and knowledge, participants learn about a wide range of environmental issues, especially those directly related to Daikin's business, such as global warming and ozone layer depletion, as well as new environmental topics each year that are relevant and current. Topics taken up in fiscal 2011 were electricity savings, the dangers of water resource exhaustion, and community environmental contribution. Environmental strategist Managers and other heads of Held at 14 sites in nine regions (Hokkaido, Kanto, Tokai, education relevant work areas Hokuriku, Kinki, Chugoku, Shikoku, Kyushu, Okinawa) (1) Specifying environment-related laws, etc. (2) Periodic assessment of legal compliance (3) Work related to legal compliance (managing waste disposal, fluorocarbon recovery roadmap, and recycling of appliances) 148 Environment The Daikin Group holds environmental seminars and education for children on a regular basis. This allows us to reflect what our stakeholders are saying in our business activities and to expand green hearts (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). Environmental Forums and Exhibits Daikin Joins Environmental Exhibits Read more (See page 150) Daikin strives to educate the public by holding Environmental Forums and Exhibits environmental seminars on energy, climate, and other Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental issues closely tied to our business, and by taking part in Policy exhibits of environmentally conscious products. We also Daikin Environmental Report release information to the community on the environmental Environmental Ads impact of our business activities. Environmental Education and Awareness Activities Daikin Holds Circle of Life Read more (See page 153) Environmental Education Program for Efforts Overseas Elementary Schools in Fiscal 2010 Efforts in Japan The Daikin Group conducts environmental education and Employees' Daily Efforts awareness activities around the world with the aim of helping children develop better understanding about environmental issues and thus better able to lead future generations. 149 Environment Environmental Forums and Exhibits Exchanging Opinions with Experts on Key Issues at Air Conditioner Forum Since 1995, the Daikin Group has held air conditioner forums where Daikin and noted names in the field exchange opinions on the future of air conditioning. With Daikin's rapid business expansion worldwide, since fiscal 2007 we have held forums in Europe, China, and North America that have given us ideas to use in our product and business development. Our most pressing task is to shift to next-generation refrigerants to meet the deadline for regulations calling for developing countries to freeze their consumption and production of HCFCs by 2013. At air conditioner forums, we have also exchanged opinions on pressing worldwide tasks including energy management that gives better energy efficiency of building equipment such as air conditioners. Air conditioner forum in the United States Daikin displayed air conditioners using a new type of refrigerant at an international trade show Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Daikin Calls on All Concerned Parties to Participate in Selection of Next-Generation Refrigerants Emerging nations are studying which refrigerants should replace HCFC in accordance with the Montreal Protocol's restrictions on ozonedepleting substances. Daikin Industries is the only air conditioner manufacturer that also makes refrigerant, and we aid in the selection of appropriate refrigerants by creating opportunities for academic societies and industry organizations to gather and exchange ideas and opinions. We take every opportunity to discuss the selection and application of next-generation refrigerants: at international conferences and exhibits Opinion exchange at an international conference in the vast market of China, as well as in Europe, the U.S., and around Asia, we discuss topics like refrigerant trends and efforts to reduce emissions with members of the United Nations and administrative organizations in countries around the world. 150 Environment Daikin Environmental Report Reports Published in Japan and Other World Regions Since 1998, Daikin Industries has published an environmental report (now called the Corporate Social Responsibility Report) to inform all stakeholders of the Daikin Group's environmental philosophy and eco-actions. We supplement these reports with more detailed information on our Web site. Our overseas Group companies also publish environmental reports once a year. There are versions for Asia and Oceania, Europe, and China. Asia and Oceania Europe China Environmental Ads Environmental Protection Information through Ads on Trains and in Newspapers Daikin Industries has ads on public transport and in newspapers dealing not just with products but also reporting on world topics like environmental protection and air conditioning trends. Series of Daikin Environmental Ads above Doors of Trains In fiscal 2011, Daikin ran ads inside trains in Japan on the topic of saving energy. The ads gave commuters easy ways to save energy and showed the energy-saving solutions offered by the Daikin Group. 151 Environment Ads in Five National Newspapers The message was that Daikin technologies contribute to energy efficiency and energy savings. 152 Environment Efforts Overseas Employees at China Bases Hold Children's Environmental Seminars The Daikin Group in China runs environmental seminars for elementary school students. Acting as instructors, Daikin employees use original teaching materials and games to help children learn the importance of the environment and what they can do every day to protect it. After these seminars were started by Daikin Air Conditioning Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. in fiscal 2005, they spread to sites in Shanghai and Hangzhou in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2009, we used our product showrooms to hold seminars on Daikin's energy-efficient technologies and products, and approximately 700 elementary school students attended. Seminar for elementary school children at a showroom in Hangzhou 153 Environment Efforts in Japan Daikin Develops Circle of Life Program to Teach Elementary Students About Biodiversity Daikin and international NGO Conservation International have developed a biodiversity education program for elementary schools called Circle of Life. Conservation International is also Daikin's partner in a reforestation project in Indonesia. In the program, children use worksheets that prompt them to think for themselves about the environment, and they carry out role-plays on deforestation in which they take the roles of the various people with conflicting views on the forest and its uses. Teachers at the schools taking part in the program gave glowing reports: We became more familiar with the problem of deforestation in Students role-play in a forestry issues discussion Indonesia and the students are more aware of what they can do, The program taught us much about Indonesia, and it allowed us to see the problems from the point of view of people living there. Now I want to help the students to think about what they can do. Since April 2010, Daikin has been providing schools all over Japan with free teaching materials. In fiscal 2011, 40 schools took part in the program, and 15 of these welcomed Daikin employees to lead the lessons. See The Circle Of Life (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html) Daikin Website Offers Enjoyable Way to Raise Environmental Awareness The Daikin Industries website shows visitors how to use air conditioning in an economical, environmental friendly way, and teaches about the environmental issues Daikin faces. The site offers an enjoyable way for people of all ages to learn about the relation between air conditioners and the environment. 154 Environment Employees' Daily Efforts Eco Activities Earn Employees Right to Join Commemorative Tree-Planting Event at Shiga Plant The Sakura Project was started in fiscal 2009 at Daikin Industries' Shiga Plant to raise employees' daily environmental awareness. Under this project, employees are assessed with questionnaires and given points based on level of environmental awareness, participation in community environmental protection activities, and efforts to protect the environment at home and in the workplace. The 40 groups with the highest number of points earned the right to participate in the planting of 40 sakura (cherry) trees to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the Shiga Plant. Planting cherry trees We also donated mature sakura trees to Kusatsu City, and we are planning to provide a new public park that will both make our plant greener and beautify the community. In May 2010, the Shiga Plant and Kusatsu City, where the plant is located, signed an agreement on joint environmental protection. In fiscal 2011, the parties agreed to begin planting trees in the park as a way to promote and protect biodiversity. In March 2011, this project earned the Shiga Plant an award from Kusatsu City for global warming prevention activities. Kusatsu City is promoting the project on its website and at various events. The group of 40 employees who earned the right to For details, see Report by Business Site (Shiga Plant). plant cherry trees (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/shiga.html) 155 Environment Biodiversity is the source of so many of the good things in our life. For example, our rich forests provide us with oxygen through photosynthesis, and they act as natural air conditioners by giving off water vapor that keeps atmospheric temperature from rising. As a company whose job it is to provide comfortable air environments, Daikin likes to call forests nature's air conditioners . That's why we do all we can to protect the world's forests. Protecting Biodiversity Maintaining and Rejuvenating Read more (See page 157) Ecosystem Balance Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity The Daikin Group works to maintain balance in the world's Daikin's Philosophy for Biodiversity Protection valuable nature and ecosystems so that we can help bring Efforts in Nature Preservation Areas back the abundance of the natural world. Projects in Surrounding Neighborhoods Efforts at Bases The Daikin Group's laboratories and recreational facilities contain areas for growing rare plants, and we work with botanists in protecting these. We also work to protect biodiversity in the forests of Indonesia and in Shiretoko, a World Nature Heritage site in Japan. Biodiversity Awareness Teaching Children the Importance of Read more (See page 163) Biodiversity Supporting Children's Education Besides supporting employees in their volunteer work to Employee Environmental Volunteers protect biodiversity, the Daikin Group places great importance on providing information and education to the general public. Daikin Industries developed the Circle of Life environmental education program for elementary school students, which focuses on biodiversity based on Daikin's reforestation efforts in Indonesia. In April 2010, we began providing schools around Japan with teaching materials free of charge. 156 Environment Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity Protect and Rejuvenate the Gifts of Nature Human society is made possible thanks to the many blessings of biodiversity. For example, our rich forests provide us with oxygen through photosynthesis, and they act as natural air conditioners by giving off water vapor that keeps atmospheric temperature from rising. As a company whose job it is to provide comfortable air environments, Daikin likes to call forests 'nature's air conditioners.' That's why we do all we can to protect the world's forests. In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in efforts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature and the creation of new forests on our premises. We offer support to the employees who are conducting these activities, and we strive to provide information and education to the general public. The ideas stated here form our Basic Philosophy on Protecting Biodiversity, which we established in September 2010. Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity 157 Environment Daikin's Philosophy for Biodiversity Protection See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko (Page 67) Efforts in Nature Preservation Areas Daikin Agrees to Support Environmental Protection on the Shiretoko Peninsula In July 2011, Daikin Industries, the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, and the towns of Shari and Rausu signed an agreement to protect the wilderness of the Shiretoko Peninsula, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Shiretoko 100m2 Movement*1 is the first national trust*2 activity in Japan. As part of this, Daikin and the other parties to the agreement have a project to restore a dilapidated riparian forest of mainly Japanese Judas tree and create a river flowing through a tunnel of greenery. Since it is important to restore the spawning grounds of the humpbacked and chum salmon, and increase the number of salt-water trout, a fish peculiar to this region, we are trying to improve the environment of the river. We are aiming to work with the local community on a number of practical initiatives, including the creation of measures to ensure people and brown bears live in harmony, flora and fauna surveys, and field surveys of brown bear movement. *1 Shiretoko 100m2 Movement: This was Japan's first national trust movement, started in 1977 to protect pioneering lands in Hokkaido's Shiretoko Peninsula from development. The movement calls for donations to purchase 100-m2 tracts of land (8,000 yen each). *2 National trust movement: To protect nature from overdevelopment, citizens from near and far donate money to purchase land for preservation. Wild animals in Shiretoko Brown bears Yezo deer Steller's sea eagle Trout 158 Environment Dilapidated riparian forest (in a section of the Shiretoko 100m2 Movement, Iwaobetsu River Basin, Hokkaido) See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko (Page 67) Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko: People and Nature Living in Harmony (http://www.daikin.com/csr/shiretoko/index.html) Working to Rejuvenate Forests in Indonesia Since June 2008, Daikin Industries has been working with international NGO Conservation International (CI) on a reforestation project in Gunung Gede Pangrango National Park in Java Island to rejuvenate the forest and its ecosystems. This national park is covered with valuable tropical forests that are home to many unique species designated as endangered. But in the last several decades, it has suffered serious damage as land is cleared for agriculture and people cut down trees to support their lifestyle. The aim of this project is to protect the remaining forest by planting local species of trees and providing residents with environmental education, thus contributing to the rejuvenation of forests that benefit both people and the environment. In the three years up to June 2011, about 80,000 trees (local species) were planted on 200 hectares with the help of 551 local farmers and 20 national park rangers. And under a three-year agreement between Daikin Industries and CI, the project will continue with the rejuvenation of 100 hectares of forest by 2014. The reforestation project is an effort conducted in unison with Daikin customers. For details of this project, called Daikin Re: Air Conditioner Project, see the following websites. Trees were planted with local farmers and park A project to bring water to a village that previously rangers had no running water (c) Conservation International, Photo by Anton Ario (c) Conservation International, Photo by Anton Ario See Reforestation in Indonesia (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) 159 Environment Projects in Surrounding Neighborhoods Daikin Begins Rejuvenating Community Forests Daikin strives to protect forests near its bases. One of these efforts is an agreement between Daikin, Osaka Prefecture, Takatsuki City, and forest owners to protect a community forest area. The agreement was signed at a ceremony on May 25, 2012 at the Osaka Prefectural office. Under the agreement, the prefectural government uses the Adopt a Forest system to mediate companies' purchases from private land owners so that forest land is preserved. This agreement covers the Harashiroyama forest in Takatsuki City, which traditionally was used to harvest bamboo, and to obtain wood for firewood and making charcoal. In recent years though, there are not enough people to manage it and so it has fallen into disrepair due to problems that include overgrowth of bamboo. To return the bamboo forests back to productivity, Daikin is working with local residents to thin out the woods and rejuvenate this local forest. Daikin employees can also go to Harashiroyama anytime they wish to work up a sweat and contribute to the rejuvenation of Japan's valuable community forests. Efforts at Bases Daikin Ales Aoya Training Center Works to Protect and Rejuvenate Natural Forests on Coastal Dunes and Beaches Daikin Ales Aoya in Tottori Prefecture, Japan is a center for the training of employees who will be active on the world stage. The facility is located at Idegahama, a beach known for its 'whistling sand'. The area is home to a typical coastal vegetation ecosystem: starting from the beach, one can see annual grass give way to perennial grass, and short trees gradually give way to taller trees. However, this coastal vegetation has been rapidly disappearing in the last decade or two. When Daikin Industries built this facility here, it began to not just protect these rare beaches and dunes, but also bring back the nature that had been lost so that this coastal ecosystem could once again return to its natural state. We began by surveying the region's vegetation to get a detailed understanding of the geography. Based on this, we made a proposal to plant vegetation. After implementation, we had advice from experts in the monitoring and fostering of the vegetation. For these efforts, in October 2010, Daikin was selected for inclusion in the list of 100 top companies contributing to biodiversity, sponsored by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Architecture. In December 2011, Daikin Ales Aoya was given Excellent Stage 2 ranking under the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES). Daikin Ales Aoya also acts as a multi-purpose training facility, and this project will serve to raise environmental awareness of employees coming here. 160 Environment Bird's-eye view of Daikin Ales Aoya Certificate showing that Daikin Mark of certification for the is one of 100 top companies SEGES (Social and contributing to biodiversity Environmental Green Evaluation System) Monitoring vegetation To restore coastal forests, a fence was constructed to protect the seedlings from salt air and sand Species on the endangered lists of Tottori Prefecture and the national government Beachwort Siberian sea rosemary Scutellaria strigillosa Heteropappus hispidus These species are effective at resisting invasive species and are important to protecting beach vegetation 161 Environment At Recreational Facility in Nagano, Protecting Vegetation and Scenery Daikin Industries' recreational facility in Nagano Prefecture is located in Chino, 1,500 meters above sea level on the Tateshina Plateau, and on the slope of the Yatsugatake Mountains, one of the few volcanic areas in Japan. The facility is surrounded by rich nature including the evergreen needle-leaf forests stretching from the alpine belt to the subalpine belt, as well as woods of Erman's Birch and Quercus crispula. The water in these forests becomes spring water that flows into swamps. A particularly interesting feature are the wingnut trees, which are rare in the surrounding resort areas. Daikin is working to preserve these unique trees and the scenery they provide. The large wingnut trees are a rare sight The mountain streams and vegetation are preserved in their natural state 162 Environment Supporting Children's Education Daikin Develops Circle of Life Program to Teach Elementary Students About Biodiversity Daikin and international NGO Conservation International have developed a biodiversity education program for elementary schools called Circle of Life. Conservation International is also Daikin's partner in a reforestation project in Indonesia. The program focuses on Daikin's reforestation efforts in Indonesia. The lessons keep children interested and eager as they take part in role-playing and other activities that teach them how changes in ecosystems affect their lives and how their lives in Japan are related to the world's environmental problems. The course covers four lessons in the classroom, and schools can request to have extra lessons taught by Daikin employees. Since April 2010, Daikin has been providing schools all over Japan with free teaching materials. In fiscal 2011, 40 schools took part in the program, and 15 of these welcomed Daikin employees to lead the lessons. Daikin hopes that this program provides an opportunity for young people, the environmental protectors of tomorrow, to act to solve environmental problems with the realization that the Earth is theirs to protect. For details on the Circle of Life environmental education program, see the following website. See The Circle Of Life (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html) Reforestation in Indonesia (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) Employee Environmental Volunteers Employee Volunteers Help Protect Biodiversity We provide employees with opportunities to gain a greater awareness of the value of nature through activities like nature tours and forestry volunteering events. Daikin employees help rejuvenate a community forest 163 Environment History of Environmental Activities Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) Environmental Pollution Control System established Environmental Pollution Control Committee 1970s established Environmental Pollution Control Regulations enacted Environmental Month started Daikin Group Environmental Control Committee established 1980s Daikin Group Environmental Management Regulations enacted Began dealing with fluorocarbon problem Began HFC 1991 mass-production Director responsible for environmental 1992 protection and Global Environment Dept.established Actions Principles on Environmental Protection 1993 enacted Environmental Action Plan enacted Began building environmental management 1994 system Released chiller using HFC refrigerant Ceased production of 1995 Environmental audits launched Started air conditioner CFC forums Acquired ISO 14001 certification in all Daikin 1996 Industries production bases in Japan Began working towards ISO 14001 certification 1997 in overseas production bases Released Super Inverter 60 ultra-energy-efficient commercial air conditioner 1998 First Environmental Report published Released HFC multipurpose air conditioner for buildings, HFC residential air conditioners Established Environmental accounting introduced, 1999 fluorocarbon Environmental Meetings launched destruction facilities 164 Environment Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) Released Super Inverter 2000 Start of green procurement ZEAS ultra-energy-efficient HFC air conditioner Environmental Action Plan 2005 enacted Achieved zero waste emissions in Daikin Industries production bases in Japan (machinery divisions) 2001 Regional Environmental Meetings launched Environmental meetings started in each of four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/Oceania) Began fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business 2002 Environmental Philosohy enacted Completed Conversion to HFC refrigerant for all major products (in Japan) Aquired integrated ISO 14001 certification in 2003 Daikin Group in Japan Achieved zero waste emissions in all Daikin 2004 Industries production bases in Japan Released heat pump-type hot water heaters and 2006 Environmental Action Plan 2010 enacted heating systems in 2006 in Europe Held air conditioner forums 2007 in Europe and the U.S. Started Re: AIRCON Project for reforestation in Indonesia Formulated the latter half of the FUSION 10 Released world's first VRV strategic management plan, which stresses 2008 system using CO2 proactive contribution to solving environmental refrigerant problems, as well as business expansion Held air conditioner forums worldwide (Europe, U.S., Japan) Held air conditioner forums 2009 in China The Daikin Group worldwide achieved its Held air conditioner forums 2010 targets for greenhouse gas emissions by a in Asia/Oceania wide margin Formulated Environmental Action Plan 2015 2011 Started environmental protection activities in Shiretoko 165 Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Responsibility to Stakeholders Responsibility to Stakeholders 167 Business Partners 213 Customers 170 Philosophy on Suppliers 215 Product Quality and Safety 172 Working Closely with Suppliers 217 Customer Satisfaction 179 Green Procurement Guidelines 221 Protecting Customer Information 185 Shareholders and Investors 222 Employees 186 For Shareholders 223 Employee Evaluation and Treatment 190 Information Disclosure Policy 226 Workplace Diversity 192 Communities 227 Work-Life Balance 198 Promoting Art and Culture 229 Labor Management Relations 202 Promoting Sports 231 Occupational Safety and Health 203 Contributing to Education 233 Fostering Human Resources 208 Environmental Contributions to Society 238 A Good Corporate Citizen —Activities in Each Community 241 166 Responsibility to Stakeholders Responsibility to Stakeholders INDEX Customers Daikin's main responsibilities Daikin products such as air conditioners, fluorochemical products, and hydraulic Product Quality and Safety equipment are used by families and industries around the world. We provide Customer Satisfaction products and services that anticipate society's needs. Protecting Customer Information We believe these products must satisfy customers with safety and high quality. Opportunities to express opinions and make requests Daikin Contact Center Customer satisfaction questionnaires Support seminars for dealers Service engineer offers helpful extra information during maintenance calls (the five-minutes of extra care standard ) Daikin Showrooms Community sites 167 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employees Daikin's main responsibilities Approximately 40,000 employees work at Daikin bases around the world. The Employee Evaluation and growth of our employees—who sustain our business—is the growth of the Treatment Daikin Group. We stress fairness of opportunity and reward for all employees, Workplace Diversity regardless of age, sex, or nationality in order to make the most of their diverse Work-Life Balance abilities. We create an environment where they can work in safety and health, Labor Management Relations and consider their work-life balance. Occupational Safety and Health Fostering Human Resources Opportunities to express opinions and make requests Respect for Human Rights Interviews based on employee self-assessments Labor-management council meetings, labor union council meetings Group Management Meeting Business Partners Daikin's main responsibilities The supply chain is made up of not only suppliers from whom we directly Philosophy on Suppliers procure raw materials and parts but also those suppliers further upstream. We Working Closely with Suppliers build a relationship of mutual growth and prosperity by communicating frequently Green Procurement Guidelines and continuously with suppliers in order to ensure product quality and safety. A prerequisite to this is fair and honest business dealings. Opportunities to express opinions and make requests Meetings for suppliers Award ceremonies for suppliers Technology discussions, quality and safety gatherings Quality and environmental audits Green procurement briefings Shareholders and Daikin's main responsibilities Investors We operate on capital provided by approximately 50,000 shareholders. We make the best use of capital to achieve solid profitability and a firm financial For Shareholders base to maximize corporate value and meet shareholder and investor Information Disclosure Policy expectations with stable dividends. We provide the necessary information promptly and continuously interact with shareholders and investors. Opportunities to express opinions and make requests Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Briefings on financial results, briefings for investors Annual Report, business reports Information on Website Inquiries by telephone and Internet 168 Responsibility to Stakeholders Communities Daikin's main responsibilities At bases in more than 38 countries, we have a strong desire to form lasting Promoting Art and Culture bonds with local communities and economies and make a positive contribution Promoting Sports as good corporate citizens. Contributing to Education Environmental Contributions to We contribute to regional industry and economy through our business, and Society ensure that our bases are safe and open to local communities. We encourage A Good Corporate Citizen each Daikin base to think and take action that contributes to the community. —Activities in Each Community Opportunities to express opinions and make requests Public liaison person at each Daikin base Informing local community of emergency disaster drills Factory tours for local citizens Participation in local groups Involvement in local events Environment Daikin's main responsibilities We strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all business activities to achieve our most important mission: curbing global warming. We are also promoting our green heart philosophy to communities and to future generations through environmental protection activities. Opportunities to express opinions and make requests Environmental forums, environmental exhibitions Various forms of environmental PR Environmental education 169 Responsibility to Stakeholders With the world's leading technologies in air conditioning and fluorochemicals, the Daikin Group meets society's needs for safe products that offer peace of mind. We also ensure customer satisfaction with advanced support systems. Product Quality and Safety Strict Design Review Ensures Safety: Read more (See page 172) Our Top Priority for Customers Product Quality and Safety Policy Our responsibility goes beyond simply satisfying Product Quality Management Structure customers; we believe that we also have a duty to society Quality Control System to offer products and services that are safe, high quality, Quality Control Process and environmentally conscious. Cooperation with Suppliers Employee Education Quality is a top priority during the development and Improving Quality During Development production stages in our Air Conditioning Manufacturing Development Process Raises Quality Division and Chemicals Division, both of which have Handling Product Accidents obtained the ISO 9001 (quality management system) Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines certification. We also provide customers with the information they need to use our products safely. Disclosing Product Information Universal Design in Product Development And we continue to gather information on products in use Example of Universal Design in the market so we can improve their quality. 170 Responsibility to Stakeholders Customer Satisfaction Giving the Best Possible After Sales Read more (See page 179) Service (Speed, Accuracy, and Customer Satisfaction Policy Friendliness) is Our Basic Policy to Customer Response and Support System Pursue Customer Satisfaction Daikin Global Service Network Understanding and Reflecting Customer Needs The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every Using Customer Opinions day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) advice. We are also rapidly working on further enhancement of after sales service around the world for Employee Education handling customer inquiries and thus achieve a service Support for Dealers system geared to customer needs. Training for Distributors The many opinions and requests received by the center are reflected in our product development and service so that we can stay one step ahead of customer needs. Protecting Customer Information Protecting Customer Information in Read more (See page 185) Every Way The Daikin Group stores a range of personal information from customers, such as repair request data. With the conviction that properly managing such information is an important social responsibility, we have a Personal Information Protection Policy and system for managing information, and we conduct personal information education and audits, all with the goal of effectively managing the information in our possession. 171 Responsibility to Stakeholders Product Quality and Safety Policy We Operate under the Belief that Customers Are Buying Quality With this in mind, we strive to stay ahead of customer needs by providing high-quality products and services based on our corporate policies of Absolute Credibility , Enterprising Management , and Harmonious Personal Relations . Our quality control is based on the idea that the added value we give to products is quality, and that this quality is what customers are buying. And each Daikin employee constantly puts quality ahead of everything else. Daikin Group service quality policy Product Quality Management Structure Establishing an ISO 9001-Compliant Quality Assurance System All manufacturing bases in the Daikin Group are ISO 9001-compliant and have quality assurance systems conforming to this international standard. Company divisions maintain high levels of product quality and ensure proper management of each department, such as development, materials and parts procurement, and production. We are also improving quality at our contract manufacturers. Each division is audited twice a year so that we can assess our quality situation and if necessary further improve it. Based on our annual Daikin Group policy, each division formulates its key quality measures and targets, which are used to create a detailed quality program (fiscal year action plan) for all stages including design and development, materials and parts procurement, and production. In fiscal 2011, we improved our ability to analyze market information and promptly corrected quality issues, and we stepped up our Stress Strength Model (SSM). 172 Responsibility to Stakeholders Quality Control System Quality Control Process Cooperation with Suppliers Efforts with Suppliers to Raise Product Quality and Safety (Responsibility to Business Partners) (Page 218) Employee Education We Hold Daily Meetings to Raise Quality Awareness Every division in the Daikin Group has numerous quality education activities so that employees can continue to raise their quality awareness. Since 2004, the 19th of every month has been quality day in the air conditioning division, when each division holds discussions on ways to improve quality. Since November 2008, each division has held 10-minute daily quality meetings. These meetings are now an established way of keeping employees thinking of new ways to pursue quality and sharing up-to-date information of quality matters. These two activities were again central to quality in fiscal 2011. In the Chemicals Division, new employees are taught the philosophy of quality assurance as part of their orientation. This education is for all new employees doing work related to sales, research, and production. 173 Responsibility to Stakeholders Improving Quality During Development Only Those Products That Pass Our Strict Design Review for Product Safety Are Manufactured In fiscal 2005, the air conditioning division reformed its development process with a stricter, more segmented design review (DR)*. First, the personnel in charge of the relevant divisions inspect the proposed products for conformity to Daikin standards using the four criteria of an individual design review (DR): product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-effectiveness, and compliance. Products that pass the individual DR are then subject to a gate DR: six stages of design reviews and to-market reviews by top management. Only those that pass all standards make it to market. In August 2006, we further raised our product safety standards and now conduct reviews to ensure that products are absolutely safe to use and problems with previous models have been fixed. In fiscal 2011, we established development process management guidelines in the advanced product development stage, which allowed us to make the design review even stricter. We will continue to make even safer and higher quality products by ensuring that our development process detects problems and solutions early on and helps us predict potential problems during product use. * Design review: In a process involving the entire Daikin organization, products under development are assessed for quality of design and all other processes leading up to product realization. Only those that pass each stage can move forward. Development Process Raises Quality 174 Responsibility to Stakeholders Handling Product Accidents Protocol for Promptly Handling Product Accidents Daikin products are designed based on quality standards and design standards that ensure that, even if users err in operating the machinery or use it beyond recommended limits, there is no danger for the users; and even if there is a product accident, the danger to the user is minimized. In case of a product accident, we have systems in place that allow us to quickly relay the necessary information and handle the problem, and minimize the impact on the product users and the general public. We also place top priority on detecting product problems before they lead to a major accident. When the cause of a minor accident is discovered, we determine whether this could also cause a major accident and we reflect this into the development of future products. Clear Force Dehumidifying/Humidifying Air Purifier for Japanese Market Recalled, Replaced Free of Charge It was discovered that there was a danger of heat from the dehumidifying element causing smoke or fire on Clear Force dehumidifying/humidifying air purifiers for the Japanese market produced between September 2009 and August 2011. For the sake of customer safety and peace-of-mind, Daikin gathered these products and replaced them free of charge with a Clear Force model released in November 2011. To ensure a smooth recall and replacement, Daikin put out reports in various media and put an explanation of the recall process in writing and on video on its website. Free Inspection and Repair Customers owning the models in question should phone this number. 0120-330-696 (24 hours a day, every day; toll free in Japan only) For details on free inspections and repairs, see (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/taisetsu/2012/120203/index.html) Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines The Daikin Group (hereinafter, the Group ) believes that its most important management task is to provide products that satisfy customers from the standpoint of our customer when designing and making products that have a high level of safety and quality. To this end, we have formulated the following basic policies on product safety in efforts to provide ever-greater levels of safety and quality in products. 1. Legal Compliance The Group shall observe the Consumer Product Safety Law and other product-related laws and safety standards. 2. Ensuring Product Safety The Group shall establish a quality management system and execute measures to maintain product safety in all processes extending from product design to production, sales, and after sales service. And the Group shall display appropriate, easy-to-understand instructions and warnings on products and in instruction manuals to ensure the safe use of our products by our customers. 175 Responsibility to Stakeholders 3. Collecting and Providing Product Accident Information The Group shall actively collect information from our customers concerning accidents involving Daikin products and quickly report this information to our executive management while providing customers with suitable information. 4. Immediate and Appropriate Response to Product Accidents In the unlikely event of a safety problem occurring in the use our product, our first and primary concern shall be for the safety of our customers, and we shall take immediate actions to minimize and prevent the occurrence of a serious accident. Actions to be taken immediately shall include repairing or replacing the product in question, publicizing the problem through the appropriate media, and submitting a statutory report on the problem to the relevant authorities. All relevant people outside the company, including sales personnel, will be informed of the situation. 5. Product Safety Promotion The Group shall establish a quality assurance system that it uses to ensure product safety and quality. We shall ascertain information related to the safety and quality in the marketplace and provide accurate feedback to personnel within our company in order to reflect it into future product design and manufacture. 6. Education, Training, and Monitoring The Group shall constantly make every effort to promote the safety and quality of our product through widespread education and training in laws and regulations within the company on product safety. We also shall regularly monitor work to ensure product safety is being achieved. Disclosing Product Information Air Conditioning Business: Clear and Concise Product Use Instructions The Consumer Product Safety Law obligates companies to design products for safety and provide consumers with information and warnings so that household product accidents can be avoided. Based on the failsafe* philosophy, Daikin's system of checks ensures that customer safety is the top priority in design and that design review (DR) leads to safe products. Our home page also provides consumers with information including product model numbers and year of products already on the market. In April 2009, the Ministerial Ordinance of technical standards for the Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law went into effect. We abide by this ordinance by placing labels on our residential air conditioners and ventilation fans (which are covered by this law) that state the duration of product use. In Japan, about one-third of the product accidents are the result of improper product operation. Therefore, to prevent accidents, we believe it is important to provide customers with accurate, easy-to-understand information on using products. The air conditioning division conducts product labeling in compliance with industry guidelines, such as the Guidelines for Labeling Household Products for Safe Use (4th edition, revised March 2009), published by the Association for Electric Home Appliances, and the Revisions Labeling Procedures (March 2010), published by the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. When we make product user manuals, we make sure they are readable, easy to understand, and easily searchable. This ensures that customers can use products with peace of mind. We work with our design, quality control, service, and sales departments to improve areas of customer confusion in order to make manuals with which customers can get the answers they need quickly. * Failsafe: Checks and measures are in place to ensure safety in case of a breakdown of mechanisms or systems. 176 Responsibility to Stakeholders Chemicals Business: Holding Workshops on Fluorochemical products While the fluorochemical products produced by the Chemicals Division are highly advanced and highly functional materials, pressing them can sometimes require specialized methods. Not only do representatives of the Technical Service Department visit our customers to explain about our products, but we also conduct customer-oriented training seminars, titled the Fluorine Classroom, to explain about the special properties of fluorine materials and the guide them on the manufacturing process using the facilities and equipment available to the company. In fiscal 2011, we promoted better understanding among customers with four workshops on the topics of plastics, rubber, and paint. Our website includes the material safety data sheet (MSDS) and technical documents, as well as information on how to spot imitation products and precautions regarding the return of high pressure gas cylinders. Universal Design in Product Development Developing Products that Anyone Can Use Easily Daikin incorporates universal design (UD) into product development to enable even the elderly and physically disabled to operate products with ease. In fiscal 2007, we teamed up with NPO Universal Design of Citizen Network to offer training in universal design. In this training, engineers learn the principles of universal design through discussions with general customers and participation in activities mimicking the challenges facing the physically disabled. Universal design is central to the concept of monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), because it involves designing a product so that everyone, no matter what their age or physique, can use it with ease. We are continuing steady efforts in universal design training so that the concept becomes second nature to all engineers. 177 Responsibility to Stakeholders Example of Universal Design 178 Responsibility to Stakeholders Customer Satisfaction Policy Creating New Value by Anticipating the Future Needs of Customers Our group philosophy states that our mission, and the essence of our existence, is to identify and realize our customers' future needs and dreams, even those that they themselves may not yet be aware of. We believe that providing high quality products, materials, and service will not only improve convenience and comfort for customers, but will also increase the level of customer satisfaction. Based on these principles, each division of Daikin Group formulates its policies according to the particular needs and circumstances of customers in order to improve customer satisfaction. The air conditioning division's customers are end users and distributors. The division's basic policies for ensuring customer satisfaction are stay ahead of customers' needs and present new products suggested by the sales division for end user satisfaction, and stay ahead of the times and one step ahead of our competitors by offering a tailored solution for the satisfaction of distributors. The After Sales Service Division of the air conditioning division, which bears responsibility for product maintenance, has the basic policy of the ultimate in quality service through speed, accuracy, and good manners and is working to increase the skills of its service engineers and raise the level of their response to customers. The Chemicals Division has identified improvement of quality, stable supply, appropriate cost, and response to needs (development of new products) as the main points to increase customer satisfaction, and aims to gain greater trust and satisfaction from customers by continually assessing information regarding the level of customer satisfaction and making improvements accordingly. Customer Response and Support System Air Conditioning Division: A Customer Support System with 56 Service Bases in Japan and 34 Overseas The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical advice to customers around the world. We are striving to enhance its service quality to ensure customers are satisfied with the responses they get from the Contact Center. With more and more of Daikin's product sales occurring outside of Japan, we must offer top after-sales service capable of meeting the increasing demands of an ever widening customer base. That's why we are building up our after-sales service system overseas so that Shanghai Service Center customers can get the service they need for their particular country based on Daikin's service policy of speed, accuracy, and good manners. We will continue to enhance customer satisfaction in after sales service by establishing customer contact centers at all service bases and offering local language support. 179 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Global Service Network Chemicals Division: Providing Information Through Various Forums In the Chemicals Division, many of the inquiries are requests to survey the chemicals in products and to provide technical data. Sales representatives of Daikin Industries act as contacts and respond to inquiries in cooperation with the divisions of technical service, research and development, quality assurance, environment, and safety. To further strengthen trust between our company and customer businesses, we hold yearly exchange meetings between top-level personnel, such as the Difreon Gas Meeting and the Gratitudeto-Customers Meeting . At the fiscal 2011 Difreon Gas Meeting, we Gratitude-to-Customers meeting discussed global trends in refrigerants and Daikin efforts in this area. Also, to help our customers benefit more from the products and technology of Daikin Industries, we hold a twice-yearly study seminar on fluorochemical products directed toward media outlets, by which we provide information to our customers. Understanding and Reflecting Customer Needs Strengthening Global Development and Marketing Functions With the Daikin Group rapidly expanding around the world, it is important that we raise customer satisfaction by accurately and rapidly grasping customer needs in each world region and reflecting these in our products. To this end, we have stepped up marketing research functions in with world regions (Europe, China, ASEAN & Oceania, India, North America, Latin America, the Middle East & Africa, and Japan). And to boost development functions, we have switched from a system centered in Japan to one with six global regions and 10 development bases. Besides creating systems for China, Europe, Malaysia, and North America, in fiscal 2011 we began product development in India to better serve local needs. 180 Responsibility to Stakeholders Customer Surveys Go Towards Improving Products and Services Daikin Group divisions conduct customer surveys to enhance customer satisfaction. By constantly surveying and analyzing the voice of customers, we can further boost the quality of our service. The Air Conditioning Sales Division includes a questionnaire with products that allows us to determine customer needs and levels of satisfaction, and also includes a questionnaire on its home page to collect user opinions about our products. In fiscal 2011, we received 487 replies to the questionnaire, and we conducted another 1,000-person questionnaire. Among the customer comments, some said there were too many buttons on the remote controller, while others complained of text that was too small to read. These comments were taken into account in the development of the RAKUAIR air conditioner in fiscal 2011. The After Sales Service Division conducts annual surveys to determine the level of customer satisfaction with our after-sales service. As a result of efforts to complete repairs in a single visit, improve repair techniques through training, get better at dealing with customers and make other such improvements, all under our slogan of Customer first, we have been able to gradually improve customer satisfaction since fiscal 2007. In the Chemicals Division, we distribute questionnaires once a year that help us boost customer satisfaction. The fiscal 2011 questionnaire results showed that we had to speed up our product delivery, but also that we had improved in communicating with customers and providing them with information. One reason for the delivery problems was the increased demand for fluorochemical products, and we remedied this by expanding our production facilities. We will continue to strive to grasp customer needs so that we can improve the level of customer satisfaction. Universal Design in Product Development (Page 177) See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Promoting Dialogue with Customers (Page 60) Using Customer Opinions Customer Inquiries Used in Improving Products and Developing New Ones We have implemented a system for recording all telephone requests and complaints from customers in a database. Information regarding the opinions and requests that sales representatives obtain from customers is shared among the Quality Division and relevant departments, who investigate causes and establish countermeasures to improve products and services. 181 Responsibility to Stakeholders The 500,000 or so technical inquiries that the Contact Center gets from customers each year enable us to make early detection of issues we face in the market and hold clues to product improvement. The information obtained from customer inquiries, including common key words and their frequency, are stored in a database that is shared with the relevant Daikin divisions and used to solve potential quality problems. Information in the database is also used in the planning of new products. The ECOCUTE High Pressure Shower, developed in fiscal 2010, is an example of a product created from customer opinions. Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) Employee Education Year-Long Training and Service Awards Among Daikin Bases The Daikin Group strives to improve the quality of service by teaching employees the necessary knowledge and techniques. Besides basic training in service quality, a variety of training courses and license-certification course are offered to each management level and job description. The After Sales Service Division has the year-long Service University training program. Just like in university, participants can choose the courses right for their job. They also have regular tests to ensure they are retaining what they have learned. This program was once again held in fiscal 2011. At service bases across Japan, teams are created that compete against each other in the annual Service Awards tournament. There, teams are quantitatively judged and awarded for their level of service in five stages including the criteria of our after sales service policy: speed, accuracy, and good manners. This makes for a fun way to raise our ability to offer customer satisfaction. Skills and Customer-interaction Training for Service Engineers Service engineers' individual technical expertise is crucial to providing quality service. Since fiscal 2006, we have been holding workshops and giving technical assessment tests to all service engineers. Our rule is that service engineers must be certified with a minimum level of skill before they can do repair work alone. To further improve their abilities, since fiscal 2008 we have been holding training for chief engineers. As of March 2012, a total of 894 (cumulative total: 1,500) had passed the chief engineer test, and our goal is to raise this number to 1,200 by fiscal 2015. We also provide similar training for engineers at dealerships. To help service engineers better deal with customers, in fiscal 2007 we started working with outside experts to hold service etiquette classes, and we continued with these classes in fiscal 2011. 182 Responsibility to Stakeholders We will continue to give our service engineers the technical skills and people skills they need to make Daikin No. 1 in service in the eyes of customers. Training for Distributors (Page 184) The Chemicals Division: Sharing Broad Knowledge About Product Features and Their Target Fields, Etc. The sales representatives of the Chemicals Division need to listen to researchers and product developers of customer businesses about the product functions they seek and offer them the ideal products for their needs. In order to optimize product functions in accordance with the circumstances of customer businesses, it is essential to have diverse knowledge of such things as processing methods, amount of additives, and temperatures. For this purpose, once a month the Chemicals Division holds meetings covering business, research, and manufacturing to share not only business information, but also knowledge regarding products. By giving concrete examples of product applications and use, as well as relaying customer needs, these meetings aid in the development of new products and applications, and they give customers a deeper understanding of product features. Customers thus leave with new ideas for product application. The Division also makes opportunities for the sharing of superior business skills within the Division, and makes use of the Fluorine Classroom customer education program as an opportunity for personnel to educate themselves and deepen their knowledge. The Chemicals Division will continue to train personnel so that they acquire a deep knowledge on the use fluorine in various business situations. Support for Dealers Providing Solution Sales Support for Distributors Via Our Website and Other Means The air conditioning division provides distributors with solution sales support. Through our website, distributors have constant access to technical information and 10 years of information on all products, as well as software for making product and service estimates and for making CO2 reduction calculations and other energyand cost-related calculations. The site is also optimized for use with a mobile phone, so distributors can access it while they are out visiting a customer. They can also create proposals easily with their mobile phones. As well, starting in fiscal 2011 distributors can use tablets with software that provides information such as delivery examples, thus making it possible to provide them with ideas to help their business wherever they are. We encourage distributors acquire the Eco Test certification (Certification Test for Environmental Specialist), as do members of Daikin's sales divisions. In this way, we help them become more eco-wise and strengthen their consulting ability. We also publish information journals to provide specialists and dealerships with useful information such as company profiles, market trends, installation case studies, and explanations of industry laws. In May 2009, we formed the existing technical support departments into the Customer Support Center. Our aim was to strengthen technical capabilities in solution sales by such efforts as development of various support software, support for development of environmental business, and energy solution sales support. In April 2011, we made consolidations among our 20 sales companies throughout Japan to form 10 consolidated companies, and strengthened our distributor support system. The Cyber Support System of our Customer Support Center offers solution sales support for distributors 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 183 Responsibility to Stakeholders Training for Distributors 51 Courses Available for Acquiring Air Conditioning Skills Daikin Industries has five training centers around Japan where we hold a variety of courses so that distributors can learn design, installation, and service techniques. The Tsukuba Training Center in Tsukuba City, Ibaraki Prefecture, also contains the Solution Plaza where distributors can first observe the latest models before undergoing the relevant training. With the goal of offering customers service that is practical, easy to understand, pleasant, and immediately applicable to their business, the center uses the latest simulation machinery to offer realistic practice, as well as electronic blackboards and videos teaching materials, along with a range of other state-of-the-art teaching aids. Training for distributors includes systematic step-up training to improve trainees' levels, solution training that helps distributors meet their customers' needs, and certification classes. There are a total of 51 courses. From fiscal 2011, we commenced the Service Diagnostics Advanced Course. In fiscal 2012, we will begin the Ventilation Systems Advanced Course and the Water Heating Equipment Basic Course as part of our continuing quest to meet a range of customer needs. Environmental Solutions Training To promote efforts in solving environmental problems, we are conducting five courses in environmental solutions. Starting in fiscal 2008, we have been distributing eco-booklets to trainees in all courses. The eco-booklets contain general knowledge on global warming and ozone layer destruction, handling fluorocarbons, and steps to preventing global warming, which is expanded on in the courses to raise awareness of the importance of environmental protection. eco-booklet 184 Responsibility to Stakeholders Protecting Customer Information Personal Information Managers and Thorough Employee Education To properly protect the range of customer information entrusted to us, the Daikin Group has a Personal Information Protection Policy, as well as various in-house rules for information protection. Personal information managers in each division follow these in-house rules in leading employees in the strict protection of personal information. Particularly in divisions that handle data repair information from customers on a daily basis, we do everything possible to keep this information secure. To continually monitor and improve on our information security system, employees conduct their own self assessments, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center conducts legal audits, and the Internal Auditing Department conducts audits. Information Security (CSR Management) (Page 29) 185 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Daikin Group's management is people-centered in the belief that people are the source of a company's competitiveness. We believe in the unlimited potential of every person and that the sum of the potential and talent of our diverse people forms the pillars of our company operations. By integrating the characteristics and ideas of our diverse range of employees, we can energize our company and strengthen our competitiveness. The Daikin Group is striving to build new corporate value through a strategy of management diversity. Please refer to collected performance data related to responsibility to employees. Data (Page 265) Employee Evaluation and Treatment Fairness of Opportunity and Reward Read more (See page 190) The Daikin Group offers fairness of opportunity and Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy reward : a workplace where employees are rewarded for Employee Evaluation and Treatment putting their motivation to work and taking every Job Placement opportunity for success. Workplace Diversity A Workplace Where Everyone Can Shine Read more (See page 192) The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us Workplace Diversity Policy competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) a diverse range of employees—men and women of all ages, nationalities, races, and levels of occupational Putting More Women into Management Positions experience—working within an organization that is Hiring Women conducive to mutual understanding of one another's Number of Women Periodically Hired; Percentage of All Employees (Daikin Industries only) distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Re-employment of Retired Employees Number of Re-employed Workers & Rate of Our Group Compliance Guidelines state that while Re-employment (Daikin Industries only) respecting diverse values and approaches to work, we Employment of People with Disabilities shall mutually accept our respective differences, act in Number of Disabled People Employed (Domestic harmony, gather the abilities we possess, and strive to be group companies) External Awards a Group in which each member expresses his or her ambitions and then takes bold actions with great passion Promotion of Local Personnel at Overseas Bases and perseverance to realize those ambitions. Diversity Education for Employees 186 Responsibility to Stakeholders Work-Life Balance Full Range of Childcare Leave and Read more (See page 198) Childcare Support Systems Work-Life Balance Policy Daikin Industries stresses a work life balance for Helping Employees Match Work Schedule with employees. We have a range of work systems that allow Lifestyle employees to work flexible duties and flexible schedules. Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover (Daikin Industries only) The company has established an action plan for helping Support for Childcare employees with children continue both work and home Number of Employees Taking Leave Before and duties with peace of mind and has been certified as a After Child Birth and Number Taking Childcare Leave (Daikin Industries only) company complying with the Law for Measures to Support Content of Third Action Plan Based on Law for the Development of the Next Generation. We have been Measures to Support the Development of the Next particularly active in urging male employees to take Generation advantage of our systems for childcare leave and Support for Family Care childcare support. Number Taking Family Care Leave (Daikin Industries only) Other employee benefit systems (some are abridged) Labor Management Relations Frank Exchanges of Opinion Create Read more (See page 202) Favorable Labor-Management Relations Labor Management Relations Policy Daikin Industries believes that cooperative labor Respecting the Rights of Workers management relations are the foundation of company Dialogue with Employees management. We therefore place the utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management as well as mutual trust between both sides. 187 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Keeping the Workplace Safe and Read more (See page 203) Employees Physically and Mentally Fit Occupational Safety and Health Policy The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state Frequency Rate, Severity Rate (Daikin Industries our top priority of ensuring a safe, healthy workplace only) Number of Accidents Resulting in Time off Work where employees can work in peace of mind. To achieve (Daikin Industries only) this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident Occupational Safety and Health Management workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract Structure employees work safely, both for their own sake and to System for Occupational Safety and Health instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around Employee Education and Training our factories. Employee Health Management Mental Health Shortening Working Hours Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave (Daikin Industries only) Average Hours of Overtime per Employee (Daikin Industries only) Fostering Human Resources Training Employees to Take the World Read more (See page 208) Stage Philosophy The Daikin Group philosophy states that the cumulative Education Systems growth of all group members, regardless of nationality or Education System company, serves the foundation for the group's Passing on Skills development. Based on the belief that people grow through Passing on Skills at Overseas Bases work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians capabilities through on-the-job training (OJT)*1. We also Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property supplement this with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such as Number of Patent Applications (Daikin Industries the Daikin Leadership Development Program for next only) generation executives, the Daikin Business School (D-BS) for executive management candidates of overseas bases. We also provide opportunities for independent learning through language training and correspondence courses. *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the skills, knowledge, and degree of commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 Off JT: Employees study outside of their workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. 188 Responsibility to Stakeholders Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy of Respect for Human Read more (See page 31) Rights and Diversity, and Compliance with Labor Laws Daikin Industries does all it can in educating employees about human rights so that we can establish a corporate group free of discrimination where everyone's rights are respected. 189 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy The Daikin Group offers fairness of opportunity and reward : a workplace where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to work and taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Pursuing Fairness of Opportunity and Reward In fiscal 2001, we eliminated standardized wage scales based on age and seniority, along with uniform pay raises. Instead, we switched to a compensation system that rewards performance, not age or seniority. Our performance evaluation focuses on how well employees improve their abilities. This evaluation also looks at job results in three categories called achievements, challenging spirit, and growth. To ensure even greater fairness of evaluation, managers evaluate their staff only after consulting with other managers. Employees are also evaluated based on their level of contribution to company successes and to the organization as a whole. In 2002, this compensation system was extended to include Daikin Group companies in Japan. In fiscal 2011, be began formulating unified worldwide guidelines that cover our philosophy of performance-based pay and detail how job results should be reflected in pay. This will give the entire Group a fair, credible compensation system. 190 Responsibility to Stakeholders Job Placement Creating Opportunities to Understand Employee Circumstances Whenever possible, Daikin Industries asks employees where they want to work and if possible assigns them to the departments and sections of their choice. If new employees cannot be placed in the department or section of their desire due to personal aptitude and company needs, we do all we can to gain their understanding. Every year, employees fill out their own record of work, which includes a column for free comments about health, family, and job positions desired. When we consider transferring an employee, we look at these comments and talk to them in efforts to ensure, whenever possible, that their job desires and spirit of challenge is reflected in the posts they are assigned to. For employees who wish to work overseas, we have established a practical training system to support employees in foreign positions. We will continue to build rewarding workplaces for our employees by matching their dreams and goals with those of Daikin. 191 Responsibility to Stakeholders Workplace Diversity Policy The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of employees—men and women of all ages, nationalities, years of experience in the company, temporary or full-time—working within an organization that is conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state our aim of becoming a group is passionate, strong, and forward-thinking and in which there is respect for a diverse range of values and work philosophies, and in which employees respect their differences and cooperate to pool their strengths so that each person can achieve his or her dream. The Daikin Group's employee make-up is becoming increasingly diverse, with a greater number of non-Japanese and women in our ranks. Since introducing our rehiring system in 1991, we have been making greater use of Daikin's experienced retirees. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) The end of March The end of March The end of March The end of March The end of March 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of 6,360 816 6,452 868 6,558 897 6,717 961 6,705 974 employees Average range of 19.0 12.0 18.9 12.0 17.9 10.8 17.1 9.96 16.8 10.5 services (years) Average age 41.9 32.9 41.6 32.8 41.8 33.6 41.8 34.2 41.8 34.9 Number of 969 12 925 13 886 14 936 16 933 21 managers Number of board 41 1 47 1 45 1 44 1 45 1 members Number of foreign 28 12 28 12 27 16 30 21 34 21 nationals Note: Number currently employed 192 Responsibility to Stakeholders Putting More Women into Management Positions New Project Maximizes Women's Talents Daikin Industries strives to create identical working conditions for men and women because our goal is to use the talents of both sexes to the fullest. In 2001, we eliminated the barrier between general clerical work and management track jobs so that female employees have more career possibilities. We have also systematically increased the number of female managers from two in fiscal 2001 to 21 in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2011, we launched a project to maximize women's talents, and we are positioning this as one of Daikin's key initiatives. Through seminars and other educational events for management and female employees, we are seeking to foster women so that they can play a bigger part in company management long term. Hiring Women Increasing Percentage of Female Employees As of March 2012, women accounted for 12.7% of all employees of Daikin Industries, an increase of 0.2% over 2011. In the past, job applicants for technical and skills positions were mostly men, which kept the ratio of female employees low. We therefore set a goal of achieving the national average, 12%, for female employees as a percentage of total by fiscal 2009. As a result of proactive efforts to hire women, we achieved this goal in 2008, a full year ahead of schedule. Number of Women Periodically Hired; Percentage of All Employees (Daikin Industries only) Re-employment of Retired Employees Re-employment System Makes the Most of Experienced Employees In 2001, Daikin became one of the first companies in Japan to introduce a re-employment system in which retirees wishing to participate can work until they are 65, thus providing an opportunity for them to make the most of their skills and knowledge. Since introducing this system, over 100 have been re-employed each year. In fiscal 2011, there were 622 retirees working under this system at Daikin. Fourteen of these re-employed veterans have been assigned to overseas posts so that they can impart their superior skills and know-how to our bases in other countries. We are working to raise motivation among these re-employed veterans by giving those showing outstanding work performance fixed pay increases. 193 Responsibility to Stakeholders In fiscal 2006, all group companies in Japan introduced this re-employment system to comply with Japan's Revised Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons. Those applying for this system may work until they are 65, with their working hours and pay scale decided on by labor and management. The contribution of these experienced workers is becoming more important with Japan's declining birthrate and aging population. We plan to place these workers in positions that are best for them by considering their requests and expertise and by having them consult with their superiors. Number of Re-employed Workers & Rate of Re-employment (Daikin Industries only) History of Daikin's Re-employment System 1979 Retirement age extended from 55 to 60. 1991 Introduction of re-employment system for employees up to 63. 2001 Age raised from 63 to 65. 2004 Senior Skill Specialist contract employee system introduced. 2005 Experience worker revitalization project started. 2006 System introduced at Daikin Group companies in Japan in 2006. 194 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employment of People with Disabilities Hiring More People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire the disabled based on its policy of providing opportunities for disabled people to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, based on the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities, Daikin Industries established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. This venture gives people with disabilities greater opportunity to make the most of their skills at workplaces designed specifically with Daikin Sunrise Settsu (Japan) employment of the disabled in mind. Including the employment of disabled persons at many group companies and expanding employment of disabled persons at special subsidiary companies, we are increasing the disabled employment ratio for Daikin Group as a whole. In June 2009, Daikin Sunrise Settsu's new plant was established as another step in hiring more disabled. The duties of these employees have also expanded from the processing and assembly of machine parts and the manufacture of chemicals, to computer assisted design and the publication of documents. As of March 2012, 2.5% of workers in the Daikin Group are disabled, a New plant of Daikin Sunrise Settsu percentage above the legal requirement. Number of Disabled People Employed (Domestic group companies) *1 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two disabled persons. *2 Employment rate = number of disabled persons employed / number of persons employed. 195 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Slogans of Daikin Sunrise Settsu External Awards Daikin Overseas Bases Hire Disabled Workers Using the experience of Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd. in Japan, Daikin Air Conditioning Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. has expanded its hiring of the disabled. Companies in Shanghai must have disabled account for at least 1.6% of their workforce. As of the end of March 2012, Daikin Shanghai had 62 disabled employees working on lines and in offices, accounting for 1.6% of all employees. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. hired 22 disabled persons in fiscal 2011 and now has a total of 28 working on production lines. The company can employ up to 80 disabled persons on production lines and Production line for the disabled (Daikin Compressor so will continue its aggressive hiring of the disabled. Industries Ltd.) Promotion of Local Personnel at Overseas Bases Making Local Employees Leaders at Overseas Bases Daikin Group is striving to localize overseas bases by promoting more local employees to managerial positions. In 2004, we started the Daikin Business School (D-BS), a training seminar for cultivating personnel to take on the tasks of local management. As of fiscal 2011, 57 employees had taken this seminar. In fiscal 2011, we promoted 11 local personnel to executive positions in Europe, China, other parts of Asia, and Oceania. 196 Responsibility to Stakeholders Diversity Education for Employees Training Japanese Employees for Work at Overseas Bases Daikin Industries has a variety of training for Japanese employees who will be working at overseas bases so that they are able to respect the values of local employees and communicate with them properly. This training has two goals. One is to improve understanding of the situation in the appointed region or country, the thinking and values of the people there, and the main considerations when doing business there. And because the Japanese employee will often be a manager, the other goal is to teach that person about Daikin's basic stance on personnel and labor matters, particularly cultural differences that could be important when evaluating employees. In fiscal 2011, Daikin Industries held seminars on the state of business and culture in China. Participants were 12 employees scheduled for overseas appointments and 23 employees whose work is connected to China. As well, 25 overseas appointees and 55 employees who interact with overseas bases took part in five seminars on management analysis and financial management. Inter-cultural communications and IMS training courses were attended by 16 overseas appointees, and 30 attended training on internal management at overseas affiliates. Overseas appointees were also eligible to take English, Chinese, and other foreign-language training. 197 Responsibility to Stakeholders Work-Life Balance Policy Daikin Industries stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of work systems that allow employees to work flexible duties and flexible schedules. The company has established an action plan for helping employees with children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind and has been certified as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our systems for childcare leave and childcare support. Helping Employees Match Work Schedule with Lifestyle Flex Time and Discretionary Work System Allow Employees to Continue Working To allow this diverse range of employees to work under flexible conditions and working hours, we introduced the flex time system in 1991. In 2001, we introduced a discretionary work system in use in the R&D department and other company departments to accommodate the needs of employees with specialized duties such as those involved in planning, proposals, and surveys related to company operations. Thanks to these efforts to give employees flexible working conditions and working hours, Daikin has an employee turnover of just 3.2% (including mandatory retirement age employees) in fiscal 2011: this is far below the average of 14.5% for all industries in Japan (according to a 2010 survey by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare). Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover (Daikin Industries only) 198 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support for Childcare Increasing Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave Daikin Industries strives to create an environment where employees can continue their jobs even after having children. We established action plans based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. In March 2007, we achieved the targets of our first action plan and in March 2012 we achieved the targets of our second action plan. For these successes we were certified by the Osaka Labour Bureau. Our third action plan got underway in April 2012 with a number of support efforts, including seminars to help employees on childcare leave make a smooth return to the workplace, and a new section of the company intranet with advice on balancing child-rearing and work. One child-rearing support initiative introduced in June 2007 was a childcare support system under which parents working overtime or taking business trips, or taking care of sick children, were eligible to receive financial aid from the company to cover part of the expenses such as babysitters. In fiscal 2011, 51 employees took advantage of this system. Daikin Group companies in Japan are improving systems for helping employees raise their children until they enter school. Daikin is also introducing systems such as childcare leave and flextime at some overseas companies. 93 Male Employees Take Childcare Leave Daikin Industries encourages male employees to take extended leave for childcare and aims to create a work environment in which male employees feel comfortable taking childcare leave. We have revised our childcare leave systems so that more men could take childcare leave. This was an important part of the company's second action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. The changes allow men with at-home spouses to take childcare leave until the child is 1 year old (compared to until eight weeks previously) and to take childcare leave twice (compared to once previously). As a result of our efforts to promote awareness and use of the childcare leave system among our employees, 93 men took childcare leave in fiscal 2011. Number of Employees Taking Leave Before and After Child Birth and Number Taking Childcare Leave (Daikin Daikin Industries achieved the Industries only) targets of its first action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. For this, the company was certified by Symbol Showing the Osaka Labour Bureau. Certification as a Company Supporting Employees Childcare Efforts 199 Responsibility to Stakeholders Content of Third Action Plan Based on Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation Support Systems for the Balance of Work and Family 1992 Introduction of childcare leave system and shortened working hours for parents. 2005 First action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Achievement of goals of first action plan. 2007 Creation of second action plan. Reassessment of childcare leave and family care leave in accordance with the revised Child Care and 2010 Family Care Leave Act. Achievement of goals of second action plan. 2012 Creation of third action plan (implementation period: April 2012 to March 2014). 200 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support for Family Care Family Care Leave and Shortened Working Hours Daikin Industries is doing all it can so that employees can take leave to care for their family when necessary, with minimal stress, and therefore create an environment in which employees can continue working for Daikin under these circumstances. Under our family care leave system, employees can take leave up to a maximum of 365 days for each family member who requires care, once for each time that member's condition becomes such as to require care. Under our system for adjustment of working hours for family care, employees can opt to work a staggered or flexible work schedule or shorter hours (six hours per day) up to a maximum of 365 days for each family member who requires care. In fiscal 2010, we reappraised the policy on child and family care leave in response to the revision of the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act in June, and included short-term care leave, whereby employees may take up to 5 days leave each year if needed to care for 1 family member, or up to 10 days leave for 2 or more family members. Number Taking Family Care Leave (Daikin Industries only) Other Employee Benefit Systems (some are abridged) Pension Defined contribution pension The employee gets three days of paid leave Seniors' leaves system between the month the employee turns 55 and Paid leave retirement age. Employees may be allowed to take time off work Participation in Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers for this. 201 Responsibility to Stakeholders Labor Management Relations Policy Daikin Industries believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management, as well as mutual trust between both sides. Our stance has, and always will be, to face the truth in solving all problems, and to speak frankly and draw clear lines between what is and what is not possible. Except for managers and some contract employees, everyone at Daikin Industries is a union member. The company holds frank discussions with the labor union. As soon as business plans are clarified, management holds a meeting where it explains these plans to the labor union. In fiscal 2011, there were 25 such meetings held at the head office. Branch office meetings are also held when necessary. Employee working conditions and status are matters discussed between labor and management, with results of these discussions promptly reported to employees of the various divisions. Respecting the Rights of Workers Specification in Work Regulations and Agreements and Publicizing of Respect for Workers Rights At Daikin Industries, we believe that the company should respect its employees as individuals and strive to improve their welfare, and that employees should fulfill their duties as workers. The principle of respect for the rights of the worker is specified in work regulations and labor agreements. To ensure understanding of workers' rights, we give a thorough explanation of the work regulations and labor agreement to new employees when they join the company, and the labor union also conducts similar education of employees. Dialogue with Employees Hearings for Employees to Improve Working Conditions Daikin Industries has about 10 hearings a year with at least 2% of its employees (approximately 160 employees). Salary negotiations are held between labor and management with consideration for factors including company performance, operational issues, world trends, and the work of the labor union. Interviewing each employee based on these factors results in that person receiving a salary that both sides agree is fair under the circumstances. Besides salary, employees are also given hearings when there are matters to report from the company, such as new fiscal year policies, budget and performance reports, and a message from the president at bonus time. Other ways that we hold dialogue with employees include meetings between managers and their workers during announcement of annual targets and employee evaluations. Listening to frank employee opinions ensures that we can continuously improve labormanagement relations. 202 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Policy The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state our top priority of ensuring a safe, healthy workplace where employees can work in peace of mind. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around our factories. Frequency Rate*1 (Daikin Industries only) Severity Rate*2 (Daikin Industries only) *1: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, *2: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. working hours. Number of Accidents Resulting in Time off Work (Daikin Industries only) 203 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure Occupational Safety and Health Committee at Each Daikin Site Leads Safety and Accident-Prevention Efforts The chart below shows the Daikin Group's system for occupational safety and health and security. An Occupational Safety and Health Committee at each Daikin site leads efforts through the creation of voluntary annual slogans, policies, and proposals. These committees also ensure the safety of facilities and prevent accidents through risk assessments. They also raise employee receptiveness to and awareness of workplace safety through activities including site patrols to make sure rules are being followed and hands-on workshops. The committees also send members to other sites to exchange safety information with committee members there. System for Occupational Safety and Health 204 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Education and Training Hands-On Training Raises Safety Awareness at Daikin Worldwide Each site of Daikin Industries conducts courses and training in occupational safety and health. An important focus in recent years has been hands-on training at all bases, which simulates situations where certain actions or situations could invite danger. The effective programs combine classroom learning with hands-on drills in which employees learn to use their senses in acquiring danger prediction skills. For example, training uses actual equipment to simulate how dangerous it is to get caught in or trapped by machinery, and chemical reactions are carried out to show the dangerous pressure and fires such reactions can cause. Employees take part in hands-on training In fiscal 2011, the Yodogawa Plant began an effective method for preventing mistakes called pointing and calling. With this method, workers actually point their finger and shout out important stages of work processes as they confirm them visually, and this training showed firsthand how it can reduce human errors. These hands-on programs are also being conducted at Daikin overseas manufacturing bases. Ensuring Plant Safety for Business Partners (Responsibility to Business Partners) (Page 219) 205 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Health Management Supporting Employee Health through Checkups and Counseling Daikin Industries strives to maintain employees' health by providing all employees with semi-annual health checkups, as well as semi-annual special checkups for those engaged in specialized work, as required by health and safety laws. Employees who are found to have problems are put under the direct guidance of the company health clinic, while employees with lifestyle-related diseases are taken care of by a public health nurse and nutritionist. We are trying to provide more opportunities for the employees themselves to use this health and nutrition advice for their own self improvement. Employees working excessive hours are checked by an industrial physician, and if the employee needs special attention, he or she and his or her superior will receive guidance from the physician. We also work to increase employees' health awareness by holding seminars on preventing metabolic syndrome and lifestyle-related diseases, and providing information designed to reduce smoking among employees. Mental Health Awareness of Individuals and Organizations Dealing with Mental Health Issues and Provision of Specialist Care Daikin Industries strives to maintain the physical and mental health of employees. Based on guidelines from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, four types of mental health care measures, such as self-care and care by dedicated outside staff, are planned and implemented at all bases. For example, Industrial physicians provide mental health checkups to employees who are transferred and to newly hired employees after three months, as well as to employees who questionnaires have showed are facing problems. There are also mental health lectures. At Daikin bases in countries like the U.S., Thailand, and Australia, there are mental health counselors and help lines to ensure that employees enjoy a pleasant workplace. Shortening Working Hours Shortening Work Hours by Obligating Employees to Leave at Closing Time and by Boosting Work Efficiency Since fiscal 2003, as an initiative to eliminate long working hours, Daikin Industries has obligated employees to leave the office at closing time once a week and prohibited employees from coming to work on their days off (unless absolutely necessary and approved by the department head). In this way, we are making a concerted effort to improve both work rule compliance and work efficiency. Yearly plans are made for each employee's duties and working hours, and to ensure that work and personnel management are in line with the plans, checklists are filled out to manage daily work. 206 Responsibility to Stakeholders Furthermore, by implementing a planned 5-day paid work leave system and establishing 3 days of general paid leave, we aim to promote respect for work-life balance and a more vibrant work environment. In fiscal 2009, we introduced a work attendance tracking system that enables us to easily comprehend the day-to-day circumstances of employee overtime and paid leave use. This system has advanced employee workload control by managers and boosted the use of paid leave among employees. We will continue to do everything we can to shorten working hours and boost work efficiency. Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave (Daikin Average Hours of Overtime per Employee (Daikin Industries only) Industries only) Measures to reduce working hours 207 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy The Daikin Group believes that practicing the principle of People-Centered Management is essential to the growth of the group. Our philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all group members, regardless of nationality or company, serves as the foundation for the group's development. Based on the belief that people grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee capabilities through on-the-job training (OJT)*1. We also supplement this with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such as the Daikin Leadership Development Program for training executives who can work at the front line of global business operations, the Daikin Business School for executive management of overseas bases. We offer provide opportunities for independent learning through language training and correspondence courses. *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the skills, knowledge, and degree of commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 OFF-JT: Employees study outside of their workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Education Systems Raising up Personnel through Work Experience to Take the World Stage Daikin believes that implementing its People-Centered Management is key to the growth of the Daikin Group. With the Group's business spreading worldwide, it is crucial that we train people to be leaders with the management skills to guide employees with a diverse range of values in a common direction. To this end, in May 2008, we established the Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. Here, new intensive courses for all worldwide Daikin employees are geared to the changing needs of the times, such as Skills Leader Training for people leading our overseas production bases. In fiscal 2011, over 10,000 employees Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center made use of the training center. In fiscal 2011, to put Daikin's People-Centered Management into more widespread action, Daikin Industries' executives and managers toured worldwide bases to hold talks and exchanges that helped Our Group Philosophy take deeper route. We will continue to implement a variety of measures to boost human resources and facilitate mutual communications between the headquarters and branch offices; these include boosting global recruitment, increasing the number of interregional and international deployments, and creating competitive assessment and reward systems. 208 Responsibility to Stakeholders Education System New Employee Training The goal of new employee training is to foster business people capable of frankly expressing their own opinions and communicating with people with differing opinions. Trainees learn what it takes to be a company employee, and about the past, present, and future direction of the Daikin Group. There are also five days of English-language training as part of efforts to help new employees become global citizens and understand other cultures. New employees also spend five nights and six days at the Daikin Ales Aoya global training center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. There, hands-on, participatory training has new employees holding discussions and practicing concepts focusing on Daikin's People-Centered Management and how to become an ideal employee. Overseas Base Practical Training To ensure we have internationally minded employees who can lead our global business in future, we send young employees (ages from mid-20s to late 30s) to work at overseas bases for one year. Unlike other Daikin employees working overseas, these people take on practical work projects as they cooperate with local dealers, suppliers, business partners, and universities, striving to think outside the box, take on new challenges, and improve their abilities to communicate within foreign cultures. In fiscal 2011, 19 young employees took part in this training. Since the program started in fiscal 1999, a total of 112 employees have participated. Study Trips in Japan Daikin sends young employees in Japan to universities such as Toyota Technological Institute and the International University of Japan in order to improve their technological skills, acquire MBAs, widen their perspective, and build human resource networks. As of fiscal 2011, there are seven Daikin employees studying at Toyota Technological Institute and the International University of Japan. 209 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Leadership Development Program, Daikin Business School Daikin fosters the next generation of leaders through the Daikin Leadership Development Program, which trains Daikin Industries' executives, and the Daikin Business School, which is for local nationals who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. Centered on Our Group Philosophy, the program turns out executives who can lead and manage their company for the common good of the entire Daikin Group. In fiscal 2011, there were 121 people studying in the Daikin Leadership Program and 57 at the Daikin Business School. Passing on Skills Meister and Expert Systems Foster a New Generation In 2001, Daikin Industries introduced a system to pass on advanced skills to young workers. This system ensures that we give the next generation of technical leaders the advanced skills that form the foundation of manufacturing. In the air conditioning divisions, workers with advanced skills are designated as Meisters . As of March 2012, there are 31 designated Meisters in the skill areas of brazing, lathing, sheet metal working, arc welding, die making, and tooling. These Meisters teach their skills at Daikin bases worldwide, thus fostering future engineers and technical leaders. The Chemicals Division has since 2006 had a system to designate Experts, who pass their advanced skills on to others. As of March 2012, there are five designated Experts working in plant operations. Passing on Skills at Overseas Bases Training Passes on Skills to Daikin Employees Worldwide Starting in 2002, Daikin Industries began designating distinguished veteran technicians as Meisters and sending them overseas to help raise the skill levels at overseas Group production bases. However, due to a lack of personnel to provide technical support for manufacturing at overseas bases, in April 2010 we established a new trainer system to foster future Meisters. There were five new trainers certified in fiscal 2011. We also hold periodic skills training at production bases around the world in which Meisters and Expert Trainers lead selected employees. In fiscal 2011, 18 participants took part and learned basic skills, as well A course for overseas skills trainers as about Daikin's manufacturing philosophy and its fostering of human resources. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Training Employees for Global Manufacturing (Page 64) 210 Responsibility to Stakeholders Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians Experienced Workers Pass On Techniques and Skills Since 1994, the Shiga Plant of Daikin Industries has worked to boost the level of its manufacturing by having a Kaizen Team of experienced workers lead training for young employees in the production division. The system began with training for mid-level employees but now focuses on passing on skills and techniques to young employees. As of fiscal 2011, a total of 97 employees have taken this training. During the four-to-six-month training, each young employee is led by two or three experienced workers. Participants get practical work in the main aims of the particular session, taking classroom lectures in subjects like electrical circuitry, as well as applied learning in sheet metal working, arc welding, and circuitry. While young workers pick up technical knowledge, they get a chance to interact with experienced workers, which help young workers develop a sense of professionalism. 211 Responsibility to Stakeholders Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property Two Systems Stimulate Creation of Intellectual Property Daikin Industries has two systems for stimulating employees' motivation to invent and for spurring the creation of intellectual property. The first is the Compensation System for Employee Inventions, a system in which Daikin pays employees for inventions created on the job that result in patent applications as well as successful uses of the patent. In fiscal 2011, Daikin compensated employees for 1,007 patent applications (submitted before the end of December 2011) and 424 successful uses of the patent (investigated in fiscal 2010 and paid in fiscal 2011). The second is the Incentive System for Valuable Patents, which gives Awarding incentive bonuses to inventor group employees incentive bonuses for valuable patents. In fiscal 2011, we representatives awarded incentive bonuses to the creators of 95 patents. These systems are aimed at stepping up Daikin's intellectual creativity. However, there is still much work to be done in areas such as increasing the quality and quantity of patents, and increasing the number of patents in our key technological fields, in particular in emerging countries. To this end, in the air conditioning divisions, rather than focusing merely on the overall number of patent applications, goals are being set based on particular development themes, and company executives are keeping a close watch on progress in development from both the qualitative and quantitative sides. As well, we are setting key patent themes in which we don't just pursue patents related to our own technological strengths; rather, we seek to protect our business by also applying for patents that will prevent other companies from coming out with products similar to our own. In the Chemicals Division, as competing companies expand outside the boundaries of fluorochemicals, we have been doing surveys on possible future patents in key fields, and this allowed us to complete a proprietary database that gives us a tool for keeping abreast of the patent race. We are currently studying other companies in industry as we plan a system of incentive bonuses for outstanding inventions developed by Daikin's overseas development bases. Number of Patent Applications (Daikin Industries only) 212 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Daikin Group strives to build a relationship of trust with its suppliers. Through a synergistic relationship, both sides seek to meet each other's expectations for the sake of mutual growth and progress. To achieve this, we do our utmost to conduct fair and open dealings, and we constantly communicate with suppliers to ensure ever-improved quality and safety. Philosophy on Suppliers Open to All Suppliers of Any Nationality, Read more (See page 215) Size, and Experience Philosophy on Fair Dealings In choosing our suppliers, we have an open-door policy, Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy based on our Purchasing Policy, in which potential Fair Dealings Management Structure business partners, whatever their nationality, can view our requirements for quality, cost, and delivery on our website before submitting a bid. Working Closely with Suppliers Growing and Evolving with Suppliers Read more (See page 217) We take every opportunity for communicating with Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain suppliers so that we can develop a relationship of mutual Helping Suppliers Build Quality Management Systems understanding and trust. Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers In order to grow and evolve with suppliers, we help them Helping Suppliers Improve Quality build management systems offering better product quality ZD Activities with Suppliers and safety, hold meetings jointly with suppliers where both Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety sides can solve key problems, and offer training for Building a Relationship of Growth employees of distributors. 213 Responsibility to Stakeholders Green Procurement Guidelines Guidelines Require Suppliers to Carry Read more (See page 221) Out Environmental Management and Chemical Substances Management Daikin's Green Procurement Guidelines went into effect in fiscal 2000 to help our suppliers procure green parts and materials. These guidelines are consulted during the procurement stage in Japan, China and Southeast Asia, and the EU. 214 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy on Fair Dealings Dealings Based on Our Purchasing Policy The Daikin Group has a Purchasing Policy that is the basis for fair dealings with suppliers. Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy Fair Dealings Management Structure Giving All Suppliers an Equal Opportunity through an Open Door Policy The Daikin Group has an open door policy on choosing suppliers in which we welcome bids from any company, regardless of nationality, size, or years in business. In our air conditioning business, information on product specs, desired quality and cost, and delivery times is posted on our website in order to achieve equality of opportunity. All companies satisfying our criteria become eligible to do business with us. In our chemicals business as well, we do business with any supplier meeting our criteria for quality, price, and delivery time. 215 Responsibility to Stakeholders Regular Assessment of Suppliers to Review Business Relationship Before starting business dealings in the Daikin Group, we ensure potential partners understand our Purchasing Policy, and we assess them on consistent standards. After business dealings begin, we conduct assessments based on ISO 9001 and then review the business relationship accordingly. In the air conditioning business, before we start transactions with new suppliers, we use the Supplier Assessment Standard Sheet to judge companies based on their administration, quality, price, delivery, and environmental measures. Besides ensuring that suppliers are in compliance with laws, we assess them in CSR aspects such as voluntary efforts to improve labor and environmental matters. Suppliers continue to be assessed every year based on our Assessment System for Continuation of Business. We also create standards and rules for qualitative assessment criteria so that we are able to make quantitative judgments. The assessment criteria themselves are also reviewed to keep up with the changing times. In the chemicals business, we assess new and existing suppliers based on ISO 9001, and we use as many criteria as possible in order to evaluate our suppliers fairly: this includes discussing business with the supplier using multiple Daikin representatives, and making regular visits to the supplier. Based on such assessments, in fiscal 2011 we began dealings with three new suppliers in the chemicals business and three new suppliers in the air conditioning business. 216 Responsibility to Stakeholders Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain Helping Suppliers Achieve Compliance The Daikin Group strives to achieve legal compliance throughout the supply chain by helping suppliers abide by laws. In the air conditioning business, we raise supplier awareness through written requests for legal compliance and meetings five times a year at which we introduce case studies. When renewing agreements with suppliers, those that fail to meet our standards are asked to write up plans for improvement, which we follow up on. We are looking into conducting such follow-ups throughout the year, not just once a year, so that we can help suppliers raise their standards. We also provide environmental support information on a special website for suppliers. In the chemicals business, we carry out surprise spot audits. Starting in April 2011, we have had suppliers fill out supplier self-diagnosis sheets during on-going assessments. So that we can judge their progress, these sheets contain check items related to eliminating excessive and unfair labor, and the respect of human rights at supplier companies. Ensuring Compliance with the Subcontract Act Japan's Subcontract Act covers about 3,000 Daikin Industries' suppliers and subcontractors. There are several thousand Daikin suppliers and subcontractors covered by the Subcontract Act. Our Subcontract Act Compliance Guidelines ensure that all Daikin divisions are in compliance with the Act in respect to matters such as prompt payment. We constantly strive to raise awareness among employees in relevant divisions of the importance of compliance through both in-house and third-party seminars. Comprehensive compliance inspections ensure that appropriate payment methods are being followed. We also constantly check the financial situation of subcontractor suppliers and production outsource suppliers and, if necessary, implement assistance measures such as relaxation of payment methods. Helping Suppliers Build Quality Management Systems Helping Suppliers Obtain ISO Certification Daikin Industries' Green Procurement Guidelines state that suppliers must be ISO 14001 certified. And to promote more complete quality management systems, we provide the latest information on environment-related laws, and we request our primary suppliers, as well as their suppliers, to conduct green procurement and build a chemical management system. The Chemicals Division requests that its suppliers obtain ISO 14001 certification, and it offers a range of advice on building quality management systems, improving production processes, and streamlining the organization so that suppliers can also obtain ISO 9001 certification. See Green Procurement (Low-Impact Production) (Page 122) See Green Procurement Guidelines (Page 221) 217 Responsibility to Stakeholders Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers Suppliers Take Part in Quality Improvement Conferences, Receive Quality Guidance Suppliers are indispensable to our goal of providing customers with reliable products. Daikin strives to raise quality by working closely with its suppliers. In our air conditioning business, we hold briefings to enlist the help of suppliers in improving quality and achieving zero defects. As well, we hold the monthly Supplier Quality Conference as a focus on quality for specific Daikin suppliers. At this conference, we assess and analyze the quality of parts we purchase and, when necessary, request that suppliers report on improvement efforts at quality improvement announcement meetings and quality improvement proposal meetings. We even go so far as to visit their factories to offer assistance. Supplier Quality Conference In our chemicals business, we hold an annual quality forum for sharing Daikin quality policies and giving suppliers a chance to report on their quality improvement activities. We also conduct quality audits at suppliers to ensure they are conducting measures to maintain and improve quality. And we hold technical exchange meetings, where Daikin and engineers at our suppliers work to jointly solve quality issues. We will continue to strengthen communication with suppliers to ensure our products are of the highest quality. Annual Quality Forum Helping Suppliers Improve Quality Air Conditioning Division Daikin Industries' policy and progress are explained and legal compliance is stressed through Supplier meetings model examples. (4-5 times/year, 125 companies took part in fiscal 2011) Supplier Quality Parts we purchased are inspected each month for defects and quality improvement measures Conference carried out. (Each month) Quality improvement announcement Suppliers with quality problems must report on improvement measures. (In fiscal 2011, five meetings, quality quality improvement announcement meetings were held for a total of 104 companies and 196 improvement proposal quality improvement proposal meetings were held for 32 companies.) meetings Auditing institution conducts regular external audit, and internal audit are conducted jointly in Quality audits the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and at suppliers. Visits to suppliers Purchasing managers and officers, and executives visit suppliers. 218 Responsibility to Stakeholders Chemicals Division Introduction of Daikin Industries' quality policy, defect rate and quality cost of purchased Quality Forum goods, quality differences among companies, and activities aimed at improving quality. (Once a year, approx. 60 companies took part.) Technical exchange Daikin Industries and engineers at suppliers work together to solve quality issues. (Four times meeting a year, two companies took part in fiscal 2011.) Suppliers who provided defective products underwent audits based on ISO 9001. (Conducted Quality audits at 25 companies.) Distribution of in-house magazine, holding of workshops on methods for analyzing quality Other improvement. Aiming for Zero Defects through ZD Activities at Bases Worldwide Since fiscal 2007, the air conditioning division has been working with suppliers taking part in the Supplier Quality Conference in an initiative called ZD (zero defect) activities. The goal is to achieve zero defects through 3S (visual checks), preventative measures (look for potential problems in production processes), and prevention of reoccurring problems (through regular maintenance). In fiscal 2010, we expanded the ZD initiative to include overseas companies. In fiscal 2011, 15 Chinese suppliers took part in announcement meetings and observation tours at two companies in China conducting ZD activities. ZD Activities with Suppliers Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety Providing Business Partners Working in Daikin Plants with Safety Information and Conducting On-Site Patrols Daikin Industries asks for business partners' cooperation in making plants safer. There are many employees of business partners working in Daikin plants, so it is essential we provide them with information and guidance on safe work practices and conduct safety patrols of the plants. With so many vehicles entering and exiting plants, safe driving is crucial. At the Yodogawa Plant and Kashima Plant, for example, an accident with the chemicals produced there could mean disaster. That's why we hold regular driving safety seminars for delivery vehicle drivers to teach them traffic rules and promote safe driving. In fiscal 2011, the air conditioning division made safety reminder announcements at three supplier meetings. In the Chemicals Division, four safety workshops were held in June 2011 for approximately 400 drivers. See Occupational Safety and Health (Responsibility to Employees) (Page 203) 219 Responsibility to Stakeholders Building a Relationship of Growth Communication is Key to Building Understanding and Trust The Daikin Group takes every possible opportunity to communicate with suppliers and promote mutual understanding and trust. In the air conditioning division, global purchasing officers, the head of the Global Procurement Division, and managers regularly visit suppliers for exchanges with their counterparts. Other ways we promote communication include supplier meetings, goodwill gatherings, and award ceremonies to recognize supplier achievements. Thanks to these communication efforts, in fiscal 2011 Daikin and its suppliers were able to work together to minimize the effects of the Great East Japan Workshop for dealers of the Oil Hydraulics Division Earthquake and the disastrous flooding in Thailand. The Chemicals Division fosters good relations through the Quality Forum. As well, purchasing managers keep in close contact with suppliers to gather and exchange information in areas such as technology, quality, and prices. Any problems that come up are solved through extraordinary or emergency support requests to relevant divisions. Quality Forum sponsored by the Chemicals Division 220 Responsibility to Stakeholders Green Procurement Guidelines Helping Suppliers be Legally Compliant In fiscal 2000, the Daikin Group established the Green Procurement Guidelines, and it has been promoting environmental management throughout the entire supply chain in order to provide more environmentally responsible products. At our major manufacturing bases in Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, we help suppliers abide by the Green Procurement Guidelines and inspect products from our suppliers to determine the chemical substances they contain. To help suppliers comply with laws and regulations, we hold meetings to explain environmentally related laws and how the Daikin Group abides by these, and release information on our Web site. In October 2009, we published the 5th edition of the Green Procurement Guidelines, which includes an updated list of restricted chemical substances. Overview of the Green Procurement Guidelines (PDF file) Guidelines PDF Data (265KB )(Jan.2012 revised) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/social/supplier/guidelines.pdf) Green Procurement Inspection List PDF Data (605KB ) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/social/supplier/inspection.pdf) You need the Adobe Reader application, offered by Adobe Systems Incorporated, to read PDF files. If it is not installed in your computer, please download an appropriate version of the application according to the model and specifications of your computer. 221 Responsibility to Stakeholders Besides stressing CSR as part of its management, the Daikin Group strives to improve financial performance to maximize corporate value. Raising corporate value helps us meet shareholder and investor expectations and leads to further growth for our company. For Shareholders DOE of Plus 2.0% Means Stable Read more (See page 223) Dividends Maximizing Corporate Value To offer shareholders and investors higher stock prices Fiscal Year End Stock Prices and stable dividends, we strive to make the best use of Operating Income Margin capital to achieve solid profitability and a firm financial Distribution of Profit base. Dividends Dividends to Shareholders Equity Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Voting Rights Exercised Breakdown of Shareholders Information Disclosure Policy Constant Efforts to Disclose Information, Read more (See page 226) Including 300 Seminars a Year Philosophy The Daikin Group takes increasing responsibility to Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner release information on its business situation promptly and properly. We are particularly diligent about being transparent with our shareholders and investors. 222 Responsibility to Stakeholders Maximizing Corporate Value Step Up Environmental Business and Business in Mass Consumer Markets in Emerging Countries to Increase Income and Profit The Daikin Group works to boost business performance and raise corporate value in order to meet the expectations of shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders. To this end, we stress free cash flow (a management indicator that can be said to be the source of corporate value), boost earnings, and reduce accounts receivable and inventory. Fiscal 2011 had a troubling start, with the Great East Japan Earthquake and increasing raw material prices. But the Daikin Group banded together to minimize these effects: maximizing inventory, gaining supplier support, and absorbing high raw material costs into product prices. As well, the power shortages caused by the earthquake prompted us to come out with more energy-efficient products and services to help reduce energy consumption. Globally, we began full-fledged entry into mass consumer markets in emerging countries, where air conditioner demand is rapidly increasing. We also expanded our foray into what we call the environmental innovation business, which includes heating, hot water, filters, and fluorochemicals. As a result of these efforts, net sales were 1.2187 trillion yen, up 5% over fiscal 2010, and group operating income was 81.2 billion yen, up 7.6%. For fiscal 2012, we plan to step up business in emerging countries by developing and introducing products with the quality and price to meet local consumer needs. As well, in our energy saving solutions business, we will offer an expanding service network to customers in Japan and around the world. And in our environmental innovation business, we will expand worldwide through efforts including the introduction of hybrid products for the combustion-type heating market. Fiscal Year End Stock Prices Operating Income Margin 223 Responsibility to Stakeholders Distribution of Profit Deciding Dividends according to Profits Based on Stability By setting a target of maintaining at least a 2.0% ratio of dividends to shareholders equity, we strive to pay stable dividends that take into account a range of factors including consolidated performance, financial situations, and capital needs. The dividend for fiscal 2011 was 36 yen. With regard to internal reserves, we will allot them to strategic investments aimed at achieving business expansion, and improving competitiveness: these include expanding bases in China, boosting chemical production volume in China and the U.S., accelerating the development of global business (by, for example, expanding sales networks in emerging countries), and developing environmentally conscious products. Dividends Dividends to Shareholders Equity 224 Responsibility to Stakeholders Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Helping More Shareholders Exercise Voting Rights To ensure that shareholders have more time to consider new proposals before voting at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, we send announcements of the meeting at least a week earlier than is legally required. To remedy the discrepancy in information available in Japan and other countries, we translate announcements of shareholder meetings into English and send these to overseas institutional investors, and we have an English version of our website. Since fiscal 2003, we have striven to get as many shareholders as possible to exercise their voting rights by allowing voting over the Internet. This means that those who cannot attend meetings in person can still exercise their voting rights by personal computer or mobile phone. In fiscal 2006, we adopted a platform for exercising voting rights, which made it even easier for institutional investors to vote. As a result of these efforts, the percentage of voting rights exercised reached 78.18% in fiscal 2011. The number of votes cast over the Internet also increased to 1,056,103 in fiscal 2011 (1,115 shareholders). Voting Rights Exercised Voting rights exercised Votes cast over the Internet Shareholders voting online Fiscal 2007 81.72 903,216 691 Fiscal 2008 85.43 864,879 926 Fiscal 2009 81.50 897,490 779 Fiscal 2010 79.49 1,012,927 998 Fiscal 2011 78.18 1,056,103 1,115 Breakdown of Shareholders (March 31, 2012) 225 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy Daikin Industries places the utmost importance on its responsibility of providing stakeholders with timely, proper information disclosure. In particular, we believe it is our duty to raise management transparency by disclosing information to shareholders and investors in every possible way. To this end, we have a Disclosure Policy that stipulates standards and methods for information disclosure. In accordance with our Disclosure Policy (formulated in fiscal 2004) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange's standards for timely information disclosure, we use our website, news organizations, and the TD-NET online system provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange to disclose information on recalls, the occurrence of loss on valuation of securities, and decisions such as the establishment of sales companies. As well, for product, technical, and other information that we decide must be made public, we do so after consultation between the relevant company divisions. Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner Maximizing Information Disclosure through Briefings and Our Website Daikin Industries conducts a range of IR activities aimed at improving understanding in areas like our company's current state and management philosophy for shareholders and investors. For analysts and institutional investors, we hold interim and end-of-year financial performance briefings, and conference calls every first and third financial quarter. As well, we visit and hold talks with institutional investors in Japan and other countries. In fiscal 2010, we spoke with investors on nearly 300 occasions through business briefings, factory tours, and face-to-face meetings. End-of-year financial performance briefing for We try to provide a wealth of information on the IR site of our home analysts and institutional investors page and disclose information—including documents required by law such as securities reports and documents related to our business performance—in a prompt, fair, and timely manner. Our top executives also strive to relay firsthand company philosophy and direction in as many ways as possible. The opinions from shareholders and investors are reflected in our management. Since fiscal 2010, the Tokyo Branch has had an IR manager in charge of media relations, and this has allowed us to better meet the information needs of institutional investors. We will continue to stress dialogue with all investors and do everything we can to disclose information through a range of media. 226 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employees are front and center in community service that covers arts and culture, human resource development, and environmental protection. We strive to provide each region with the support it needs. Promoting Art and Culture Daikin Supports National Museum of Art Read more (See page 229) Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and Culture Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art supports a Supporting Art and Music wide range of activities including exhibitions by the The Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and Modern Art publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra through the sponsorship of music festivals and other Other Organizations Supported by Daikin Industries events. Promoting Sports Daikin Employees Run Golf Tournament Read more (See page 231) and Foster Future Golfers Policy on Promoting Sports With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Held in conjunction with the tournament is the Orchid Bounty Foundation, which collects donations to support local arts, culture, and education. 227 Responsibility to Stakeholders Contributing to Education Support Education for Youth Read more (See page 233) The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports Policy on Contributing to Education education for youth by donating financial aid and offering Efforts in Japan technical courses. Other Educational Activities in Japan Efforts Overseas Other Education Efforts Overseas Environmental Contributions to Society Employees Worldwide Volunteer to Plant Read more (See page 238) Trees Policy on Environmental Protection Daikin Industries works to protect and rejuvenate forests Efforts in Japan in Indonesia and on Japan's Shiretoko. Daikin overseas Efforts Overseas group companies also conduct activities such as tree-planting activities and nature preservation. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko (Page 67) A Good Corporate Citizen—Activities in Each Community Employees Will Continue to Be Front Read more (See page 241) and Center by Listening to the Needs of Philosophy the Community Helping Solve Social Issues We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to Supporting Employment of People with Disabilities the problems of the communities we operate in and Building Trust with Communities conducting activities that lead to solutions. Correspondence between Company Sites and Local Community Members Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Japan) Contributing to Local Safety (Japan) interact with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by listening to the needs of the Interactions with Local Communities (Japan) Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) community: this will make Daikin a known and trusted member of local society. Interactions with Local Communities (Overseas) Aiming to Take Root in China Other Regional Independent Activities Charitable Activities Donations in FY2011 (Daikin Industries only) Daikin Aids Victims of Natural Disaster Helping the Needy 228 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and Culture Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art supports a wide range of activities including exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the sponsorship of music festivals and other events. Supporting Art and Music The Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art The world's outstanding artistic and cultural works transcend national borders. Daikin is committed to bringing the joy of these works, and the creativity they inspire, to a wider audience. This desire has compelled Daikin to focus on promoting art and music. In March 1996, Daikin Industries established the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art to mark the company's 70th anniversary on October 25, 1994. In the foundation's first year, Daikin Industries donated ¥200 million for the basic fund, followed by another ¥200 million after three years. With another donation of ¥100 million in 2004, Daikin's 80th anniversary, total founding so far amounts to ¥500 million. The foundation supports a wide range of projects designed to teach art appreciation, such as exhibitions at the National Museum of Art, Osaka (NMAO), lectures, publications, surveys, and research. Our goal is to contribute to the revitalization of culture and art in our home territory of Osaka by promoting museum activities. National Museum of Art, Osaka (4 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan Museum director: Toshio Yamanashi) 229 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Daikin Industries supports the Osaka-based Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra. Formed in 1970, it became a specified nonprofit corporation in 2003. The orchestra is an integral member of local society, giving community concerts at its practice hall and hiring as many local musicians as possible. Daikin has supported the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra through paid advertising and since 2004 Daikin CEO Noriyuki Inoue has been a director on the orchestra's committee. Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Other Organizations Supported by Daikin Industries New National Theatre, Tokyo National Museum of Ethnology Kaitokudo Osaka Wasso Cultural Exchange Association EU-Japan Fest Exhibition of Shosoin Treasures Japanese Red Cross Society, Osaka Chapter Midosuji Illumination Osaka Philharmonic Orchestra New Japan Philharmonic Osaka Nohgaku Youseikai Kouenkai Takarazuka Review Supporters Kamigata Entertainment Culture Society 230 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Promoting Sports With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament Daikin Hosts the Ever Onward With Okinawa Tournament with the Vision of Boldly Taking on the Future, Together With Okinawa In order to expand the circle of interaction among people through sports, Daikin Industries sponsors the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, a pro event. Our hope is that our promotion of sports will contribute to the advancement of life in Okinawa. The Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament was inaugurated in 1988 as the opening round of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. As its sponsor, Daikin contributed the slogan Ever Onward With Okinawa, indicating our desire to join with Okinawa in boldly addressing the challenges of the future. A number of participants in the amateur tournament have gone on to take part in the pro tour Local Amateur Golfers Invited to Participate in Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament The Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament was created to help develop and revitalize the Okinawa golf scene. It has been an open tournament since 1997, giving Okinawa's amateur golfers the chance to compete with top professional players. Those aspiring to play in the tournament proper must first qualify in the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Amateur Golf Championship, which has been the proving ground for many professional female golfers active today such as Ai Miyazato, Shinobu Moromizato (Daikin Industries' pro), and Mika Miyazato. Airi Saito was the winner of the tournament's 25th edition 231 Responsibility to Stakeholders Bridging Okinawa and the Mainland The pro and amateur tournaments and the pre-tournament festival enable representatives of local and mainland businesses to interact in an informal setting and gain a better understanding of each other's perspectives. This has led to the emergence of the Okinawa Konwakai, an organization created to consider future development in Okinawa. The association, whose members include the presidents of major corporations and other experienced business personalities, organizes a variety of vibrant activities that include forums and presentations on how to promote and develop Okinawa. Local Volunteers Contribute to a Successful Tournament Local volunteers from the city of Nanjo can be counted on to provide their invaluable time and labor to help run the tournament. The volunteer program was launched in 1997, and in fiscal 2011, 450 volunteers took part in making the event a success. In appreciation of their efforts, Daikin donates books to the local Tamashiro Junior High School every year. The Orchid Bounty Foundation Supports the Culture and Sports of Okinawa All competitors in the professional and amateur tournaments provide their assistance by raising money through the Orchid Bounty fundraiser. These funds, augmented by donations from the sponsors, are used to aid the development of Okinawa prefecture, the tournament venue. Specifically, funding is provided to public organizations and individuals promoting artistic, cultural, sporting, and educational activities. In 2012, Orchid Bounty donated ¥6.9 million to a total of 13 organizations and individuals, bringing the total contributions since 1995 to ¥104.3 million. Local Junior High School Students Invited to Watch Tournament Every year, 250 first and second year students from the local Tamashiro Junior High School are invited to watch the tournament. This gives the students a valuable opportunity to learn about and experience the joy of golf. Not only do the students get to see the women's pro golfers battle it out on the course, they also get a comprehensive look behind the scenes of the tournament as they observe the work of groups like the greens-keepers, mass media, and tournament organizers. 232 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Contributing to Education The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for youth. By donating financial aid, offering technical courses, and conducting grass-roots activities, we seek to cooperate with and gain the trust of local communities. Efforts in Japan Participation in Local Education Programs Since fiscal 2010, the Daikin Industries Kashima plant has been conducting educational presentations at local elementary schools. Members of the company's Security Control Department demonstrate chemical experiments using fluorine for senior students, thus helping the children to appreciate the enjoyment of chemistry and learn how technological advances benefit their daily lives. In fiscal 2011, presentations were held at two elementary schools: in December 2011 (29 students) and January 2012 (47 students). Other Daikin production bases around Japan, meanwhile, invite elementary school students for factory tours, which are highly rated by both the school children and their teachers. Environmental Education and Awareness Activities (Page 153) Daikin Develops the Circle of Life Free Environmental Education Program on Biodiversity for Elementary School Children Daikin Industries, in cooperation with NGO Conservation International, our partner in reforestation activities in Indonesia, has developed an environmental education program called Circle of Life, to teach elementary school children about biodiversity. Circle of Life is a partner program to the Children's Eco-Club, an initiative of Japan's Ministry of the Environment. The basic program consists of four lessons given by a school teacher, but if the school desires, Daikin also sends one of its employees to provide additional education. A Daikin Industries employee leads an environmental lesson at a school Since April 2010, elementary schools across Japan have been receiving free learning materials for this program. In fiscal 2011, 40 schools took part in the program, and 15 of these welcomed Daikin employees to lead the lessons. Circle of Life Environmental Education program (Japanese version only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html) 233 Responsibility to Stakeholders Other Educational Activities in Japan Site Activity Overview, results Support for the Sakai Rugby School The Kanaoka Factory lends its field three times a month to the Sakai Rugby School. In fiscal 2011, about 130 elementary and junior high school rugby players took part. Sakai Plant Factory tours to educate local elementary school students about working society In fiscal 2011, 590 students from four schools took tours. Factory tours to educate elementary schools in the city about local industry In fiscal 2011, 244 students from two schools took tours. Shiga Plant Daikin opened up its field to the public Daikin field opened to the public to use for baseball, pitch-and-putt golf, softball, and other activities. Daikin invited children from day care centers to see the cherry blossoms in Others the plant's front garden. The tennis courts and other facilities were opened to the public. 234 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Classes were held three times a week, Kendo Training Hall for Children with 10 students each time. Factory tours for local elementary schools In fiscal 2011, 142 students from two schools took tours. Yodogawa Plant On weekends, the field was opened for Yodogawa Plant field opened to the public (Contract the general public to use. with governments of Osaka Prefecture and Settsu The new field was open for use by the City) sports clubs of Osaka Prefectural Settsu High School. Daikin employees give lessons at local elementary In fiscal 2011, Daikin gave lessons for Kashima Plant schools 76 students at two elementary schools. On weekends and holidays, children and teenagers used the field for sports, Soka Station Activities plaza of the field opened to the public while the activities plaza was used for pitch-and-putt golf. Support for junior high school field trips Daikin gave lessons at schools focusing on how air conditioners cool the air and the effect that substances Tsukuba Training Center have on global warming. In fiscal 2011, 30 students from one school took lessons. Efforts Overseas Training Technical School Students in Emerging Countries Daikin focuses its educational efforts on training technical school students in emerging countries. We offer scholarships to support tuition fees and give students better employment opportunities, and we have internship programs as well. Long-Term Practical Training for Students in Thailand Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (DCI) has had a long-term practical training course since fiscal 2007. Students from technical universities in northeastern Thailand, a region with few employment opportunities, do internships at the company. In fiscal 2011, DCI took in a total of 159 students majoring in areas like industrial management, and electrical/electronics and welding. 235 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Supports Air Conditioner Technical Training in Singapore Daikin Air Conditioning (Singapore) Pte. and the Singapore government jointly developed a training program for the air conditioning industry and has been certified by the government as the training institute at which the program will be run. Because Singapore previously had no government-certified, licensed programs for the air conditioning industry, Daikin Industries developed and implemented the framework and training program for such certification, in the process helping both the government and industry. Providing Thai Students with Education and Job Prospects Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. runs a program in which outstanding students from impoverished regions who cannot afford to attend university receive two years of education at a junior college of technology and, for those interested, a guaranteed job with Daikin upon completion. As of the end of fiscal 2011, 37 had completed the program and are working mainly at manufacturing jobs. Also under this program, young employees of Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. eager to gain new knowledge are given the chance to take two years off work to get an education. Lecture for students Practicing on a production line Graduation ceremony Co-sponsorship of Air Conditioning Technology Contest in China Since fiscal 2010, Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. has been co-sponsoring the Daikin Air Conditioning Cup Chinese Air Conditioning University Student Contest. The purpose of the contest is to foster the human resources who will carry the future of the air conditioning industry in China. In fiscal 2011, over 700 students submitted essays and other works on the theme of energy efficiency and environment-friendly air conditioning technology. Participants represented 15 schools, two more than the previous year. The company's deputy managing director University students who participated Akitada Kudo, acted as a judge in the competition finals, and technicians from the company's R&D center gave an overview of the Daikin Group and its advanced technologies. 236 Responsibility to Stakeholders Other Education Efforts Overseas No. of Managed by Activity name Overview Duration participants 25 completed the internship, DENV sponsored Daikin Europe six are Internship program internships for 1 week 6 months N.V. (DENV) currently university students. doing internship. 247 students, from elementary school up to university, took Daikin Device tours. Of these, 45 Czech students took factory Factory tours 247 Jan. 2011 June 2012 Republic, s.r.o. tours given by DDC (DDC) under the 'My choice, my future' program supported by the European Social Fund. Children's Day Every year on Children's Day (second Saturday of January), Daikin DIT holds events Industries including present-giving Approx. 2,700 Jan. 8, 2011 (Thailand) Ltd. to sick children, a (DIT) gathering for disabled children, and a joint event with the local municipality. In 2007, DCI signed an agreement with a technical high school for long-term Daikin internships in the Compressor northeast of the Long-term internship program 88 6 months Industries Ltd. country, where job (DCI) opportunities are few. The students took an 8-month course to help them become machine engineers. Cooperated in a contest for university Daikin (China) 5th Daikin Air Conditioning Cup student students sponsored by More than Investment July 2011 technical contest the China Refrigeration 700 Co., Ltd. (DIC) and Air-Conditioning Industry Association. O.Y.L. Manufacturing Took in local students Internship program 7 3 5 months Company Sdn. on internship program. Bhd. (OYLM) 237 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Environmental Protection Daikin Industries works with a range of groups, including governments, local citizens, and NGOs/NPOs to protect and rejuvenate forests in Indonesia and in Japan's Shiretoko. Daikin overseas group companies also conduct their own environmental conservation activities including tree-planting and ocean and river cleanups. Efforts in Japan Daikin Supports Environmental Protection in Shiretoko, a UNESCO World Heritage Site In July 2011, Daikin Industries, the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, and the towns of Shari and Rausu signed an agreement to protect the wilderness of Shiretoko, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Under the agreement, which runs for five years until March 2016, the company is providing financial support and employee volunteers to restore the forest and river ecosystems so that humans and nature can once again exist in harmony. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2011: Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko (Page 67) Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko: People and Nature Living in Harmony (http://www.daikin.com/csr/shiretoko/index.html) Sakai Plant in Tree-Planting at Forest of Coexistence On reclaimed land in District No. 7-3 of Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, about 100 hectares of forest have been planted for the Forest of Coexistence, an effort to renew forest land and create a habitat for a variety of life. As of the end of March 2010, about 12,000 seedlings had been planted in an approximately 18,000m2 area. The goal is to take this reclaimed land—built from a bitter legacy of 30 years of industrial waste— and give it life by making it into an urban environment where a range of life forms can thrive. In April 2009, the first Forest Day was held with participation from citizens of Osaka Prefecture. Since fiscal 2010, employees from Daikin Industries' Sakai Plant have volunteered for this Certificate of appreciation from Sakai City event, and for these efforts the company received a letter of thanks from the Sakai municipal government. Sakai's Cool City Sakai initiative is its proclamation to create a low-carbon metropolis, and Daikin has been on the executive committee since 2009. Daikin will continue to work with local NPOs, citizens' groups, and the government as a good corporate citizen contributing to the betterment of Sakai. 238 Responsibility to Stakeholders Efforts Overseas Indonesia: Promoting Reforestation (Re: AIRCON Project) Daikin Industries works with the Indonesia Ministry of Forestry and the NGO Conservation International in a reforestation project in which seedlings are raised and planted in a national park in Indonesia. Daikin Air Conditioning Reforestation Project (Re: AIRCON Project) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) Daikin Donates 30,000 Seedlings in India In July 2011, Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. supported an event sponsored by India's National Association for the Blind. About 2,000 people joined this event in which 30,000 seedlings were distributed free of charge to car drivers at highway toll booths. 30,000 seedlings for planting were given out Italy, U.K.: Tree-Planting to Absorb CO2 from Business Activities Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A (DACI) has taken part in the Impatto Zero Project since 2005. The project calls on Italian companies and organizations (over 500 are taking part so far) to plant enough trees to absorb the CO2 that they emit through their business activities. Under this project, since 2005 DACI has planted trees in national parks in Costa Rica and Italy over an area of approximately 2.3 km2. Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. has been conducting a similar initiative since 2010: it plants trees in a protected forest in Scotland. DACI supports tree-planting in Costa Rica 239 Responsibility to Stakeholders Thailand: Planting Mangrove Trees Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (DCI) plants mangrove trees. Mangroves prevent shoreline erosion and coastal flooding, purify the seawater, and support ocean biodiversity by providing shelter for a variety of marine life. But mangroves around the world have been cut down in recent years to make way for human development. DCI has been planting mangrove trees since 2007 and in fiscal 2011 planted 1,690 trees. In DCI's home of Amata City, the company has been striving to reduce the environmental impact of its plant operations by taking part in city-sponsored tree-planting projects since 2008. For fiscal 2011, the city held events to plant 10,000 trees for Father's Day in June and 1,600 trees for Mother's Day in August, with 13 DCI employees taking part in each event. DCI plans to plant trees in areas adjacent to the company in fiscal 2012. Thailand: Planting Endangered Tree Species Since fiscal 2009, Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. has been planting endangered species of trees on the grounds of the Kaset Suwan Temple (Wat Kaset Suwan) about 100 km away from the company plant. In fiscal 2011, it planted 1,862 trees, bringing the total planted to about 2,600 trees. This new forest will be used as a nature classroom for children and as a meditation spot for the monks. About 1,800 trees were planted 240 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to solutions. Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and trusted member of local society. Helping Solve Social Issues New Research Institute Deepens Industry-Academia Dialogue In the autumn of 2012, Daikin Industries and the Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAISt) will establish a new type of research institute. In conventional agreements between industry and academia, the parties focus on their areas of specialty, but this new institute will instead start by conducting dialogue and studies to decide which social issues require their assistance in solving. It is from this direction that new products will be developed and new research begun. In March 2012, participants got together for several days of discussions on the institute's framework. Discussed were 50 possible projects that the institute could focus on, among them building safe cities where the elderly can live full and active lives, and developing technologies to solve energy shortages as population grows. The institute will choose a number of these ideas for future development. Supporting Employment of People with Disabilities Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire the disabled based on its policy of providing opportunities for disabled people to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, Daikin Industries established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. Disabled persons form the nucleus of the workforce and the company has operated profitably. For more information, please see Employment of People with Disabilities (Responsibility to Employees) (Page 195) 241 Responsibility to Stakeholders Building Trust with Communities Responding Sincerely to Opinions from Local Communities Each company site has an office or representative assigned to promote communication with local communities. Assigned personnel hold regular meetings with local community representatives and take other measures to proactively promote company-community interactions and receive any community complaints. Designees at each company site look into complaints and suggestions from local community members and, if necessary, discuss them to the relevant departments of the Headquarters, and then make a sincere effort to respond. Correspondence between Company Sites and Local Community Members Site Type of Correspondence Group meeting with local community association (once yearly) Community interactions via municipal government, police, fire departments, and labor standards office Sakai Plant Participation in the Sakai City environmental executive committee Hosting Senboku Shodo Network ( Shodo Osaka regional division) community cleanup projects and co-sponsoring area-adoption 10th anniversary event Local community association board factory tour Visits to local businesses and neighboring community association boards Shiga Plant Interactions with relevant public offices and affiliated organizations (attendance at general meetings and board meetings with the municipal office, police, fire departments, and other related departments) Local community association board factory tour and group meeting (once yearly) Exchange with local community association (4 times a year) Yodogawa Plant Topic-based group meetings with municipal government, police, fire departments, and labor standards office, etc. Providing human resources and other assistance for various local community activities Community residents & administrative board factory tour Kashima Plant Attendance at enterprise association administrative board meetings Attendance at regional meetings of the Japan Responsible Care Council Meetings and talks with municipal government and nearby neighborhood associations Soka Station Participation in the Soka City Environmental Committee Participation in fire department, police, and industry associations A Safe Plant Open to the Community The Daikin Group does all it can to make its plants safe so that nearby residents can live in peace of mind. When there is noise or vibration from operations of a plant, we set up a number that residents can call so that we can quickly deal with any complaints. In particular, we make safety a top priority at the Yodogawa Plant, a chemical production facility located in a residential area. Through efforts such as risk assessment and near-miss training, we strive to eliminate the potential causes of disasters and accidents. We do all we can to stay in close contact with the local community. For example, we hold disaster prevention drills three times a year, and we show local residents where we store disaster safety equipment and how to properly use it. At the Sakai Plant, in addition to talks with the local community association once a year, we are in close contact with the municipal government, police, fire fighting bureau, and labor standards office to maintain interactions with the local community and establish the Sakai Plant as a safe factory. 242 Responsibility to Stakeholders At the Kashima Plant, which is located within an industrial complex, we engage in emergency drills and disaster prevention workshops together with other companies within the industrial complex. At the Soka Station, Daikin works towards safety and peace of mind for residents through activities with the local traffic safety association and crime prevention association. The Shiga Plant conducts regular emergency drills within the plant and also participates in the regional Fire-fighting Games and Comprehensive Disaster Management Training Corporate Games. Occupational Safety and Health (Responsibility to Employees) (Page 203) Disaster Preparedness and Disaster Prevention Drills The Daikin Group has measures in place at all sites should there ever be a natural disaster. Besides providing its factories as evacuation shelters in the event of a disaster, Daikin companies have supplies of food, water, and emergency equipment. Also, Daikin factory employees participate in joint emergency training activities with local fire departments, police, and industry groups. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, in fiscal 2011 we revised earthquake measures at all bases. At the Sakai Plant, which is located by the sea, on the assumption that the site could be struck by a tsunami, we have mapped out evacuation routes and we carry out safety assurance measures and evacuation drills. We have also carried out measures including liquefaction surveys and the installation of emergency power generating equipment. The Shiga Plant has entered an agreement with the local government to provide aid such as participating in fire-fighting operations should a disaster occur. In the event of a disaster, the plant will dispatch its industrial medics and its fire brigade and will open its factory grounds as evacuation sites. At the Yodogawa Plant as well, we have begun holding disaster and evacuation drills that assume a large earthquake and tsunami. We have also reinforced buildings to withstand a magnitude 6 earthquake and secured factory shelving and other furnishings to prevent overturning. We also have safety confirmation systems that can confirm the whereabouts and safety of all employees on-site within 20 minutes. At the Kashima Plant, we established three new tsunami evacuation shelters in high locations to use in case of a large tsunami warning, and we held evacuation drills using these shelters. The Soka Station, Soka City, and five neighboring communities signed an agreement to cooperate in preparing for natural disasters. Based on this agreement, in May 2011 about 600 people, including local residents, took part in comprehensive disaster drills in cooperation with the neighboring communities and the fire department. The Soka Station also used the lessons it learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake to revise its rules on product storage and to change evacuation routes. The Tokyo Head Office is looking into measures to help employees who would not be able to return home following a natural disaster; possible measures include stocking up on emergency food and water, and installing portable toilets. Participation in Volunteer Fire Fighting and Organizing a Regional Emergency Response Fire Brigade to Respond to Disasters by (Yodogawa Plant) Thirteen employees at the Yodogawa Plant are taking part in fire-fighting activities as volunteer fire fighters for Settsu City, comprising a special firefighting team . Unlike regular local volunteer firefighters, this special firefighting team is made up of people who work at companies in the city who can drive their companies' fire engines to a fire and provide assistance under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Recently more and more volunteer fire brigades are made up of company workers who often cannot get away from their day jobs to fight fires. In response, Settsu City introduced this special firefighting team so that more personnel would be available on weekdays. Daikin and two other companies in Settsu with fire engines are taking part. 243 Responsibility to Stakeholders This is the first time in Japan that a corporate fire fighting unit is using its fire engines to help fight fires nearby, and it is drawing the attention of other local governments around the country. Also, Daikin has organized a regional emergency response fire brigade to be ready to respond in the event of a disaster. There are 140 local employees enrolled in this volunteer fire brigade, and in the event of an emergency, those who are at their residences or at work or otherwise available can form a response team as occasion demands. Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Japan) (Page 250) Contributing to Local Safety (Japan) (Page 257) Interactions with Local Communities (Japan) Deepening Interactions with Local Communities Daikin realizes the importance of interacting with local residents as a member of the community. In 1973, Daikin became one of the first companies to create a Local Community Section within its organization, through which it has been deepening interactions with local communities. The Local Community Section has now been constructively dissolved, and instead, each company plant makes efforts to interact directly with local communities. Daikin's goal is to be a good corporate citizen that creates closeness among all people and works with communities in order to enrich lives and lifestyles. We will continue to value our relationship with nearby citizens and strive to be a company known and loved for its contributions to society. Also as part of efforts to be a trusted and valuable member of society, we hold factory tours, summer festivals, and other events to promote communication and understanding between Daikin and communities. Deepening Community Relations around the World at Summer Bon Dance Festivals The Daikin-sponsored traditional Bon dance festival is a major event attracting large crowds of locals every summer. Employees make the most of this chance to bring joy to citizens in this corporate-sponsored traditional Japanese event. It has become such a successful example of corporate citizenship that it has been reported in news around the world. The Bon dance festival began in 1971 as a social gathering for young employees of our Yodogawa Plant, and later expanded into a program open to the community and eventually grew to encompass the entire Daikin Festival (Daikin America) area. The event has evolved into one of Japan's largest corporatesponsored Bon dances and is now established as a much-anticipated major summer event in the region. The fiscal 2011 Yodogawa Plant Bon Dance marked the event's 40th anniversary, attracting about 22,000 under the theme of spread the dance circle and form a line of happy faces. Bon dance community festivals are held at all Daikin bases in Japan. The event at the Sakai Plant was a summer festival enjoyed by the approximately 12,000 who came: participants joined the large circular bon dance, employees and local citizens' groups ran stalls selling food and other goods, and elementary school students performed traditional dances and showed posters they had made. The Daikin Head Office offered its support to the Yodogawa and Sakai bon dances in a successful cooperative effort. Bon dances are held at Daikin's overseas bases as well: in the United States (Daikin America), China (Daikin Shanghai), and Belgium (Daikin Europe). 244 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support for Rugby School All for one, and one for all. This indomitable spirit, typical of rugby players, carries lessons that Daikin seeks to impart to children. With this in mind, Daikin, the City of Sakai, the Sakai Higashi Police Department, Seikeikai Hospital, and Nippon Steel collaborated in 1987 to launch Sakai Rugby School. Daikin Industries supports the rugby school's activities through provision of a playing field and other means. At the three monthly practices at the Kanaoka playing field, the children's cheering reflects discipline combined with fun. The Sakai Rugby School is among the toughest competitors in its games against other schools. Reaching Out to the Community through the Kendo Training Hall for Children The Kendo Training Hall for Children opened in 1975 for elementary school children living near the Yodogawa Plant. The goal of the school is to promote health through the martial art of kendo. Daikin employees who hold kendo rankings (dan) provide the instruction. When the school opened, expectations were exceeded when 108 children applied. Clearly, the school has been well received by local residents. In 1983, a new school —more than double the size of the original— was completed. Named Yushinkan by then-president Minoru Yamada, the school has since helped many young local kendo enthusiasts gain skills in this outstanding sport. Excited young voices can often be heard within its walls. In fiscal 2011, a team from the school placed third in the team event at the Suita City kendo spring tournament and one school member placed third individually in the fall tournament. The Daikin Cup Kendo Tournament is held in July, and is followed by a barbecue welcoming coaches, players, and parents. In January is the Yushinkan Kendo Tournament, where exhibition matches and other events help further strengthen the bonds between Daikin and the community. Conducting Neighborhood Cleanup and Tree-planting Activities Employees at the Daikin plants in Yodogawa, Shiga, Sakai, and Kashima regularly pick up litter and pull up weeds in the surrounding areas. At the Yodogawa Plant in fiscal 2011, about 100 employees took part in a cleanup drive to pick up litter around the plant. And 32 employees took part in a cleanup of local ditches as another way to keep the plant's community clean. At Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd., 46 employees participated in a beach cleanup activity in June 2011. Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. held Yodogawa Plant employees pick up litter a cleanup of local canals in September 2011 that was joined by 30 employees. Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) (Page 259) Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. employees clean up a local canal 245 Responsibility to Stakeholders Conducting Factory tours We open our plants to the community by conducting tours for the local community association and elementary school children. In fiscal 2011, the Yodogawa plant held factory tours for 143 students of two elementary schools, giving the children hands-on experiments in electricity, chemistry, and machinery. After the tour, students and their teachers sent letters thanking Daikin and giving their opinion of the tour. For fiscal 2012, Daikin plants will give factory tours whenever possible in order to maintain an open relationship with the community. A factory tour at the Yodogawa Plant Interactions with Local Communities (Overseas) Aiming to Take Root in China On the occasion of the Daikin Group's 10th anniversary of business in China in 2005, full-fledged social contribution activities were begun in earnest with the aim of making Daikin a locally rooted company. Daikin aims to contribute in the three areas of social welfare, education, and environment. Examples of Contributions Daikin Factory Tours Around the World Daikin bases overseas also provide locals with factory tours whenever possible in order to gain citizens' understanding and be a company truly rooted in the community. Every year, Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. in Thailand holds factory tours for students and local residents. The company held six tours in fiscal 2011, welcoming a total of 209 visitors from universities and trade schools. The company also made pamphlets to help students better understand the plant. Questionnaires were given to plant visitors to assess their satisfaction A factory tour at Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. with the tours. Visitor opinions will be reflected to make future factory tours even more valuable. 246 Responsibility to Stakeholders Other Regional Independent Activities Christmas party for disabled people at Christmas party at Daikin Australia Pty., Daikin America Ltd. Employees of American Air Filter International hold a Halloween event at a seniors' home Regional Independent Activities (Overseas) (Page 261) Charitable Activities Donating to a Range of Causes: Art, Culture, Sport, Education, Etc. The Daikin Group donates money to numerous arts, culture, sports, and educational programs as part of its social contribution efforts. Besides donating on a regular basis for the promotion of culture and sports in Okinawa and the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art, we have in recent years been giving more to international exchange and cooperation causes as we strive to contribute to societies around the world. Donations in FY2011 (Daikin Industries only) Daikin Aids Victims of Natural Disaster Daikin Group gives donations to help victims and contribute to restoration following earthquakes and other natural disasters. 247 Responsibility to Stakeholders Aid for Victims of Natural Disasters in FY2011 248 Responsibility to Stakeholders Helping the Needy McQuay International (U.S.) has a charity program in which employees and their families make donations to the needy in their communities. In 2011, about 15 to 20 employees took In March 2011, 20 employees and their part in a program to donate Christmas families delivered food to less fortunate presents to children in needy families. families. 249 Responsibility to Stakeholders Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results The plants formed an in-house firefighting Sakai Formation of in-house firefighting unit division, and in each division a firefighting unit Plant was formed. The plants formed an in-house firefighting Shiga Formation of in-house firefighting unit division, and in each division a firefighting unit Plant was formed. Joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the first of its kind in Japan. Since Yodogawa January 2010, in the case of a large fire in the Plant Settsu area, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Support for An organization was set up with separate units firefighting to handle firefighting, guidance, rescue, and Kashima Formation of disaster task force system information provision in case of a fire. The Plant firefighting units keep the fire in check until the local fire department arrives. Each division formed its own in-house firefighting unit. At a nearby apartment fire in March 2011, Soka Formation of in-house firefighting unit the unit assisted with the initial firefighting. Station At site disaster drills (November each year), the unit conducts firefighting drills with the fire department. Tsukuba Training Formation of in-house firefighting unit Members in all divisions of Tsukuba site. Center Head Formation of in-house firefighting unit Units formed in the Head Office and Esaka site. Office (existing) Periodic firefighting drills held. A firefighting unit was formed in each division, Tokyo Formation of in-house firefighting unit and these are overseen by the Health and Office Safety Committee. 250 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results The Sakai Plant is a member of an association of 17 companies in the Sakai and Senboku Sakai Cooperation with neighboring waterfront areas for disaster prevention. The Plant companies association has an emergency communication network and meets regularly for various drills. Daikin helps the local government to rescue disaster victims. Shiga Formation of a rescue support system Plant for local disaster victims The plant is provided for use as an emergency shelter for nearby residents (for example, the field is opened up to the public). There are 140 employees living nearby who are registered. When necessary, a team is Yodogawa gathered by rounding up employees either from An emergency rescue team was formed their homes or workplace. Plant For details, see Building Trust with Communities (Page 242) To administrate local matters, Daikin joins with Kashima Communication with neighboring local companies to be the contact point for local Plant companies government and citizens. Communication In 2000, Soka Station, Soka City, and five with neighboring neighboring communities signed an agreement companies and to cooperate in preparing for natural disasters. residents These three groups have agreed to work together regularly on plans to implement after Agreement signed for regional disaster major earthquakes occur. An expert panel of the cooperation Soka Central Disaster Management Council of the Station Cabinet Office recognized the Soka Station as an outstanding example of a corporation acting as a bridge between local citizens and local government in supporting disaster relief. Under the disaster agreement, firefighting drills Regional joint disaster training are held with neighboring town associations. In May 2011, approx. 600 took part. The center is a member of an association of Tsukuba companies in the local industrial park, which Cooperation with neighboring Training shares information on topics like environmental companies Center promotion, fire prevention, and blood donation activities. Joined as an observer in the tenant association of the JR Shinagawa East Building, and in Tokyo Cooperation with neighboring firefighting drills of the building's restaurants. Office companies This helped confirm the firefighting system of the building. 251 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Secured emergency supplies such as water, Secure supplies for emergencies food, and fire prevention equipment. Daikin is registered as a corporate supporter of Sakai Lend equipment to disaster relief firefighting activities. (In emergencies, Daikin Plant lends equipment like forklifts.) Employees working night shifts conduct drills in Evacuation training drills emergency communication, initial response, and evacuation. The plant makes effective use of site Use of equipment during disasters, and equipment (fire engines, firefighting secure supplies for residents for equipment; sends employees as well). emergencies Sufficient supplies have been set aside for all local residents in case of a major earthquake. Emergency materials and equipment are placed in all major buildings. Yodogawa Plant At a meeting during a factory tour, Use equipment participants confirm that there are during disasters, enough emergency supplies stored and secure supplies for Shiga Emergency supplies are stocked (megaphones, emergencies Secure supplies for emergencies Plant flashlights, food and water, etc.). Stored emergency supplies (gas marks, Kashima flashlights, megaphones) and emergency Secure emergency equipment and food Plant necessities to last employees 3 days (food, water, portable toilets, blankets, etc.) Stored water, food, firefighting equipment, Soka Secure supplies for emergencies etc. Station Joint regional disaster training held Exhibit and disaster drills were held with the surrounding community. Stored emergency supplies (hand-held Tsukuba Secure supplies for employees who microphones, flashlights, water, manual Training cannot return home during a disaster rechargers, blankets, gas burners, gas tanks, Center kettles). Purchased and stored emergency supplies for the Head Office and Esaka Building. During fire Secure supplies for emergencies drills, confirmed how to use these supplies Head (particularly rescue-related supplies). Office Health and Safety Committee and Human Place AEDs at Head Office, Esaka, Resources oversee the placement of AEDs in Fukuoka, Nagoya, and Hiroshima all bases under Head Office jurisdiction. Emergency supplies are stocked (megaphones, Tokyo Secure emergency supplies, hold flashlights, food and water, portable toilets, Office evacuation training drills etc.); these are inspected regularly. 252 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Established code of conduct for tsunami disaster response, and secured emergency Measures against tidal wave and supplies. Sakai tsunami All buildings on-site have been inspected for Plant Earthquake reinforcement and earthquake resistance. evacuation training drills Reinforcement work is proceeding as planned. Evacuation training drills were held. All buildings on-site have been inspected for Shiga Make buildings earthquake-proof, hold earthquake resistance. Building structures Plant evacuation drills are being reinforced. Evacuation training drills were also held. Assumed scale of earthquake: Magnitude 6 and 2-meter tsunami (2 hours after earthquake) Basic earthquake measures policy: Save people above all, ensure safety. 1. Operator will complete emergency measures before tsunami arrives (within 2 hours), ensure the chemical plant is safe, and evacuate employees to a high, safe place. Earthquake 2. Using secured emergency power, close up measures dangerous chemicals to render them harmless, and safely shut down plant. Earthquake reinforcement situation (main buildings certified for near magnitude 6 Revise earthquake scale assumptions earthquake) and conduct All main buildings can withstand a near Yodogawa Earthquake reinforcement magnitude 6 earthquake, and planning is Plant Infrastructure loss measures underway for similar reinforcement of smaller Evacuation and emergency measures buildings Liquefaction risk measures (boring survey complete, 2-4 meter sand layer) 1. There is no risk of the main building, large facilities, or plants that have a pile foundation being destroyed or collapsing due to liquefaction. 2. Main facilities that do not have a pile foundation were, with the help of construction companies, given a ground layer comparison with buildings in Urayasu and Kobe. Final assessment (likelihood of liquefaction, degree of effect) was completed in late March 2012. 3. Stored sand bags and sand boxes to secure paths for evacuation or restoration work. 253 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Measures for loss of infrastructure such as power sources (ensure safety). 1. Have two backup power sources (multiple levels of power). 2. Improved special substations. 3. Secured lighting for night evacuation and security measures. 4. Secured firefighting water. 5. Secured functions of pretreatment facility. 6. Secured instrument air system. The above items are being implemented under a set time table. Disaster prevention measures (based on lessons learned at Kashima Plant, create measures for evacuation, emergencies, and communication). 1. Created hazard map (sources of danger, evacuation). Revise earthquake scale assumptions 2. Conducted disaster drills according to and conduct emergency measures manual (3 times a Earthquake Yodogawa year). Earthquake reinforcement measures Plant 3. Secured communication protocol (satellite Infrastructure loss measures Evacuation and emergency measures phones, etc.) Advice from experts Observation at Urayasu to check for liquefaction (July); Masujiro Uchida, a consultant and former lieutenant general with the Self Defense Forces with experience in disaster relief missions, gave a lecture on disaster response (August); guidance by Kawata Yoshiaki, Kansai University professor (September); observation of experiments at Hyogo Earthquake Engineering Research Center (October). Measures to prevent falling over of equipment and machinery Discussions underway for a unified standard (for preventing equipment from falling over or moving) at all bases. Under guidelines for earthquake-proof design, set a seismic coefficient of 0.4 (normal buildings are 0.2). 254 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Established three new tsunami evacuation Kashima shelters in high locations to use in case of a Tsunami measures Plant large tsunami warning, and held evacuation drills using these shelters. Conducted earthquake reinforcement on former East Japan Parts Center (completed on distribution warehouse, other buildings). Earthquake resistance inspection and reinforcement Revised product storage rules based on past earthquake experience. Soka Revision of product storage rules Took measures to prevent falling over of Station Measures to prevent falling over of fixtures and other equipment in offices. fixtures Revised disaster drills at bases (based on Revision of disaster drills at bases past earthquake experience, changed evacuation routes, worked with the fire department, etc.). Took measures to prevent equipment from Tsukuba falling over. Earthquake reinforcement and disaster Earthquake Training Carried out comprehensive disaster drills in drills measures Center preparation for large-scale earthquake (magnitude 6) To further earthquake risk measures, a memorandum (measures for transfer of building Head Improve earthquake risk measures functions in case of earthquake, tsunami Office measures, and risk management measures) was sent to bases and affiliates. Fixtures and equipment on the site were reinforced. Joined in planning and implementation of disaster training sponsored by the fire and Earthquake reinforcement, evacuation disaster prevention association of the JR Tokyo drills, measures for employees who Shinagawa East Building. Office cannot return home For employees who cannot return home in a disaster, based on proposed laws for Tokyo, plans are being made to stock more emergency supplies (food, water, portable toilets, etc.) 255 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results A meeting was held to examine measures to Typhoon Kashima take in case of a typhoon. Preventative Meeting on typhoon measures measures Plant measures were drawn up for safe operation or stoppage of machinery. A system was established that can confirm the safety of employees approximately 20 minutes Yodogawa after a disaster occurs. Safety confirmation system Plant Emergency materials and equipment for searching and restoration are placed in all major buildings. Kashima Established a system for confirming the safety Safety confirmation system Plant of employees after a disaster occurs. Soka Safety confirmation system Safety Station confirmation Tsukuba system Drills held in replying to this system (once a Training Safety confirmation system year). Center Established a system for confirming the safety Head Safety confirmation system of employees after a disaster occurs. The Office system is currently being strengthened. Established a system for confirming the safety of employees after a disaster occurs. An Tokyo Safety confirmation system emergency communication network is being built Office that will enable communication even when the safety confirmation system is out of order. 256 Responsibility to Stakeholders Contributing to Local Safety (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Daikin worked with the Kinki Regional Police Bureau in a Head Office Support for local safety activities safety patrol campaign. Took part in the Sonezaki traffic safety association. Daikin took part in the North Sakai Police Crime Support for local safety activities Prevention Committee and the North/West Sakai Traffic Safety Association. The Sakai Plant is registered as a place children can take Sakai Plant Children's protection shelter sanctuary from threats. Took part in disaster prevention drills sponsored by an Disaster training association of companies in the Sakai and Senboku waterfront areas for disaster prevention. Disaster training was held once a year for the plant grounds and employee dormitory; fire hydrant usage Disaster training competition held (July); plant disaster training held (June, November); evacuation training for earthquakes held. Participation in the Fire Prevention The Shiga Plant took part in a disaster prevention training Association convention in unison with the fire department. Participation in local safety activities Shiga Plant In October, the Shiga Plant took part in a firefighting competition. In November, it took part in joint disaster training for private companies. Under this agreement, the Shiga Plant will dispatch Letter of agreement signed for support of industrial physicians and its in-house fire-fighting unit, and fire prevention in case of disaster offer the plant as an evacuation shelter. Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the first of its kind in Japan. Since January 2010, in the case of a Special firefighting team of Settsu City large fire in the Settsu area, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Joint disaster training held (with participation of local fire and police departments) Yodogawa Plant Control damage, confirm people's safety (evacuation), hold earthquake training, hold disaster training (3 times a year) Installed breathing apparatus, held fire hydrant usage competition (once a year). 257 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Participated in disaster training held by Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City (once a year). Took part in nighttime patrols. Participation in local safety activities Took part in nationwide awareness activities for fire prevention (in spring and autumn). Took part in nationwide traffic safety campaign. Yodogawa Plant Held driving safety seminars for suppliers (stressed on-site road safety; twice a year). Held safety seminars Invited police officer to give employees driving safety seminar (once a year) The Yodogawa Plant is registered as a place children can Children's protection shelter take sanctuary from threats. Held disaster training (twice a year), joined fire hydrant Disaster training usage training (once a year) Joint disaster training was held with the fire department as part of cooperation among companies in the industrial park (once a year). As part of cooperation among companies, once-a-year training was held with firefighters, labor board personnel, Participation in local safety events and police officers as instructors. The goal was to raise safety and disaster awareness. Kashima Plant Rescue training Participation in disaster training events with the fire department, labor board, and police department. Police officers were invited to be instructors at a traffic Safe driving course held safety training conference (once a year) to help drivers improve their road manners. Campaign to stop drunk driving over the Traffic safety committee members handed out drunk driving winter season. leaflets urging people to follow the rules. Activities were held to raise awareness about safe driving Held Safe Work Environment Day and operation of forklifts and company cars (May 2009). The Soka Plant took part in a rules-of-the-road contest Contest to prevent accidents and abide by held annually by the Police Department. (August 2011 rules of the road Soka Station January 2012). Held disaster training with five neighborhood associations. Regional joint disaster training (March and May 2011; approx. 600 participants) Participation in meeting of Tokyo The Tokyo Office took part in scheduled meetings and Metropolitan Police Department to prevent training sessions, as well as responded to various organized crime. requests. Tokyo Office Joined in planning and implementation of disaster training Participation in local disaster training sponsored by the fire and disaster prevention association of the JR Shinagawa East Building. 258 Responsibility to Stakeholders Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Continued participation in Adopt a Road cleanup initiative Under Sakai City's public cleanup campaign, employees took turns cleaning up the streets once a month. The area around the plant and nearby sidewalks were cleaned. At the Kanaoka Plant, employees planted greenery nearby and cleaned up the streets, and employees of the waterfront plants picked up litter on the median dividing the main street. Use of E3 bio-gasoline Company cars were used in a trial sponsored by Sakai Plant Osaka Prefecture. Employees patrolled the plant at night to ensure there was no disturbing noise or vibration that would disturb nearby residents. Anti-noise measures When the sound-proof wall was erected, to make the structure less imposing, a sound-proof glass wall was put up at strategic points, and trees were planted. Employees took part in tree-planting in a seaside Tree-planting district to plant 10,000 trees in the Forest of Coexistence. To improve the view from the adjacent high-rise Aesthetic measures apartment building, the plant roof had its rust removed and was painted. 259 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Employees removed weeds that had spread to Weeding and cleanup adjoining public roads and picked up litter. Cleanup Litter was picked up around the plant (4 times a year). Shiga Plant Greenery enhancement Weeding, flower planting, and care for the cherry trees was carried out. To mark the Shiga Plant's 40th anniversary, in fiscal 2010, 40 cherry trees were planted on the premises and cherry trees were donated to Kusatsu City. Cleanup Areas around the site cleaned up (once a month). Employees took part in cleanup of local waterways (once a year). Yodogawa Plant Area around main and west gates (near bus stops) was cleaned up (everyday). Aesthetic improvement of urban area Sponsored a 'tulip art' event in Settsu. Cleanup around the plant Cleanup staff were sent out (twice a month), cleanup days of plant held (once a month), meeting of activity Kashima Plant managers held (once a year). Took part in cleanup of industrial park along The association of 24 companies in the industrial park with other companies held a cleanup twice a year. Was Yashio City representative at Soka City Took part as a committee member at Soka City Soka Station environmental conference environmental conferences (held 3 times a year). 260 Responsibility to Stakeholders Regional Independent Activities (Overseas) Overseas bases in the United States, China (Shanghai), and Belgium are carrying on the tradition of Daikin in Japan by holding a bon dance festival. Employees plan and run the entire event, and participants include not only employees and their families but customers of affiliates and local residents. Besides strengthening bonds among employees, the bon dance festival brings Daikin closer to its affiliates and the local community. Each Daikin base also conducts its own unique social contribution activities and community exchange initiatives. Site Activity Overview, results Collecting donations DAS took part in charity events (Morning Tea, Movember, and Jeans for Genes) supporting cancer and gene research, and patients. Movember is a fund promoting understanding of men's health issues, particularly prostate cancer; DAS, suppliers, and customers have been supporting this since 2008. Offered support through monetary donations for sports promotion event, 'Smiling for Sponsorship of local events Smiddy'; camp for children with cancer, 'Camp Quality'; and children's hospital through Cancer Council of Australia. Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd. (DAS) Donated photocatalytic air purifiers to CBD Support for Cerebral Palsy Alliance Golf Escape, an event sponsored by the Cerebral Palsy Alliance. Christmas event Held Christmas event for employees, their families, and local residents. Concert by New South Wales Fire Brigades Band, with ticket sales donated to a children's hospital. Despite poor weather, there were more than 600 participants in fiscal 2011. Donated air conditioners to improve the living Support for zoo environment of animals in the Taronga Zoo. Donation of used PCs Donated 26 PCs to 9 schools in Brno City. Daikin Device Czech Republic, s.r.o. (DDC) Made donations to cultural events such as an Sponsorship of cultural events outdoor concert and a folk festival. Approx. 1,000 took part in three blood donor Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Blood donation activities clinics: in July and November 2011 and March (DIT) 2012. Holds a design contest every year to give Daikin (China) Investment Co., young designers a chance to shine. Begun in Interior design contest Ltd. (DIC) 2006, fiscal 2011 was the 6th edition. 635 took part and 60 won prizes. 261 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Sponsored a charity concert by a Japanese Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH Sponsorship of concert opera singer. Ticket sales were donated to (DCE) victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Sponsored a quarterly publication on Daikin Chemical Netherlands Support for health activities rheumatism, donated coloring books to a B.V. (DCN) children's hospital. Supported kid's safety camp Donation of $250 to camp at which children learn bicycle safety, how to prevent injuries, and how to safely use electricity, fire, and Owatonna water. Employees volunteered as camp Plant coordinators. In fiscal 2011, 200 children took part. Sponsored 4 teams in soccer, basketball, and Support for children's sports teams baseball. Donation to youth program at the River Bend Nature Center in Minnesota. The money is Provided operational funds to the used for education on environmental protection River Bend Nature Center. and for facilities operation. In March 2011, $250 was donated. Faribault Plant Sponsored concerts over the 12 weeks of Sponsorship of outdoor concerts summer. Total attendance was 3,600. McQuay Sponsored events that included children's Support of children's education International safety education and an ice fishing excursion. Took part in the Salvation Army Angel Similar to Toys for Tots, this program provides Tree Program. needy families with Christmas presents. Staunton Plant Employees donated a total of $550 to a range Made donation to food bank. of food bank programs, which support needy families with food donations. McQuay employees volunteered for People Volunteered for People Serving Serving People, a program for assisting People. homeless families. 6 employees distributed 200 meals. School support for children Plymouth Office Took part in the Back to School program sponsored by the NPO Interfaith Outreach & Community Partner, in which supplies are provided to children from needy families. 262 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Donated total of $11,400 to various community groups and charity organizations (Mary Service Made donation to a charity Lanning Healthcare Foundation golf Division organization. tournament, preservation seminar in Lawrence, Indiana, Fore the Kids golf tournament, etc.) Employees took part in Toys for Tots, a McQuay Owatonna nationwide program sponsored by the U.S. International Plant, Took part in Toys for Tots. Navy in which presents are given to children Faribault Plant whose families cannot afford Christmas presents. Employees donated $355 and dolls. Faribault Employees donated blood at blood donor Plant, clinics.At the Faribault Plant, 123 took part; at Took part in blood donor clinic. Staunton the Staunton Plant, 25 took part each month at Plant monthly blood donor clinics. Donated money to an art fund and a Fundraising community charity. Support for the elderly American Air Filter International Employees delivered meals to elderly who (AAF) have trouble getting out of the house, and held a Halloween party at a seniors' home. Donated to a charity for cancer and heart Columbia Donations to charity organizations disease research, donated used PCs and Plant facsimiles to NPOs such as associations. Atlanta Plant Blood donor clinic 40 employees gave blood. Donated used PCs, food, and toys to the Ontario Plant Donations Ronald McDonald House. 263 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Support for the disabled Held a Christmas party for the disabled. Daikin America, Inc. (DAI) Since 1994, DAI has been supporting the Fundraising community through donations to the NPO United Way. Donated Japanese cultural items to a library, sponsored an educational program of the Support for art and culture Carnegie Museum of Art, and made donation to a theater. Provided daily necessities and utility expenses to needy families, sponsored a radio campaign Support for needy families to collect money for children's tuition fee and pocket money. Held a charity golf tournament, with proceeds Daikin Airconditioning going to victims of the Great East Japan (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (DSP) Earthquake. Was a corporate fundraising partner in a Fundraising Christmas tree illumination event sponsored by a charity organization. Took part in fundraising to support causes including chronically ill patients, low income families, and needy senior citizens. Donation of air conditioners Siam Daikin Sales Co., Ltd. Donated air conditioners for use in hospital (SDS) rooms of children with serious illnesses. 264 Responsibility to Stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Data 265 Data Pages focusing on environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries JG Including group in Japan OG Overseas group companies only OJG Including group companies in Japan and overseas Quality and Customer Satisfaction Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG (thousands) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Repair inquiries 815 827 794 735 910 796 Technical advice 507 534 575 658 813 719 Parts inquiries 326 328 323 332 359 325 Others 96 104 60 56 58 40 Low-Impact Products Materials Used JG (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Iron 69,178 57,512 40,637 49,972 52,349 Copper 24,358 18,684 15,698 14,766 6,833 Aluminium 16,797 13,319 8,962 9,031 8,297 Refrigerants 4,254 3,711 2,872 3,049 2,999 Plastics 13,712 13,928 9,147 11,343 11,319 Chemicals (PRTR132,743 102,322 92,325 98,198 104,166 designated) Packaging 9,778 9,644 7,579 10,857 10,990 266 Data Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners JG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Residential air conditioners collected by 4 major 189 197 215 314 234 manufacturers (including Daikin) (units: 1,000) Residential air conditioners collected by Daikin only (units: 13 14 17 25 20 1,000) Amount recycled (tons) 4,702 5,294 5,927 8,648 7,776 Recycling ratio (%) 84 85 84 84 86 Iron (%) 47 44 42 42 40 Copper (%) 9 8 8 8 8 Aluminium (%) 6 8 7 7 7 (Breakdown) Mixture of non-ferrous and iron 31 32 34 34 35 composite materials (%) Other valuable materials (%) 7 8 9 9 10 Refrigerants recovered (tons) 76 85 100 145 128 Low-Impact Production Note: Numbers are different than any reported up to now because data from O.Y.L. Industries Bhd. and its subsidiaries were added and all results starting with those of fiscal 2005 were recalculated. 1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group (Production) OJG (10,000 tons-CO2) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CO2 (Energy) 54 55 55 51 49 58 59 HFC 76 68 50 27 20 12 12 PFC 284 205 177 92 65 94 84 Total 414 328 282 170 134 165 156 HFC, PFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact OJG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 HFC 210.9 162.8 259.5 125.7 83.2 57.0 69.4 PFC 329.7 245.1 213.2 108.0 78.5 112.8 100.1 Global warming impact with 100 76 63 33 24 30 27 FY2005 set as 100% (%) 267 Data CFC, HCFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact OJG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CFC 3.1 2.2 0.7 0.3 1.0 0.4 0.8 HCFC 841.6 449.4 383.8 348.2 236.7 317.0 347.7 Global warming impact with 100 59 50 44 30 37 43 FY2005 set as 100% (%) Total CO2 Emissions OJG (10,000 tons-CO2) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 20.4 18.9 17.4 14.7 14.0 16.4 16.7 Overseas 33.6 36.2 37.4 36.7 35.0 41.6 42.6 Total 54.0 55.1 54.8 51.4 49.0 58.1 59.3 CO2 Emissions per Sales OJG (tons per 100 million yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Emissions per sales 56 51 42 43 48 50 49 (consolidated) CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Air-conditioning) D (%) 2001 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 CO2 emissions per sales with 100 72 74 72 71 69 FY2001 set as 100% Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) D (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Recovered fluorocarbons at 36.3 41.3 34.4 38.8 33.0 time of disposal Recovered fluorocarbons at 299.5 335.0 314.6 306.4 320.2 time of repair 2) Energy Consumption Energy Consumption D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Electricity (MWh) 162,628 145,850 133,472 141,294 136,997 City Gas (m3) 4,500 3,724 3,566 4,071 4,370 LPG (tons) 131 0 45 58 55 Steam (GJ) 334,637 256,617 235,670 269,176 307,709 Petroleum (kl) 459 471 547 521 1,442 268 Data 3) Green Procurement Green Procurement Rate (Japan) JG (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Green 95 97 99 99 96 procurement rate Green Procurement Rate by Region* OJG (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 95 97 99 99 96 Thailand 85 97 97 98 China 79 89 89 91 Europe 69 63 82 81 Other countries in Asia and 85 85 87 Oceania North America 45 3 All regions 89 83 87 84 * Green procurement rate= Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria / Value of all goods procured 4) Water Water Used OJG (10,000 m3) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 326 295 302 258 235 Overseas 397 383 365 416 433 Total 723 678 667 674 668 Waste Water OJG (10,000 m3) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 247 219 206 200 225 Overseas 288 268 238 291 269 Total 535 487 444 491 494 5) Water Pollutant and Air Pollutant Emissions Air Pollutant Emissions D (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 NOx 49 49 63 27 24 SOx 0.4 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 VOC 132 43 32 56 49 269 Data Air Pollutant Emissions JG (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 NOx 50 50 63 27 27 SOx 1.4 1.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 VOC 137 48 35 59 427* Note: The number of VOCs covered was increased in fiscal 2011. Air Pollutant Emissions OG (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 NOx 82 78 55 100 75 SOx 20 10 6 14 30 VOC 304 184 105 133 114 6) Chemical Substance Emissions Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law D (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Release of substances 341 201 115 121* 114 designated by PRTR Law Note: Under revisions to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (effective October 1, 2009), the number of designated substances increased from 354 to 462. Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law JG (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Release of substances 345 206 118 127* 115 designated by PRTR Law Note: Under revisions to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (effective October 1, 2009), the number of designated substances increased from 354 to 462. 270 Data Compilation of PRTR Substances (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) JG (tons) 2011 Amount emitted (tons) Amount transported (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways Chlorodifluoromethane (also called 51.67 0.00 0.00 2.99 0.00 HCFC-22) Dichloromethane (also called methylene 40.44 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 chloride) 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (also called 10.86 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC-142b) Toluene 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 1-bromopropane 1.60 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-Chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (also 1.29 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 called HCFC-124) Xylene 1.14 0.00 0.00 0.06 0.00 Normal hexane 0.88 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Chloroform 0.73 0.00 0.00 0.11 0.00 Ethylbenzene 0.67 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 Styrene 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hydrogen fluoride and other water0.21 0.00 0.00 106.69 0.00 soluble salts N,N-dimethylformamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 5.85 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.37 0.03 Acrylic acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 21.62 0.00 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (those whose alkyl group carbon number is 0.00 0.29 0.00 72.47 0.00 between 12 and 15, or compounds of these) Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.93 0.00 Hydroquinone 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.68 0.00 Water soluble lead compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.98 0.14 Antimony and antimony compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.39 0.00 Tritolyl phosphate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 Molybdenum and molybdenum 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 compounds Phthalic anhydride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 Methacrylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl ester 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-aminoethanol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.30 Carbon tetrachloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble copper salt (except 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 complex salts) Total 112.94 0.29 0.00 221.31 0.48 271 Data 7) Waste Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials OJG (tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 34,293 33,400 20,742 26,701 30,528 Machinery10,505 10,165 8,627 8,904 8,774 related Chemical-related 23,788 23,235 12,115 17,797 21,754 Overseas 58,454 52,225 48,819 58,122 59,838 Machinery39,655 37,951 36,612 41,462 40,435 related Chemical-related 18,799 14,274 12,207 16,660 19,403 Total 92,747 85,625 69,561 84,823 90,366 8) Calculation Standard Calculation Standard Item Indicator Calculation method Japan Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the CO2 emission coefficient for Environment in 1998 electricity use Overseas Japan Electrical Manufacturers Association. Japan Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the During Greenhouse CO2 emission coefficient for energy Environment in 1998 production gas emissions use Overseas Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in 1998 Japan CO2 emissions/Japan consolidated sales CO2 emissions per sales Overseas CO2 emissions/overseas consolidated sales 272 Data Environmental Management Report from Audits JG 2007 2008 2009 Problems found Problems found Problems found Problems found Problems found Problems found from internal by third-party from internal by third-party from internal by third-party environmental certification environmental certification environmental certification audits institutes audits institutes audits institutes Major 0 0 0 1 3 0 non-conformance Minor 56 4 31 8 99 1 non-conformance Items improved 192 46 111 71 214 10 2010 2011 Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party environmental audits certification institutes environmental audits certification institutes Major 0 0 2 0 non-conformance Minor 43 0 38 0 non-conformance Items improved 219 5 219 5 Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification OJG (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 100 100 100 100 100 Overseas 95 99 99 96 83 Note: Data from O.Y.L. Industries Bhd. and its subsidiaries was added in fiscal 2011. Employees 1) Number of Employees, Hiring, etc. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) (Note: Number currently employed) D As of end of As of end of As of end of As of end of As of end of March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 March 2011 March 2012 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of 6,360 816 6,452 868 6,558 897 6,717 961 6,705 974 employees Average range of 19.0 12.0 18.9 12.0 17.9 10.8 17.1 9.96 16.8 10.5 services (years) Average age 41.9 32.9 41.6 32.8 41.8 33.6 41.8 34.2 41.8 34.9 Number of 969 12 925 13 886 14 936 16 933 21 managers Number of board 41 1 47 1 45 1 44 1 45 1 members Number of foreign 28 12 28 12 27 16 30 21 34 21 nationals 273 Data Employee Make-up by Region OJG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of companies employees companies employees companies employees companies employees companies employees Daikin Industries 1 5,979 1 6,186 1 6,379 1 6,553 1 6,550 (Only) Domestic Group (Excluding 45 4,231 40 4,432 42 4,665 40 4,593 29 4,594 Daikin Industries) China 28 8,387 31 10,551 31 10,072 30 11,434 32 12,471 Southeast Asia, 41 7,619 41 8,298 40 7,968 37 8,714 37 9,377 Oceania Europe, Middle East, 48 5,799 61 6,006 58 5,654 54 5,798 59 6,466 Africa North America, 30 4,285 29 4,423 27 4,136 30 4,477 25 4,652 Latin America Total 193 36,300 203 39,896 199 38,874 192 41,569 183 44,110 Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Men 207 241 225 223 204 Women 24 48 36 41 42 Employee 3.3% 3.9% 3.5% 3.4% 3.2% turnover Number of Women Periodically Hired; Percentage of All Employees D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Men 216 242 157 172 216 Women 139 52 34 37 60 Total 355 294 191 209 276 Women as % of 39.2% 17.7% 17.8% 17.7% 21.7% all employees 274 Data 2) Occupational Safety and Health Frequency Rate* D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Daikin Industries 0.07 0.13 0.06 0.73 0.20 National average 1.83 1.75 1.62 1.61 1.62 for all industries National average for manufacturing 1.09 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.05 industry Note: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours × 1,000,000 Severity Rate* D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Daikin Industries 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.52 0.00 National average 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 0.11 for all industries National average for manufacturing 0.10 0.10 0.08 0.09 0.08 industry Note: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total of actual working hours × 1,000 3) Re-employed Workers Number of Re-employed Workers D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of 112 5 139 6 141 4 132 7 187 2 retirees Number of re-employed 98 3 117 5 118 3 122 4 173 1 workers Percentage re-employed after 86.3% 84.1% 83.4% 90.6% 92.1% retiring 4) Disabled People Employed Number of Disabled People Employed JG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of disabled people 237 248 264 284 301 employed*1 Employment 2.13 2.17 2.27 2.34 2.49 rate*2 *1 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two disabled persons. *2 Employment rate = number of disabled persons employed / number of persons employed 275 Data 5) Work-Life Balance Leave Before and After Child is Born, Childcare Leave, Leave Taken by Men and Women D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number taking leave before and Women 19 20 30 27 33 after child is born Number taking Men 23 89 75 68 93 childcare leave Women 33 35 49 54 58 Number Taking Family Care Leave D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number taking Men 0 0 0 4 1 family care leave Women 1 0 0 0 0 Number of Accidents Resulting in Time Off Work D 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Accidents resulting in time 12 13 6 17 15 Number of off work accidents resulting in time Commuting off work accidents 2 18 4 4 6 resulting in time off work Frequency rate 0.07 0.13 0.06 0.73 0.20 Severity rate 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.52 0.00 Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave D (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of Daikin Industries 90.2 92.4 90.6 92.8 93.4 employees Percentage of Japanese workers in the manufacturing industry 53.1 54.0 54.5 51.6 55.3 (according to Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) 6) Patent Applications Number of Patent Applications 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japanese 1,469 1,698 1,069 948 1,197 applications Overaseas 392 451 309 242 202 applications 276 Data Shareholders and Investors Consolidated Sales by Business Segments (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Air Conditioning/Refrigeration 87.7 88.1 88.7 86.6 85.5 Equipment Chemicals 9.0 8.5 8.4 9.9 10.9 Oil Hydraulics, Defense 3.3 3.4 2.9 3.5 3.6 Systems, and Electronics Consolidated Sales by Region (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Japan 35.7 37.3 37.6 38.5 38.9 China 15.7 17.7 Asia and 24.1 25.1 26.9 14.0 13.4 Oceania Europe, Middle 29.8 26.4 24.9 21.5 19.5 East, and Africa North America, 10.4 11.2 10.6 10.3 10.5 Latin America Net Sales (¥billion) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Consolidated 1,291.1 1,202.4 1,024.0 1,160.3 1,218.7 Non-consolidated 499.2 424.9 365.4 426.7 446.6 Total Assets (¥billion) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Consolidated 1,210.1 1,117.4 1,139.7 1,132.5 1,160.6 Non-consolidated 786.4 766.7 783.2 772.5 797.7 Ordinary Profit (¥billion) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Consolidated 121.7 52.0 43.8 74.8 81.8 Non-consolidated 38.2 (5.2) 15.0 34.2 35.4 Fiscal Year End Stock Prices (yen) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year end 4,290 2,680 3,825 2,491 2,253 stock prices Dividends (yen) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Dividends 38 38 32 36 36 277 Data Breakdown of Shareholders 2007 2008 2009 Number Number Number As % of all As % of all As % of all of Shares held of Shares held of Shares held shareholders shareholders shareholders voters voters voters Financial 181 141,302,883 48.2% 183 149,285,576 50.9% 171 138,391,233 47.2% institutions Securities 86 7,181,326 2.5% 65 4,408,469 1.5% 65 8,358,282 2.9% companies Other 571 40,848,052 13.9% 621 43,053,817 14.7% 567 42,336,605 14.4% corporations Foreign 469 81,575,368 27.8% 479 70,912,586 24.2% 472 79,918,106 27.3% corporation Individuals, other 28,422 22,206,344 7.6% 35,580 25,453,525 8.7% 32,513 24,109,747 8.2% Total 29,729 293,113,973 100.0% 36,928 293,113,973 100.0% 33,788 293,113,973 100.0% 2010 2011 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial 167 123,782,330 42.2% 160 135,128,030 46.1% institutions Securities 98 9,364,720 3.2% 96 11,044,961 3.8% companies Other 638 42,495,914 14.5% 653 34,995,334 11.9% corporations Foreign 473 86,060,485 29.4% 476 77,871,495 26.6% corporation Individuals, other 46,815 31,410,524 10.7% 48,782 34,074,153 11.6% Total 48,191 293,113,973 100.0% 50,167 293,113,973 100.0% Dividends to Shareholders Equity (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Dividends to shareholders 45.1 42.2 43.5 43.1 43.3 equity Voting Rights Exercised 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Voting rights 81.72 85.43 81.50 79.49 78.18 exercised (%) Votes cast over 903,216 864,879 897,490 1,012,927 1,056,103 the Internet Shereholderes 691 926 779 998 1,115 voting online 278 Data Business / Financial Data (Consolidated) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Years ended March Years ended March Years ended March Years ended March Years ended March (Forecast) 31, 2008 31, 2009 31, 2010 31, 2011 31, 2012 Net Sales 1,291.1 1,202.4 1,024.0 1,160.3 1,218.7 1,380.0 (¥billion) Operating Income 128.1 61.4 44.0 75.5 81.2 100.0 (¥billion) Ordinary Income 121.7 52.0 43.8 74.8 81.8 97.0 (¥billion) Net Income 74.8 21.8 19.4 19.9 41.2 53.0 (¥billion) Earnings Per 262.24 74.51 66.44 68.14 141.37 182.08 Share (yen) Overseas Business Ratio 64 63 62 62 61 (%) Free Cash Flow 31.7 (6.6) 80.7 38.2 (35.0) (¥billion) Return on Assets 6.3 1.9 1.7 1.7 3.6 (%) Return on Equity 15.9 4.3 4.0 4.0 8.3 (%) Shareholders' 45.1 42.2 43.5 43.1 43.3 Equity Ratio (%) Plantand-Equipment 51.5 63.6 30.5 30.0 48.3 61.0 Investment (¥billion) Reseach & Development 32.1 30.5 28.2 30.8 33.0 33.0 Costs (¥billion) Liability with Interest Ratio 29.4 37.4 35.0 32.9 33.6 (%) Donations D (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Education 51.8 22.9 31.7 22.0 15.6 Environmental 0.9 8.3 14.9 6.0 25.6 protection International exchange and 10.3 18.2 14.9 4.9 10.4 cooperation Art, culture 10.7 11.7 13.5 9.3 10.3 Local community 2.3 10.2 5.8 6.6 3.8 and society Donation of 8.2 1.9 3.6 4.7 0.1 products, etc. History, 2.8 1.2 2.9 1.2 1.6 traditional culture Academic 1.7 1.3 2.2 1.2 3.0 research Disaster relierf 39.8 24.2 Other 11.3 24.3 10.5 4.3 5.4 279 Data Governance Executive Compensation 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number 11 12 10 13 13 Directors Amount of compensation 816 748 717 708 801 (¥million) Number 4 4 5 4 5 Audit & Supervisory Amount of Board Member compensation 86 93 90 90 89 (¥million) Number 15 16 15 17 18 Total Amount of compensation 903 842 808 798 891 (¥million) Note: About compensation amounts From fiscal 2007, bonuses to directors (excluding outside directors) include expenses related to stock acquisition rights given to directors as stock options. For fiscal 2008, the compensation amount for the term of office of two directors who retired during the period is included; however, the JPY 146 million for retirement benefits is not included. For fiscal 2009, the compensation amount for the term of office of one auditor who retired is included. For fiscal 2010, the compensation amount for the term of office of three auditors who retired is included. For fiscal 2011, the compensation amount for the term of office of one auditor and one director who retired is included. Starting Salary (yen) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 University grad 204,000 215,000 215,000 215,000 215,000 Masters 231,800 234,800 234,800 234,800 234,800 PhD 256,800 258,800 258,800 258,800 258,800 280 Data Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 −Web version− Overview of GRI Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1) 282 281 Overview of GRI Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1) See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 265) ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue 1.Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent 1.1 6.2 Organizational senior position) about the relevance of sustainability Chairman's Message to the organization and its strategy. governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Operational structure of the organization, including 6.2 Organizational 2.3 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, governance and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Daikin's CSR 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 2.7 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: -Number of employees; -Number of operations; -Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net 2.8 revenues (for public sector organizations); -Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and -Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:-The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions; and-Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Honors for Daikin 282 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue 3.Report Parameters Report Profile Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Contact point for questions regarding the report or 3.4 its contents. Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: -Determining materiality; -Prioritizing topics within 3.5 the report; and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Editorial Policy subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 boundary of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 3.9 Calculation Standard underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods 3.11 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Editorial Policy applied in the report. GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 This page Disclosures in the report. Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in 7.5.3 Communicating about the assurance report accompanying the the organization's Independent 3.13 sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of performance on social Opinions any external assurance provided. Also explain the responsibility relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 283 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if 4.2 CSR Management so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Corporate Governance Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Responsibility to 4.4 provide recommendations or direction to the highest Shareholders and governance body. Investors Labor Management Relations Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and 6.2 Organizational the organization's performance (including social and governance environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body 4.6 to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the CSR Management 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 CSR Philosophy economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and 4.9 social performance, including relevant risks and CSR Management opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance 4.10 body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 284 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Commitments to External Initiatives Compliance and Risk Management Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Environmental Risk 4.11 approach or principle is addressed by the GC principle 7 Management organization. Product Quality and Safety Externally developed economic, environmental, and 6.2 Organizational Participation in the 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to governance Global Compact which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: -Has Daikin Cooperates in 4.13 positions in governance bodies; -Participates in Formation of projects or committees; -Provides substantive Environmental Policy funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14 organization. Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 4.15 with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 6.2 Organizational Responsibility to 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and by governance Stakeholders stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Management Approach Goals and Performance 6.2 Organizational For Shareholders governance Policy GC principle 1,4,6,7 Information 6.8 Community involvement Disclosure Policy Additional Contextual Information and development Economic Performance 6.8 Community involvement Direct economic value generated and and development distributed, including revenues, operating 6.8.3 Community costs, employee compensation, donations For Shareholders EC1. involvement and other community investments, retained Charitable Activities 6.8.7 Wealth and income earnings, and payments to capital providers creation and governments. 6.8.9 Social investment Core Financial implications and other risks and 6.5.5 Climate change Environmental EC2. opportunities for the organization's activities GC principle 7 mitigation and Accounting due to climate change. adaptation Coverage of the organization's defined EC3. benefit plan obligations. Significant financial assistance received EC4. from government. 285 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Economic Market Presence 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Range of ratios of standard entry level 6.4.4 Conditions of work Additional EC5. wage by gender compared to local minimum GC principle 1 and social protection wage at significant locations of operation. 6.8 Community involvement and development 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the sphere of influence Policy, practices, and proportion of 6.8 Community involvement EC6. spending on locally-based suppliers at and development Business Partners significant locations of operation. 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.7 Wealth and income Core creation 6.8 Community involvement Key Activities (1) Procedures for local hiring and proportion of and development Daikin's CSR in senior management hired from the local 6.8.5 Employment creation China EC7. GC principle 6 community at locations of significant and skills development Promotion of Local operation. 6.8.7 Wealth and income Personnel at creation Overseas Bases Indirect Economic Impacts 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.8 Community involvement and development 6.8.3 Community Development and impact of infrastructure involvement investments and services provided primarily 6.8.4 Education and culture EC8. Charitable Activities for public benefit through commercial, 6.8.5 Employment creation in-kind, or pro bono engagement. and skills development 6.8.6 Technology development and access 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.9 Social investment 6.3.9 Economic, social and Core cultural rights 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the sphere of influence 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 6.7.8 Access to essential Understanding and describing significant services Environmental EC9. indirect economic impacts, including the 6.8 Community involvement Accounting extent of impacts. and development 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.6 Technology development and access 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.9 Social investment 286 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Environmental Management Approach Environmental Action Goals and Performance Plan 2015 Environmental Policy Philosophy 6.2 Organizational Environmental Organizational Responsibility GC principle 7,8,9 governance Management System 6.5 The Environment Environmental Training and Awareness Education Monitoring and Follow-up Environmental Audits Additional Contextual Information Materials Overview of EN1. Materials used by weight or volume. GC principle 8 6.5 The Environment Environmental Core 6.5.4 Sustainable resource Impact Percentage of materials used that are use EN2. GC principle 8,9 recycled input materials. Energy Direct energy consumption by primary EN3. Overview of energy source. Core GC principle 8 Environmental Indirect energy consumption by primary Impact EN4. source. Energy saved due to conservation and Environmentally EN5. efficiency improvements. Conscious Design Key Activities (2) Environmental Solutions around the 6.5 The Environment World 6.5.4 Sustainable resource Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or use Environmentally renewable energy based products and Conscious Design Additional EN6. GC principle 8,9 services, and reductions in energy Promoting the Use of requirements as a result of these initiatives. Inverter Products Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7. consumption and reductions achieved. Water Overview of Environmental Core EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. Impact GC principle 8 6.5 The Environment Using Water 6.5.4 Sustainable resource Resources Water sources significantly affected by use EN9. withdrawal of water. Additional Percentage and total volume of water EN10. GC principle 8,9 recycled and reused. 287 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Environmental Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Core 6.5 The Environment Description of significant impacts of 6.5.6 Protection and activities, products, and services on restoration of the natural Protecting EN12. biodiversity in protected areas and areas of environment Biodiversity high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Protecting EN13. Habitats protected or restored. GC principle 8 Biodiversity 6.5 The Environment 6.5.6 Protection and Strategies, current actions, and future plans restoration of the natural Protecting EN14. for managing impacts on biodiversity. environment Biodiversity Additional 6.8.3 Community involvement Number of IUCN Red List species and 6.5 The Environment national conservation list species with 6.5.6 Protection and EN15. habitats in areas affected by operations, by restoration of the natural level of extinction risk. environment Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Overview of Environmental Impact Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16. Preventing Global emissions by weight. Core GC principle 8 Warming — 6.5 The Environment Production, 6.5.5 Climate change Transportation mitigation and Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas adaptation EN17. emissions by weight. Preventing Global Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Warming — Additional EN18. GC principle 7,8,9 emissions and reductions achieved. Production, Transportation 288 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Environmental Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Overview of Environmental Impact Low-Impact Refrigerants Preventing Global Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Warming — EN19. by weight. Production, Transportation Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Core Overview of NO, SO, and other significant air emissions EN20. 6.5 The Environment Environmental by type and weight. 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Impact Overview of Total water discharge by quality and EN21. Environmental destination. GC principle 8 Impact Overview of Environmental Total weight of waste by type and disposal Impact EN22. method. Reducing Waste and Water Total number and volume of significant Environmental Risk EN23. spills. Management Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under EN24. the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Additional 6.5 The Environment Identity, size, protected status, and 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution biodiversity value of water bodies and 6.5.4 Sustainable resource EN25. related habitats significantly affected by the use reporting organization's discharges of water 6.5.6 Protection and and runoff. restoration of the natural environment 289 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Environmental Products and Services 6.5 The Environment 6.5.4 Sustainable resource Key Activities (2) use Environmental Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 6.6.6 Promoting social Solutions around the EN26. of products and services, and extent of GC principle 7,8,9 responsibility in the World impact mitigation. sphere of influence 6.7.5 Sustainable Core consumption Low-Impact Products 6.5 The Environment 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution Percentage of products sold and their 6.5.4 Sustainable resource EN27. packaging materials that are reclaimed by GC principle 8,9 3R & Repair use category. 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Core EN28. GC principle 8 6.5 The Environment No violation noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport 6.5 The Environment Overview of Significant environmental impacts of Environmental 6.5.4 Sustainable resource transporting products and other goods and Impact use Additional EN29. materials used for the organization's GC principle 8 6.6.6 Promoting social Reducing CO2 operations, and transporting members of responsibility in the Emissions during the workforce. sphere of influence Transportation Overall Total environmental protection expenditures Environmental Additional EN30. GC principle 7,8,9 6.5 The Environment and investments by type. Accounting See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 265) 290 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach CSR Targets and Goals and Performance Achievements Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy Workplace Diversity Policy Work-Life Balance Policy Policy Labor Management 6.2 Organizational Relations Policy governance GC principle 1,3,6 6.4 Labour practices Occupational Safety 6.3.10 Fundamental rights and Health Policy at work Fostering Human Resources Philosophy Organizational Responsibility Fostering Human Resources Training and Awareness Occupational Safety and Health Monitoring and Follow-Up Additional Contextual Information Employment Total workforce by employment type, Daikin's CSR LA1. employment contract, and region, broken 6.4 Labour practices down by gender. Workplace Diversity 6.4.3 Employment and Core Total number and rate of new employee employment LA2. hires and employee turnover by age group, GC principle 6 relationships Work-Life Balance gender, and region. 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.3 Employment and Benefits provided to full-time employees employment Additional LA3. that are not provided to temporary or relationships part-time employees, by major operations. 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4 Labour practices Return to work and retention rates after Core LA15. 6.4.4 Conditions of work parental leave, by gender. and social protection 291 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Labor Practices and Decent Work Labor/Management Relations 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Percentage of employees covered by Labor Management LA4. GC principle 1,3 6.4.4 Conditions of work collective bargaining agreements. Relations and social protection 6.4.5 Social dialogue 6.3.10 Fundamental rights Core at work 6.4 Labour practices 6.4.3 Employment and Minimum notice period (s) regarding employment LA5. operational changes, including whether it is GC principle 3 relationships specified in collective agreements. 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.5 Social dialogue Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health Additional LA6. and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 6.4 Labour practices programs. 6.4.6 Health and safety at work Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Occupational Safety LA7. days, and absenteeism, and number of and Health work-related fatalities by region. 6.4 Labour practices GC principle 1 6.4.6 Health and safety at Core Education, training, counseling, prevention, work and risk-control programs in place to assist 6.8 Community involvement Employee Health LA8. workforce members, their families, or and development Management community members regarding serious 6.8.3 Community diseases. involvement 6.8.4 Education and culture 6.8.8 Health 6.4 Labour practices Health and safety topics covered in formal Additional LA9. 6.4.6 Health and safety at agreements with trade unions. work Training and Education 6.4 Labour practices Average hours of training per year per 6.4.7 Human development Fostering Human Core LA10. employee by gender, and by employee and training in the Resources category. workplace 6.4 Labour practices Programs for skills management and 6.4.7 Human development lifelong learning that support the continued and training in the Fostering Human LA11. employability of employees and assist them workplace Resources in managing career endings. 6.8.5 Employment creation Additional and skills development 6.4 Labour practices Percentage of employees receiving regular 6.4.7 Human development Employee Evaluation LA12. performance and career development and training in the and Treatment reviews, by gender. workplace 292 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Labor Practices and Decent Work Diversity and Equal Opportunity 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Composition of governance bodies and 6.3.10 Fundamental rights breakdown of employees per category at work Core LA13. according to gender, age group, minority GC principle 1,6 6.4 Labour practices group membership, and other indicators of 6.4.3 Employment and diversity. employment relationships Equal Remuneration for Women and Men 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.10 Fundamental rights at work Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 6.4 Labour practices Core LA14. women to men by employee category, by GC principle 1,6 6.4.3 Employment and significant locations of operation. employment relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection Human Rights Management Approach Goals and Performance Respect for Human Policy Rights 6.2 Organizational Respect for Human governance Rights Organizational Responsibility 6.3 Human rights 6.3.3 Due diligence Compliance and GC principle 6.3.4 Human rights risk Risk Management 1,2,3,4,5,6 situations Human Rights Training and Awareness 6.3.6 Resolving grievances Education 6.6.6 Promoting social Compliance and responsibility in the Risk Management Monitoring and Follow-Up sphere of influence Suppliers Must Be in Legal Compliance Additional Contextual Information 293 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices 6.3 Human rights Percentage and total number of significant 6.3.3 Due diligence investment agreements and contracts that 6.3.5 Avoidance of HR1. include clauses incorporating human rights complicity concerns, or that have undergone human 6.6.6 Promoting social rights screening. responsibility in the sphere of influence 6.3 Human rights Core 6.3.3 Due diligence 6.3.5 Avoidance of Percentage of significant suppliers, GC principle complicity contractors and other business partners 1,2,3,4,5,6 6.4.3 Employment and Suppliers Must Be in HR2. that have undergone human rights employment Legal Compliance screening, and actions taken. relationships 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the sphere of influence Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of 6.3 Human rights Respect for Human Additional HR3. human rights that are relevant to 6.3.5 Avoidance of Rights operations, including the percentage of complicity employees trained. Non-Discrimination 6.3 Human rights 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups Total number of incidents of discrimination Core HR4. GC principle 1,2,6 6.3.10 Fundamental rights No violation and actions taken. at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6.3 Human rights 6.3.3 Due diligence 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations Operations and significant suppliers 6.3.5 Avoidance of identified in which the right to exercise complicity freedom of association and collective 6.3.8 Civil and political Core HR5. GC principle 1,2,3 bargaining may be violated or at significant rights risk, and actions taken to support these 6.3.10 Fundamental rights rights. at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.5 Social dialogue 294 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Human Rights Child Labor 6.3 Human rights 6.3.3 Due diligence 6.3.4 Human rights risk Compliance and situations Risk Management Operations and significant suppliers 6.3.5 Avoidance of identified as having significant risk for complicity Core HR6. incidents of child labor, and measures taken GC principle 1,2,5 6.3.7 Discrimination and to contribute to the effective abolition of vulnerable groups child labor. 6.3.10 Fundamental rights at work Respect for Human 6.6.6 Promoting social Rights responsibility in the sphere of influence Forced and Compulsory Labor 6.3 Human rights 6.3.3 Due diligence 6.3.4 Human rights risk Compliance and situations Risk Management Operations and significant suppliers 6.3.5 Avoidance of identified as having significant risk for complicity Core HR7. incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and GC principle 1,2,4 6.3.7 Discrimination and measures to contribute to the elimination of vulnerable groups all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 6.3.10 Fundamental rights at work Respect for Human 6.6.6 Promoting social Rights responsibility in the sphere of influence Security Practices 6.3 Human rights 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Percentage of security personnel trained in 6.4.3 Employment and the organization's policies or procedures Additional HR8. GC principle 1,2 employment concerning aspects of human rights that are relationships relevant to operations. 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the sphere of influence Indigenous Rights 6.3 Human rights 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 6.3.7 Discrimination and Total number of incidents of violations vulnerable groups Additional HR9. involving rights of indigenous people and GC principle 1,2 6.3.8 Civil and political actions taken. rights 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 295 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Human Rights Assessment 6.3 Human rights 6.3.3 Due diligence Percentage and total number of operations 6.3.4 Human rights risk Core HR10. that have been subject to human rights situations reviews and/or impact assessments. 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity Remediation Number of grievances related to human 6.3 Human rights Core HR11. rights filed, addressed and resolved through 6.3.6 Resolving grievances formal grievance mechanisms. Society Management Approach CSR Targets and Goals and Performance Achievements Compliance and Risk Management Policy 6.2 Organizational Group Compliance governance Guidelines GC principle 10 6.6 Fair operating practices Compliance and Organizational Responsibility 6.8 Community involvement Risk Management and development Training and Awareness Education Compliance and Monitoring and Follow-Up Risk Management Additional Contextual Information Community 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights Percentage of operations with implemented 6.8 Community involvement Core SO1. local community engagement, impact and development assessments, and development programs. 6.8.3 Community involvement 6.8.9 Social investment Operations with significant potential or 6.3.9 Economic, social and Core SO9. actual negative impacts on local cultural rights communities. 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution 6.5.6 Protection and Prevention and mitigation measures restoration of the natural implemented in operations with significant environment Core SO10. potential or actual negative impacts on local 6.8 Community involvement communities. and development Corruption Percentage and total number of business SO2. units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Compliance and Percentage of employees trained in 6.6 Fair operating practices Core GC principle 10 Risk Management SO3. organization's anti-corruption policies and 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Prohibiting Bribes procedures. Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4. corruption. 296 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Society Public Policy Daikin Cooperates in Public policy positions and participation in GC principle 6.6 Fair operating practices Core SO5. Formation of public policy development and lobbying. 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10 6.6.4 Responsible political Environmental Policy involvement Total value of financial and in-kind 6.8.3 Community Additional SO6. contributions to political parties, politicians, GC principle 10 involvement and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Compliance and 6.6 Fair operating practices Total number of legal actions for Risk Management 6.6.5 Fair competition Additional SO7. anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Free Competition 6.6.7 Respect for property monopoly practices and their outcomes. and Fair Business rights Dealings Compliance 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Monetary value of significant fines and total 6.6.7 Respect for property Core SO8. number of non-monetary sanctions for No violation rights non-compliance with laws and regulations. 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Product Management Approach CSR Targets and Goals and Performance Achievements Product Quality and Safety Policy Product Safety Voluntary Action 6.2 Organizational Guidelines governance GC principle 1,8 Product Quality 6.6 Fair operating practices Organizational Responsibility 6.7 Consumer issues Management Structure Training and Awareness Employee Education Product Quality and Monitoring and Follow-Up Safety Additional Contextual Information Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety 6.3.9 Economic, social and Customers impacts of products and services are cultural rights Core PR1. assessed for improvement, and percentage 6.6.6 Promoting social Product Quality and of significant products and services responsibility in the Safety categories subject to such procedures. sphere of influence GC principle 1 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 6.7 Consumer issues with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health and safety Product Quality and Additional PR2. concerning health and safety impacts of 6.7.5 Sustainable Safety products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. consumption 297 Overview of GRI Guidelines ISO 26000 Indicators GC Principle WEB Core Subjects / Issue Product Product and Service Labeling 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual Type of product and service information and unbiased required by procedures, and percentage of Disclosing Product Core PR3. information and fair significant products and services subject to Information contractual practices such information requirements. 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health and safety GC principle 8 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Total number of incidents of non-compliance 6.7.6 Consumer service, with regulations and voluntary codes Product Quality and PR4. support, and dispute concerning product and service information Safety resolution and labeling, by type of outcomes. 6.7.9 Education and awareness 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' Additional health and safety 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Practices related to customer satisfaction, 6.7.6 Consumer service, Customer PR5. including results of surveys measuring support, and dispute Satisfaction customer satisfaction. resolution 6.7.8 Access to essential services 6.7.9 Education and awareness Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, 6.7 Consumer issues and voluntary codes related to marketing 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual Core PR6. communications, including advertising, and unbiased promotion, and sponsorship. information and fair contractual practices Total number of incidents of non-compliance 6.7.6 Consumer service, with regulations and voluntary codes support, and dispute Product Quality and Additional PR7. concerning marketing communications, resolution Safety including advertising, promotion, and 6.7.9 Education and sponsorship by type of outcomes. awareness Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints 6.7 Consumer issues Protecting Customer Additional PR8. regarding breaches of customer privacy and GC principle 1 6.7.7 Consumer data Information losses of customer data. protection and privacy Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for 6.7 Consumer issues non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.7.6 Consumer service, Product Quality and Core PR9. concerning the provision and use of support, and dispute Safety products and services. resolution See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 265) 298 Overview of GRI Guidelines
