SBAB Bank AB (publ) Sustainability Report 2012 2 STATEMENT BY THE CEO Contents Statement by the CEO 2 Statement by the CEO Strategy and objective 3 A sustainable economy 5 Satisfied employees for satisfied customers 8 SBAB’s success is mainly due to our customers and the Social commitment 11 Climate-smart bank 12 public feeling confident that our operations are conducted Responsibility, governance and developed in a sustainable and responsible manner. and reporting 14 Sustainable enterprise should be a matter of course in all GRI index 15 parts of our operations, which is why Corporate ResponsiAuditor’s review report on the Sustainability Report 2012 18 bility (CR), with clearly defined objectives and strategies, has been an integral part of our business plan since 2009. Customer satisfaction surveys and various confidence and reputation surveys reveal that public confidence in the banking sector is low. This is a problem that we must take with the utmost seriousness and do our very best to change. CR is a key component of our strategic plans for success. By accepting clear social, financial and environmental responsibility, we will build confidence and simultaneously create new business opportunities. Regarding SBAB’s sustainability goals, we have successfully reduced our need for air and train travels, in part through the effective use of video conferencing equipment. The proportion of female executives increased for the third consecutive year. In the coming years we see great opportunities for SBAB to contribute to positive social development through our sustainability efforts. We want to make a real difference for our customers and to how people perceive us. Accordingly, one of our challenges during the coming years will be to ensure that the products and services we offer provide a basis for sustainable and responsible enterprise. This requires close and active dialogue with our stakeholders. By being the easiest to access and understand, and sensitive to the needs of our customers, I am convinced that we will succeed in achieving our Read more at sbab.se long-term reputation objective and our new vision to create a new banking era by providing the best customer experience. Carl-Viggo Östlund CEO SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVE 3 Strategy and objective To achieve SBAB’s established objective, it is crucial that our customers and the general public feel confident that we are conducting and developing our operations in a sustainable and responsible manner. Social and economic responsibility in focus G AND COMMUN At SBAB, sustainable enterprise is defined as efforts unIC IN dertaken over and above applicable laws to integrate RT E CON A PO I L IT Y OM TI social, economic and environmental responsibility into IB RE S I ON operations. N C CIAL RESP Based on the company’s values, SBAB is to pursue RE SO SPONSIBILIT Y sound business activities that lead to sustainable ecoO nomic development. With a focus on ethics and responREP U TATIO N sibility, these activities contribute to attainment of the company’s overall reputation objective. By engaging in active dialogue with its stakeholders, the bank gains EN L an awareness and understanding of the expectations V TA RE IRONMEN TY on our operations, which contributes to the company SPONSIBILI developing in the right direction toward sustainable progress. SBAB puts particular emphasis on areas that concern SBAB’s reputation, equality and the environment. Moreover, these are areas which SBAB’s owner regard as important. In 2013, a new materiality analysis will be conducted to identify SBAB’s prioritised areas for the coming years. Overall sustainability objectives 2013 Objective Outcome 2012 Outcome 2011 Reputation Objective1 65.5 61.5 63.5 50/50 allocation between male and female managers2 50/50 56/44 61/39 Environmental objective: reduce CO2 emissions by 20% from 2011 to 20143 –5%/–15% –6.2%/–15.7% –10.2%/–10.2% 1) Value in the Reputation Index from the Nordic Brand Academy (NBA) 2) Percentage distribution 3) The starting point for the measurement is carbon emissions in 2010. The target means an annual reduction in carbon emissions by 5%. In the table, the reduction in the current year as well as the total reduction since 2010 is stated. The target is set in relation to the scale of the operations and measured in adjusted numbers of active employees. The adjusted number of active employees includes the average number of employees and engaged consultants, restated as full-time equivalents. Sustainability activities Achieved in 2012 Focus for 2013–2014 • New, smaller and more executive CR council (including • Continued work on the climate action plan to achieve the CEO) in place defined environmental objective • Training/information to Board of Directors, executive man• Continued internal and external work on communication, agement and CR ambassadors information and training in the CR area • Additional CR ambassadors with more clearly defined roles • Development of a social commitment strategy in place • Development of products and services that contribute to the • Continued increased usage of video conferencing equipment attainment of SBAB’s reputation objective • Started the analysis regarding the prerequisites for adapting operations in accordance with ISO 14001 SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 4 STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder dialogue By engaging in Simple, customerA SUSTAINABLE dialogue with the company’s driven and bold INVESTMENT stakeholders, the SBAB creates long-term customer relations by being SBAB’s investor relations are based on confidence company is able the easiest bank to access and understand, and in the bank’s employees, the operations and to set the right exceeding customer expectations of a banking expesustainable financial development. Close contact priorities when rience (services, products and service). SBAB monitors with the market ensures that SBAB is aware of the establishing focus the market’s credibility and reputation surveys. In the demands and requirements that investors impose areas for CR. As a 2012 Swedish Quality Index (SQI) for Residential morton the company. On behalf of investors, extensive result of an internal gages, SBAB was once again voted number one by surveys of SBAB’s sustainability efforts are also analysis, SBAB has tenant-owner-association customers and climbed to conducted and these have become increasingly decided to prisecond position among retail customers. By continurelevant as more investors integrate sustainability oritise the following ing to engage in active dialogue with its customers, into their analyses and investment decisions. stakeholders; cusSBAB is striving to achieve a top ranking in all survey tomers, investors segments. and employees. It is SBAB’s ambition, whenever reasonably possible, to Channels for stakeholder dialogue: Customer surveys, meet the wishes, user tests, brand analyses, customer meetings, Q&A forums Channels for stakeholder dialogue: CR surveys among expectations and at sbab.se, the Annual General Meeting, Sustainability investors, investor presentations, rating company analyses, Report, CR at sbab.se, information from SBAB’s financial personal contacts, the Annual General Meeting, the Sustaindemands of its secretariat via sbab.se, twitter and blogs and social media. ability Report, CR at sbab.se, cr@sbab.se. stakeholders. Customers Investors Stakeholder Media organisations Business Owner partners Employees Suppliers MOTIVATED AND CLIMATE-SMART BANK COMPETENT EMPLOYEES SBAB’s business model is climate-smart since banking business is mainly conducted via the Internet and telSBAB’s employees are the principal driving force ephone. By implementing new, innovative IT solutions, in achieving the company’s established objectives. the climate impact of the operations can be further reThis requires motivated and competent employees. duced. A climate action plan has been established to Through clear and active dialogue between the achieve the climate objective of reducing SBAB’s CO2 company’s managers and employees, with a focus emissions by 20% between 2011 and year-end 2014. on the company’s values, objective and vision, SBAB will achieve its jointly defined objectives and create a new banking experience. An experience characterised by unique customer service and with SBAB being the easiest bank to access and understand. Channels for stakeholder dialogue: Employee surveys, Channels for stakeholder dialogue: CR surveys from the intranet, leadership days, the business plan, monthly investors, and dialogue with suppliers and external consultmeetings with all employees, the Sustainability Report, ants such as CO2 focus. CR at sbab.se, cr@sbab.se. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY 5 A sustainable economy To contribute to sustainable social development, it is crucial that SBAB pursues sound business operations, with sustainable environmental development. Building a new bank presents opportunities to leverage our responsibility and quality in order to make a challenge in other areas, in addition to property financing. SBAB’s role Investors By providing households and tenant-owner associations SBAB’s investor relations are based on confidence in with home financing as well as simple and competithe bank’s employees, the business that is pursued and tive alternatives for savings, SBAB has a key function in sustainable financial development. Close contact with society. To succeed with this mission, the company must the market ensures that SBAB is aware of the demands conduct the operations responsibly and cost-effectively, and requirements that investors impose on the comwhile focusing on customer requirements. Over the past pany. Each year, the bank meets the rating agencies few years, the economic crisis and business recession Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. These meetings inhave had a major impact on society. Accordingly, showvolve a rigorous review of the bank and its operations. ing customers and the business environment that the The review provides a basis for the official rating that is bank can be trusted is vital not only when business is subsequently established. Extensive surveys of SBAB’s good, but also in a tougher market. SBAB has continsustainability efforts are also conducted on behalf of inued to meet the financing requirements of its customers vestors. Oekom is one of the companies commissioned thanks to its stable finances, low risk and favourable by asset managers to conduct corporate sustainability liquidity. SBAB’s stable funding situation in 2012 also analyses. In the past, this was mainly related to equity demonstrates that customers and the business environinvestments. However, in recent years, investor interest ment have confidence in the bank and the SBAB brand. in also analysing companies that issue bonds has grown. The significance of a positive result for these analyses is growing in pace with increased numbers of investors who integrate sustainability with company analyses and investment decisions. SBAB is one of only Financial key figures a few companies in its industry to achieve the “Oekom Prime” rating. Key figures 2012 2011 2010 Expenditure/Income ratio, excl. loan losses, % 58 60 42 Loan loss rate, % 0.01 0.00 0.02 Return on equity, % 4.2 4.2 7.5 Capital adequacy ratio1, % 11.5 10.7 10.2 1) With transitional regulations Green bonds The company’s direct environmental impact is not the only significant factor. By investing in bonds that finance various types of climate projects, SBAB is contributing to a positive climate trend. In 2012, SBAB invested in a Climate Awareness Bond, issued by the European Investment Bank (EIB). This bond finances projects that contribute to energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy. Financing these projects contributes to making Europe’s energy supplies more sustainable, safe and competitive, which also contributes to the EU attaining its climate objective for 2020. SBAB aims to increase this holding, within the framework of the current investment policy. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 6 A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY the financial capacity required for a loan to be granted. Return requirement The customer’s repayment capacity is assessed first, SBAB’s return requirement, set by the owner, is a return followed by collateral. Loans are not granted in the on equity corresponding to the yield on five-year event of insufficient income or repayment capacity. UsGovernment bonds plus five percentage points after ing a residence as collateral, a customer may borrow tax over a business cycle. The owner’s dividend policy up to a maximum of 85% of the property value. Since entails that one third of net profit after tax be distributrepayment of a residential mortgage contributes to ed to the owner. In view of the continued application of sound household finances, loan amounts exceeding the transitional regulations in 2012 and the forthcoming 75% of the value of the residence are subject to a renew capital adequacy regulations, the Board proposes payment requirement. In 2012, SBAB made it easier for that net profit for 2012 be carried forward and that no customers to change lenders by removing the interest dividend be paid. compensation normally charged for the redemption of three-month loans. It is important that the company’s customers understand how the operations work and the costs that are Direct economic value generated, pursuant to GRI associated with a residential mortgage. For this reason, (indicator EC1) Income in 2012: SEK 1,228 million SBAB’s costs for a residential mortgage are clearly described at sbab.se. The pricing model that is applied for SBAB’s residential mortgages is also described there. Employee compensation, SEK 339 million Operating expenses, SEK 362 million Counteracting financial crime Payments to the public sector, SEK 140 million SBAB works actively to prevent exploitation of the Retained economic value, SEK 387 million company for criminal activities. The bank complies with applicable legislation and regulations, and conducts company-wide risk assessments at least once annually. These actions are designed to identify risks and enable action to be taken that prevents operations from Responsible granting of loans being exploited for money laundering, the financing of SBAB seeks to create long-term and trustful customer terrorism or other criminal activities. The key factor is relations. This requires taking responsibility by ensuring understanding the customer’s business, in part through that customers have the financial capacity required knowledge of his/her transactions with SBAB. Clearly to meet their undertakings. For this reason, every defined operations, rigorous procedures and continucustomer undergoes a rigorous credit assessment, enaous checks add further to reducing the risk of SBAB bebling the bank to determine whether the customer has ing exploited for criminal or other undesirable activities. CREDIT EVALUATION MODEL FOR RETAIL MORTGAGES 1. Repayment capacity: The bank stress-tests the customer’s repayment capacity against a computed rate of interest. The computed rate of interest accounts for such factors as the forecast interest-rate development and also includes a buffer for unexpected interest-rate hikes. 2. Calculation of residual disposable income: The bank reviews the customer’s financial status to estimate his/her residual disposable income. Among other factors, the calculation is based on information from the Swedish Consumer Agency’s assessments of household costs and operating expenses for real estate. 3. Collateral: Collateral for a residential mortgage is not relevant until the customer’s financial position passes the bank’s credit evaluation. The valuation is conducted using SBAB’s approved valuation models. Using a residence as collateral, a customer may borrow up to a maximum of 85% of its value. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY 7 Satisfied customers We create long-term customer relations by being the by the general public. In 2012, the average reputation easiest bank to access and understand, and exceeding value for financial companies was 58.0 (59.8). SBAB’s customer expectations of service and communication. value was 61.5 (63.5). It is also important that our products and services are SBAB’s private sector economist and senior econostraightforward, simple and competitive. Through active mist regularly communicate analyses of economic condialogue with the company’s customers, using customer ditions, interest-rate developments, residential market and user surveys, for example, SBAB is able to continutrends, how bank customers are choosing fixed-interest ously improve its services and products on the basis of periods, brokerage statistics, and so forth. Communicacustomer requirements and requests. SBAB monitors tion channels include twitter, blogs and sbab.se. The various confidence surveys conducted in the market. bank thus contributes to raising awareness among cusIn the 2012 survey by the Swedish Quality Index (SQI), tomers and the general public of how interest rates and SBAB retained its top ranking as a residential mortgage the residential mortgage market can impact personal company with the most satisfied institutional customers finances. for the ninth consecutive year. SBAB strengthened its position in the retail market and is now ranked second among the market’s major players. SBAB’s long-term Key figures SBAB’s results in customer confidence surveys objective (for 2017) is to achieve the highest ranking by 2013 customer in all segments included in the survey. Key figures Objectives 2012 2011 2010 Because customer relations are also influenced by SQI Retail market1) – 74.0 69.8 71.7 SBAB’s reputation and customer confidence, SBAB has SQI Tenant-owner decided to monitor the Reputation Index, which is con­associations First place 71.0 71.1 73.3 ducted annually by the Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). Reputation Index2) 65.5 61.5 63.5 64.3 SBAB’s target for 2013 is a value of 65.5 and, over time, 1) Retail market objective is first position by 2014. to become the bank with reputation most appreciated 2) Value in the Reputation Index from the NBA. SBAB’s ROLE IN THE REORGANISATION OF RENTAL ­APARTMENTS INTO TENANT-OWNED APARTMENTS Reorganising a property and creating a functioning tenant-owner association is a complex and often lengthy process. For most people, this could be the first time they have ever applied for a major bank loan and the first time they become involved in an association. SBAB’s customer account managers can assist the boards and members of tenant-owner associations by offering relevant and clear advice, which makes a positive contribution to the financial and social activities of the associations. Each tenantowner association has access to their own customer account manager, plus an analytical and valuation group. Four times annually, seminars are arranged during which the boards of tenant-owner associations can learn from SBAB and each other in matters related to finance, operation and maintenance, the environment, involvement in the property and tenant satisfaction. SBAB thus contributes to stable tenant-owner associations, while also creating long-term and positive customer relations. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 8 Social responsibility Satisfied employees for satisfied customers Motivated, competent, committed and proud employees lead to increased customer satisfaction. This contributes to SBAB’s success and strengthens the brand. Attracting new employees and developing existing skills and leaders are key areas for building a new bank in the years ahead. All employees are building the new bank SBAB has now entered an intensive phase in develrent internal and external guidelines will continue. This oping the bank and challenging the current banking will include work to ensure that the new guidelines world. In 2012, important vision and strategy efforts from the European Banking Authority (EBA) concerntook place and were communicated internally to clarify ing compliance with Internal Governance (GL 44) are the bank’s focus. The company’s organisation and implemented throughout SBAB. In connection with this, staffing were adapted to meet future challenges, and communication efforts will be conducted into what this to develop and build the new bank. SBAB’s employees entails in practice for the company and its employees. are the most valuable asset in this process and have a SBAB’s business ethics policy is available at sbab.se. unique opportunity to break new ground in banking. Leadership Ethics SBAB depends on the confidence of its stakeholders, SBAB’s Board sets a business ethics policy every year the business environment and its employees. This at its statutory Board meeting. The policy establishes imposes high demands for skilled leadership and that the bank is to be operated in such a manner that competent employees. The company’s managers play ensures the continued confidence of its owner, customa key role in motivating, coaching and contributing to ers, business partners and the public in SBAB and the employee development. Leadership in SBAB is charfinancial market. It is important that every employee unacterised by managers who, according to employees, derstands and adapts the policy to his or her everyday have good leadership qualities. In the 2012 employee duties. In 2012, both the Legal and Compliance function satisfaction survey, SBAB’s managers received an overwere strengthened and, in 2013, efforts to clarify curall index value of 81 (81) compared with the industry THE BEST ASPECTS OF WORKING AT SBAB Challenger Sound values Proximity Unity Variety Sufficiently large Influence Development opportunities Listen to employee opinions at sbab.se under “Jobba hos oss” (in Swedish only) SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 Social responsibility 9 average of 69 (71). The participation of managers in The 2012 employee satisfaction survey revealed that work on the new vision and strategy, and its inclusion in SBAB continues to maintain a high level compared with the business plan, is essential to the involvement of all the industry average in Sweden. However, the results employees. In employee dialogues, which comprise a were slightly lower compared with the preceding year. personal business plan, employee objectives are linked The initiative that is now being implemented to develop to the bank’s overall business plan, enabling everyone and broaden the operations will lead to continuous to see their own individual contribution to the entirety. adaptations in an effort to meet future challenges as efThe aim is that all employees will have an employee ficiently as possible. These adaptations, combined with dialogue and a follow-up review annually. In 2012, 80% growing demand for the bank’s savings products, which (81) of the bank’s employees took part in an employee has increased the workload for customer services, have dialogue. probably contributed to the lower value for the year. At SBAB, the company’s managers undergo continuous Each work team has formulated its own action plans to development and training. In 2012, courses in coaching enable rapid implementation of the relevant measures. leadership for new managers and safety and emerHowever, in an assessment of immediately superiors, gency training were conducted. Leadership days during the index value remains considerably higher than the the year focused on the business plan and development industry average. of the bank. At the beginning of the year, we worked on the joint advancement of the company toward a prioritised focus Competency development area simplicity as part of efforts to continuously develop Adopting new roles and accepting greater responsithe business and employees. This process, which was bility both require and develop skills. Product training first launched in 2010, is referred to as organisational programmes are conducted regularly as part of the development (OD), a key aim of which is to promote work to develop SBAB and broaden the product ofcommitment and participation. OD leaders are recruited fering. In 2012, many new employees were recruited from the operations, thus providing opportunities to test who have undergone an introductory training course a leadership role and receive continuous feedback. The in the bank. New employees in customer services also leaders received coaching, thus making the OD process participated in complementary courses, encompassan additional training feature. ing business acumen and product training. A number of employees also participated in a SwedSec license training programme during the year. Courses in bank Employee satisfaction surveys confidentiality, complaints management and security, Conducting regular employee satisfaction surveys enables as well as anti-fraud training and loan regulations were rapid identification of the areas that require improvement also held. and of appropriate measures. Two employee satisfaction Since SBAB is a relatively small organisation, opporsurveys are conducted every year at SBAB. The purpose tunities are provided for internal flexibility and mobility. is to identify areas of improvement, establish action plans It is the company’s goal that all available positions are and adopt the measures that are required for each work to be advertised internally to provide opportunities for team and for the company as a whole. internal development and skills utilisation. Results from external employee satisfaction survey (ESS) Key employee figures 2012 2011 Key figures 2012 2011 2010 Questions/areas ESS Industry ESS Industry Satisfied employees 70 73 771 Overall employee Female executives at year-end, % 44 39 33 ­satisfaction 70 70 73 71 Positions at year-end, 414 399 382 Professional and personal of which, held by women 232 232 218 development 68 64 70 65 Average age, years 42 42 42 Immediately superior manager Personnel turnover, % 9 14 4 Professional competence 83 73 84 75 Short-term sickness absence, % 1.9 1.9 1.6 Leadership qualities 77 63 78 65 Long-term sickness absence, % 0.2 0.6 0.9 Persistent in reaching Total sickness absence, % 2.1 2.5 2.5 set goals 82 n.a. 81 n.a. Use of health-promotion contribution by all employees, % 78 69 65 Proportion of male employees, receiving parental leave allowance, % 41 33 16 1) Prior to 2011, the employee satisfaction survey (Tempen) was conducted internally. The results have been recalculated for comparison with external employee satisfaction surveys. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 10 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Healthy workplace Healthy workplaces improve creativity and work satisered in the recruitment process. SBAB endeavours to faction. Accordingly, SBAB actively promotes the health attract both male and female applicants from diverse of its employees. In addition to direct health-promotion backgrounds. SBAB conducts regular salary reviews to initiatives, including a health-promotion contribution, prevent any systematic or unreasonable salary differhealth-promotion hour, free access to a gym, subsidised ences. A review of salary differences was conducted in medical insurance, free medical care and medica2012, to rule out any unreasonable differences. In cases tion, the company also appoints health and wellness where unreasonable salary differences were identified, ambassadors whose role is to inspire employee an action plan was established for future salary reviparticipation in a range of activities. The physical work sions. In the 2012 salary review, SBAB made a special environment is continuously improved through better prioritisation to ensure that women’s salaries were in ergonomics, air, lighting and noise levels, with a major line with men’s salaries for equal work. focus on employee comfort and requirements. If workplace bullying is reported, the company has In 2012, three cases of work-related injuries were procedures in place for investigating and taking remereported to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (zero dial action. Reports are made to immediate superiors in 2011). The injuries were incurred in connection with who then contact the HR department. Alternatively, travel by bicycle to and from work. employees can approach the HR department directly. Achieving a work-life balance is important. SBAB Trade union organisations are then engaged during makes this easier by offering flexible working hours, as the investigation stage. No cases of workplace bullying well as supplemental parental payments to employees were reported in 2012. who are at home with children under 18 months. The The bank’s target is a 50/50 gender distribution company also works proactively to prevent long-term between men and women among executives with HR illness. This is achieved through close contact with emresponsibilities. At year-end, 44% (39) of executives ployees, managers, the company healthcare service and were women. Diversity also creates new business the Swedish National Insurance Office. The bank also opportunities and accordingly, it contributes to the comseeks to identify flexible solutions that enable employees pany’s long-term profitability. Today, SBAB can serve to return to work on a part-time basis. In 2012, sickness customers in eight different languages. The goal is to absence at SBAB was 2.1% (2.5). Read more about sickoffer services in more than ten languages. ness absence in SBAB’s Annual Report, Note 8. Discontinued incentive programme Equality and diversity In 2011, the Board resolved to discontinue the incentive SBAB aims to be an equal-opportunities workplace programme. In practice, this entails that none of SBAB’s with scope for diversity. A diverse work environment employees, regardless of their position, will receive contributes to effective decision-making and promotes any form of variable financial incentive as part of their learning in the company. At SBAB, all employees are to remuneration for work performed in 2012. The decision have equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities in was primarily based on the unclear and insufficient every aspect of the workplace, regardless of gender, effects of the incentive programme in relation to the transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or company’s profitability. For more information regarding other beliefs, sexual orientation, functional disabilities remuneration, see SBAB’s Annual Report. or age. Equality and diversity must always be considBreakdown by age Employment periods % Number 40 150 150 30 120 120 90 90 20 60 60 10 30 30 0 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 0 60–69 0 <3 years 4–6 years 7–9 years 10–12 years 13–15 years >16 years Women Women Men Men SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 Social responsibility 11 Social commitment The aim of SBAB’s social partnership projects and support at the local level is to contribute to positive social development. Over the years, SBAB has supported a number of different projects and organisations. Since 2009, the bank has chosen to support BRIS (Children’s Rights in Society), Stockholm City Mission and the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF), based on the priorities of its employees. BRIS WWF SBAB holds “gold company” member status with ChilSBAB is a Friend of WWF and thus supports the dren’s Rights in Society (BRIS). BRIS aims to strengthen organisation’s environmental efforts, which have been children’s and young people’s rights and to improve conducted in more than 100 countries since 1961. their living conditions. During the year, BRIS held presentations for the bank’s employees at which BRIS described its operations and how they work to create Financial Coalition Against Child opportunities for vulnerable children to talk to an adult Pornography outside the home. In November 2012, SBAB joined the Financial Coalition against Child Pornography, which is a partnership between ECPAT Sweden, the Swedish Police and a numThe City Mission ber of banks and finance companies. The coalition’s The City Mission conducts activities geared toward primary purpose is to stop the trade in child pornograhomeless people and those suffering from addiction. phy. The membership in the coalition means that SBAB The activities aim to ease the acute suffering of vulnertakes a clear stand against child sex trafficking. able individuals and provide hope and courage to face life, as well as helping them to independently take control of their lives. In addition to financial assistance, SBAB has organised clothing collections and also donated working computers that are no longer in use, including equipment, which the Stockholm City Mission could give to disadvantaged families with children who cannot afford their own computers. EMPLOYEES HELP THE HOMELESS In December, a number of SBAB employees initiated a project to help the City Missions in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Karlstad. In each of these cities, employees gathered in central locations to collect money and encourage public support for the City Mission’s work. They also donated unused, working computers to the various missions and arranged clothing collections. The money collections generated SEK 26,990, and a large amount of clothing and 15 computers were donated, providing Christmas presents for families without any means to buy their own computers. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 12 CLIMATE-SMART BANK Climate-smart bank SBAB’s business model is climate-smart since banking business is mainly conducted via the Internet and telephone. A climate action plan has been established to achieve the climate goal of reducing SBAB’s carbon emissions by 20% from 2011 to 2014. The climate action plan is available at sbab.se. Bank without an office network tem and also ensured that external suppliers managed SBAB primarily distributes services and products via their waste correctly. the Internet and by telephone. As a result, the environInternal paper consumption and, accordingly, paper mental impact of an office network with branches can waste has been reduced by introducing printing be reduced. SBAB’s IT infrastructure is contained on a procedures that require a personal code. To the extent number of data servers. The servers are managed by possible, SBAB’s long-term ambition is to eliminate external providers in environmentally certified server paper-based banking documents. Digital signatures rooms. By enhancing the efficiency of its IT operations, and other security solutions present new opportunities the bank has reduced its energy consumption. and development is ongoing. Recycle and reuse Virtual meetings SBAB aims to reuse all types of office material and Most of SBAB’s business travel takes the form of technical equipment. One example is the donation domestic train travel. Due to the development of the of unused working computers to the Stockholm City operations, 2012 was also an intensive year in terms of Mission. When it is not possible to reuse office material meetings. During the year, a continued increase in the internally or externally, it is sent to a recycling facility. use of video-conference equipment was noticed. Since Business phones, for example, are sent to recycling the end of 2012, the CEO has also held digital monthly companies. The payment that SBAB receives is donated meetings for all employees. Video-based meetings to charity. In 2012, SBAB donated SEK 7,262 to Plan rose about 8% per month compared with 2011. For International Sweden. the period 2010 to 2012, this represents an increase Property owners are engaged in regular dialogue to of about 218%. This is a valuable contribution to the identify solutions that can further improve the source achievement of our defined environmental objective sorting of waste from households and material without and also demonstrates that the digital meeting initiaa recycling programme. In 2012, the management of all tive has been effective. In 2013, video meeting capacity household waste from the bank’s Stockholm offices was will be further enhanced with the potential to take part reviewed. This led to a more efficient source sorting sysin video meetings at personal workstations. ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND ­RENOVATION Between 2009 and 2012, SBAB’s premises in Karlstad and Stockholm were extensively renovated. The main purpose was to optimise space and modernise the interiors. Choosing environmentfriendly materials was also important. By doing so, the renovation not only contributed to space-efficient and pleasant premises, but also to costs savings and reduced environmental impact. • LED lighting reduces electricity consumption by around 75 percent • Carpeting designed to meet the highest environmental, noise and hygiene standards • White goods with the best environmental performance • Eco-labelled furniture SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 CLIMATE-SMART BANK 13 Climate-adjusted workplace Most of the bank’s more than 400 employees work in SBAB’s business plan. A climate action plan has in two properties in Stockholm and Karlstad. These been established to achieve the objective. The actions premises are undergoing gradual environmental include fewer and environmentally smarter business trips, adjustments. The Stockholm property is certified in purchasing energy-efficient equipment, minimising paper accordance with the Green Building standard, which consumption and engaging in dialogue with property represents high energy efficiency. SBAB engages in owners regarding efficiency measures in such areas as dialogue with the property owner concerning individual heating and cooling. The latest climate action plan from measurement of the energy consumption. This type of November 2012 is available at sbab.se. solution would make it easier for the bank to measure its own consumption, thereby enabling a lower climate Performance in 2012: impact. The process of selecting and cooperating • The company’s overall environmental objective for with suppliers is a significant and effective measure 2012 was achieved for reducing the environmental impact. The bank has • Started the analysis regarding the prerequisites for concentrated its purchasing to fewer suppliers, making adapting operations in accordance with ISO 14001 it easier to impose environmental demands when pur• Continued increased usage of the video-conferencing chasing. SBAB strives for sustainable supplier relations equipment, which clearly contributed to achievement and rewards proactive suppliers that offer environmenof the 2012 environmental objective tally smart solutions. In 2012, SBAB started the analysis • Review of the source-sorting process at the Stockholm regarding the prerequisites for adapting operations in office, which led to improved internal procedures and accordance with ISO 14001. correct external management of all household waste • SBAB’s car park comprises green cars only. SBAB Climate reporting and action plan purchases the best cars from an environmental perspective, at any given time. The car park is to SBAB’s environmental objective is to reduce the comcomprise cars with low greenhouse gas emissions in pany’s CO2 emissions by 20% between 2011 and 2014, the form of minimal fossil fuel consumption or the use which implies an annual reduction by 5%. The objective of renewable fuels. is to be set in relation to the size of the operations. The size of the operations pertains to the number of people Since the 2008 financial year, SBAB has published a who are active on SBAB’s premises. The adjusted climate report in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol number of active employees includes the average num(GHG protocol). The climate report provides an opportuber of employees and consultants that are engaged, nity to identify the measures that can effectively contribrestated as full-time equivalents. SBAB achieved its enviute to reducing the bank’s climate impact. The report is ronmental objective in 2011 and 2012 when accounting updated annually and is available at sbab.se. As of the for the adjusted number of active employees. If the 2010 financial year, SBAB has carbon offset its reported Swedish energy mix had also been constant between net emissions. Carbon offsetting is effected by purchas2010 and 2012, the combined CO2 emissions for the ing CER (Certified Emissions Reduction) units, which period would have been even lower. are issued by the United Nations. Read more about the The increased use of video meetings has also reduced projects supported by the certificate at sbab.se. SBAB’s need for air and train travel. Since it is important that the entire organisation contributes, the environmental objective has been included Key environmental figures Key figures 2012 2011 2010 Business travel Total emissions (tonnes CO2) 237.5 238.7 240 No. of trips Adjusted number of e ­ mployees1) 561 529 478 Type of travel 2012 2011 – Average number of ­employees 413 419 431 Train 2,704 3,654 – Consultants (restated as number Air (domestic) 117 359 of full-time equivalents) 148 110 47 Air (international) 253 202 Total emissions (tonnes CO2 per Total 3,074 4,215 adjusted number of employees) 0.423 0.451 0.502 Percentage decrease of CO2 emis–6.2%/ –10.2%/ sions from p ­ receding year –15.7% –10.2% – Total carbon emissions (tonnes CO2) Tonnes CO2 Total business travel (tonnes CO2) 74 103 102 Source of emissions 2012 2011 – Business travel, car (10,000 kms/ Vehicle fuel 24.8 27.5 tonnes CO2) 205/24.8 223/27.5 211/29.4 District heating 37.9 36.9 – Business travel, train3)/tonnes CO2 88%/8.3 87%/8.7 83%/6.7 Electricity 125.2 98 – Business travel, air/tonnes CO2 12%/40.8 13%/66.7 17%/65.4 Train 8.3 8.8 1) To calculate the number of active employees on SBAB’s premises, enAir travel 40.8 66.8 gaged consultants have been restated as full-time equivalents and then Residual waste 0.5 0.6 added to the average number of employees during the year. 2) Reduction during the year as well as the total reduction since 2010. Total 237.5 238.6 3) Percentage of the number of business trips taken, excluding car journeys. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 14 RESPONSIBILITY, GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING Responsibility, governance and reporting SBAB’s CR strategy is integrated into the business plan and the bank reports on its sustainable development in accordance with the GRI reporting standard. Responsibility The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for other targets and key indicators. Sustainable enterprise ensuring that SBAB conducts proactive, long-term work is an integrated component of SBAB’s overall business to achieve sustainable development. Executive Manplan. To elucidate on this shared approach, a CR policy agement is responsible for all performance indicators, is available, which was approved by the Board of Direcwhich are reported in accordance with GRI. The Comtors in April 2012. Other internal CR guidelines are set munications Department is responsible for coordinating by Executive Management. The actual CR work is to the bank’s sustainable development work. The bank take place out in the organisation, where the operationhas established a CR Council. In 2012, the CR Council specific competencies exist. Identified activities are was streamlined and now includes the CEO and the integrated into the business plans of each unit/departChief Communication Officer. ment and contribute to the attainment of SBAB’s overall There are also a number of CR ambassadors who CR targets. represent all of the departments and units. The role of the ambassadors is to facilitate and support the various parts of the operations and to deliver in line with the Reporting company’s overall CR targets. SBAB reports its sustainable development work on the basis of GRI, level C+. Reports encompass the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ), and the wholly owned Control subsidiary, SCBC. SCBC’s operations are pursued by The owner’s view is that state-owned enterprises should employees of the Parent Company and the applicable be role models in the field of sustainable business. The rules and guidelines encompass both companies. owner believes that sustainability issues are central SBAB reports on specific indicators depending from a business strategy perspective and important in on their relevance and the availability of data and order for SBAB to compete for customers and creating information. The quality of the reporting is assured by value for the owner. independent auditing and confirmation. More informaSince it is vital to SBAB that CR is an integrated part tion about sustainable development and policies is of its operations, the bank has chosen to measure, available at sbab.se. report and monitor CR targets in the same manner as UN GLOBAL COMPACT In 2009, SBAB signed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and thus supports the ten principles in respect of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. SBAB commits to issuing an annual progress report, in accordance with the UNGC’s requirements. This is undertaken in a “Communication on Progress” (COP) report, which is posted on the Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.org. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 gri index 15 GRI index It is SBAB’s own opinion that this report fulfils the reporting requirements for the C+ application level, according to GRI version 3.0. PwC has audited the report and assures that it fulfils the requirements for the C+ application level. Reported Sustainability fully (X) or Indicator Report Annual Report sbab.se partially (/) Comments Profil Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement by the CEO 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 5 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, 5, 81 including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation II, cover operates SBAB conducts operations in Sweden. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5, 80 2.7 Markets served II, 6-11 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation II, 1, 50 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 1 regarding size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period No awards or recognitions were received during the reporting period. Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 January to 31 December 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 30 March 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle II SBAB’s Sustainability Report is updated annually as at 31 December. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report X or its contents Olof Norberg (olof.norberg@sbab.se) Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report contents 3 Priority is assigned to maintaining an ethical, responsible approach in all areas of operation, combined with sustainable financial development. No particular limitations other than what is presented in the sustainability report. 3.6 Boundary of the report 14 3.7 Specific limitations No revisions have been made since the 2011 report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 14 etc. 3.10 Restatement of information No changes have taken place since the previous year. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes have taken place since period the previous reporting period. 3.12 GRI content index 15-16 SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 16 gri index Reported Sustainability fully (X) or Indicator Report Annual Report sbab.se partially (/) Comments Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 14 80-90 4.2 Chairman’s position 79-90 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance 80-90 body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4, 8-10 80-81 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 4 with whom to engage Performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including income, operating costs and employee compensation 6 X EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 5-7 / Environmental performance indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy 12-13 X X source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 12-13 X X EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 12-13 X / improvements EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 12-13 X X by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 12-13 X X by weight EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method X X Supplement for the financial sector FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 6-9 X specific region, size and sector FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically 12 II / disadvantaged areas FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy 7 / Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total workforce 9 50 / LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 9 50 / LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective X All SBAB employees, except the CEO, are covered bargaining agreements by collective bargaining agreements LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and 9 50 / In 2012, three cases of work-related injuries were absenteeism reported to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency (zero in 2011). The injuries were incurred in connection with travel by bicycle to and from work. LA10 Hours of training per employee and year 51 X LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor9 X mance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 10 50, 86-89 X of employees per category according to gender and age group Only gender distribution is reported. Human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and X No cases of discrimination were reported during actions taken the year. Society performance indicators SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number X The organisation does not owe any significant of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with amounts nor have any sanctions been imposed on laws and regulations it for noncompliance with laws and regulations. SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 gri index 17 Reported Sustainability fully (X) or Indicator Report Annual Report sbab.se partially (/) Comments Product responsibility performance indicators PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 4, 7 / results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-comX SBAB has not been fined for non-compliance with pliance with laws and regulations concerning the laws and regulations concerning the provision and provision and use of products and services use of products and services. 1) A separate climate report and SBAB’s climate action plan are available at sbab.se under Corporate Responsibility. N.B. The indicators are reported in full or in part depending on the relevance and availability of data and information. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for 1.1 Level C, plus: Level B information 2.1 2.10 1.2 G3 Profile 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9 3.13 disclosures 4.1 4.4 , 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not required Standard Disclosures Management Approach Management Approach information Disclosures for each Indicator disclosures for each Indicator G3 Disclosures Category. Category. on management approach Report fully on a minimum of Report fully on a minimum of Respond on each core and any 10 Performance Indicators, information any 20 Performance IndicaSector Supplement* indicaG3 Performance including at least one from tors, at least one from each tor with due regard to the indicators & sector each of: social, economic and of: economic, environmental, materiality Principle by either Supplement Perforenvironment. human rights, labour practices a) reporting on the indicator or mance Indicators and decent work, society and b) explaining the reason for its product responsibility. omission. *Sector supplement addition in final version SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 18 Auditor’s review report Auditor’s review report on ­Sustainability Report 2012 To the readers of the SBAB Bank AB (publ) Sustainability Report We have been engaged by the management of SBAB Bank AB (publ) to review the Sustainability Report for the year 2012. The Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible for the company’s activities regarding environment, health & safety, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the preparation and presentation of the sustainability report in accordance with applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability report based on our review. The scope of the review We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, included e.g. the following procedures: a. update of our knowledge and understanding of SBAB organization and activities, b. assessment of the outcome of the company’s stakeholder dialogue, c. interviews with management at group level and at selected business units in order to assess if the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, d. examination of internal and external documents in order to assess if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, e. evaluation of the design of systems and processes used to obtain, manage and validate sustainability information, f. analytical procedures of the information stated in the Sustainability Report, g. assessment of the company’s declared application level according to the GRI guidelines, h. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Report, and its format, taking into consideration the consistency of the stated information with applicable criteria. Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm 14 March 2013 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Catarina Ericsson Authorised Public Accountant Fredrik Ljungdahl Expert Member of FAR SBAB Sustainability Report 2012 NARVA Head Office: SBAB Bank Box 27308 SE-102 54 Stockholm (Visiting address: Löjtnantsgatan 21) Telephone: +46 771­45 30 00 Fax: +46 8­611 46 00 E-­mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Corp. Reg. No 556253­-7513 sbab.se SBAB Bank Box 1012 SE-651 15 Karlstad (Visiting address: Tingvallagatan 11) Telephone: +46 771­45 30 00 Fax: +46 54­17 71 10 E-­mail: kundcenter@sbab.se SBAB Bank Box 53072 SE-400 14 Göteborg (Visiting address: Kungsportsavenyen 31–­35) Telephone corporate: +46 31­743 37 40 Telephone Tenant-owner association: +46 31­743 37 00 Fax: +46 31­743 37 10 E­-mail: goteborg@sbab.se SBAB Bank Rundelsgatan 16 SE-211 36 Malmö Telephone corporate: +46 40 6 ­ 64 53 59 Telephone Tenant-owner association: +46 40­664 53 40 Fax: +46 40­664 53 58 E-­mail: malmo@sbab.se SBAB Bank Box 27308 SE-102 54 Stockholm (Visiting address: Löjtnantsgatan 21) Telephone corporate: +46 8­614 43 55 Telephone Tenant-owner association: +46 771 ­45 30 00 Fax corporate: +46 8­614 38 63 Fax Tenant-owner association: +46 8 ­614 38 60 E-­mail: stockholm@sbab.se
