GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2013 (TBSP) “Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited has joined the UN Global Compact since 2002. I, as the Managing Director, reaffirms that we will continue our support and commitment to all the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We have integrated the Ten Principles into our business strategy and communicated both to our staff and to the third parties. We are proud to be associated with the Global Compact and we will do our best to keep its objectives and its principles”. Vision Being a world class Security Solutions Provider in terms of Quality, Services and Productivity Missions 1. Move towards an operational excellence process 2. Develop high value added products & services beyond customer’s expectation. 3. Strengthen international trade both exporting and sourcing. 4. Focus on people development to fit with TBSP’s values. 5. Increase Flexibility in TBSP’s production process. Your sincerely, Suchai Korprasertsri Managing Director Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited, Thailand, COP for 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities onsite. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. TIS&OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visitors TBSP received National Safety Awards from Ministry of Labour in July 2013. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to its entire staff and others, TBSP tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. TBSP staff are encouraged to engage in activities outside their normal duties in work with charities and religious groups who are helping society. TBSP invited employees and their families to host the Thot Khathin Ceremony at the community temple in November 2012. TBSP invited shareholders to visit and make a donation to injured soldiers at Phramongkutklao Hospital LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The Company allows labour unions according to the Thai labour law. The Company supports group activities such as Team Building, New Year Party, Small Group Activities, and Social Activities. TBSP held a showcase competition to encourage employees’ small group activities 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff are selected based on their suitability for the work and education. Staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff have a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. Staff keep their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company gives long service awards for 25 years The company provides scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. TBSP provided twenty-one scholarships to employees’ children in May 2013. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring under-aged children for employment on the site. Human Resources check applicant’s ID prior to employment and Security check visitor ID. The company provides scholarships to disadvantaged local children to help keep them at school. Suppliers are visited to evaluate their suitability and compliance. TBSP provided Scholarships to local students in November 2012 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employs staff based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupy positions on the board and at senior management level. Mrs. Nuanchan Boonpoijanasoontorn Mrs. Wunwisa Tantivejakul Ms. Duangrat Dararuja Chairman of Audit Committee Financial Controller Human Resource Director ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The company appointed an environmental manager and continues to be ISO 14001 certified company. In combination of the mushroom house built for the community, TBSP invited the expert to provide knowledge of mushroom and hydroponics vegetables to teachers and students and interested employees in July 2012. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. TBSP has welcomed the Committees from the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand (IEAT) and Community, in recognition of the Company’s promotion and supports of transparent and fair environmental activities. The objectives of the visit is to monitor the company’s business whether it is in line with the Policy of the Ministry of Industry Thailand, builds good environmental management and sustains mutual development with the community. TBSP has been visited by the IEAT Committees in April 2012 The Construction of two hundreds Minor check Dam Project Devoted to the King with the customer, alliance companies and community at Banpunamron Ratchaburee in November 2012 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company uses energy saving technology in production where heating and cooling is required. Insulation for energy conservation and recycling of waste materials is encouraged. TBSP received FSC Certificate from Bureau Veritas TBSP received the 3 Rs Award (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) and Zero Waste to Landfill Achievement Award from the Department of Industrial Works in October 2012. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TBSP has a board of eleven directors elected by shareholders, who meet quarterly. There are four independent directors on the board. At each AGM one third of the directors retire by rotation. Separate Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees report to the board. The company, as far as possible, operates a principle of dual control with checks and balances. The chairman and CEO are two separate positions. Two signatures on cheques and company documents are required and two staff at supplier meetings. Both internal and external auditors are used for financial, operational, environmental and security checks. The Company Code of Ethics is provided in two languages.
