Symbiotic Relationships For A Sustainable Tomorrow SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011-12 ` Contents About the report 1 Sustainability at MCX 2 Message from the MD & CEO 3 About MCX 5 Materiality discussion 9 Economic viability Ÿ Ethics & transparency 15 Ÿ Policy environment & market development 19 Ÿ Organisational development 29 Ÿ Data & information security 34 Social Inclusion Ÿ Commodity market literacy & inclusion 37 Ÿ Stakeholder satisfaction 43 Environmental responsibility Ÿ Natural resource-use efficiency in our operations 49 Performance scorecard 53 Assurance statement 56 GRI content index 58 UNGC and NVG-SEE index 67 01| MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 About the report This Sustainability report, MCX's third, presents its sustainability performance for FY 2011-12. It comprises information on new activities and programmes implemented, as well as the progress made over the previous fiscal in terms of achievements and challenges faced by the Exchange during the reporting period. (1) The scope of this report includes our India operations and excludes all subsidiaries, joint ventures and other operations of Financial Technologies (India) Limited (FTIL), the promoter of MCX and other promoter group companies. However, reference to these entities has been made in the report, wherever relevant. The report has been developed based on G3.1 guidelines and reporting indicators published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Financial Services Sector Supplement of GRI is also included in the scope of the report in order to address specific issues related to this industry. In addition, this report represents MCX's communication of progress (CoP) on the efforts to implement the principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a signatory to the Global Compact, we work to align our company's operations and strategies with its ten principles. We have also proactively taken the 'National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Economic and Environmental Responsibilities of Business' (NVG-SEE) into consideration while preparing this report. With an aim to improve the transparency and completeness of the report, we enlisted KPMG's professional advisory services to prepare it and engaged Deloitte to provide independent assurance. Feedback We welcome your feedback and queries on the report at: mcxcso@mcxindia.com (1)Primarily our Exchange Square office in Mumbai owing to our centralised operations structure MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 02 SUSTAINABILITY AT MCX Symbiotic relationships for a sustainable tomorrow Economic Economic viability of MCX depends on a healthy and vibrant market base. MCX continues to play a strong role in developing the market through products and processes that enhance access to its trading platform, including a sustained drive for knowledge empowerment of market participants, existing and potential. The symbiotic nature of the interdependence Social between our strategies and actions and key Our relationship with stakeholders is based on the trust arising stakeholders of India’s from transparency, efficiency and accountability. commodity market We believe in co-creation of social and business value while ecosystem defines the taking a long-term view on the inclusive growth of commodity sustainability of our markets and thereby of the Indian economy. The Exchange's business growth. business has a significant role to play in democratising commodity value chains, de-risking livelihoods and enhancing entrepreneurship opportunities. Environmental MCX is committed to minimising its environmental impacts through efficient use of natural resources, including electricity, which is the key touch point of the Exchange's technology-driven business. 03| MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Message from the MD & CEO Shreekant Javalgekar Dear Stakeholders, Moving forward on our sustainability reporting journey, we bring you our third report, which presents our understanding and assessment of the interdependence between our strategies and key stakeholders of the commodity market ecosystem. It is the symbiotic nature of this interdependence that defines the sustainability of our inclusive business growth. I would first like to reflect on our most significant achievement last year. We became India's first listed exchange in March 2012, with a very successful IPO. The fact that we chose to get listed reflects our commitment to enhanced shareholder scrutiny, accountability of management and adherence to the highest level of corporate governance. We believe in being transparent—whether it is transparency in trading operations and processes, or in disclosing full information to investors, or in ensuring complete compliance with regulations, or in being accountable in optimising value for shareholders. This is in consonance with our steady efforts right since inception to develop MCX as a best-practices institution in our capacity as a first-level regulator. The initiative was in line with our intent to provide a platform for participation by small and retail investors, thus including them in our growth journey. FY 2011-12 was a good year for MCX in terms of its financial performance. Its net profit excluding exceptional items increased 71 per cent and total income by 41 per cent. MCX's operational performance was also (2) commendable, with the Exchange becoming the world's third largest commodity futures exchange in terms of the number of contracts traded during CY 2011. FinanceAsia (Asia's authoritative source for finance, investment banking, economic and capital markets news) awarded our IPO as the 'Best Mid-cap Equity Deal' in Asia Pacific for 2012. We believe our market leadership is based on our expertise and performance, as well as sustainability and inclusion in our business model. Stakeholder engagement forms the basis of our innovation for making the commodity trading platform more relevant and accessible to potential and existing market participants. Our efforts are targeted towards adding value to the livelihoods of small traders, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and the farming community. Our mini contracts that enable such small market participants to hedge their business risks have earned widespread recognition. We have also signed agreements with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the London Metal Exchange to reference their prices to help align domestic prices with international benchmarks. This has enabled SMEs use domestic exchanges for risk management in international commodities. Our flagship social inclusion programme 'Gramin Suvidha Kendra'—a public-private partnership with India Post—which seeks to extend the benefits of transparent prices discovered on the exchange to farmers, continues to grow. We now have 38 centres across the country, linking more than 2800 villages through 575 branch post offices, across 6 states. We are in the process of strengthening the same through cross-sector partnerships and better market linkages with an aim to enable farmers to realise better value at the farm-gate. (2) Derived from the Futures Industry Association (FIA) Annual Volume Survey, released in March 2012 MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 04 “We chose to become the first listed exchange in the country. We believe that exchanges thrive on the very essence of transparency and accountability towards all stakeholders, and these are the principles on which MCX has been established. MCX has set many benchmarks in risk management, stakeholders’ value and governance standards.” Shreekant Javalgekar In line with our corporate vision and mission, we strive for the growth of India's commodity futures market through awareness programmes, articles, reports and updates on a regular basis. This year we conducted 1305 awareness sessions for varied stakeholder groups, including SMEs, in partnership with industry and trade associations, educational institutions, the market regulator Forward Markets Commission (FMC), and others. We also organised stakeholder meets in association with FMC for commodity value chain participants with an aim to discuss issues and make these markets more participant-friendly. We have also redefined our research focus, transforming it from policy publications to Research & Strategy. Our thrust is on evidence-based advocacy for a facilitative policy environment by assessing the socio-economic implications of our exchange-traded products. We have been working on studies, either directly, or in association with premier academic and research institutions including National Institute of Science, Technology and Development Studies (NISTADS, CSIR), and Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Calcutta. Examples include impacts of potato and mentha oil futures on farm communities; socio-economic impacts of cardamom futures trading; the importance of institutional participation in Indian commodity exchanges; and hedging efficiency of Indian commodity derivatives exchanges. Findings indicate that MCX performs an important role in efficient price discovery, reduction in spot price volatility and reduction in information asymmetry, leading to the breaking down of certain commodity cartels. Using its evidence-based advocacy approach, MCX has made representations at various forums on the importance in early passage of the FCRA Amendment Bill 2010 in the Indian Parliament and the need to have a more congenial tax environment for the nation’s commodity markets to grow. I am truly grateful for the enthusiasm and support of the entire team at MCX. Together, we continue to work towards building a more sustainable and inclusive marketplace. Having identified our key sustainability aspects, we have been reporting our performance since 2010. Yet, as this is still a relatively niche trend, we work to continuously strengthen our understanding, measurement and reporting each year. I present MCX's Sustainability Report for the financial year 2011-12 and look forward to your continued support and valuable inputs. Shreekant Javalgekar MD & CEO 05| MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 ABOUT MCX The Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd (MCX) is a state-of-the-art electronic commodity futures exchange that facilitates nationwide online trading, and clearing and settlement operations of commodity futures transactions. The Exchange provides an effective mechanism for risk management by bringing together various stakeholders with differing objectives and price outlooks. In the process, it also performs the function of price discovery, through which a “fair benchmark price” of a commodity is arrived at. Automation and electronic trading systems established in the Exchange have removed impediments from the price dissemination process, and made trading transparent. A commodity futures contract (popularly called futures) is a standardised agreement between two parties to buy or sell a commodity of standardised quantity and quality for a price agreed upon today (the futures price) with settlement occurring at a specified future date. Such a contract is traded on a commodity futures exchange. Businesses that consume commodities or produce them face a probability of suffering from adverse effects of price volatility in commodity markets. They need a mechanism, which enables them to protect their interests under adverse price movements. Hedging is one such most widely used strategies of offsetting price risk that is inherent in a physical market by taking an equal but opposite position in the commodity futures market through contracts such as MCX's futures contracts. In hedging, buyers who require a commodity at a future date, protect themselves from the risk of a possible price rise, by KEY FACTS agreeing to buy the same commodity at a pre-determined price, while sellers who plan to sell a commodity at a future date but fear (3) a potential price fall, agree to sell the same commodity at a No. 1 No. 1 pre-determined price. India's first listed exchange Globally in gold and silver The Exchange started operations in 2003, and as on March 31, (3) 2012, MCX had a market share of 86 per cent of the Indian No. 2 commodity futures market. We offer more than 40 commodity (3) Globally in natural gas futures contracts across various segments such as bullion, ferrous No. 3 and non-ferrous metals, energy, and a number of agriGlobally in crude oil (4) commodities, on the Exchange platform. No. 3 (8) Globally amongst We strive to be at the forefront of developments in the `1,116.66 Bn commodity commodities futures industry. We were the first exchange in India Highest daily turnover futures exchanges to initiate evening sessions to synchronise our trading hours of with that of global exchanges in London, New York and other (5,7) major international markets. We were also the first exchange in 86% (8) India to offer futures trading in steel, crude oil and almond. Market share 2,170 in India Members We have introduced indices such as MCXCOMDEX, MCXAgri (6,7) 3,46,000 (agricultural commodities index), MCXEnergy (energy Trading terminals commodities index) and MCXMetal (metal commodities index). (8) We also have three rain indices, namely RAINDEXMUM (Mumbai), 1,577 RAINDEXIDR (Indore), and RAINDEXJAI (Jaipur), which track the Cities & towns progress of monsoon rains in their respective geographic (7) `503.13 Bn locations. Average daily turnover We continue to pursue our ambitious growth plans through our effective research and product development, cutting-edge technology platform and ethical business conduct. (3) Source: Data published for CY 2011 on the websites of exchanges and Futures Industry Association (FIA) data | (4) Derived from FIA’s Annual Volume Survey, released in March 2012 | (5) Derived from the data maintained by Forward Markets Commission (FMC) | (6) Including Computer to Computer Link (CTCL) and Internet Based Terminals(IBT) | (7) During FY 2011-12 | (8) As of March 31, 2012 MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 06 Vision We envision a unified Indian commodity market that is driven by AWARDS WON IN market forces and continually provides a level playfield for all FY 2011-12 stakeholders ranging from the primary producer to the endMost innovative consumer; corrects historical aberrations in the system; leverages new contract launch technology to achieve exceptional efficiencies and ultimately leads (9) Won the FOW (Futures and to a common world market. We also envision a brand image for MCX Options World) award for its that identifies it as the Exchange of Choice not only by direct Gold Petal futures contract participants in the commodity ecosystem but also by the general under the most innovative new public. contract launch Best Commodity Exchange of the year Mission Won the Bombay Bullion Association's award at India MCX shall accomplish the above vision by relentlessly endeavouring International Gold Convention, in to enhance awareness and understanding of exchange-enabled both 2011 and 2012 trade in commodity derivatives. The Exchange will continue to Business Superbrand minimise the adverse effects of price volatilities; providing Selected as one of the Business commodity ecosystem participants with neutral, secure and Superbrands(10) for the year transparent trade mechanisms; formulating quality parameters and 2011 – 2012 trade regulations in conjunction with the regulatory authority. Financial Inclusion Moreover, it will continue to enforce a zero-tolerance policy towards Received the Financial unethical trade practices—attempted or real—by any participant(s); Inclusion Award 2011 from the and invest in the all-round development of the commodity SKOCH(11) Foundation ecosystem. MCX India's first listed exchange FY 2011-12 was a momentous year for us: On March 9, 2012, we created history by becoming India's first listed exchange. The listing has brought us at par with other global exchanges that are listed, such as NASDAQ, NYSE Euronext, ICE, CME Group and SGX. The success of our public issue was a significant milestone, and reflects the trust that stakeholders have in us. The enthusiastic response to the IPO at a time when liquidity was low, interest cost was high and economic sentiment was generally weak, augurs well not only for us but also for the market in general. (9) Magazine on global derivatives and risk management industry | (10) Business Superbrand is an award instituted by the Brand Council of India (11) SKOCH Consultancy Services Pvt. Ltd. is a boutique strategy and management consulting firm 07 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Our strategic alliances and investments Our endeavour has been to establish India as an international hub for commodities trading through our alliances with the world's leading commodity exchanges. We have introduced international bestpractices in various aspects of commodity futures trading—product development, monitoring and surveillance methods, market operations and regulations—through these tie-ups. Among our international alliances, we have forged strategic alliances with a number of exchanges such as the London Metal Exchange (LME), CME Group (A CME, CBOT and NYMEX Company), the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE), the Baltic Exchange and the Taiwan Futures Exchange (TAIFEX). We have also made strategic investments in several related businesses, which we believe are potential revenue growth drivers. Subsidiaries (13) Multi Commodity Exchange Clearing Corporation Limited (14) SME Exchange of India Limited Associate Companies MCX-SX Clearing Corporation Limited STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS 5% Dubai Gold and Commodities Exchange Multi Commodity Exchange 100% Clearing Corporation Limited (15) 5% MCX Stock Exchange Limited 51% SME Exchange of India Limited (12) As of March 31, 2012 | (13)The operations of MCX Clearing Corporation Limited are deferred till the passing of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Amendment Bill | (14) SME Exchange of India Limited intends to operate as a stock exchange to enable its members to transact, clear and settle trades in the small and medium enterprises equity and derivative segments. The operations of SME Exchange of India Limited are deferred pending all statutory approvals. | (15) MCX also holds 634,170,000 warrants issued by MCX Stock Exchange Limited pursuant to the Scheme of reduction of capital implemented by MCX Stock Exchange Limited with the approval of the Bombay High Court by an order dated March 12, 2010. BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF EXCHANGE OPERATIONS This diagram provides a snapshot of the major functions of MCX and the most common ways in which we interact with our key external stakeholders. Clearing Bank Depository Exchange Participants Clearing House Delivery Delivery SELLERS BUYERS Clearing Ecosystem Members Warehousing and Clients Payment Payment Quality Certification Agencies Daily price MARKET OPERATIONS & trading reports Price information from producers TRADING CLEARING & SETTLEMENT DELIVERY SPOT (16) RESEARCH TECHNOLOGY Servers, engines, Research & Planning New product development systems and databases Approvals for new products Firewall MARKET Approvals for change in contract of existing products Partnering for financial literacy initiatives MEMBERS PARTICIPANTS Trading MCX terminals Price Product Knowledge Management TradingRegistration Producers Existing products Internet & VPN information cum-Clearing Transactions Processors VSAT Service provider (TCM) Contract notes Farmers Research and Strategy RF Transreceiver point Research-based policy advocacy, Terrestrial leased line Traders strategic issues, analytical research Telecom service providers Institutional Trading-cumImporters MEMBERSHIP AND COMPLIANCE OTHER IMPORTANT FUNCTIONS Clearing Exporters (ITCM) Consumers New membership approvals Financers Finance and Accounts Information Technology Change in memberships Professional APs(17) Corporates Legal Human Resources Connectivity requests Clearing(PCM) with high risk Annual returns Business Development Administration Communications Corporate Social Opportunities exposure Continuing compliance Trading(TM) External stakeholders THE FORWARD MARKETS COMMISSION (FMC) MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 08 (16) Spotrefers to spot price collection or dissemination, not trading | (17) FMC has done away with the requirement of sub-brokers, and all such intermediaries are now registered with the Exchange and called Authorised Persons (APs). This change has been in effect from January 2011. 09 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 MATERIALITY DISCUSSION Our priorities We followed a structured process of internal consultations to define the key material issues with regard to sustainability at MCX. For this, we used the Materiality Analysis performed in FY 2010-11, which we believe was valid even in FY 2011-12, as the main concerns of our stakeholders did not change during the period. These issues are highly relevant to our ability to succeed and are reflected in our internal strategic priorities and stakeholder engagements. Sustainability at MCX Material Issues ECONOMIC Ethics & transparency VIABILITY Policy environment & market development Organisational development Data & information security SOCIAL INCLUSION Commodity market literacy & inclusion Stakeholder satisfaction ENVIRONMENTAL Natural resource-use efficiency in our RESPONSIBILITY operations We continued to engage with our key stakeholders on our material issues during the year, as an embedded aspect of conducting our business. In this report, we have addressed the material issues in the following relevant sections: MATERIAL ISSUE SECTION PAGE Ethics & transparency Corporate governance 15 Responsible liaising 18 Policy environment Economic performance 19 & market development Product innovation 24 & market development Evidence-based policy advocacy 26 Organisational development Sustaining talent & performance 29 Forging strong bonds at the workplace 32 Data & information security Sustainable operations 34 Commodity market literacy Awareness & capacity building 37 & inclusion Community development 37 Stakeholder satisfaction Engagement & dialogue 43 Feedback & responsiveness 44 Natural resource-use efficiency Operational efficiency 49 in our operations MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 10 MATERIAL ISSUES OUR FOCUS AREAS ETHICS & Ÿ Taking forward our commitment to enhanced shareholder scrutiny, TRANSPARENCY accountability of management and adherence to the highest level of corporate governance, we became India's first listed exchange in March Corporate governance 2012. Responsible liaising Ÿ Approximately 47 per cent of the MCX Board comprised of Forward Markets Commission (FMC) nominees and Exchange-recommended candidates duly approved by FMC, and the rest were promotersnominated and shareholders-appointed directors. The appointment of the MD & CEO of the Exchange is also subject to FMC approval. Further, while Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement requires that at least one-third of the Board should comprise Independent Directors in case the Chairman is a Non-Executive Director, we had as many as 8 Independent directors (about 53 per cent of the Board's composition), out of which two were women directors (around 13 per cent) as on March 31, 2012. Ÿ The heads of departments are required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations and provide a Certificate of Compliance to the Board. There is a strong internal audit process commensurate with the size and operations of MCX. Ÿ We have a comprehensive Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and senior management. Further, all employees are required to affirm compliance with our Code of Ethics. Ÿ MCX is a member of several national and international industry and trade bodies. We engage with such entities for policy advocacy and market development. Ÿ We use the evidence-based advocacy approach for our discussions about policy issues regarding market development with governments, regulatory bodies and other key stakeholders. Ÿ We continue to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2007, in line with our commitment towards ethical and transparent business conduct. POLICY Ÿ Our vision is to create a unified Indian commodity market that is driven by ENVIRONMENT & market forces and continually provides a level playfield for all MARKET stakeholders. DEVELOPMENT Ÿ Our policy advocacy focus has been on: Economic > Passing of the Bill which seeks to amend the Forward Contracts performance (Regulation) Act, 1952 – this will empower the market regulator (FMC) and permit new types of products Product innovation & > A taxation regime that facilitates inclusive growth in the market development commodity market > Permitting new types of institutional participants in commodity Evidence-based derivatives market policy advocacy 11 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 MATERIAL ISSUES OUR FOCUS AREAS POLICY Ÿ Domain expertise backed by extensive research has enabled us to ENVIRONMENT & introduce new products on a regular basis. Our alliances with various MARKET regional commodity associations coupled with field studies, enable us to DEVELOPMENT introduce futures contracts that help participants to domestically manage price risks in commodities exposed to vagaries of international Economic trade and finance. We also design contracts based on domestic performance commodities. Product innovation & Ÿ Our mini contracts have helped cater to the hedging needs of small market development participants, making this market more inclusive. During FY 2011-12, we introduced a one gram gold contract called Gold Petal, and mini contracts Evidence-based in copper and nickel. policy advocacy Ÿ We have incorporated stakeholder engagement at every stage of product design. We review the factors affecting the performance of our products on a regular basis. Our reviews reveal that we facilitate price risk management and price discovery throughout the commodity value chain. Ÿ Studies are being conducted in a structured manner to monitor the alignment of derivative contracts and market micro-structure with the requirements of stakeholders. These are being undertaken by both inhouse economists as well as external institutions. Ÿ We promote participation in the Indian commodity derivatives market by disseminating information and educating existing and potential market participants on the dynamics of the market. Ÿ We were the largest commodity exchange in India with over 86 per cent market share of the Indian commodity futures market during FY 2011-12. Ÿ MCX became a listed company after a very successful IPO, and FinanceAsia (Asia's authoritative source for finance, investment banking, economic and capital markets news) awarded our IPO as the 'Best Mid-cap Equity Deal' in Asia Pacific for 2012. ORGANISATIONAL Ÿ We believe that the domain expertise and commitment of our employees DEVELOPMENT is one of the key factors of our success. Ÿ Our strategy is defined by recruitment of people with diverse skills, Sustaining talent & performance knowledge and experience, and by ensuring the right fit between roles and profiles. Forging strong bonds Ÿ Employee benefits and rewards are distributed fairly on the basis of at the workplace performance, and irrespective of gender or age. Ÿ Our Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) give employees an opportunity to have a share in our business growth and create wealth for themselves. Ÿ We have developed a single point contact id ‘HR4U’ for employees to get their queries/issues/concerns resolved in a friendly and effective manner. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 12 MATERIAL ISSUES OUR FOCUS AREAS ORGANISATIONAL Ÿ We believe training is an important aspect of motivating and nurturing DEVELOPMENT talent and leadership. This year, we ramped up training across all employee cadres. Sustaining talent performance Ÿ We endorse a work environment which is fair, equitable, safe and encourages team work. We have a strict labour law compliance Forging strong bonds framework, which is monitored regularly. at the workplace DATA & Ÿ MCX has instituted market safeguards and risk management techniques INFORMATION to ensure that its members meet their financial obligations promptly, and SECURITY the marketplace is protected from undesirable events. Ÿ An Information Security Policy based on industry best practices has been Sustainable operations instituted to ensure confidentiality, integrity and continuity of systems and information. Ÿ The information security management system of our Exchange Square office is certified to ISO/ IEC 27001: 2005 standard. COMMODITY Ÿ We regard responsibility of a company towards society as an opportunity MARKET LITERACY and believe in co-creation of social and business value, with inclusion & INCLUSION being an integral aspect of MCX’s business model. Ÿ In FY 2011-12, we organised 1305 awareness programmes. Awareness & capacity building Ÿ We promote social inclusion through our Gramin Suvidha Kendra initiative. As on March 31, 2012, this initiative had grown to a size of 38 Community centres spanning 6 states, 2800 villages, and touching the lives of 21,921 development registered farmers through 575 branch post offices. Ÿ Since inception of the Price Dissemination Project in FY 2010-11, MCX has partnered with FMC to install 605 ticker boards at various APMC mandis across India. Ÿ Apart from a range of employee volunteering engagements, we continue to partner with social enterprise IDOBRO (www.idobro.com) for “Impact Shopping”. STAKEHOLDER Ÿ We reached out and captured the feedback in a structured manner of our SATISFACTION key stakeholders including members, physical market participants, employees, investors, farmers, media personnel, industry associations, Engagement & vendors and academic institutions. dialogue Ÿ We conducted our annual customer (member) satisfaction survey to Feedback & identify improvement areas in our systems across critical business responsiveness functions. During FY 2011-12, we achieved an overall customer (member) satisfaction of 89 per cent . 13 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 MATERIAL ISSUES OUR FOCUS AREAS NATURAL Ÿ We are governed by a well-defined Environmental Policy. As an ISO RESOURCE -USE 14001:2004 certified organisation, we conduct an annual “Environment EFFICIENCY Review” to assess the impact of our operations on the environment. Our IN OUR environment management plan is based on this. OPERATIONS Ÿ This year, we were able to save close to 315,000 Kwh at our Exchange Square premises. As a result, our indirect GHG emissions reduced from Operational 3049.60 tCO2e (tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent) in FY 2010-11 to efficiency 2848.36 tCO2e in FY 2011-12. Ÿ Our water management efforts helped us reduce water consumption by an estimated13 per cent in FY 2011-12 over the previous fiscal. Ÿ To ensure safe disposal of e-waste, we have agreements with Eco-Reco and Attero Recycling, leading organisations in the waste recycling domain. Ÿ During the year, we implemented systems with an aim to improve the overall trading efficiency of departments by embedding technology in day-to-day processes and eliminating manual intervention. Economic Viability MCX continues to play a strong role in developing the market through products and processes that enhance access to its trading platform, including a sustained drive for knowledge empowerment of market participants, existing and potential. ` SECTION I MATERIAL ISSUE SECTIONS PAGE Ethics & transparency Corporate governance 15 Responsible liaising 18 Policy environment & market Economic performance 19 development Product innovation & market development 24 Evidence-based policy advocacy 26 Organisational development Sustaining talent & performance 29 Forging strong bonds at the workplace 32 Data & information security Sustainable operations 34 15| MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 ETHICS & TRANSPARENCY Corporate Governance BOARD OF We believe that strong corporate governance is the backbone of our success, DIRECTORS as it steers our management to serve and protect long-term interests of AS ON MARCH 31, stakeholders—including shareholders, employees, members, physical 2012 market participants and the communities in which we operate. Our Board and Mr. Venkat Chary senior management lead by example, demonstrating accountability and Chairman, Non-Executive Director, disclosure. Independent Director Mr. Jignesh Shah Composition of the Board of Directors Vice-Chairman, Non-Executive, Our Board of Directors (Board) comprises expert professionals with high credibility, Non-Independent Director strong ethical values with respect to accountability of the Board, and extensive Mr. V. Hariharan experience in diverse expertise areas such as management, technical, finance and legal. Non-Executive, Their strategic guidance and relentless efforts have been instrumental in making MCX Non-Independent Director a world class institution. The Board comprises a diversity of age groups ranging from Mr. Paras Ajmera 39-76 years. It has enabled MCX to respond to market opportunities, adapt to changes in (FTIL nominee), Non-Executive, the regulatory environment, and bring in innovations at regular intervals—to outpace Non-Independent Director the competition and set benchmarks for others to follow. Mr. Joseph Massey Non-Executive, The Board composition of commodity exchanges is regulated by the Forward Markets Non-Independent Director Commission (FMC), Companies Act, 1956 and Listing Agreement with stock exchanges. Mr. Shvetal Vakil Our Board is constituted in compliance with the Guidelines for constitution of the Board Non-Executive, Independent Director of Directors, nomination of Independent Directors and appointment of CEO at the Mr. C. M. Maniar Nationwide Multi Commodity Exchanges issued by FMC read with the provisions of the Non-Executive, Independent Director Companies Act, 1956 and the Company's Articles of Association. Mr. P. G. Kakodkar Non-Executive, As on March 31, 2012, the Board comprised of 15 directors, of which 14 were NonNon-Independent Director Executive Directors and 1 was an Executive Director. Mr Venkat Chary, Non-Executive Mr. R. M. Premkumar Director, is the Chairman of the Board. Approximately 47 per cent of the Board comprised (FMC Nominee), Non-Executive, of FMC nominees and Exchange-recommended candidates duly approved by it, Independent Director and the rest were promoters-nominated and shareholders-appointed directors. (Prof.)Mr. K. T. Chacko(18) The appointment of MD & CEO of the Exchange is also subject to FMC approval. Further, (FMC Nominee), Non-Executive, Independent Director while Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement requires that at least one-third of the Board (18) should comprise of Independent Directors in case the Chairman is a Non-Executive (Prof.)Mrs. Ashima Goyal (FMC Nominee), Non-Executive, Director, we had as many as 8 Independent directors (about 53 per cent of the Board's Independent Director composition), out of which two were women directors (about 13 per cent) as on Mrs. Usha Suresh (19) March 31, 2012. (FMC Director), Non-Executive, The Board periodically reviews compliance reports of all laws applicable to the Company, Independent Director (20) as prepared by the Company and the steps taken by it to rectify instances of Mr. K. Venugopal non-compliances, if any. The heads of all departments are responsible for compliance to (SBI Nominee), Non-Executive, all applicable laws and regulations and they have to provide a Certificate of compliance Non-Independent Director to the Board. There is a strong internal audit process commensurate with the size and (20) Mr. B. Sriram operations of MCX. With this system, MCX is fully compliant to all applicable laws (SBI Nominee), Non-Executive, and regulations. Non-Independent Director Mr. P. Satish (21) The Board has constituted a number of committees such as Audit Committee, Directors (NABARD Nominee), Committee, Investment Committee, IPO Committee, Remuneration Committee, Non-Executive, Independent Director Investors Grievance Committee and Compensation Committee. During the FY 201112, (21) Mr. S. Balan the IPO Committee and Compensation Committee were reconstituted. (NABARD Nominee), Non-Executive, Independent Director The Exchange Committees constituted by the Board are Executive Committee, Mr. Lambertus (Lamon) Rutten (22) Membership Admission Committee, Vigilance Committee, Trading Committee, Clearing MD & CEO House Committee, Information System Steering Committee, Defaulters Committee, Disciplinary Action Committee and IPF (Investor Protection Fund) Committee. (18) Consequent to expiry of the term of appointment as the nominees of Forward Markets Commission (FMC), (Prof.) Mr. K. T. Chacko and (Prof.) Mrs. Ashima Goyal ceased to be Directors of the Company w.e.f. April 01, 2012 | (19) FMC has extended the term of Mrs. Usha Suresh, Economic Adviser in the Commission, as Director on the Board to represent the Central Government till March 31, 2013 | (20) Mr. B. Sriram ceased to be a nominee of State Bank of India (SBI) w.e.f. January 10, 2012 and Mr. K. Venugopal appointed as a nominee of SBI w.e.f. January 10, 2012, has ceased to be a nominee director w.e.f. June 8, 2012 | (21) Mr. S. Balan ceased to be a Nominee of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and Mr. P. Satish was appointed as a nominee of NABARD w.e.f. December 28, 2011 | (22) On the expiry of the term as Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (MD & CEO) of the Company on June 30, 2012, Mr. Rutten continues to act as a Non-Executive Director on the Board. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 16 BOARD COMMITTEES RESPONSIBILITIES • supervising the financial reporting process AUDIT • reviewing the financial statements to ensure that they are correct, sufficient and credible COMMITTEE • reviewing the adequacy of the internal audit function • adopting and getting the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP), and Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) approved by the regulatory authorities IPO • taking decisions on actual size of the IPO COMMITTEE(23)(24) • appointing intermediaries for the IPO process • finalising the basis of allotment and allocating shares to successful allottees INVESTMENT • developing a conducive investment policy for investment of surplus funds available with MCX COMMITTEE • reviewing the investment avenues with minimal risk and optimum returns from time to time • monitoring compliance with different laws applicable to MCX DIRECTORS’ • investing funds COMMITTEE • taking loans within the prescribed limits REMUNERATION • determining MCX’s policy on specific remuneration packages for executive directors COMMITTEE • granting stock options COMPENSATION • determining the manner of administering and implementing ESOS (Employee stock COMMITTEE(24) option scheme) • addressing any other related and incidental matters INVESTOR GRIEVANCE • redressing complaints from shareholders COMMITTEE • monitoring transfers, transmissions, splitting, consolidation of shares and bonds issued by MCX EXCHANGE COMMITTEES RESPONSIBILITIES EXECUTIVE • managing dayto-day functions of the Exchange COMMITTEE • implementing the provisions of articles, bye-laws, rules and regulations of the Exchange and for such other matters, as may be directed • recommending the margin structure CLEARING HOUSE • determining losses, damages and penalties resulting from any defaults including delivery defaults COMMITTEE • determining the manner in which the Settlement Guarantee Fund should be utillised • monitoring the trading system of the Exchange • implementing rules of automated trading • reviewing specifications of price/position limits for each contract month within which any futures contract in any commodity shall be transacted TRADING • recommending risk management systems to ensure that trading takes place in a safe COMMITTEE and fair manner • recommending business rules for clearing and settlement • reviewing conditions under which exemptions or concessions may be granted to members of the Exchange IPF • operationalising the MCX Investor (Client) Protection Fund Trust COMMITTEE(25) • evaluating applications for membership of the Exchange MEMBERSHIP ADMISSION • making recommendations for their acceptance/ rejection COMMITTEE • framing rules/ criteria relating to admission for membership • declaring as defaulter and/ or expelling any member in accordance with and subject to DEFAULTERS the FCRA, 1952 COMMITTEE • taking necessary action against the member as per the ‘ Rules of the Exchange’ VIGILANCE • setting out the procedure relating to checks, inspections, enquiries COMMITTEE • preventing/ monitoring price manipulation, price distortion and trading malpractices • taking disciplinary actions such as suspension, expulsion, fine, censure, warning or DISCIPLINARY ACTION withdrawal of membership against those guilty of contravention, non-compliances, COMMITTEE disobedience, disregard or evasion of any provision of the rules, bye-laws and the ‘Business Rules of the Exchange’ • reviewing proposals for new IT investments INFORMATION SYSTEMS • approving and reviewing compliance with IT-related policies and procedures STEERING COMMITTEE(26) • reviewing the adequacy and allocation of IT resources (23), (24) IPO Initial Public Offering. During the FY 201112, the IPO Committee and Compensation Committee were reconstituted. | (25) In accordance with the revised guidelines for Investor Protection Fund (IPF), issued by FMC, during the year, the IPF Committee was constituted to operationalise the Multi Commodity Exchange Investor (Client) Protection Fund Trust. | (26) The Information System Steering Committee was reconstituted during the year. 17 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Management of sustainability At MCX, the responsibility of a company towards society is viewed as an opportunity, both for the business and society. This is understood as the co-creation of social and business value, with inclusion being an integral aspect of the business model at MCX. We have therefore defined “CSR” as CSO (corporate social opportunity). The CSO team is also responsible for sustainability data monitoring and reporting. The MD & CEO in his quarterly presentation to the Board of Directors regularly updates the Board on the above-mentioned subjects for their review, comments and suggestions. Code of Conduct(27) We have formulated and implemented a comprehensive code of conduct for the Board of Directors and senior management. The Board Members and the senior management personnel affirm compliance with the Code of Conduct on an annual basis. The Board of Directors have adopted this Code of Conduct as a commitment to the principles of corporate governance. Any amendments to this code have to be first Code of Conduct: approved by the Board of Directors and promptly disclosed on our website. Highlights All the employees are required to affirm compliance with the Code of Ethics at the The directors and senior time of joining. The Code of Ethics and the Disciplinary Action Policy are available on management of MCX are the intranet. If there are any violations or disciplinary issues, employees are first required to: counselled by their heads of departments and if required, given an internal memo. The same is reiterated in the leadership training programmes for junior and middle • Disclose their level employees. Directorships with other companies We promote ethical business behaviour in all our business activities. All employees • Disclose their are required to report to MD & CEO/ Deputy MD any bonafide concern he/ she may have and if fellow employees are engaged in fraudulent practices. Employees also shareholdings in the have access to the Audit Committee. We have a Vigilance Committee to check, Company inspect, and to monitor/ prevent/ thwart any attempt by participants to manipulate/ • Exercise authority and distort prices and/ or to indulge in trading malpractices. Our business units are power with due care audited by third parties on various parameters including business risks related to and diligence corruption. • Not allow personal We have implemented a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading and Code interest to conflict with of Corporate Disclosure Practices to comply with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider the interest of the Trading) Regulations, 1992 issued by SEBI, as amended from time to time. company or to come in the way of discharging official duties • Abide by policies and business principles of the Company • Maintain high ethical and professional standards in all dealings • Observe strict confidentiality of the information acquired in the course of discharging official duties (27)For more details on our Code of Conduct, please visit the MCX website at http://www.mcxindia.com/aboutus/codeofconduct/codeofconduct.htm MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 18 Responsible liaising We believe in responsible liaising practices for engagement with government agencies, regulatory bodies and other stakeholders. This has meant the use of evidence-based advocacy approach with credible and well-researched evidence for our discussions with policy makers and influencers. In all types of engagements, the board members, senior management and executives across other cadres follow the company's Code of Conduct and/or Code of Ethics. In fact, we collaborate and share the cost of funding with the market regulator (FMC) for many such awareness programmes, workshops, etc. aimed at market deepening. We provide the requisite information and comply with all regulatory requirements while communicating about our products and services to our customers. We also duly seek FMC approval for specific public communications. We adhere to Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) guidelines for our marketing communication and also strive to engage the services of ASCI certified advertising agencies. MCX is a member of several national and international industry and trade bodies. We engage with such entities for policy advocacy and market development. During the fiscal, MCX sponsored the India International Gold Conference held at Hyderabad and Assocham's Annual Commodity Futures Market Conference at New Delhi. A list of MCX's memberships with national and international associations is presented below: NATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS TYPE OF MEMBERSHIP Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) Associate Member Maharashtra Economic Development Council (MEDC) Patron Member-Platinum The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry (ASSOCHAM) Patron Member Federation of Indian Micro & Small & Medium Enterprises (FISME) General Member Solvent Extractors Association (SEA) Associate Member INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS TYPE OF MEMBERSHIP The Association of Futures Market (AFM) Full Member Futures Industry Association (FIA) Regular Member FIA Asia Regular Member Swiss Futures & Options Association (SFOA) Associate Member The International Organization of Securities Affiliate Member Commissions (IOSCO) South Asian Federation of Exchanges (SAFE) Primary Member World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Growth Company Member World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) Correspondent Communications post IPO As per MCX’s listing agreement with stock exchanges, we have been taking more precaution to ensure that external communication is restricted to factual information. Moreover, we have started reaching out to investors through regular communication, conferences and meetings. We avoid talking about projections, forecasts and estimates that could have a material impact on the value of shares. We conform to the mandatory listing requirements such as declaring of results, and publishing of results including quarterly earnings through our website, media releases, and so forth. The investor relations section of our website has been modified to provide more information to current and prospective investors. 19 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 POLICY ENVIRONMENT & MARKET DEVELOPMENT Economic performance Management approach The fundamental role of a commodity futures exchange is to facilitate price risk management and transparent price discovery. In a developing economy such as India, where a sizable section of the population can be vulnerable to commodity price volatility, these functions of a commodity derivatives exchange can have substantive impacts on livelihoods across commodity value chains. The Exchange's platform enables online anonymous trading for hedging against price risks, leading to efficient price discovery. Moreover, for international We are committed to commodities, MCX's platform enables domestic participants to execute their sustainable, inclusive trade in Indian Rupee, thereby enhancing access to cost effective price-risk growth and have set management. ambitious goals for The key requirements for a commodity exchange to create ourselves while creating sustainable value are: a robust and flexible trading system that is value for all our aligned to the market needs and an efficient clearing mechanism stakeholders. that is reliable and ensures confidence among all key stakeholders. For this, it needs integrity assured through proper rules and monitoring as well as suitably designed contracts (products). Moreover, education of existing and potential market participants, as well as all those stakeholders who influence the development of and access to the market, is critical. Such sustainable practices through the value chain of a commodity exchange are built into MCX’s business strategy and governance Chetan Bharkhada, practices. We therefore work through an embedded stakeholder President, engagement process for managing and enhancing the direct Head Commodities & economic impact of our products. There are no direct health, safety Currency, and environmental impacts of our products. Domain expertise backed by extensive research has enabled us to introduce new Anand Rathi, says the products on a regular basis. Our alliances with various regional MCX approach has commodity associations coupled with field studies, enable us benefitted his business introduce contracts that help participants to domestically manage value chain substantially. risks in commodities exposed to the vagaries of international trade “They offer state-of-art and finance. We also design contracts based on domestic technology to trade with commodities. extensive quality control We follow a structured mechanism for reviewing products and focus with which my reach to my on innovation in product design with the intention of bringing the branches and clientele has small and vulnerable players within the ambit of the market. increased manifold. What For instance, the introduction of mini contracts helps in catering to has also impressed me is the hedging needs of small participants, making this market more their initiative to educate inclusive. We also promote participation in the Indian commodities stakeholders. Job market by disseminating information, educating existing and creation in the broking potential market participants on the dynamics of the commodities industry and market, organising management development programmes for encouragement to decision makers and industry leaders. entrepreneurs in the commodity sector are Risks and strategy outcomes of growth in the Our business performance depends on the volume and value of commodity derivatives contracts traded on the Exchange. Trading volumes are primarily market created by MCX,” influenced by external factors including, price volatility in the he says. underlying commodities; demand and supply; production and consumption status of commodities; government initiatives to promote the commodity futures industry; changes in monetary, MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 20 fiscal, agricultural or trade policies; the number of market participants; domestic and international economic, political and market conditions; weather conditions; and natural calamities. By regularly monitoring external factors, designing relevant and accessible products and building awareness among potential market We believe that our participants and policy-makers, we seek to grow participation in the ability to coalesce commodity futures market. Our strategy for market penetration is the product innovation with basis of co-creation of business and social value; as participation by cutting-edge technology hedgers and other market players increases, it adds to our revenues for enhancing access and and enhances their livelihoods. participation is the Adopting advancements in technology enables us to provide more underpinning of our efficient trade execution services, increases our economies of scale emergence as the and connectivity options of the Exchange, contributing to our Exchange of Choice in business growth. We are cognisant of the implication of energy the country. consumption as the Exchange operations are IT-based. We invest in green technology and adopt good practices for efficient operations and minimising our environmental impact. Opportunities We expect competition to intensify with new exchanges being established, and with the existing competitors seeking to expand their market presence. Our approach to competition is to FAQs on Forward Contracts continuously improve our products, technology and processes, and Regulation Act (FC(R)A) Amendment: introduce new product variant, with a strong customer orientation. Need & Benefit We believe that our ability to coalesce product innovation with cutting-edge technology for enhancing access and participation is the underpinning of our emergence as the Exchange of Choice in the country. The imminent passage of the FCRA Amendment Bill, 2010 will enable us to offer new kinds of products such as options and indices. Moreover, banks and financial institutions could be allowed to participate in commodity exchanges. This would further drive the volumes in the commodity markets to new levels. There is also a possibility of participants trading on regional commodity exchanges moving to the national-level platforms which provide benefits of higher liquidity, transparent pricing, central clearing, robust risk management and surveillance system, efficient delivery mechanism, and lower delivery and cash risks. www.mcxindia.com Growth in the commodity markets brings about demand for better trading and analytical tools, risk management tools, market data products and price information offerings, which can be the new potential revenue streams. In a rapidly evolving market, we need to innovate at a rapid pace, and we are now looking at markets, products and services for the future, including those under the domain of PES (Payment for Ecosystem Services). This FAQ has been prepared to answer a We see trading on water futures, rainfall index and weather derivatives, host of questions, myths playing a significant role in addressing sustainability concerns. and concerns related to Launching products of such nature in the Indian commodity debates and discussions exchanges, however, is contingent upon the legal-regulatory on the commodity frameworks, as these are all index-based products, which are not allowed as per the Forward Contracts Regulation Act 1952. The FCRA futures market in India, Amendment Bill 2010 is pending to be passed by the Parliament. Only mainly in the context of upon the passage of the Bill, such products (options and indices) can the need for amending be traded. However, research is being conducted on such products, the FC(R)A. looking at the worldwide innovations taking place, as also their broader social relevance. 21 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Financial performance MCX has been rapidly growing and consolidating its position in the global markets with an increase of about 75 per cent in the volumes traded in CY 2011 over the previous year. It has been one of the fastest growing exchanges amongst the league of exchanges mentioned in the table below: PERFORMANCE OF TOP 10 COMMODITY EXCHANGES IN THE WORLD(28) NO. OF COMMODITY FUTURES CONTRACTS TRADED (IN MILLION) RANK EXCHANGES 2010 2011 % CHANGE 1 CME Group (includes CME, CBOT & NYMEX) 609.09 677.16 11.2% 2 Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange (CZCE) 495.90 406.39 -18.1% 3 Multi Commodity Exchange of India (MCX) 197.21 346.19 75.5% 4 ICE Group (includes ICE US, UK and Canada) 264.67 309.98 17.1% 5 Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE) 621.90 308.24 -50.4% 6 Dalian Commodity Exchange (DCE) 403.17 289.05 -28.3% 7 London Metal Exchange (LME) 112.44 138.49 23.2% 8 National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX) 40.19 42.00 4.5% 9 Russian Trading Systems Stock Exchange (FORTS) 18.18 38.15 109.8% 10 Tokyo Commodity Exchange (TOCOM) 27.64 31.67 14.6% Revenue MCX's average daily turnover has increased by 57 per cent year-on-year, from `320.57 billion in fiscal 2011 to `503.13 billion during fiscal 2012. The total turnover increased from `98,414.81 billion to `1,55,970.96 billion in FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS same period. Revenue grew by 45 per cent from `3,495.40 million to FOR FY 2011-12 `5,053.99 million. 43% MCX reported a total income of `6,289.07 million, against a total income of Growth in operating income over `4,472.87 million in the previous year ended March 31, 2011, representing a the previous fiscal growth of 41 per cent. FY 2011-12 was a year of stellar performance with a 86%(29) strong operating margin of 70 per cent as against 60 per cent in the Market share (Volume) previous fiscal achieved through operational efficiency. The operating 3.6% expenses increased marginally by 8 per cent from `1771.46 million to Research & Development as a `1,915.24 million for the same period. percentage of operating revenues excluding technology costs 47% Profits Profitability Profit before tax for the year ended March 31, 2012 grew 61 per cent from `58.02 `2,454.54 million to `3,959.72 million. Profit after tax for the same period Earnings per Share grew 66 per cent from `1,728.24 million to `2,861.88 million. 28.45% Return on assets 236 Number of employees Expenses Operating and other expenses increased by 8 per cent during 2011-12 to `1,915.23 million from `1,771.48 in 2010-11 while depreciation and amortisation expenses increased by 10 per cent from `246.59 million during FY 2010-11 to `271.72 million in FY 2011-12. MCX is a debt free company with reserves and surplus of `9,461.19 million and net worth of `9,989.16 million as on March 31, 2012. During the fiscal, total dividend of 240 per cent was paid, to be precise `24 per share on the face value of `10 each. (28)Derived from Futures Industry Association(FIA) Annual Survey, March 2012 | (29) Derived from the data maintained by FMC for FY 2011-12 MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 22 Gauging economic impacts Employment & livelihoods We operate in 26 out of 28 states in India. Our ballpark estimate suggests that we impact around 5 million households, which would imply a multiplier effect on around 20 million individuals (considering 4 members per household). The estimate of 5 million households includes: Ÿ ~13 lakh by way of employment generation cumulatively from 2004 to 2010 (based on MCX market share and a recent industry level estimate of direct and indirect employment generated in broking, warehouse operations and exchange operations). Ÿ ~ 37 lakh farmers and agricultural workers in context of agri commodities traded on the Exchange through the following channels: > Price discovery’s impact on value realisation and crop planning for the farm sector > Implications of quality specifications in contracts: This has led to reduced rejections of farmers' output. It has also incentivised farmers to adopt better ICM (integrated crop management), thereby, de-risking farm livelihoods and encouraging adoption of sustainable agriculture practices > Price risk management has facilitated protection from price volatility, and lower intermediation costs have led to stability in economic activities, thereby fostering stability in livelihoods > Price dissemination programmes and Gramin Suvidha Kendra initiative. The latter is a strategic initiative of MCX to enhance access to price information and comprehensive farm activity related services to rural areas through a unique low-cost delivery model. Read more about it in section II on social inclusion, page 37. Impact cost of hedging Speaking of the cotton By some parameters, cost efficiency of MCX is comparable to that of the biggest international exchanges. 'Impact Cost', measured as the bid-ask spread of MCX gold value chain, Dr Perumula contract (average: 0.0066%), for example, is as low as the world benchmark COMEX gold Gopinath, Associate contract (average: 0.0067%). As a result, the economic cost of hedging on a domestic Professor at TISS School of exchange, i.e. MCX, is of international standards. Development Studies says, “In the stakeholder linkages, the large farmers, Hedging efficiency the ginners, the traders/ commission agents of the MCX is at par with international exchanges in terms of hedging efficiency and emerges as an efficient platform for price risk management for a wide range of commodities cotton industry value across agriculture, base metals and bullion segments. A study estimating the Hedging chain have been Efficiency (HE), using Edirington's Formula, of MCX with that of COMEX, London Metal benefitting by either Exchange and Bursa Malaysia, found that MCX's HE compares well with the other hedging at MCX or international exchanges. This reflects on the attractiveness of the exchange-traded through price discovery.” commodity futures market in India as an efficient platform for price risk management. Cost reduction in the value chain A study published by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in 2009(30), found that prior to commencement of futures trading in mentha oil, the profit made by intermediaries in the value chain stood at around 11-12 per cent of the wholesale price. After the launch of futures trading in mentha oil and ensuing price transparency, the UNCTAD survey found that the value chain margin had shrunk to 7.5 from10.5 per cent. (30) While we had reported this study in the previous Sustainability Report, we are repeating it here to provide a full perspective to the section on gauging economic impacts. 23 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Similar was the result for cardamom value chain. Prior to futures trading, intermediaries used to earn 15 20.5 per cent, this dropped to 7.5 per cent post commencement of futures trading in the commodity. The reduction in cost of intermediation has meant that value-sapping intermediaries in the value chain of commodities have reduced or have been rendered weak. This has translated into a higher proportion of the consumer's rupee ending up in the farmer's or the value-adding intermediary's wallet. For non-agricultural commodities that contribute a larger share of MCX’s volumes, there is a similar impact with regard to a reduction in transaction costs viz. search costs and those arising from information asymmetry. Reduction in such transaction costs leads to more efficiency in the market. Enabling local cluster development MCX has contributed to the sustainable development of industry groups, clusters and ecosystems. It has even enabled the creation of ecosystems to support the development of clusters. By hedging on base metals and bullion on MCX platform, the SME sector has obtained a host of benefits such as: Ÿ Increase in investment flows in downstream ancillary industries, leading to increased investment opportunities in the SME sector and semi-urban markets Ÿ Creating number of business opportunities in storage and processing industries for entrepreneurs in the SME sector and semi-urban markets NUMBER OF TERMINALS ('000) Outreach Ÿ About 2170 members FY08 50.75 Ÿ 18.30 lakh registered and active clients FY09 82.70 Ÿ Presence in 1577 cities and towns across 26 states of India Ÿ About 3,46,000 trading terminals FY10 117.12 Ÿ 1305 awareness programmes conducted during FY 2011-12 FY11 194.40 FY12 346.61 Contribution to the economy Ÿ Contribution to exchequer by taxes: `110 crore in 2011-12 by way of direct and 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 current tax paid Ÿ Created 2 lakh new PAN Accounts Ÿ Shareholder wealth creation > India's only exchange to be listed, with share of `10 trading at a multiple of about 100 > Book Value increased from `168.02 (FY 2010-11) to `195.87 (FY 2011-12), a CAGR of 25 per cent > Net worth increased from `855.15 crore (FY 2010-11) to `999 crore (FY 2011-12), a growth of 16.82 per cent MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 24 Product innovation & market development Mini contracts for maximum benefit Typically, commodity markets, including physical spot markets, encompass participants of varied classes, nature, sizes and capabilities. The Indian bullion market comprises small and medium jewellers, retailers and individuals, who coexist with large importers, wholesalers and banks. The non-ferrous metal industry in India involves a large NEW CONTRACTS number of micro, small and medium enterprises and other smaller LAUNCHED IN FY 2011-12 indirect users, in-addition to large national and multi-national players. This inherent nature of the market exposes such small participants to Gold Petal significant price risks in such commodities. April 18, 2011 The smaller participants tend to have lower exposures in the physical market and lesser risk-taking ability and are usually more conservative. They find mini contracts more relevant to hedge their risks, as such contracts more aptly Cotton match their physical exposures. Smaller contracts are also an ideal tool to Oct. 3, 2011 (Re-launch) encourage new and conservative market participants to initiate hedging operations, till they are more familiar with trading mechanisms and have the confidence to migrate to standard contracts. MCX’s mini and micro contracts Gold Petal have also contributed to the introduction of new participants to the New Delhi, commodities futures market. Nov. 23, 2011 Silver micro contract: Creating macro value Copper Mini Dec. 20, 2011 Silver micro, 1 Kg silver contract, was launched in February 2011 after assessing the feasibility and market acceptance of a silver contract with a small lot size. As mentioned in our Sustainability Report FY 2010-11, this entailed interacting with mid-sized and Nickel Mini small-sized jewellers and members of bullion associations, who Dec. 29, 2011 have traditionally preferred trading in physical silver over silver futures. Silver micro witnessed remarkable participation from 345,839 clients and 1063 members. Energy: Impressive growth over the years The energy products that are actively traded on the MCX platform include crude oil and natural gas. Businesses having exposure in other by-products of crude such as furnace oil, light diesel oil, naphtha, etc, undertake hedging by using the crude oil contract. In our last report we had indicated that our crude oil contract has been witnessing a significant growth in terms of turnover and volumes. Crude oil futures at MCX continued to invite wide participation from various stakeholders who use the platform for hedging and trading. Since the contract is Rupee denominated, it also mitigates the risk owing to the Rupee volatility. Over the last five years (April 2007 to March 2012), our crude oil contract has seen a significant jump of over 645 per cent in turnover and over 281 per cent in terms of volumes. 25 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Bhuwan Purohit, Stakeholder involvement in product design Executive Director, We believe, stakeholder engagement is necessary at every stage of product design. Rubamin Limited, a Based on the information from senior management, market participants, product leading manufacturer and managers and others, we conduct preliminary, primary and secondary reviews to exporter of Zinc Oxide, assess the viability of a potential product. says, An initial assessment involves several stakeholders in the value chain of a “With its futures products, commodity. Farmer and trader associations of respective commodities, traders, especially the small brokers and other stakeholders are approached to understand the market and their denomination contracts, requirements. A draft contract is designed based on this understanding. This draft is MCX has helped us shared with a larger section of stakeholders to solicit their feedback on the contract manage the impact of in general, and the specifications in particular. Based on the comments/ inputs, the commodity price risk contract specification undergoes revisions to suit stakeholder requirements. effectively, thereby Thereafter, an application seeking regulatory permission to launch the contract is sent to Forward Markets Commission. helping us protect our bottom lines and Advisory committees (comprising stakeholders) are formed and regular meetings competitiveness” are held with them to study the contract’s progress. For instance, regional as well as national advisory committees have been constituted, to understand any issue related to MCX’s cotton contract. The contract is periodically studied in view of the market participants’ feedback. Monitoring the life cycle of a contract The main products of MCX, a ISO 9001:2008 certified company, are exchange-traded futures contracts. The nature of these products entails continuous monitoring of their usefulness, and relevance to the current requirements of stakeholders. Our product design team (Research and Planning Department) and the research team (Research and Strategy Department) undertake such assessments. They review factors contributing to the success and failure of contracts, and identify gaps to be addressed to ensure their sustainability. Stakeholder responses form the foundation of product modifications. Further, the decision to close a contract is also based on the feedback garnered from relevant constituencies and the market situation. Such reviews have shown that the Exchange has been facilitating price risk management and price discovery for stakeholders, thereby, contributing to price stabilisation at every node of the commodity value chain. Findings also suggest that market deepening and stakeholder engagement can be strengthened with a facilitative policy regime—one under which new types of products and participants (currently not permitted under the existing statutes) would be permitted. Aggregation through the exchange platform: Ensuring quality in physical delivery Improvements in the warehousing and testing facilities has resulted in deliveries across quite a few commodities, though the platform was primarily developed for hedging. Assured of the quality of the underlying commodity of a futures contract traded on the MCX platform, we have been witnessing a growing trend in terms of delivery-takers. This is in contrast to the delivery trend being witnessed by platforms belonging to the traditional marketing chains. The anonymous trading facilitated by the Exchange platform, often links the local traders and producers with end-users, importers and exporters. Quality specifications, lot size, delivery centres and other parameters are specified in the contract itself. The quality is tested in testing laboratories prior to physical delivery, and the exchange assumes “counter-party risk”. This reduces the problems of information asymmetry. The delivery-taker can aggregate the contracts, and eventually take assured delivery of certified quality and quantity. It has been noted more recently in the context of mentha, cardamom and cotton trading. This is a form of “involuntary” aggregation facilitated by the exchange platform. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 26 Impact assessment With the redefining of our research thrust, studies are being conducted in a structured manner to monitor the alignment of our derivative contracts and market micro-structure with the requirements of the stakeholders. These are being undertaken by both in-house economists as well as external institutions. During the reporting period, one of the key studies commissioned was “Impacts of Futures Markets of Potato and Mentha Oil on Farm Communities”. This is a project by the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Calcutta (Principal investigators: Prof. Biswatosh Saha, Prof. Bhaskar Chakrabarti) and National Institute of Science, Technology and Development Studies (NISTADS, CSIR), New Delhi (Principal investigators: Dr. Pradip Biswas, Dr. Sanjib Pohit, Dr. P. Banerjee, Mr. Hardip Grewal). The objective of this ongoing study is to assess the impact of futures trading in potato (Agra and Tarkeshwar varieties) and mentha oil on farm communities. It includes the examination of trends in production, acreage, prices and trade of potato and mentha oil in both the futures and physical markets since futures trading in both these commodities was introduced in India. It endeavours to identify the impact of futures trading at micro and meso levels. The study also seeks to know the extent to which the farm community considers MCX’s futures prices as the reference price for their trading, as well as to find out the changes with respect to the number of intermediate links in the commodity value chain and their value add. The final report is expected soon. Evidence-based policy advocacy MCX's policy advocacy initiatives are primarily focused on measures needed for making business environments conducive for the development of broad-based and inclusive commodity market structures. The objectives are to encourage enterprises and physical market participants to take advantage of price discovery and hedging mechanisms that the Exchange facilitates; and to make policy-makers and academia and think tanks aware of the policy issues that impact the growth of the commodity futures market and its ecosystem. We regularly engage and partner with print and electronic media channels, industry associations and academia and think tanks through various platforms including meetings, seminars, panel discussions, round tables and presentations. During the year, MCX sponsored the Bloomberg UTV Financial Leadership Awards, CNBC's India Best Banks and Financial Institutions Awards and ET's Corporate Governance Conference. Symbiosis Centre for Management and Human Resource Development (SCMHRD), Pune, conducted a Research Seminar on Commodity Markets, jointly sponsored by FMC and MCX, on February 18, 2012 in Mumbai. The aim of the seminar was to bridge the gap between academicians and industry experts by providing a platform to discuss issues that affect the commodity markets. The event entailed insight sharing by eminent commodity market personalities, a corporate panel discussion and presentation of research papers by academicians and students. Our monthly external newsletter MCX CommNews provides insights on commodity markets, commodities, policies, regulations and any recent developments in the market and their impacts. 27 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Following are some of the significant publications from our Research and Strategy Department, published in 2011-12: Commodity Insights Year Book 2011 The Yearbook is our flagship publication. The focal point of the 2011 edition was 'Commodity economy during recession and recovery'. Internationally-acclaimed commodity and finance experts had contributed articles on issues related to healthy development of the commodity market ecosystem. The yearbook also provided useful data related to commodity markets in an easy-to-use way. This non-priced publication was widely circulated to create mass awareness about our markets. It is also available on MCX’s website. “Pricing the fluid mosaic”, India Infrastructure Report, December 2011 The article attempted to look at water from the scarcity value perspective. It suggested that demand management solutions are important due to the existence of complex linkages and interrelations of water with other systems. The different dimensions of water that emerge from its dual characteristics of being an input in production and as a feature in a consumer's utility bundle, call for an integrated approach. Hence, the article suggests that an inclusive water valuation framework be adopted, one that provides a paradigm shift in water valuation studies. “Role of markets in promoting energy security in India” Offshore World, December 2011 India is a net importer of crude oil, importing over two-thirds of its requirement. Nearly two-thirds of the country's crude oil imports, in turn, are sourced from the Middle East countries, a situation which has hardly changed over the last decade. During this period, the fuel mix of the country has also remained fairly same. Subsidies on fossil fuel are dis-incentivising optimal change in fuel mix consumption. While subsidies cannot be sustained eternally in the wake of rising prices, securing energy security entails a market based approach which needs to be implemented in a holistic manner. “Wonderland of HFT Trading Myths and Realities” Commodities Now (London), March 2012 With high frequency trading (HFT) techniques becoming more popular in different asset classes (including commodities), they are also being increasingly scrutinised by regulators. The article demystified the myths surrounding the High Frequency Trading, cautioning that research studies in this field are still preliminary in nature and regulators should not get swayed by them and curb the use of HFT. The article also suggested that regulators first need to evolve their regulatory surveillance system to effectively monitor the impact of HFT rather than just restricting their speed or banning them altogether. Apart from the above, the department sends regular contributions on various live issues pertinent to the exchange industry to the monthly magazine of the South Asian Federation of Exchanges (SAFE). Such contributions primarily relate to issues regarding development of markets from an emerging economy perspective. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 28 We have been significantly involved in issues which require policy changes. Most of these issues focus on widening and broadening the market and making it more inclusive. Prominent among them include our advocacy efforts for reforms to: a) Empower the market regulator and permit new types of products and participants in the Indian commodity derivatives market This is possible through passing of the Bill which seeks to amend the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952. At various forums, MCX has represented the importance and urgency associated with this policy change and has been urging for early passage of this Bill in the Parliament. For this, we have collaborated with trade associations, various industry groups, farmer associations as well as other national and regional exchanges. A number of workshops have been organised and publications released for this purpose, including an FAQ document, which has been circulated in the policy circles and the media. b) Usher in a commodity market-friendly taxation regime We have made many representations to the government for bringing about necessary changes in various tax provisions, which currently inhibit inclusive growth of the commodity derivatives market or which are loaded against this market. Research-based papers and policy briefs on the impact of adverse taxation regime on inclusive growth of the commodity derivatives market have been published and circulated. For this purpose, MCX has collaborated with research institutions and individual researchers, trade associations, various industry groups, farmer associations, as well as other national and regional exchanges. c) Permit new types of institutional participants in commodity derivatives market Most financial institutions, such as banks, mutual funds, hedge funds and FIIs are not permitted to participate on the Indian commodity derivatives market. We believe that for eliciting greater participation in the market, these institutions need to be permitted. Policy advocacy in this regard has taken the shape of representation to the Union Government, the Reserve Bank of India, Insurance Regulation and Development Authority and other regulatory bodies. Research papers highlighting the socially beneficial effects of institutional participation in this market have been documented and circulated. Seminars and workshops have been organised for various stakeholders to deliberate on this issue and discover the roadmap to achieve it. 29 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT We believe that the domain expertise and commitment of our employees are the key factors for our organisation's success. Further, our employees consider MCX to be a strong opportunity for growth in their career, a highlight that has emerged as part of our stakeholder conversations this year. Please refer to section II on stakeholder engagement, page 43 for more details. We continue to attract, retain and nurture the talented people in our endeavour to be an employer of choice. Our thrust is on providing a sound learning and growth opportunities, competitive remuneration, a well-defined performance management system and team building at the workplace. We also connect with MCX alumni if a relevant position opens up. The fact that over the years, many of our former employees have re-joined us is an affirmation of our talent engagement. This year we witnessed three such instances. Our strategy is defined by recruitment of people with diverse skills, knowledge, experience, and by ensuring the right fit between roles and profiles. As on March 31, 2012, we had a total employee strength of 236 (excluding temporary workforce i.e. consultants and contract workers) Please refer to the performance table on page 53. GENDER-WISE EMPLOYEE COUNT AS ON MARCH 31, 2012 Total Male Total Workers (Office Assistants) Trainees Female Junior Management Middle Management Senior Management(31) 0 50 100 150 200 250 Sustaining talent and performance Enabling policies, benefits and rewards We have policies in place for affirmative action, career advancement, physical disability, CONTRIBUTION access to training, flexible working hours and retirement benefits, amongst others. Our FOR EMPLOYEES insurance policies take care of the welfare of our employees and their families, and the benefits covered by these are well above the minimum statutory requirement. PF Gratuity Mediclaim insurance policy, voluntary policy for dependent parents, personal accident 2009-10 8.62 2.07 insurance scheme, term life insurance cover and group gratuity are some of the benefits that we have for our employees in addition to emergency medical help. 2010-11 10.12 5.57 Our stakeholder engagement feedback from employees in FY 2010-11 had revealed 2011-12 10.27 7.36 three aspects as the most important to them: development of domain skills (discussed in All figures in INR Million subsequent section on training); career development; and benefits and rewards. We sought to address these during FY 2011-12. (31) As on March 31, 2012, there were no women employees in senior management MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 30 We have systems to continuously manage employee performance, both in terms of work and other parameters such as inter-personal skills and leadership qualities. Our performance management system (PMS) is aligned with the organisational growth commitment (OGC) programme. Employees are rewarded with performance-linked variable pay, which is consistent with industry standards. During the year, 218 employees were eligible for performance feedback through PMS and the same was completed for all of them. This included 22 senior management, 94 middle management and 97 junior management personnel and 5 workers. Employee benefits and rewards are distributed fairly on the basis of performance, and irrespective of gender or age. During the year, the outflow towards employee salaries and benefits was `279.85 million. An analysis of the ratio of basic salaries of males to females substantiates our claim of gender equality in this context. The table below showcases this ratio over the years across grades. EQUAL REMUNERATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Units: Ratio of basic salary of male to female employees 0.99 2011-12 1.03 1.15 0.99 2010-11 1.01 1.23 1 2009-10 0.91 In October 2011, a 1.17 fresh tranche of ESOPs were disbursed to 209 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 employees across all Junior management Middle management Senior management(32) levels. This year's stakeholder engagement has Our Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) give employees an opportunity to have a indicated employee share in our business growth and thereby create wealth for themselves. MCX uses ESOPs appreciation for the to reward employees for their contribution to its success. A fresh tranche of ESOPs were same. disbursed to 209 employees across all levels in October 2011. This year's stakeholder engagement-based employee feedback has indicated appreciation for ESOPs. Career advancement To improve the online appraisal process, we ensured that it was completed in a time bound fashion and covered all employees. Feedback was made a mandatory part of the appraisal process. We also introduced a specific section in the process, which mandated heads of departments (HoDs) to confirm that feedback and face-to-face meetings with employees had been conducted. In addition, a Promotion Policy was communicated to all HoDs, which provided a uniform structure for career development within MCX. We are glad to report that FY 2011-12 feedback through focused questionnaire shows appraisals as a strength rather than an area for improvement. We have developed a single point contact id ‘HR4U’ for employees, to get their queries/ issues/ concerns resolved in a friendly and effective manner. Emails sent by employees to this id are taken up on priority. Employees are made aware of this avenue during the induction process. Apart from local employees, this id has been of great help to our regional employees, as it provides an effective redressal for all their queries and concerns, despite the geographical distance between offices. (32) During the reporting period, one female employee from the senior management left the organisation on January 30, 2012. The corresponding figure includes the said employee’s salary on a pro-rata basis. 31 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Learning and development Developing innovative products and services, and continuously adapting to new technologies and solutions are at the core of our market leadership. This, in turn, creates opportunities for our employees' learning and growth. We believe, training plays an important role in motivating, as well as nurturing talent and leadership. It helps people achieve their full potential and enables MCX maintain its competitive edge. Training A 'Training and Development' policy has been instituted which seeks to capture the needs of employees with respect to their functional as well as personal skills. The policy is applicable to all employees—permanent as well as those on probation, and trainees. In FY 2011-12, a total of 2047 man-hours of training were imparted to our trainees and junior, middle and senior management employees, a significant improvement from last year (847 man-hours). This amounts to an increase from 3.5 man-hours per employee in FY 2010-11 to around 9 man-hours per employee in FY 2011-12. For our training sessions, we used various formats including external, internal, classroom and e-learning. To ensure that the training sessions were effective, we set a target of 4 (out of 5) for the average feedback rating. In cases where feedback rating was below 4, the trainer was informed about any significant or specific remarks, and advised to incorporate relevant changes in subsequent training sessions. To assess the effectiveness of training imparted to employees, a training effectiveness report was taken from their immediate seniors. To acclimatise employees with the post IPO transitions, we conducted a town hall. Moreover, relevant topics were discussed during monthly meetings of heads of the departments with the MD & CEO, and they were asked to counsel their respective teams. Regular training programmes are conducted for our marketing and business development teams. These training programmes focus on new products and services, managerial development, customer satisfaction, code of ethics and transparency, among others. Academic outreach programme Every year, as part of our academic outreach programme, we organise a pan-India drive to recruit interns. In 2011-12, we had interns joining us from universities in Karnataka, Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. This fosters cross cultural exposure for our employees as well. Symphony – Connect. Collaborate. Create. To maximise the potential of MCX's future leaders, in FY 2011-12, we designed a Managerial Skills Development programme called 'Symphony'. The programme was designed after understanding and defining, both the functional and managerial competencies required by the middle level management. 'Symphony' focuses on creating 'leader managers' who work with their teams in enhancing productive behaviour and achieving quantifiable business results. The programme covers elements such as self-awareness, effective team building, leadership, developing business perspective and mentoring. At the end of the programme, feedback is given to each participant with reference to his/her Team Lead role capabilities. The participants are asked to draw a personal plan, and are guided to take up team-driven exercises that are monitored and evaluated. Thereafter, participants with high potential, who are capable of taking up challenging assignments, are identified. The most appreciated part of the programme is the 'Leadership Connect' session in which senior leaders address MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 32 participants and inspire them through their own personal journey. Since inception of this programme, 11 sessions have been conducted covering 25 per cent of our middle managers. Symphony conversation circle : We realise the importance of ‘learning by doing’ and collaboration. Thus, we decided to create a platform where thoughts on leadership are shared, diverse perspectives are heard and appreciated, and employees feel free to speak. 'Symphony conversation circle' is a monthly activity, which provides participants a platform to talk about their goals, aspirations, inhibitions and concerns. Since its inception, 8 conversation circles have been conducted, where the participants of 'Symphony' programme have come forward to share their learning, reflections, and challenges faced at the workplace. To make the sessions interactive, the participants are asked to share their thoughts on how they would react to such situations. Forging strong bonds at the workplace Employee health and safety A well-defined policy drives our health and safety agenda. We have an in-house 'Saviours' Brigade' programme. This brigade consists of a team of volunteers who are trained in the art of providing critical lifesaving support in case of medical emergencies such as burns, electric shocks, wounds, fractures, insect bites and epilepsy fits. Fire detectors and fire extinguishers have been installed at every section and floor of the Exchange Square office. Moreover, regular fire drills are conducted at our Exchange Square office to assess the preparedness in case of emergencies. Employee engagement We regularly conduct events and contests for our employees. These activities provide opportunities for informal engagement across organisational levels. The key objective of these events is to promote employee bonding, bolster the sense of belonging and pride in working at MCX. Each of these events has a unique theme, flavour, agenda and set of objectives. We brand and promote all internal key events through posters, motivational mails, group interaction sessions, and formation of core support event teams from cross functional departments other than HR. These employee contact programmes also go a long way in helping build higher levels of employee engagement and organisational synergy. Access to knowledge It is the attitude, skill, and knowledge of the human resource, which gives an organisation its competitive edge. Besides, regular training, MCX encourages its employees to use its well-stocked library, to expand their knowledge base. The library, which is maintained by the Research & Strategy department, caters to a large and diversified user base through its vast network of library service tie-ups, of which, Delnet, connecting over 2000 libraries in India and abroad, deserves special mention. 33 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 A SNAPSHOT OF EVENTS HELD IN FY 2011-12 Independence Day The celebrations spanned 3 days—August 10-12, 2011. On the first two days, the CSO team organised a vision testing and eye donation pledge drive. On August 12, 2011, a department-wise contest was organised wherein the employees were asked to decorate their workstations based on the themes: Freedom and Bondage/ Peace and War/ Yesterday's Freedom Fighters and Today's Politicians. The judges were impressed with employees’ creativity and presentation, as well as team synergy. Diwali celebrations We welcomed Diwali on October 25, 2011, attired in our traditional best. The office building was lit up and a floor-wise rangoli competition on the theme 'Lights & Lamps' was organised. To encourage the use of natural materials, only the use of flowers, leaves, pulses, grains, stationery items and newspapers were allowed. The event enabled staff members to interact and bond with one another. Junior's Day celebrations On December 30, 2011, Junior's Day event was organised for our employees' children, with an aim to enable them spend a fun day at work with their parents and other members. The celebrations included magic show, balloon sculpting, beads corner, tattoo corner, books exhibition, art/painting contest and a skit on parent-child relationship. The children and their parents indeed had a memorable day. Josh 2012 Josh, our annual sports meet, was organised from March 16, 2012 onwards. It included a host of indoor and outdoor games. The meet brought out the spirit of sportsmanship amongst the participants and helped them forge strong bonds with one another. Women's Day celebration A special women's meet was organised on March 8, 2012, International Women's Day, to pay a tribute to the indomitable spirit of women. Activities included an interactive workshop on “Woman's Health & Fitness” and a special contest “the complete woman” which gave women employees an opportunity to display their creativity, talent and to express their views on the essence of being a complete woman. Sensitivity towards human rights In order to demonstrate our commitment towards valuing human rights and conducting our business in a responsible manner, we became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. As required by UNGC, we annually submit our Communication of Progress (CoP), which illustrates our efforts focused on implementing the 'Ten Principles of UNGC'. In 2009, we submitted our last stand alone CoP, and since 2010, we have used our sustainability report to communicate our progress. We endorse a work environment which is fair, equitable and comfortable for our workforce. Workforce diversity and aspects such as prohibition of discrimination are matters of priority across the organisation. We ensure gender diversity in functions where it is feasible. Our support functions such as HR and communications, have a considerably higher number of women. Our Anti-Harassment policy is aimed at eliminating harassment based on age, gender, religion, colour, political affiliation, culture or any other factor through active involvement of employees. Child and forced/ bonded labour is strictly prohibited within our operations, and we abide by all the laws of the Government of India, applicable to our business including labour and human rights related statutes. We have a strict labour law compliance framework, which is monitored on a quarterly basis and the management is apprised of the certificate of compliance/ reporting of non-compliance. In addition to the internal Labour Law compliance framework, we have engaged a labour law expert and a labour law advocate who undertake annual internal audits. We engage only qualified contractors and vendors who have the necessary licence and code numbers registered with Provident Fund, Employee State Insurance Corporation, and contract licence from the Labour Commissioner's office. The clause of all-encompassing labour law compliance is mandatorily mentioned in every contract that is signed with vendors and contractors. We are developing a structured programme to screen our suppliers and train our employees on human rights. All our security professionals (24) are trained on aspects of human rights. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 34 DATA & INFORMATION SECURITY Sustainable operations Risk Mitigation MCX has instituted market safeguards and risk management techniques to ensure that its members meet their financial obligations promptly, and the marketplace is protected from undesirable events. We conduct an annual risk assessment exercise to review and continually strengthen our control mechanisms. As a prerequisite for membership on the Exchange, we require all members to have a certain minimum net worth. Members are required to confirm their net worth on an annual basis, which enables us to monitor their financial strength. We have duly specified margins to mitigate the risks associated with daily price movements in commodities. MCX members have to pay a security deposit at the time of registration, which serves as an initial margin. The Exchange's trading system tracks losses incurred by its members on a real-time basis after each and every trade by comparing the difference between the contracted price and the last trade price on the market. Alerts are transmitted to a member whenever the member's Mark-to-Market (MTM) loss amounts exceed certain percentages of the MTM limit. To further minimise operational risks, we advise members to avail Indemnity Insurance Policy, and have been facilitating members in getting covered under this policy. The policy provides indemnity in respect of members' erroneous transactions, forgery, dishonesty of employees, computer crimes, electronic transmissions and electronic securities. Information security framework and management Given the sensitive nature of the information that we deal with, we are well equipped to prevent any case of breach of security or misuse of information. We continually create awareness amongst our employees on the importance of data security and the repercussions of any violation. There have been no such violations since the commencement of our operations. This bears testimony to our robust information framework and processes. An Information Security Policy based on industry best practices has been instituted to ensure confidentiality, integrity and continuity of systems and information. The Exchange has implemented security controls to address security threats (internal or external), deliberate or accidental. Safeguards for member connectivity with the trading system have also been instituted. The information security management system of our Exchange Square office is certified to ISO/ IEC 27001:2005 standard that specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving documented information security management. A SNAPSHOT OF DATA SECURITY MEASURES ADOPTED Restricted access to market Recording of all calls for operations section of the office critical departments Restricted mobile phone access to Close circuit cameras to employees in market operations monitor physical movement Restricted access to confidential information such as net position, open interest and trade details 35 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 We regularly conduct awareness sessions on information security systems. We have deployed a We also have a process of reinforcing the awareness among employees state-of-the-art 'Live through monthly information security e-mailers. Further, to monitor mirroring' system which compliance towards information security controls, we conduct internal enables real time audits, and external audits, on an annual basis. replication of The Clearing and Settlement department is entrusted with the task of information and can settlement of trades executed on the Exchange. We have a continuous help us restore our market monitoring and surveillance system. To ensure transparency of systems within 4 hours operations, MCX sends settlement related messages to members who have of a disaster. subscribed to the messaging service. Though the service is free of cost, members have to subscribe to it, as a sectoral regulatory requirement. On receipt of the member subscription, it is verified for authorisation and SMS alerts are subsequently sent to the members on their registered mobile numbers. We realise the importance of network up-time in our operations and we have achieved 100 per cent up-time year after year. We have deployed a state-of-the-art 'Live mirroring' system which enables real time replication of information and can help us restore our systems within 4 hours of a disaster. To protect our data centres from the risks associated with geographic concentration, we have further strengthened our disaster management plan by developing a disaster recovery site in Delhi (a different seismic zone), which is expected to be implemented in 2013. Technology to aid Exchange operations: Maximising efficiency and minimising risk Given the nature of our operations, it is imperative for us to ensure continuous up-time of the Exchange and protecting the privacy of data. We host all mission-critical applications and the supporting infrastructure in a state-of-art data centre, which is supported by the best-of-breed network, security and other necessary infrastructure. As members of the Exchange connect through various modes of connectivity, we have adopted a “Defence-in-depth” strategy to ensure information security at all layers of the ICT infrastructure. We have implemented security controls to address security threats (internal or external), deliberate or accidental. Well documented business Mapping users to IP addresses Two-factor authentication (T-FA) continuity and disaster and further mapping these using RSA hardware token for recovery plans based on connectivity type enhancing security for trading through the internet. Periodic internal and external Making leased lines and VSATs audits to improve part of a Closed User Groupperformance, security and based network effectiveness of systems Security controls Comprehensive documentation Prevention of unauthorised of IT procedures to ensure that access to members’ data by operations are 'process-driven' using Secure File Transfer rather than 'person-dependent' Protocol (SFTP) with unique userid and password Well-defined security policy to protect against breaches of Periodic risk assessment confidentiality, failures of Certification of our Exchange exercise to adequately integrity or interruptions to the Square office to address all emerging risks availability of information ISO/ IEC 27001:2005 ensures a robust network Social Inclusion Our relationship with stakeholders is based on trust arising from transparency, efficiency and accountability. We believe in co-creation of social and business value while taking a long-term view on the inclusive growth of commodity markets and thereby of the Indian economy. The Exchange's business has a significant role to play in democratising commodity value chains, de-risking livelihoods and enhancing entrepreneurship opportunities. SECTION II MATERIAL ISSUE SECTIONS PAGE Commodity market literacy Awareness & capacity building 37 & inclusion Community development 37 Stakeholder satisfaction Engagement & dialogue 43 Feedback & responsiveness 44 37 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 COMMODITY MARKET LITERACY & INCLUSION Awareness and capacity building Our financial and market literacy initiatives aim to create awareness among existing and potential market participants and investors on market mechanisms, enabling them to take informed decisions. The format of these initiatives ranges from product leaflets, factsheets to presentations and discussions. Our awareness programmes are customised depending on the target audience. For example, the focus for members and investors would be on trading aspects, rules and bye-laws of the exchange, clearing and settlement functions related to their trading activities; while for hedgers and potential hedgers, it would also cover the benefits of managing their risk in an organised way. We also share their queries and feedback with the regulator. NO. OF STATES AWARENESS PROGRAMMES PROGRAMMES COVERED Existing and potential market participants 99 15 Farmers 510 6 Educational / Government Institutions 8 7 Members and physical market participants 688 16 Total 1305 MCX-FMC-Price Dissemination Project (PDP) To disseminate futures price information especially in remote locations of the country, MCX partners with FMC in a Price Dissemination Project (PDP). The project displays spot and futures price on a ticker board installed at a centrally located place at APMC(33) mandis. The information is, by design, relevant to local agricultural commodities and made accessible in the local language. Farmers significantly benefit from PDP , even if they do not trade in futures market. Such dissemination has been empowering them with better bargaining power, forward linkages in the value chain, and knowledge to take informed decisions about sowing and marketing. Toll free IVR number Knowledge empowerment MCX partners with Tata Tele Services Limited (TTSL) to make innovative use of voice and data connectivity for rural development. We have been disseminating spot and futures More than 500 farmer prices of commodities with the help of TTSL's technical know-how and mobile network. This joint initiative in information and communication technology (ICT)-based training awareness extension services, benefits farmers and other participants in the rural ecosystem. The programmes were conducted toll free number 126565, operated in association with Atom Technologies (a Financial during FY 2011-12 at Gramin Technologies Group company), can be accessed from any Tata Indicom number. While Suvidha Kendra locations in currently, we provide price information for agri commodities such as potato and mentha, which more than 20,000 there are plans to cover more number of commodities, as also to enhance its outreach farmers participated. across the country. Programmes were conducted in association with NABARD, Community development FMC and partners of Gramin Suvidha Kendra. One of our major objectives is to demonstrate the utility of the futures market to marginalised players in the commodities ecosystem by creating sustainable and viable models. We believe that to achieve inclusive growth and facilitate social change, the private sector's expertise, strategic thinking, manpower and other resources and the government's huge infrastructure, network and credibility need to work in tandem. We are seeking to do this through our social inclusion project in partnership with India Post, called Gramin Suvidha Kendra. We also encourage and support employees who wish to (33) Agricultural Produce Market Committee is a marketing board appointed by State Governments of India MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 38 donate a part of their salaries, as well as those who are interested in volunteering for the underprivileged communities, by developing suitable platforms. Gramin Suvidha Kendra Gramin Suvidha Kendra seeks to include farmers into the modern commodity market ecosystem in order to enhance their value realisation from agricultural activities. Its broader objective is to demonstrate how farm activity can become economically sustainable. It is a single window service designed to empower small and marginal farmers with knowledge about market prices and best practices for sustainable agriculture. It was set up on GRAMIN SUVIDHA KENDRA the premise that for price discovery on the commodity exchanges to 6 states translate into better value realisation for farmers, they would need to enhance the quality standards of their produce, and have critical linkages 38 centres with the market for insurance, storage, credit and sales. MCX has collaborated with a range of partners to provide such linkages throughout the crop cycle, 575 branches from pre-sowing to post-harvest stages. 2800 villages The key strengths of the model are that it requires few resources, can be easily set up and can robustly adapt to different local contexts for scaling up. Thanks to India Post's ubiquitous network of over 1,55,000 post offices across the 65% growth country, MCX's potential to reach out to farmers through the project is over the previous fiscal strong. Gramin Suvidha Kendra offers farmers with facilities such as: Ÿ MCX spot and futures prices, awareness on price trends of agri commodities in local mandis and futures markets Ÿ Quality agricultural inputs and extension services by input providers P. Satish, Chief General Ÿ Spot trading opportunity Manager and Secretary, Ÿ Better alternative for warehousing, quality testing, finance against NABARD, says, warehouse receipts “What attracted us Ÿ Insurance against weather-related farming risks towards MCX, is its Ÿ Local needs-based non-agri products such as rural water purifiers and business model and its solar lanterns functionality which has catalysed rural While the unique partnership with India Post takes care of the scalability and development through replication aspects, sale of agri inputs such as seeds, pesticides and fertilisers financial literacy on the platform by business partners helps generate revenues. The platform programmes. As a is a potent combination of trust, faith and community interaction at the village level. Joining hands on this platform also gives partners/other shareholder of MCX since companies the opportunity to reinforce their social responsibility and 2005, and as a partner in associated corporate reputation benefits. its GSK initiative, we have seen MCX playing a Conceptualised in June 2006, the model was first launched at Jalgaon, pivotal role in spreading Maharashtra and replicated in other states. Twelve new centres were opened awareness for farmers in FY 2011-12, taking the total number to 38. Gramin Suvidha Kendra links and other stakeholders in over 2800 villages through 575 branch post offices, across 6 states. 8680 new rural areas and this has farmers registered as members during the period, which is a 65 per cent growth over the previous year. also been a financially rewarding investment with GROWTH OF GRAMIN SUVIDHA KENDRA healthy dividends and 2011-12 21921 38 value appreciation.” 2010-11 13241 26 2009-10 7144 22 2008-09 4038 11 2007-08 2855 6 2006-07 808 4 No. of registered farmers No. of Gramin Suvidha Kendra centres 39 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 GRAMIN SUVIDHA KENDRA: CROSS-SECTOR PARTNERSHIP MODEL FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH Institutional partners Ÿ Support for social impact Ÿ Evidence for public policy Ÿ Financial inclusion Farmers Ÿ Knowledge empowerment: price transparency and sustainable agriculture practices Ÿ Community influence Ÿ Price discovery & dissemination Ÿ Market access: quality products & mobilisation Ÿ Risk hedging and services, storage and credit Ÿ Inclusive commodity ecosystem Ÿ Replicable & scalable platform Ÿ Enhanced livelihood, aggregation & social impacts Ÿ Public accountability Business partners Ÿ Community-based market development Ÿ CSR engagement channel Feedback from stakeholders: Making Gramin Suvidha Kendra more effective Through continuous field learning based on feedback and reviews, the programme is modified and variations are introduced across different states, Leveraging the platform for whether in the form of products, services or partnerships. For instance: other community Ÿ Weather insurance was introduced in response to farmers’ queries on engagements weather risk mitigation. Ÿ Sale of agri inputs, one of the most popular services of the project, was a Using the advantage of local result of community feedback and interactions, which revealed that community engagement, a farmers were facing challenges of spurious agri inputs, rate fluctuations computer-based functional and availability. literacy programme, Unnati, Ÿ Based on local situations, Gramin Suvidha Kendra also introduced nonwas also conducted in agri products on pilot basis to cater to community needs. partnership with Intel at Gramin Suvidha Kendras in Ÿ Training programmes are customised as per the needs of the target Jalgaon (Maharashtra) and audience. Unjha (Gujarat). Four villages We monitor and review the programme both internally and with in each of the locations were external parties: identified and more than 1000 Ÿ Our in-house CSO team manages the project across the country, both in participants got basic training terms of field work by centre coordinators and managing partnerships. and hands-on experience on Ÿ We encourage external institutions to visit the project and provide us laptops. Participants were their feedback. For example, IIM (Indian Institute of Management)given certificates on Lucknow and IIFM (Indian Institute of Forest Management) students successful completion. The undertook a primary study based on questionnaires involving initiative was very well interactions with farmers, project partners and MCX teams. received by the community. Ÿ A study of Gramin Suvidha Kendra as a part of Business Innovation Facility (BIF), a Department for International development, UK (DFID) initiative, was commissioned this year. This was an exhaustive analysis through field visits and stakeholder interactions. Based on these studies and our own intensive reviews, we are currently working on strengthening the project further. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 40 GRAMIN SUVIDHA KENDRA : CUMIN FARMER IN GUJARAT Viramgam is located in the state of Gujarat, about 65 km from Ahmedabad. The Gramin Suvidha Kendra programme was launched here in early 2010, covering 38 branch post offices. Local agricultural experts along with partners’ extension service officers briefed farmers about good agricultural practices, new techniques and other innovations during our training sessions. This helped raise awareness among local farmers about how they could enhance their livelihoods by using services offered by the Gramin Suvidha Kendra. In the village of Dumana here, farmers associated with Gramin Suvidha Kendra are benefiting by purchasing cumin (Jeera) seeds through the centre. Farmers are also taking interest in tracking the market price information displayed at the branch post office. Ugharojiya Bhala, a local farmer, sows castor in the kharif season (sown in June and harvested in October) and mustard, cumin and wheat in the rabi season (sown in November and harvested in April). Agriculture is the only source of income for his family. In 2010, he decided to purchase seeds from Gramin Suvidha Kendra because he expected: Ÿ Good quality seeds at the right market price (no additional burden of informal price premium) from the branch post office Ÿ Expert advice Ÿ Field support from Gramin Suvidha Kendra’s partners and associates Ÿ Better crop yield thanks to the above factors “My life has changed because of Gramin Suvidha Kendra. It helped me enhance my income and I could purchase a tractor. This year, I will be the first farmer to purchase seeds from Gramin Suvidha Kendra.” Ugharojiya Bhala Ugharojiya Bhala with his family members Ugharojiya purchased 30 kg cumin seeds through Gramin Suvidha Kendra for `6,000 in November 2010 for his 1 hectare plot. His crop yield went up to 17.48 quintal, compared with the yield of 11 quintal in 2009. With this, his income from cumin increased from `94,000 to `1,83,600. With a higher crop yield, he was able to generate an additional income of `89,600, around 58 per cent higher than the previous cycle. His costs had also gone up by around `5,000 over the period. This included land preparation, irrigation, nutrients, pest repellents and transportation charges. With a higher net return, Ugharojiya was able to buy a new tractor. He has now become an “achiever farmer” (a farmer who manages to earn good returns from agriculture, plans cropping and purchase of inputs in advance for the next crop cycle, and is open to learning good agricultural practices for sustainable farming). 41 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 GRAMIN SUVIDHA KENDRA : WEATHER INSURANCE IN KARNATAKA Mailarappa updating the Gramin Suvidha Kendra blackboard at the Kurahatti branch post office “Gramin Suvidha Kendra has Mailarappa Nagappa Gorwar is a Branch Post Master at the removed the barriers of Kurahatti branch post office under Ron sub-post office (S.O.) information by providing daily in the Gadag district of Karnataka. His post office was among agriculture price updates in those identified to set up a Gramin Suvidha Kendra. villages. This has helped create Moreover, he owns a 3-acre farm and has the ability to awareness and enhanced the capacity of farmers to understand and appreciate the Gramin Suvidha Kendra negotiate. The farmers in my approach. He displays the daily end-of-day spot and futures village respect me far more as prices of commodities relevant to the region at his post office. a Branch Post Master.” With an average rainfall of 613 mm, the Gadag district and Ron region, in particular is one of the good yield agriculture regions in Karnataka. Mailarappa The region is not known to be a flood or drought prone area. However, in September and October 2009, the region was badly inundated by floods. Mailarappa's fields were washed away and standing crops were destroyed. Though official figures did not identify his district (Gadag) among the worst affected ones in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the destruction was devastating. Mailarappa had his regular income from the postal department to fall back on, but not all farmers were as lucky. Around this time, in one of the quarterly meetings held at the Field inspection and guidance by agri experts Ron sub-post office to review Gramin Suvidha Kendra's progress, during a training programme at Gramin Suvidha Kendra Mailarappa learnt of a new offering, the weather insurance service. This service was available for a small premium fee. Its main objective was to mitigate risks arising from weather uncertainties and addressing vulnerabilities of farmers' livelihoods to climate disasters. Mailarappa signed up for the weather insurance. As we continued to brief farmers at field meetings and training sessions, Mailarappa became one of the key facilitators of weather insurance, under guidance from a representative. Shankarayya observing the Gramin Suvidha The Gramin Suvidha Kendra's approach of educating and Kendra blackboard at the Kotabal branch creating awareness led to 28 farmers from 4 villages taking post office weather insurance for 38 acres of land sowed with the green gram crop in the kharif season of 2010. Shankrayya Bisidonimath “The soil testing training at the was one of them. nearby Agriculture Research He acknowledges that the project has been a great support for him Station helped me identify over the last 2 years and has helped him and his fellow farmers increase deficiencies in my land. I was their yield with quality agri inputs and timely guidance. Shankarayya is able to buy micronutrients now one of the ambassadors of the project and happy to be a catalyst. through the platform which has Hence, he encourages farmers—both from Gadag and its adjoining enhanced the soil quality of my districts—who have not availed the service on how to benefit from it. farm.” Shankrayya MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 42 Employee engagement: Key volunteering initiatives We have an annual series of activities where we encourage and facilitate our employees to engage and contribute towards social causes and institutions. Blood Donation Drive, 2011 The 5th Annual Blood Donation Drive was held on May 23, 2011. World Environment Day, 2011 We held photography and slogan contests at our office on June 5, 2011, on the theme, “The Green Effect”. Our employees visited children at an Ashadeep Association day care centre and spoke with them on the importance of water conservation in an interactive awareness session. Ashadeep Association is a charitable organisation working since 1976 for the very poor single-parent children, orphans, handicapped and widows at their day care centres in Mumbai. Financial Technologies India Ltd, the promoter of MCX has been engaged with this NGO since 2009 in an initiative called Khushi Ki Kiran, and MCX builds on the relationship through such employee events. Eye Donation and Vision Testing Drive, 2011 We organised an eye donation and vision testing drive in association with Aditya Jyot Eye Hospital to encourage and facilitate employees to pledge their eyes for the under-privileged. On the occasion, employees were offered complimentary facilities for general eye check-ups and refraction testing by the hospital. Joy of Giving Week, 2011 We observed the Joy of Giving week from October 2 – 8, 2011 with Goonj as our partner. Goonj is a non-profit organisation that collects and provides clothes and other relief material to rural India and disaster-affected areas. Employees supported this drive with a lot of enthusiasm and we were able to collect 30 boxes of reusable clothes for Goonj. Building a Reading India – Children's Day, 2011 On the occasion of Children's Day on November 14, 2011, we launched an online book donation campaign from November 14 19, 2011. Pratham Books publishes low priced books which are rich in content and quality. Donations for books were collected online and chosen books were handed over to the under-privileged children by Pratham Books. HIV-AIDS Day, 2011 On December 1, 2011, we conducted an internal communications campaign to reinforce employee sensitisation through our intranet and e-mailers. We distributed Red ribbons to all employees and held a quiz to create more awareness about the spread and control measures of HIV-AIDS. Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon, 2012 Employees participated in the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon 2012 and ran for the Aditya Jyot Foundation, which organises camps offering free eye treatment to the under-privileged. Employees also visited Aditya Jyot Foundation's Dharavi office for an interaction to know more about the cause they were supporting. Women's Day, 2012 We celebrated Women's Day by adhering to the UN theme: 'Empower Women, End Hunger and Poverty'. In association with IDOBRO, a platform for women micro entrepreneurs and artisan groups to meet markets, we held an online campaign 'Of Women – By Women – For Women' between March 6 15, 2012. The aim of this campaign was to empower women artisans by purchasing their products covering categories such as home décor, bags, jewellery and personal care. We continue to partner with IDOBRO for ‘impact shopping’, by facilitating sales of the products of various micro enterprises linked with it at our office at key events through the year. 43 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 STAKEHOLDER SATISFACTION Our business model defines the type and extent of our relationships with a wide range of stakeholders. The following is a matrix based on our existing and potential impact on key stakeholders and their ability to impact us. This matrix has been generated based on internal discussions and assessment of both past and evolving engagement patterns. We had structured interactions with these key stakeholder sets this year to capture their feedback on focused aspects. Employees Members Vendors and contractors Physical market participants MCX’s impact on stakeholders Investors High Farmer & community Medium Academic institutions Regulatory authorities Media partners Low Industry associations Low Medium High Ability of stakeholders to impact MCX Engagement & dialogue Like last year, this year too we reached out to our key stakeholders to communicate our sustainability agenda and capture their feedback on focused aspects. The following table provides a snapshot of our approach to stakeholder engagement. KEY STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODES OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT Feedback through focused online questionnaires Annually Compliance check E-mails, Telephonic conversations Need-based MEMBERS Visit of MCX executives to members' offices Partnerships for customer acquisition programmes and discussions on new products Performance management exercise Annually Training Need-based EMPLOYEES Employee volunteering activities Grievance handling mechanism Price determination and dissemination activities Daily Feedback through focused questionnaires Annually PHYSICAL MARKET Awareness sessions through members Need-based PARTICIPANTS Farmer training programmes Provision of complete solutions (through ecosystem approach) Telephonic conversations (including grievance redressal) Annual General Meeting Annually Feedback through focused questionnaires Investor conferences Need-based SHAREHOLDERS Meetings AND INVESTORS E-mails,Telephonic conversations Investor grievance mechanism Non-deal road shows Reporting on compliance of MCX and of our members Annually Feedback through focused questionnaires REGULATORY Price and trading reports Daily / Weekly AUTHORITIES Meetings Need-based (Also for new products E-mails, telephonic conversations and existing product modifications) MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 44 KEY STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODES OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT Feedback through focused questionnaires Annually INDUSTRY E-mails, telephonic conversations Need-based ASSOCIATIONS Meetings Feedback through focused questionnaires Annually COMMUNITY/ Interactions with branch post office Need-based FARMERS Meetings Awareness sessions Regular basis Feedback through focused questionnaires Annually VENDORS AND Meetings Need-based SUPPLIERS E-mails, Telephonic conversations Feedback through focused questionnaires Annually MEDIA Meetings Need-based E-mails, Telephonic conversations Feedback through focused questionnaires Annually ACADEMIC Studies conducted at MCX's behest Need-based INSTITUTIONS Intellectual assistance to institution's own research Internship offered to students/ researchers In FY 2011-12, we interacted with employees, investors and media, members, physical market participants, academic institutions, industry associations, vendors and contractors, and farmer community. We sought their responses in a structured manner. The following table provides a summary of MCX's key strengths and concerns identified by our stakeholders during these interactions. We have also indicated our responsiveness to satisfy the needs of our stakeholders. Feedback & responsiveness MCX's STRENGTHS SUGGESTED FOCUS AREAS OUR RESPONSE ŸSound business strategies, ŸEnhance capacity of more ŸWe have introduced a new Management brand and growth, which employees for decision Development Programme—Symphony—for have enhanced employee making roles middle management. EMPLOYEES rewards through ESOPs ŸNurture emerging talent ŸWe have fortnightly meetings of heads of ŸOpportunities for professional ŸIncreased informal and departments (HoDs) for facilitating information growth personal engagements at flows and feedback. The HoDs are required to ŸOpportunities for learning workplace discuss the same with their teams. ŸGood work environment ŸWe have ensured senior management participation in employee engagement events as a forum for informal interactions. ŸIndustry leader with strong ŸFurther strengthen ŸWe will be regularly sharing our Sustainability fundamentals and proven communications and share Reports with our investors. INVESTORS record in wealth creation sustainability performance ŸWe intend to further augment our market ŸGood corporate governance ŸEnhance market penetration efforts, especially in terms of ŸCertainty in growth plans and penetration commodity market awareness and number of execution training programmes. ŸAbility to transform the trading ecosystem ŸTimely and proactive ŸCommunicate about social/ We have identified media as a key stakeholder information flow environmental impacts of group for engagement. Through media, we have ŸTransparent disclosure MCX been informing other stakeholders about our ŸHigh knowledge and high ŸIncrease media business and its impacts on the economy and engagement level engagement across regions creating awareness among existing and potential MEDIA ŸBy creating a viable ŸEnhance research-based market participants about the benefits of commodity trading platform, communications backed by commodity futures market. We also engage with MCX has made a sterling independent assessment various media organisations to express our views contribution to society on issues affecting the sector, and to provide them with research-backed evidence to consider while forming their opinion and communicating with the public in general and policymakers in particular. 45 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 MCX'S STRENGTHS SUGGESTED FOCUS AREAS OUR RESPONSE ŸProven record in wealth creation ŸPolicy advocacy for opening ŸExcellent risk management more market opportunities ŸStrong business model, ŸCreate more products andŸOur Research & Strategy department has been marketing strengths and services working on creating awareness among policy growth potential ŸIncrease market penetration makers and influencers through our approach of ŸConsistency and reliability in further through financial evidence-based policy advocacy including on MEMBERS business literacy commodity transaction tax and FCRA Bill for market development. We will continue to build ŸOpen to feedback on this. ŸCommodity market literacy and financial inclusion ŸWe will be able to offer ‘options’ in addition to ŸStrong social impact due to futures trading once the FCRA Amendment Bill, transparent price discovery 2010 is passed in Parliament (this has provisions ŸGenerating direct and indirect for allowing options trading). employment ŸAwareness and training are integral aspects of our business development and product design PHYSICAL MARKET PARTICIPANTS ŸBenchmark for commodity ŸCreate further awareness to teams’ efforts aimed at increasing market prices in the country improve market penetration penetration. ŸProduct customisation ŸWork towards introducing ŸHighly equipped workforce 'options' in addition to ŸWe have identified a clear focus on market ŸProfessional and fair dealing 'futures' trading development for agri commodities in accordance ŸAggressive in the market; ŸIncrease focus on with evolving government policy and regulation. translated first mover agri-commodities advantage in many contracts ŸAdvocate against adverse ŸWe will continue to build our role in facilitating to high growth potential policies such as commodity engagements between commodity market ŸAlmost zero downtime on transaction tax stakeholders and regulatory authorities. the trading platform ŸIncrease interactions with the regulator ŸBiggest brand name in ŸIncrease communication on ŸStructured workshops are being planned commodity trading impact of MCX on the for dissemination of findings of various ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS ŸInclusion of small players to trading ecosystem across socio-economic studies among stakeholders empower them with the value chain including market participants, academia, bargaining power as an integral ŸMore regular workshops policymakers and media. aspect of business strategy and training programmes ŸWe are targeting more effective dissemination of ŸTransparent access to data and research on commodity markets in order to wide range of stakeholders create an 'information bridge' between academia and policy making. Strategic research outcomes ŸFreedom and flexibility during in the form of occasional papers, policy briefs are research projects also part of our plan. ŸSharing of expertise in a niche field with academic institutions ŸAbility to advocate with the ŸMore workshops and ŸWe intend to increase our engagement with INDUSTRY Government for public good seminars to increase market market participants through workshops and ŸPlay a significant role in penetration and involve seminars, especially the MSMEs. ASSOCIATIONS enhancing financial literacy, more small (groups) traders industry thought leadership and contributing to policy development ŸHaving MCX as a customer is ŸStrengthened awareness ŸThis has been noted and we are working on VENDORS AND a good credential for our and sensitised vendors and enhancing communications among our vendors business development contractors on relevant on these aspects. environmental and social CONTRACTORS ŸConsistency and reliability in business issues ŸEthical and transparent conduct MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 46 MCX'S STRENGTHS SUGGESTED FOCUS AREAS OUR RESPONSE ŸHelps improve financial ŸIncrease the number of ŸWe have undertaken an extensive review of our literacy farmer training programmes Gramin Suvidha Kendra initiative through a field FARMER COMMUNITY ŸBetter value for produce on best practices in level assessment and discussions with external ŸApproachability agriculture independent agencies. Based on this, a plan is ŸSupport more storage being developed for enhancing the farmer facilities knowledge empowerment component and we are in talks with potential partners for strengthening market linkages for farmer inclusion. Moreover, our business development team is planning to conduct commodity-specific and region-specific programmes to sensitise farmers on commodity futures and other related issues. Addressing stakeholder concerns We have devised various channels to address complaints of our stakeholders and ensure that they are satisfied with the resolution provided. Few of them are listed below: During 2011-12, 7790 complaints were received and most of these were related to service providers' networking issues. These calls were forwarded to the technology team for further investigation. We have been successful in addressing the complaints of members satisfactorily by responding to them on the day they lodge the complaint (Turn-around Time for responding to complaints is the day the complaint is lodged, i.e. within business hours) with a closure efficiency of 100 per cent during the period under consideration. Moreover, on a fortnightly basis, we conduct a network repeat call analysis for recurring problems reported to ensure that similar issues do not arise. EXCHANGE If members are not satisfied with response of the Exchange executive on any membership and MEMBERS inspection issues, they may escalate it to higher authorities. We have an escalation matrix to AND CLIENTS facilitate speedy and satisfactory closure of issues. In order to protect the interests of our clients, we provide a time-bound mechanism for redressing their grievances or disputes by way of conciliation or arbitration. Under this mechanism, all claims, differences or disputes between members or between a member and his client in relation to trades, contracts and transactions executed on our Exchange should be resolved by way of conciliation. If such conciliation proceedings do not result in an amicable settlement, the parties to the dispute may make a reference to arbitration according to the provisions of the bye-laws of our Exchange. From March 9, 2012 (when MCX became a public listed company) till March 31, 2012, we received 2696 queries from potential investors regarding refund of fees paid along with their IPO INVESTORS applications, on the grounds of non-allocation of the company's shares. All these complaints are being managed through MCX's IPO Registrars. ‘HR4U’ is an escalation mechanism used by employees to report pressing concerns. HR sends an initial response to employees within 48 hours. In case there is no response from ‘HR4U’, the matter can be escalated to Head HR. In a year, on an average we get close to 50 mails, which are resolved through multiple channels. EMPLOYEES At least twice a year, a formal HR interaction is held with employees, to apprise them about any changes in HR policies and their rationale. We communicate the importance of the Performance Management System to employees. There is a built-in provision for the employees to send their suggestions, which has helped HR to get proactive feedback and ensure a two-way face-to-face communication with them. We have been educating consumer groups about the various benefits of the commodity futures markets. Research-based papers, newspaper articles and other forms of documentation and their CONSUMERS dissemination have, to a significant extent, removed many misconceptions related to commodity trading. 47 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Customer (member) satisfaction index Our annual customer (member) feedback activity covers a performance review of MCX's critical functions and gives members an opportunity to comment/ provide suggestions. This feedback forms the basis for The response rate of respective departments to assess their areas of improvement. Based on the members increased feedback provided by members, we have implemented several new from 95% in 2010-11 to initiatives such as formation of a 'Technical Support Desk', launching of mini 97% in 2011-12. The contracts (contracts with small lot sizes), and installation of a world class IVR system in the Exchange. overall satisfaction index increased from In FY 2011-12, we sent questionnaires with personalised emails to 800 86% in 2010-11 to 89% members. The questionnaires encompassed questions pertaining to in 2011-12. Technology, Market Operations (MOPS), Customer Service and Quality (CSQ), Membership, Compliance, and Business Development & Product Knowledge Management (BD & PKMT) departments. The satisfaction index has shown a year-on-year increasing trend, and during the period under consideration, the overall satisfaction increased to 89 per cent from 86 per cent during the previous fiscal. We follow the approach of CAPA (corrective action, preventive action). Corrective action is taken promptly for cases with lower satisfaction index. In cases where satisfaction levels are high, preventive actions continue to ensure consistency. FEEDBACK: TARGET V/S RECEIVED 800 777 314 304 254 243 114 112 118 118 East South North West Total Target Received CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Y-O-Y 100 87% 89% 87% 89% 88% 89% 89% 90 86% 88% 84% 87% 88% 86% 81% 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Technology MOPS CSQ Membership Compliance BD & PKMT Overall 2010-11 2011-12 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY MCX is committed to minimising its environmental impacts through efficient use of natural resources, including electricity, which is the key touch point of the Exchange's technologydriven business. SECTION III MATERIAL ISSUE SECTIONS PAGE Natural resource-use efficiency in our operations Operational efficiency 49 49 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 NATURAL RESOURCE-USE EFFICIENCY IN OUR OPERATIONS Operational efficiency Given the nature of our operations, the key sources of environmental impacts include energy and water consumption, waste generated and employee travel. In order to make our business as environment friendly as we possibly can, we are governed by an Environmental Policy. As an ISO 14001:2004 certified organisation, we conduct an annual “Environment Review” to assess the impact of our activities on the environment. Our Environment Management Plan is developed and monitored on this basis. We have defined our key objectives to include: reduction in the use of energy and natural resources, effective use of electronic equipment and paper, and creating awareness on environment across the organisation. While we have not set specific targets yet, as our sustainability reporting system matures, we expect to be able to do so. To include our shareholders in this endeavour, we dispatched printed copies of our Annual Reports to only 88,235 shareholders out of a total of 1,78,795 shareholders (49 per cent). We sent PDF copies through e-mails to rest of the shareholders, which helped us cut down on our resource consumption. We maintain a Green Exchange website as a platform to share green tips, green news and our commitment to our stakeholders towards a sustainable economy. We have regular internal email-based communications to increase awareness on reducing environmental impacts. Posters and banners encouraging environment conservation practices are displayed at various locations in the premises including washrooms, lifts, cafeteria and other areas frequented by employees. On World Environment Day (2011), we held a campaign on the importance of water conservation, and our employees also spread this message to children at Ashadeep Association, an NGO we have engaged with for volunteering activities. Energy management We have initiatives in place to reduce our energy use. These include greening of our data centre, minimising leakages to reduce the load on air conditioning units and increasing employee awareness. Our 'Exchange Square' office building is equipped with mechanisms for conserving energy. Double vacuumed glass windows are used in order to minimise heat load while permitting maximum daylight lighting. We have As a result of our installed variable refrigerant volume air conditioning system that results in initiatives, we were able saving considerable energy. We monitor air conditioning units on a daily basis to save close to 3,15,000 and switch-off supply to areas where air conditioning is not required. These KwH this year at our units are also switched off centrally during lunch hours and all units installed Exchange Square at common areas have the thermostat set at 24oC to maximise energy premises. We are happy use efficiency. Arresting hot air leakage points, replacing PL (Phillups Lighting) to note the outcome as a with CFL (Compact Fluorescent Light) are also other related initiatives. We reduction in our indirect maintain a daily schedule wherein the air conditioning is switched off for a fixed period of time, thereby helping us save energy. Similar schedule is also in place GHG emissions from for switching off lights of the building. 3049.6 tCO2e in FY 201011 to 2848.36 tCO2e in We have a well documented scheduling process explained on the next page. FY 2011-12. As a result of our initiatives, we were able to save close to 315,000 KwH this year at our Exchange Square premises. We are happy to note the outcome as a reduction in our indirect GHG emissions from 3049.60 tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) in FY 2010-11. to 2848.36 tCO2e in FY 2011-12.. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 50 A SNAPSHOT OF THE SCHEDULING PROCESS PERFORMANCE ACTIVITY FREQUENCY RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Daily monitoring of system/infrastructure including: Daily Administration team Daily monitoring Data centre infrastructure | High tension/ Low tension panel and data centre team report with exceptions, Air conditioning system Uninterrupted power supply | if any Distribution board Diesel generator sets | Compact sub station SOD/ EOD* process to ensure optimum performance and Daily Administration team Daily SOD/ EOD* smooth operations of data centre | DG sets | Air and data centre team signed checklist with conditioning systems | UPS escalations, if any Preventive maintenance of all equipment as per the As scheduled Administration team Preventive schedule in respective and data centre team maintenance reports SLAs** Setting of permissible limits for power consumption at As per design Data centre team NA data centre Sending power utilisation report to manager if it exceeds As and when Data centre team Escalation reports/ permissible limits for data centre an alert is Relevant generated correspondence * SOD Start of the Day, EOD End of the Day ** SLAService Level Agreement While our major source of energy is the electricity purchased from the grid, we do have diesel generators, which are used during power failures to Our best practices for eliminate downtime of the Exchange due to any electrical failures in case of environment conservation power cuts. Our energy(34) consumption over the past three years is shown ŸAll company vehicles are below: subjected to impromptu DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMED INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMED checks for PUC (in GJ#) (in GJ) compliance by security personnel. ŸAll AC evaporator units 215.98 13388.50 are linked to each other 150.44 12504.98 with a sensor cable and hooked on to a common 81.78 11410.10 condensing unit which is of a lower capacity as compared with the 2009 -10 2010 -11 2011-12 2009 -10 2010 -11 2011-12 indoor units. The # common condensing Giga Joules unit is based on a Emissions management diversity factor that We are aware of our responsibility towards mitigating the effects of climate efficiently utilises the change. To this end, we encourage car pooling among our employees and refrigerant to set levels of try to reduce employee air travel as far as possible. We also spread awareness cooling. This results in on climate change and the need to reduce our footprint through e-mailers lower compression cycles and other activities. We measure our carbon footprint, and our greenhouse and reduced power gas emissions, which are given below: consumption. DIRECT & INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS ŸAll housekeeping waste GHG EMISSIONS BUSINESS TRAVEL (AIR) is segregated and disposed in an (in tCO2e) (in tCO2e) environment friendly manner. 3060.75 76.80 ŸAuto sanitisers have been 2864.36 65.97 installed in urinals which 2671.27 50.66 do not allow uric sediments to accumulate in plumbing lines. 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 (34) Direct energy consumed is the diesel used for D.G. sets. Indirect energy consumed is the electricity purchased from the grid 51 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 Water management We endeavour to minimise our water consumption(35)through efficient water management and make concerted efforts towards the same. These include reduction of water pressure in flushing systems and wash basins, and use of jet water pressure machine for cleaning purposes. Due to our efforts, the total water consumption during FY 2011-12 reduced by 13 per cent from the previous fiscal. There are plans to set up a Turn off taps when rainwater harvesting system at our Exchange not required. TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL Square building (rooftop) to use the rainfall (in KL) potential of the region to our advantage. Preliminary study has been carried out and a 2230 potential of 2500 KL per annum has been 4580 4380 identified looking at the average number of 8812 rainy days in the season and the intensity of 5618 3944 rainfall. We are currently evaluating the feasibility in terms of the right time to install it. 5184 5256 5112 Within our limited resources, we reused water that is drained from our rooftop fountain by 2009 -10 2010 -11 2011-12 directing it into a recharging pit. This Tanker Water Municipal Supply Water Ground Water amounted to 291.50 KL during FY 2011-12. Materials management Touch wood. While our operations are not material intensive, we continuously strive to reduce Our planet shouldn’t run out of it. consumption of printing paper through monitoring mechanisms and creating awareness among employees. We have mechanisms to monitor printouts taken by users and send periodic reports on the usage of PAPER CONSUMED(36) ( in MT) paper to Heads of Departments. Back-to-back printing has been installed in all our printers. 4.07 The bulk printing activity has been outsourced 2.89 and requires approval, thus preventing large 2.53 scale use of paper. Additionally, we have discontinued the use of paper cups for beverages and reduced the use of face tissues in washrooms. We are planning on using 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 recycled paper for specific purposes and we have used the same for greeting cards in the past. Waste management Majority of the hazardous waste disposed from our premises is e-waste and we have developed an e-waste policy to deal with it. We have an agreement for safe e-waste disposal with Eco-Reco and Attero Recycling, two prominent organisations in the e-waste recycling domain. Our e-waste disposal is minimised because of our maintenance and reuse practices. WASTE DISPOSED IN 2011-12 Type of waste Unit Quantity Paper waste MT 4.68 Waste engine oil(37) KL 0.43 Used batteries Numbers 34 (35) This includes estimated ground water consumption | (36) Paper consumption increased in 2011-12 on account of higher volumes of printing for our IPO. (37) Our vendor, duly approved by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, is responsible for the disposal of waste oil MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 52 Efficient operations with the existing setup With trade volumes increasing, it is essential for us to plan in advance for additional IT system requirements. We are working on a plan to maximise the use of existing hardware by up-grading our trading software. With the objective of minimising additional power consumption and saving on additional rack space required for more servers, we plan to deploy a new version of the software with significantly higher order handling capacity. During the year, we also implemented a few systems with an aim to improve the overall trading efficiency by embedding technology in day-to-day processes and eliminating manual intervention. These include HireTrack (our online recruitment process), EOD/ SOD(38) (daily activities related to trading systems and network), Change Management Requirement (CMR for managing IT infrastructure changes) and Problem Management (for incident management related to IT infrastructure). Employee Exit Process OMNIDOCS (Document Management System) PMS Travel4u (Performance Management System) (For travel approval process) Right FAX (Fax in electronic form) E-Procurement system ROTS Systems for (For claiming reimbursement efficient operations other than salary) Employee Confirmation Process Printing Server (For monitoring and management of printouts) Vendor Billing IT Asset Management (Invoice approval and payment (to reduce usage of paper and improving through SAP) efficiency in processes) Visitex Workforce Management (Visitor access controls and management) Virtualisation benefits of greening our data centre Better up-time performance Reduction in power consumption Reduction in recovery time from crashes by means of operating Saving rack space system/server snapshots Reduction in overheads due to centralised Reduction in expenditure Reduction in server management of infrastructure (OPEX & CAPEX) installation and commissioning time (38) SOD start of day, EOD end of day 53 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE FY FY FY PERFORMANCE PARAMETER 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED Units: Million INR Economic value generated Revenues 4937.64 4472.87 6289.07 Economic value distributed (39) Operating costs 1435.37 1704.02 1839.17 Employee benefits and wages 217.50 264.31 279.85 Payment to providers of capital 203.99 254.99 1223.96 (40) Payment to the Government (Taxes) 1057.53 767.90 1296.59 Financial assistance received from the Government 0.00 0.00 0.00 Community expenditure 52.35 49.74 67.75 (41) Economic value retained 1970.90 1431.91 1581.75 EXPENDITURES ON OUR DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS PF contribution for employees 8.62 10.12 10.27 Gratuity contribution for employees 2.07 5.57 7.36 EMPLOYEE PRACTICES FY FY FY PERFORMANCE PARAMETER 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 WORKFORCE Units : Numbers Total workforce by type(42) Senior management 25 21 23 (Vice President and above) Middle management 94 99 96 (Asst. Manager to Asst. Vice President) Junior management 119 117 107 (Executive & Sr. Executive) Trainees 3 2 5 Probationary officers 16 17 n/a Workers 5 6 5 Consultants 7 5 n/a Contract workers 14 15 n/a Total workforce age-wise Less than 30 years 111 91 86 30-50 years 159 177 140 More than 50 years 13 14 10 Total workforce gender-wise Male 217 223 184 Female 66 59 52 (39) Has been restated from 2008-09 to correct data representation anomalies in lieu of incorrect accounting under this head | (40) Has been restated for the last four years to include IT, FBT, wealth tax, dividend tax and deferred tax | (41) Has been restated from 2007-08 onwards post updation of calculation methodology based on restated operating costs | (42) Data for the current reporting year includes 'on roll' employees only, and does not include count of contractual staff and consultants. Probationary officers have been included under the classification of senior, middle and junior management employees from this year onwards. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 54 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD EMPLOYEE PRACTICES...continued FY FY FY PERFORMANCE PARAMETER 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER(43) Units : Numbers Total 38 52 37 Senior management 0 4 1 Middle management 20 20 4 Junior management 17 28 32 Workers 1 0 0 Employee turnover by age Less than 30 years 19 23 24 30-50 years 19 29 13 More than 50 years 0 0 0 Employee turnover by gender Male 22 31 26 Female 16 21 11 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Units : Ratio of basic salary of male to female Senior management(44) 1.17 1.23 1.15 Middle management 0.91 1.01 1.03 Junior management 1 0.99 0.99 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (TOTAL) Units : Man-hours Total 1667.0 847.0 2047.0 Senior management 24.0 22.0 25.5 Middle management 562.2 162.5 788.0 Junior management 1006.5 647.5 1092.0 Trainees 74.0 15.0 141.0 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Average in 2011-12 Male Female Total Senior management 1.11 0 1.11 Middle management 6.18 15.90 8.21 Junior management 8.96 13.40 10.21 (43) 10 Transfers to other Financial Technologies Group companies from MCX have not been included in turnover figures. During the year there were a total of 45 new joinees (including trainees) out of which 9 had left during the same year (2 of the 7 were females and 5 out of the 7 were trainees)| (44) During the reporting period, one female employee from the senior management left the organisation on January 30, 2012. The corresponding figure includes the said employee’s salary on a pro-rata basis. 55 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE(45) FY FY FY PERFORMANCE PARAMETER 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 MATERIAL Units : MT Paper consumption 4.07 2.53 2.89 ENERGY Units : GJ Electricity consumption 11410.1 13388.50 12504.98 Diesel for DG sets 81.78 150.44 215.98 WATER CONSUMPTION Units : KL Ground water(46) 5184 5256 5112 Municipal water 8812 5618 3944 Tanker water 2230 4580 4380 GHG EMISSIONS Units : tCO2e Direct emissions (Scope – I) 6.06 11.15 16.00 Indirect emissions (Scope – II)(47) 2665.21 3049.60 2848.36 Business travel emissions (48) 50.66 65.97 76.80 ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURE Units : INR Thousand Expenditure(49) -50.74 46 PROCUREMENT FY FY FY PERFORMANCE PARAMETER 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 LOCAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT(50) Units : Million INR Total goods & supplies – national 162.88 147.35 156.29 Total goods & supplies – international 1.23 0.15 0.00 Total goods & supplies 164.11 147.50 156.29 (45) Environmental performance data includes Exchange Square office and our data centre at Vashi. However, paper and water consumption at Vashi are insignificant and have not been included in performance data | (46) As estimated | (47) Electricity for our Exchange Square premises is sourced from the NEWNE grid, the emission factor for which is 0.82 tCO2e/MWh (Source – Central Electricity Authority (CEA)). | (48) GHG emissions from business air travel for 2010-11 have been restated on account of data reconciliation and standardization of calculation mechanism using World Resources Institute GHG Protocol (49) Environmental expenditure is towards EMS certification at Exchange Square. We plan to assess and include all other relevant aspects of spending towards environment conservation such as green IT procurement from next time. (50) Local is defined as within India. The expenditure includes both operational and capital expenditure. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 56 57 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 54 58 GRI CONTENT INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organisation SR: 3, 4 Full 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and SR: 9-12,17,18, 20 Full Key impacts, risks and opportunities have been opportunities AR: 68, 72, 73 detailed in relevant sections. 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover page Full 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services SR: 5 Full Details of our complete product portfolio are available on our website: http://www.mcxindia.com/home.aspx. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, SR: 7, 8 Full including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters Full Exchange Square, Suren Road, Chakala, Andheri (E), Mumbai – 93, Maharashtra, India 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation SR: 5-8 Full operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR: 86 Full 2.7 Markets served SR: 5, 8 Full Details on beneficiaries are addressed in relevant sections of the report. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation SR: 5, 6, 7, 21, 53 Full 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period SR: 3, 5 Full regarding size, structure, or ownership AR: 86 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period SR: 6 Full 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period for SR: 1 Full information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Full Our previous report was published for the FY 201011. It can be accessed at: http://sustainability.mcxindia.com/ 3.3 Reporting cycle Full Reporting cycle is annual. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report SR: 1 Full or its content 3.5 Process for defining report content SR: 1, 9 Full 3.6 Boundary of the report SR: 1 Full See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or SR: 1 Full boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, SR: 1 Full leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis of SR: 53-55 Full Relevant explanations have been provided in the calculations, including assumptions and individual section where necessary. techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from the GRI Indicator Protocols 59 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of SR: 53-55 Full information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statements 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Full None periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard SR: 58-66 Full Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to SR: 1 Full seeking external assurance for the report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, SR: 15,16 Full including committees under the highest AR: 77 82 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest SR: 15 Full governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board SR: 15,16 Full structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees SR:15-17 Full to provide recommendations or direction to the AR: 81 highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members AR: 81 Full We have a Remuneration Committee which takes of the highest governance body, senior decisions on remuneration of the senior managers, and executives (including departure management based on their performance and the arrangements), and the organisation's performance of the firm as a whole. performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance SR: 17 Full For details on the Code of Conduct please visit our body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AR: 79 website http://www.mcxindia.com/aboutus/codeof conduct/codeofconduct.htm. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and SR: 15, 17 Full expertise of the members of the highest AR: 77 governance body for guiding the organisation's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or SR: 6, 10-13, 17 Full Details on our Environmental Policy and E-waste values, codes of conduct, and principles Policy are available at: http://greenexchange. relevant to economic, environmental, and mcxindia.com/initiatives/initiatives.html social performance and the status of their For details on the Code of Conduct please visit implementation our website http://www.mcxindia.com/ aboutus/codeofconduct/codeofconduct.htm 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for SR:15-17 Full Additionally, all members have to affirm compliance overseeing the organisation's identification by filling in an Annual Compliance Report at: and management of economic, environmental, http://www.mcxindia.com/membership/ and social performance, including relevant compliances/AnnualSubmissions.htm risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance SR: 15 Full body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Full Precautionary Principles are implicit in our vision, precautionary approach or principle is addressed process, initiatives and actions by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, SR: 10, 33, 67 Full and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: • Has positions in governance bodies • Participates in projects or committees MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 60 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING • Provides substantive funding beyond SR: 18 Full routine membership dues or • Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the SR: 43, 44 Full organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of SR: 43 Full stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, SR: 43-46, 47 Full including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised SR: 9-13, Full through stakeholder engagement, and how the 44-47 organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, through its reporting STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PART II DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC SR: 19 Full DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN SR: 49 Full DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA SR: 29 Full DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR SR: 33 Full DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO SR: 13,3 7 Full DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR SR: 24-26 Full DMA FSSS Disclosure on Management Approach FSSS SR: 24, 25, 37, 49 Full STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators ECONOMIC PARAMETERS EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, SR: 21, 53 Full including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and SR: 49 Full opportunities for the organisation's activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit SR: 29,53 plan obligations AR: 131 Full EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Full We have not received any significant financial government assistance from the government. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Full We abide by all national regulations of wage gender compared to local minimum wage at payments and pay equal to or above minimum significant locations of operation wage requirements. There is no discrimination between men and women in any respect, including wages paid. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on SR: 55 Full We do not have any specific policy for local locally-based suppliers at significant locations of procurement because we prefer to procure goods operation purely on the basis of their quality and cost competitiveness. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of Full Recruitment currently is based purely on merit. While senior management hired from the local we do prefer to hire persons from the local community at significant locations of operation community, we do not have a defined policy to that effect. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure SR: 53 Full investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Ec9 Understanding and describing significant SR: 22, 23, Full indirect economic impacts, including the extent 26,3 7-41 of impacts ENVIRONMENTAL PARAMETERS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR: 51, 55 Full EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Full Currently, we do not procure recycled input input materials materials. 61 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy SR: 49,50,55 Full source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source SR: 50,55 Full EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency SR: 50 Full improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Full Currently, we do not trade in energy-efficient energy based products and services, and or renewable energy based products. reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption SR: 50 Full and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SR: 51,55 Full EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Full None of our water sources are significantly of water affected by our withdrawals. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled SR: 51 Full and reused EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Full None of our operations are located close to managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and protected or reserved areas. areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not applicable products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Not applicable managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not applicable conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas SR: 50,55 Full emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR: 50,55 Full We have reported the GHG emissions on by weight account of business air travel by our employees. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Not reported Currently we do not have a process to track and reductions achieved the reduction in GHG emissions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not reported The only source of emissions of ODS from our weight operations is through air conditioning system and is currently not captured due to its insignificant quantity. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Full The only source of air emissions from our type and weight operations are our DG sets which we use primarily as a power backup. During the year, the DG sets were run primarily for testing and hence the emissions arising are not monitored. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Full The nature of our operations is such that they are not water intensive. We discharge only wastewater used for domestic purposes. Owing to its negligible quantity, we do not monitor wastewater. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal SR: 51 Full method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Full There were no significant spills (spills greater than 159 litres in a single occurrence of an incident) as a result of our operations in the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Full We do not import or export any waste treated waste deemed hazardous under the deemed hazardous under the terms of the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Full No water body or habitat is significantly value of water bodies and related habitats affected by our water discharge or runoff. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 62 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING significantly affected by the reporting organisation's discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Full Not Applicable of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Full The nature of our products is such that they materials that are reclaimed by category do not require any packaging. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Full No instances of non-compliance have been number of non-monetary sanctions for nonreported during the reporting period. compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of SR: 50,55 Full Our products and services do not require any transporting products and other goods and transportation materials used for the organisation's operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures SR: 55 Full and investments by type LABOUR PARAMETERS LA1 Total workforce by employment type, SR: 29,53 Full employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover SR: 29,54 Full by age group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that SR: 29 are not provided to temporary or part-time AR: 97,131 Full employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Full Currently, no employee is covered bargaining agreements by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Full Given that we are not a manufacturing operational changes, including whether it is industry, we do not have any significant specified in collective agreements operational changes that need to be notified in advance to our workforce. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Not reported We do not have any joint management – formal joint management-worker health and worker health and safety committees that help safety committees that help monitor and advise monitor and advise on occupational health on occupational health and safety programmes and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Full There have been no injuries or fatalities during and absenteeism, and number of work-related the reporting period. fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, SR: 32,42 Full and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not Applicable agreements with trade unions LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SR: 31,54 Full by employee category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong SR: 31,32,54 Full learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular SR: 30 Full 100%. During the year a total of 219 performance and career development reviews employees were eligible for receiving performance feedback and all of them received the same. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and SR: 15,16 Full breakdown of employees per category AR: 77-82 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by SR: 30 employee category LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Full Five employees availed maternity leave in leave, by gender FY 2010-11 and all of them have continued to work with us for at least one year. 63 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS PARAMETERS HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Full All our investment agreements and contracts investment agreements that include human mandate adherence to the all the laws of the rights clauses or that have undergone human land, including those on human rights. rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Full Our contract workforce is screened on a daily contractors that have undergone screening on basis to ensure that no child labour is used in human rights and actions taken our operations. We do not have a structured programme for this. We are in process of formalising in 2013 an integrated Sustainability & Inclusion policy framework that incorporates a systemic approach. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Full While we do not have any specific training on and procedures concerning aspects of human human rights clauses, we act in accordance rights that are relevant to operations, including with all laws of the land, including those on the percentage of employees trained human rights. We are in process of formalising in 2013 an integrated Sustainability & Inclusion policy framework that incorporates a systemic approach. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and SR: 33 Full There were no reported cases of actions taken discrimination in FY 2011-12. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to Full We do not have any operations where the exercise freedom of association and collective right to exercise freedom of association and bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions collective bargaining agreement will be at risk taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk SR: 33 Full for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk SR: 33 Full for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the SR: 33 Full organisation's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Not Applicable rights of indigenous people and actions taken HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that Full As part of our Human Resource function, we have been subject to human rights reviews and/ ensure that we are compliant to all laws of the or impact assessments land, including those on human rights. We have not undertaken a formal human rights review of our operations so far. We are in process of formalising in 2013 an integrated Sustainability & Inclusion policy framework that incorporates a systemic approach. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights Full There have no grievances filed related to filed, addressed and resolved through formal human rights in the reporting period grievance mechanisms SOCIETAL PARAMETERS SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented SR: 37-42 Full In terms of the impact of our products and local community engagement, impact services, our operations can be classified assessments, and development programmes broadly under the domains of agricultural and non-agricultural commodities. Agricultural commodity trading comprises around 1% of our business and the balance is non-agri trading. Our engagement activities with local communities under these two domains can be accessed in the 'Policy environment and market development' sections of the report (for all commodities) and the ‘Social inclusion’ section (for agricultural commodities). SO2 Percentage and total number of business units SR:15-17 Full We have a Vigilance Committee to check, analysed for risks related to corruption inspect, and to monitor / prevent / thwart any attempt by participants to manipulate / distort prices and/or to indulge in trading MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 64 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING malpractices. Our business units are audited by third parties on various parameters including business risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's Full MCX has in place a Code of Ethics that is anti-corruption policies and procedures applicable to all employees. All employees affirm compliance of Code of Ethics at the time of joining the company. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Full Actions are taken in response to corruption as per the discretion of the Vigilance Committee. In FY 2011 – 12, there were no reported incidents related to corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in SR: 18,26,28 Full public policy development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Full We have not made any financial contribution to political parties, politicians, and related to any political party or politician in the institutions by country reporting period. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Full There have been no legal actions against us for behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and their outcomes monopoly practices in the reporting period. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Full We have not had any fines imposed on us for number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations in non-compliance with laws and regulations the reporting period. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual Full During our community engagement negative impacts on local communities programmes and assessments, we have not witnessed any negative impacts on the community due to our presence in the area. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures Not Applicable implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PARAMETERS PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Full Our products and services do not have impacts of products and services are assessed for material life cycle health and safety impacts. improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required Full We disclose the information about our by procedures and percentage of significant products and services as per applicable laws products and services subject to such information and FMC regulations. requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Full There have been no incidents of nonwith regulations and voluntary codes concerning compliance with regulations and voluntary product and service information and labelling, by codes concerning product and service type of outcomes information and labelling. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, SR: 47 Full including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, SR: 18 Full and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Full There have been no incidents of nonwith regulations and voluntary codes concerning compliance with regulations and voluntary marketing communications, including advertising, codes concerning marketing communications, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship in FY 2011-12. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints SR: 34,35 Full There have been no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Full We have not had any fines imposed on us for non-compliance with laws and regulations non compliance with laws regarding use of 65 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING concerning the provision and use of products our services and services FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT PARAMETERS FS1 Policies with specific environmental and Full We have policies with respect to environment, social components applied to business lines e – waste, health and safety, employee volunteerism, HIV/AIDS and CSO policy that are applied to business lines. For details on our policies, kindly refer to our website on http://www.mcxindia.com/csr/csrpolicy/ csrpolicy.htm We are in process of formalising in 2013 an integrated Sustainability & Inclusion policy framework that incorporates a systemic approach to social and environmental issues. FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening SR: 39,49 Partial We do not have a formal policy and process to environmental and social risks in business lines screen environmental and social risks for our products. However, we undertake studies, both in-house and with premier research organisations to understand socio-economic implications of our products (exchange contracts). We are in process of formalising in 2013 an integrated Sustainability & Inclusion policy framework. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation Not Applicable This performance indicator is not applicable to of and compliance with environmental and us, given that we are a commodity exchange social requirements included in agreements or and by virtue of the same our transactions do transactions not demand adherence to any specific environmental and social clauses from clients. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to Full There is regular interaction between the CSO implement the environmental and social policies team and business functions through the and procedures as applied to business lines process of IO certification audit meetings and sustainability report preparation. We are in process of formalising in 2013 an integrated Sustainability & Inclusion policy framework that incorporates a systemic approach to social and environmental issues. This includes well-defined roles, responsibilities and internal capacity development. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business Full We have initiated interactions with our partners regarding environmental and social risks members and business partners on and opportunities environment and social risks and opportunities. While social aspects are already embedded into our business development in the form of inclusive market design and initiatives, we will seek to include environmental issues wherever relevant, based on our proposed Sustainability & Inclusion framework. FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by SR:5 Full All our business operations are in India. For details specific region, size and by sector AR: 28-29 on our products, please refer to the product section of our website www.mcxindia.com FS7 Monetary value of products and services SR: 37,38,39 Full designed to deliver a specific social benefit for AR: 15 each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services Full Our exchange used to provide a platform for designed to deliver a specific environmental trading on Certified Emissions Reductions benefit for each business line broken down by (till Nov.2011) and Carbon Financial purpose Instrument (till Dec. 2011). However due to the state of this market worldwide, the products saw little participation. Subject to policy and regulatory permissions, we intend to launch products designed to deliver specific environmental benefits. Our research team is working on developing such products. FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Not Reported As we currently do not have a formal ESG implementation of environmental and social policy for our products and services, there is policies and risk assessment procedures no audit on this aspect, although we have social inclusion as a practice in product and market development. MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 | 66 DESCRIPTION PAGE* EXTENT OF EXPLANATION PROFILE REPORTING FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in Not applicable This indicator is not applicable to us as we are the institution's portfolio with which the reporting a commodity exchange. organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Not applicable We are a commodity exchange and do not negative environmental or social screening have any asset management operations. FS12 Voting policy(ies) applied to environmental or Not applicable We are a commodity exchange and do not social issues for shares over which the reporting have any asset management operations. organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically SR: 37-41 Full We have 38 Gramin Suvidha Kendra centres in disadvantaged areas by type rural India focused on inclusion of farmers in the benefits from commodity trading ecosystems. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services SR: 13,37 Full We do this through the Gramin Suvidha Kendra initiative. We also for disadvantaged people disseminate information in some local languages. FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial SR: 24,25 Full We have a regular system for stakeholder products and services engagement for fair design of contracts. We have designed mini and micro contracts for trading in various commodities to enable the participation of small customers and investors. We have issued a compliance guide to all our members and the same can be accessed at http://www.mcxindia.com/membership/ complianceguide/complianceguide.htm. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type SR: 13,37 Full We engage in regular awareness and training of beneficiary. programmes on futures prices, trading and benefits. *Legend: SR – Sustainability Report AR – Annual Report (It can be accessed at: http://www.mcxindia.com/IR/financials.htm) 67 | MCX Sustainability Report 2011-12 UNGC AND NVG-SEE INDEX REPORT SECTION UNGC NVG-SEE PAGE About the report 1 Message from MD & CEO 3 About MCX 5 Materiality discussion 9 Economic viability • Ethics & transparency Principle 10 Principle 1, 7 15 • Policy environment & market development Principle 4, 7,9 19 • Organisational development Principle 1, 2, 3, 4 , 5, 6 Principle 3, 5 29 Statement of continuing support 33 • Data & information security Social Inclusion • Commodity market literacy & inclusion Principle 8, 9 37 • Stakeholder satisfaction Principle 4, 9 43 Environmental responsibility • Natural resource-use efficiency in our operations Principle 7, 8, 9 Principle 2, 6 49 Performance scorecard 53 Assurance statement 56 Content index-GRI/UNGC/NVG-SEE 58 A note on forward-looking statements: Some statements in the report contain forward-looking indicators of our sustainability activities. These pertain to MCX's strategy, business plans and performance goals. By their nature, forward-looking indicators involve a certain degree of uncertainty as they depend on future scenarios and events that may not be within MCX's control or predicted. MCX does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events after the publication of this report. Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited Exchange Square, Suren Road, Andheri (East), Mumbai 400 093, Tel: 022-6731 8888, www.mcxindia.com
