Period covered by this Communication on Progress July 2012 to June 30, 2013 July, 2013 CEO Statement of Continued Support The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is one of the leading multilateral forces helping to create a future characterized by a sustainable and inclusive economy that will benefit people, communities and markets over the longest term. Bryan Mills Iradesso Corp. (BMIR) is pleased and proud to affirm its continuing support for the UNGC and its principles. BMIR is a strategic communication consultancy and we expect that we will be judged more by what we do than by what we say. We believe it is important to integrate the UNGC’s 10 principles into our daily working lives and that doing so will make us a better company – for our clients, our employees, our owners, suppliers, and neighbors. To ensure that our commitment to the UNGC and its 10 principles is visible to our stakeholders, we will incorporate reference in our background and profile documents and post it on our company’s website. Nancy Ladenheim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bryan Mills Iradesso Corp. 1 Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals BMIR actively endorses the United Nations Global Compact’s principles regarding the support, respect and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and our obligation to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. We further acknowledge our obligation under the UNGC to promote human rights. We also acknowledge and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Canada’s Charter of Rights and Freedoms. BMIR is a strategic communications consultancy with limited client and supplier networks and, consequently, comparatively few opportunities to commit or participate in human rights abuses. Additionally, as noted throughout this document, our company maintains and complies with a formal Code of Conduct, several parts of which specifically address such human rights abuses as discrimination and workplace harassment or violence. Implementation To avoid human rights abuses – whether committed by us or by our suppliers – BMIR is careful in accepting client assignments and diligent in its selection and oversight of suppliers and their work. Measurement of Outcomes BMIR’s senior management holds responsibility for ensuring that the company does not commit or participate in abuse of human rights, either through its own work for clients, or through the actions of suppliers on our behalf. BMIR is aware of no instances of human rights abuse, either through our own activities on behalf of clients, or by suppliers on our behalf. 2 BMIR actively contributes to the realization of human rights through financial contributions to local and regional charitable organizations. In recent years our donations have helped support: A shelter for abused women and children A school breakfast club to help encourage learning and literacy skills A restaurant food-rescue program to combat hunger by supporting food banks and other community safety nets A residential home providing shelter, learning and structure for homeless youth In addition, BMIR employees have volunteered during company time at local charities of their choice. 3 Labour Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals BMIR supports the eight core conventions of the International Labor Organization. Our parent company’s formal Code of Conduct further expresses the commitment to provide and maintain a safe, orderly, diverse and tolerant work environment, as well as a requirement to comply with the law. More specifically, we will not tolerate discrimination against any employee or other person with whom the company has business dealings on the basis of race, color, religion,, sex, age, marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, disability or veteran status. This applies to all areas of employment, including hiring, training, scheduling, advancement, compensation, benefits, discipline and termination. These principles are also applied to all dealings with suppliers, who may be required to acknowledge such obligations and provide assurance of compliance through declarations. Our company also strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace by following safety and health rules and practices. These include prompt reporting of accidents, injuries and unsafe work environment. Employees are required under this policy to report for work in condition to perform their duties to their best. Implementation To ensure respect for colleagues and the maintenance of a safe workplace, BMIR has instituted a formal zero-tolerance policy for a broadly defined spectrum of behaviors recognized as workplace violence. Our policy provides definitions, management and employee responsibilities, complaint procedures and investigations, confidentiality measures, a prohibition against retaliation and corrective actions, which include discipline up to and including termination of employment. Investigations under the company’s Workplace Violence Policy also fall within the ambit of our parent company’s Whistleblower Response Policy. 4 To ensure familiarity with the company’s policy on workplace violence, all BMIR employees were required to view an online education presentation and individual employee compliance was recorded. To ensure that persons with disabilities have appropriate access to our services (as provided by the Accessibility for Ontarians With Disabilities Act), and to ensure that our employees understand the special circumstances and needs of persons with disabilities, all BMIR employees were required to view the “Helping Hands” online education presentation. “Helping Hands” establishes company responsibilities and provides practical guidance on dealing with persons with various forms of disability and ensuring their ability to obtain services from us. Following completion of a customary enrollment waiting period, all BMIR employees are provided with company-paid health care insurance which encompasses extended medical benefits, dental and vision care, disability insurance and life insurance. In addition, all BMIR employees are entitled to at least two weeks of company-paid vacation time annually. Measurement of Outcomes BMIR’s senior officers are responsible for the company’s adherence to the United Nations Global Compact’s labor principles and periodically review potential violations or other concerns. Over the past year BMIR has not become aware of any episodes of noncompliance with the labor principles or other concerns. 5 Environmental Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals BMIR is a strategic communications consultancy employing approximately 30 people in two offices, and active in four practice areas: branding, marketing communications, investor relations, and corporate and sustainability reporting. Accordingly, the environmental impacts of our operations are small, compared to UNGC participants in manufacturing, processing or resource extraction industries. We acknowledge that our total environmental impact encompasses our own operations, as well as those of our suppliers in the development, design, production and delivery of work for our clients. The environmental footprint of our client work varies enormously – from communication strategies delivered in a single short email, to complex, multidimensional design-print production assignments running to hundreds of pages and tens of thousands of copies. BMIR is committed to sustainable business practices and reducing its environmental footprint. We regularly examine the impacts of our daily activities, identify opportunities for improvement and act on those opportunities wherever reasonably practical. Implementation In keeping with best practices, BMIR recommends to all clients the use of Forest Stewardship Council-certified paper and the use of vegetable-based inks for all print production assignments. Where required by our clients’ purchasing protocols we also specify recycled materials and purchase carbon offsets for large print runs. BMIR’s own environmental action program focuses on the aspects of our business that have the greatest impact on the environment, notably waste reduction/diversion and energy efficiency. 6 Waste reduction/diversion BMIR initiatives to reduce and/or divert waste include: Elimination of paper coffee cups, paper plates and plastic cutlery in favor of washable crockery, china and cutlery. Setting double-sided printing as default on office printers Recycling of plastic, metal and hybrid containers Recycling of newspapers and magazines Recycling of printer toner cartridges Recycling of depleted batteries Recycling of outdated electronic equipment BMIR use of business paper Since much of our work involves communication for publicly traded companies and government agencies, security of information is a significant client concern. As a result, we are not able to take advantage of conventional business waste paper recycling programs. Instead, all business paper is collected in secure storage bins and shredded on site by a qualified contractor and subsequently sent for recycling. Energy efficiency A significant part of BMIR’s environmental footprint consists of energy purchased to run our office business computers and related equipment. Since we occupy leased space in both locations, the measurement of our energy use is not practical. However, to minimize energy consumption our policy is to require all workers to power-down their equipment at the end of the workday. Office lighting is also turned to safe minimums at the day’s end. To minimize energy consumption for business travel, we are making increasing use of videoconferencing, and have invested in equipment to support group meetings, both between our offices and with our clients. In addition, our employees are using desktop 7 videoconferencing more frequently to reduce business travel and enhance their operational effectiveness with colleagues and clients. Measurement of Outcomes Since BMIR occupies leased premises at both locations (with third party property maintenance), we are unable to assess the effectiveness of our waste reduction/diversion strategies, but we are committed to achieve ongoing reductions. BMIR’s use of business paper comprises both copies produced for internal consumption as well as revenue-generating copies produced to support client activities. BMIR’s use of business paper varies considerably with business volumes in our investor relations and reporting practices. Although we cannot therefore measure the impact of our business paper waste reduction/diversion initiatives, we remain committed to minimizing our internal use as both environmentally sound business and a reflection of best practices. 8 Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Any company’s greatest asset is its reputation for honesty, integrity and fair dealing. BMIR is an MDC Partner company, which imposes the obligations and duties of public ownership on our operations, including setting and maintaining clear standards for honest and ethical conduct. These obligations include policies, procedures and compliance mechanisms to prevent corrupt business behaviors, as well as reporting and remediation processes. Implementation BMIR’s anti-corruption principles are implemented through a formal Code of Conduct, which is updated regularly and distributed to all employees annually. Employees are required to read the Code of Conduct and acknowledge their personal responsibility for conducting themselves in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Compliance is monitored. Our Code of Conduct seeks to prevent corrupt behaviors by addressing the conduct of its directors, officers and employees through a number of targeted policies. Among other subjects, these policies include direction on: Compliance with applicable laws Conflicts of interest Confidential information Disclosures Protection and use of company assets Acceptable use of company information technology assets Insider trading Whistleblower hotline and reporting 9 Workplace harassment and violence In addition, BMIR’s financial management and control systems have been designed and implemented to provide formal assurance of accuracy and fairness in reporting and presentation. Our parent company’s financial management and control systems meet public company standards, and its financial records and reporting are subject to annual independent audit. Measurement of Outcomes BMIR’s senior management is responsible for ensuring that the company’s operations remain free from corrupt practices. They affirm that BMIR has not been involved in any activities related to corrupt business practices. 10
