Building on engagement 2012 Summary Sustainability Report Our Purpose We provide industrial solutions globally, by developing and transforming natural resources into value-creating products Profile We are a global diversified minerals and materials group, providing industrial solutions based on natural resources, to serve a wide range of industrial applications in the global markets of metallurgy, construction and foundry and in various specialty niche sectors. Through mining and processing operations, we utilize the multiple properties of industrial minerals to transform our mineral-based product portfolio into industrial customized solutions that enhance the production processes of our customers and increase end-product performance. We have a wellbalanced international presence with diverse operations in 21 countries across the geographic regions of North Europe, South Europe, Americas and Asia/Pacific. Industrial Minerals have always been at the center of our near 80-year history, which has seen S&B grow into an international group of more than 40 companies with sales in more than 80 countries across the globe. Our unique Market-to-Mine model coupled with our professional and responsible conduct towards society and the environment, provide the basis for continued sustainable development. Contents S&B at a glance Management Letter 2 Our Markets 4 Our Approach to Sustainability 6 People 8 Health & Safety 12 Environment 16 Social Contribution 20 Goals & Performance Building on engagement 2012 Summary Sustainability Report S&B at a glance Region Countries 2012 Sales Headcount Number of asset locations in € million Mines Processing Distribution plants centers Americas Canada, USA, Brazil, Mexico 108 393 6 13 6 North Europe Belgium, France, Germany, 210.5 530 2 13 11 Hungary, Netherlands, Poland, UK South Europe Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Italy, 124.4 886 20 16 6 Morocco, Spain, Turkey Asia / Pacific China, India, South Korea 27.3 274 2 7 4 2012 Sales by type of operation by geographic region (3rd party sales) North Europe Asia/Pacific 45% 6% Downstream Upstream South Europe Americas 65% 35% 26% 23% by end-market application • Foundry 25% • Drilling 5% • Continuous steel casting 22% • Horticulture 3% • Construction & building • Refractories 2% materials 11% • Pet litter absorbents 2% • Iron ore pelletizing 6% • Cement industry 2% • Civil engineering 6% • Plastics 2% • Alumina 5% • Other 4% • Glass & ceramics 5% Sales EBITDA Net Debt Net Capex / Sales S&B at a glance ▲ in € million in € million in € million 500 456 456 470 80 71 250 10 9.0% 8.8% 420 68 70 65 203 400 60 200 8 60 178 336 6.6% 6.6% 50 5.8% 300 150 132 6 39 122 113 40 200 30 100 4 20 100 50 2 10 0 0 0 0 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’08 ‘09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 S&B Group headquarters For S&B, 2012 was a year of improved operational and financial performance against a global backdrop of significant social and economic challenges. Compared to 2011, S&B’s sales grew by 0.9%, while operating profit increased by 13.4% on a comparable basis. Given the marked slowdown in industrial activity in the second half of the year, as sluggish automotive manufacturing and weakness in European construction impacted demand, the operating profit expansion reflects S&B’s institutional resilience and managerial strength. In addition to boosting sales and profit, we further strengthened the Group’s financial position by successfully refinancing our debt obligations in their entirety, despite very tight credit conditions. 2012 also saw the acquisition of NYCO in the United States – a strategic move that further enlarges our Group vision. This endeavor allows S&B to extend its Market-to-Mine philosophy to new locations, new products, and attractive, high-value, end-market applications. 2012 was also a year that saw us roll out and implement our sustainability vision and strategy. Our work focused on three key areas: cascading our sustainability vision and strategy throughout our global organization; focusing on specific targets to manage a number of ongoing issues; and reinforcing our internal sustainability reporting. 2 S&B Industrial Minerals Management Letter We are proud of our accomplishments in this area and will uct mix processed by our North European plants. We intend redouble our efforts to progress even further. to proceed with achieving our 2014 energy efficiency targets, and we are encouraged by the growing number of energy efWe were not able to meet our “zero accidents” target in 2012, ficiency initiatives across the group. and have shifted our focus to accident investigation with the communication of corrective actions elevated to the CEO A sample of our initiatives from Germany and Bulgaria, showlevel, since a relatively high percentage of incidents was found cased in this report, leaves us confident that our concerted to be associated with occupational ergonomics. A Group-wide efforts will lead to timely success. This confidence is further Ergonomics Initiative will be launched in 2013, combined with reinforced by the 2012 “IMA – Europe Recognition Award on reinforcing our management safety visits and safety baromResource Efficiency”, given to S&B in November 2012. This eter tools. prestigious award recognizes our success in reducing overall energy consumption and CO2 emissions during the pre-drying The implementation of S&B’s sustainability agenda could not process for bentonite on Milos island by exploiting natural be possible without the involvement and commitment of our climatic conditions. people worldwide. We are also particularly proud to have surpassed our target During 2012, S&B conducted its most extensive Employee for creating additional revenue from exploiting waste streams. Survey to date, with the participation of employees from Our RIKO patented technology was exclusively licensed and our operations in Brazil, Bulgaria, China, France, Germany, further developed in 2012. With this technology, we transform Greece, Italy, India and the USA. According to the survey’s green sand extraction dust, traditionally sent to landfill, into encouraging results, S&B continues to rank in the top third reusable and value creating products. among the global benchmark of companies. The survey reaffirmed a very high level of employee engagement in terms of For 2013 we aim to further improve the accuracy and relgeneral satisfaction with their employment, their recommendaevance of Sustainability data. tion of the company to others, their team motivation levels, and their perception of the company’s market strength. Given the present difficulties of the economic environment, we believe that only by facing challenges head-on and conducting Of all our Social Contribution initiatives in 2012, we are most a constructive multi-stakeholder dialogue, we can optimize proud of our “live brighter” Group Volunteerism Annual Initiamultilateral gains. We meet these challenges with our ongoing tive, over and above local social contribution actions. Working pursuit of progress in all our operations, through extensive in 26 different facilities in 9 countries in Europe, the United monitoring and effective auditing practices. We also need States and Asia, our volunteers joined forces to address more strategic focus on those sustainability issues that have health and poverty issues by organizing local events around the greatest potential to create value. blood-drives and in-kind donations. This year’s report provides an overview of our sustainability Our commitment to sustainability is also reflected in our support stories, addressing some of the most relevant challenges of global initiatives such as the UN Global Compact and our and commitments assumed by the global S&B community. ongoing work on projects like the European Innovation PartnerWe are proud to share our stories and hope they will provide ship on Raw Materials and the Industrial Minerals Roadmap. inspiration to all our people and stakeholders in pursuing our common goals. During 2012 we reinforced our internal sustainability reporting by establishing a Sustainability Quarterly Report for each Given the uncertain climate for the global economy, we are facility, consolidated at regional and group level, to monitor cautiously optimistic that our performance, and results, will performance against established goals and targets. continue to improve. Our targets are ambitious yet realistic, and our resolve is steadfast. We are satisfied with the progress made on dust controls since relevant measurements showed that our emissions were Ulysses P. Kyriacopoulos significantly lower than the permissible regulatory limits in Chairman of the Board most jurisdictions. Kriton Anavlavis However, progress on our energy consumption targets was Chief Executive Officer slower than expected, principally due to changes in the prod2012 Summary Sustainability Report 3 Our NYCO wollastonite for longer-lasting coatings Metallurgy S&B serves the metallurgy market along the whole metal production chain, from raw materials through to the casting of the final products. S&B products and solutions are used in the production of iron, steel, alumina and other metals. Alumina Production Blast Furnace Additives Covering Compounds Iron Ore Pelletizing Metallurgical Active Slags Refractory Materials Steel Casting Fluxes Foundry Within the foundry market, S&B has a long tradition as a supplier of bentonite and coal-blends and application technology to the green sand-moulding segment. From that base, a range of products and solutions have been developed for core-making and other casting processes. Accessories Core Sand Additives Inorganic Core Binders Moulding Sand Binders 4 S&B Industrial Minerals Our Markets Construction Within the construction market, S&B serves a large number of segments with solutions and products used in large infrastructure projects, in foundations and drilling, as well as in commercial and residential buildings. Additives for Cements Bulk Building Materials Civil Engineering Cryogenics Formed Building Products Landfill & Sealing Liners Mineral Wool Proppants Super Pozzolans Well-drilling muds Specialties Beyond the metallurgy, foundry and construction markets, S&B serves a wide range of specialties market applications, where minerals and mineral-based solutions are used to enhance production processes of its customers and increase end-product performance. Animal Feed Additives Fillers Filter Aids Glass and Ceramics Horticultural Applications Paper Manufacturing Pet-litter Absorbents Phosphate Production Additive Waste Water Treatment 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 5 Every employee of S&B will personally contribute every year to our sustainability Milos island flora targets At S&B we provide value to our customers and to society In all we do, we consider the long-term and short-term impacts through our products and solutions. of our operations and products on our customers, suppliers, and employees; the local and global environment; and Sustainability is an approach on how we conduct our busithe communities in which we operate. This necessitates that ness, which: we communicate openly and engage constructively with our • supports the achievement of our business objectives and stakeholders, and that we prepare our employees for the nu• incorporates stakeholders’ needs and aspirations. merous challenges our business is facing now and may face in the future. Vision & Governance Materiality through Commitments Monitoring Engagement & Standards & Accountability We have in place a governWe revisited our material We endorse public commitWe monitor our Group susance system and framework, issues in early 2012. Our asment and key initiatives, printainability performance on a aimed at ensuring that Sussessment involved identificaciples, voluntary agreements quarterly basis against goals tainability goals and praction of issues affecting our and codes driving Sustainand targets set. Our public tices are managed according business and its stakeholdability best practice today, annual report follows global to the Sustainability vision of ers over the next three years complemented by the parvoluntary standards (Global the Group, all the way up to and their prioritization conticipation of S&B executives Reporting Initiative) and is top management and Board sidering internal and external in their governance bodies or available in full on-line. of Directors level. perspectives according to key working groups. a participatory systematic methodology. 6 S&B Industrial Minerals Our Approach to Sustainability Rolling out our Sustainability Strategy In 2012, our Sustainability Vision “Every employee of S&B will personally contribute every year to our sustainability targets” has evolved into a distinct Sustainability strategy, with target-setting and a cascading process throughout our organization and facilities worldwide. Our personal responsibility and commitment towards our Sustainability vision is managed, monitored and ensured in this way. January 2012 • Sustainability Vision formed Executive • Sustainable Development defined Team • Material issues identified • Priorities set Workshop February 2012 • Material issues and priorities refined by 46 Managers representing Regions, Management Facilities and Functions Workshop • Sustainability Goals & Targets set • Group Sustainability Steering Committee created March 2012 onwards • Group Sustainability Steering Committee refines Sustainability targets Cascading • Facility Managers (with Regional overview) cascade targets to Facilities to operations and define relevant action plans • Internal reporting procedures established & Functions March 2012 onwards • Sustainability individual goals created and integrated into individual Creating performance appraisal Accountability • Quarterly Sustainability Reporting published per facility and consolidated to Regional and Group level • Sustainability goals addressed in 5-year Business Plan The outcome of the process is the breakdown of the four strategic sustainability pillars’ (People, Health & Safety, Environment, Social Contribution) strategic intents into 20 time-bound goals and respective targets spanning our social, economic and environmental performance across the Group. This is achieved through the assignment of tasks per department and per individual also included in their performance appraisal evaluation processes. People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution We will be considered a We strive to achieve zero We improve ours and our We build goodwill capital and great place to work in our accidents and continuously customers’ environmental relationships in every comsector improve our working environfootprint (waste/energy/ munity based on the social ment land) relevance of our operations 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 7 We will be considered a great place to work On location: Kardjali, Bulgaria in our sector Our approach We aspire to be considered a “Great place to work in our sector” and in the areas we operate, providing a fulfilling working environment. Through sustainable human resources practices we aim to develop our people to meet the challenges ahead and attain organizational excellence meeting or even exceeding the expectations of our stakeholders. Our target is to attract and further develop talented employees who possess the desired competencies and capabilities to successfully pursue our Vision, to instill fresh ideas and different perspectives in the organization and to live our Values fully. Our comprehensive Human Resources Management systems including Recruitment and On-boarding, Performance and Talent Management, Reward & Benefits Management, form a solid base and a common set of principles which create a sense of community and forge bonds across S&B. 8 S&B Industrial Minerals People Operational highlights Embedding the New Organizational Shape In 2012, the primary goal was to assist our people to comprethe globe. We focused a lot on taking value from our diversity, hend their new matrix structure roles, and build necessary developing further our communication, influencing skills and skills and competencies. Team working, cross-functional and networking capabilities, as well as nurturing a sense of “comcross-regional projects and many workshops were organized mon ownership” to achieve our goals. to share knowledge and insights with colleagues from around People in Numbers Americas (393) South Europe (886) North Europe (530) Asia / Pacific (274) USA (332), Brazil (61) Greece (597), Bulgaria (182), Germany (378), France (38), China (126), India (68), Italy (49), Spain (13), Hungary (13), Netherlands (101) South Korea (80) Turkey (16), Georgia (24), Morocco (5) South Korea and the Netherlands activities are not managed by S&B. The S&B Group has a 50% participation in their ownership and participates in their BoD. However, their headcount is included in our total workforce and this number is used in all calculations of labor indices included in this section. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 9 Global integration Another priority in the corporate agenda during 2012 was process will be fully actualized in 2013. In addition, integration to enhance our presence and strengthen our organizational of the NYCO acquisition in late 2012 into the Americas Region structure in specific regions around the world. With this intent has already begun, a Region where our presence has grown we worked towards integrating employees from China, India, bigger and stronger. Brazil and Italy into the S&B Human Resources systems. This Training by Category Collection of training data from all S&B locations worldwide excluding Georgia, Morocco, was uniform in 2012 amounting to about 55,053 hours of trainNetherlands and Korea ing from all Group facilities. This figure corresponds to approximately 31.6 hours of training per trained employee, and to 29.1 Information Technology hours of training per employee against the total workforce. 1.4% Operations Languages 48.4% 3.3% EHSQ Management 32.2% 14.7% In the spotlight Review of Performance & Talent Management Systems 2012 marked the review of S&B’s Performance Management Complementary to our Performance Management System, System conducted with the involvement of employees from all and as our future growth strategy sets an imperative agenda levels participating through workshops and focused interviews. for boosting our talent pipeline, we have reviewed our talent Highlights of the changes are: management process. The S&B talent management system aims to identify people’s potential, safeguard critical business • Higher involvement of the Appraisee through self-assessment capabilities by focusing on succession efforts on the most critiand feedback to the Supervisor cal business areas and accelerate talent development. • New umbrella of competencies with explanatory behaviors • Emphasis on Feedback with a mid-year and an annual official feedback process • More focused Development Plan with consistent Follow-up 10 S&B Industrial Minerals Creating a Learning Environment During 2012 we reviewed our learning approach placing extra emphasis to on-the-job experience and cross-functional assignments. On the job Being a global company we provide unique opportunities to Experiences our people for international assignments allowing them to • InternationalAssignments Feedback enrich their experiences, develop cross-cultural awareness and acquire a global mindset. Several projects run in various • Cross-functionalprojects Mentoring parts of our operations with people from different Regions and • RotationalExperiences Coaching functions offering them the opportunity to enrich their skills and enhance collaboration and knowledge sharing. In 2012 about 50 employees with supervisory responsibility went through our S&B-tailored “Managing People” training conTraining ducted in Greece, Germany and the US. In light of our reviewed activities Performance Management System 140 employees with supervisory responsibilities up to senior management attended a series of training and coaching sessions on “How to offer effective Feedback”. Our aim is to promote a feedback culture that builds since then every year with Mentors and Mentees from our efficient relations between managers and their teams. operations around the world. The program has been recently enriched by the Solution-Focused Mentoring concept, a new Mentoring is also a key piece of our efforts in building a learncutting-edge development in Mentoring and Coaching that ing environment. Initiated back in 2007, it has been running focuses on simplicity and solutions. 2012 Global Employee Engagement Survey In 2012 the fourth and most international Employee Engagement Survey was conducted within S&B. The survey ran in Brazil, Bulgaria, China, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, India and the USA plus S&B’s joint venture employees in Korea and the Employee Netherlands. The participation rate was extremely high as 84% Survey 2012 of employees asked responded, which equals to 1,400 S&B colleagues. Overall results have been very positive reaffirming a high level of employee engagement. S&B is once again positioned at the top one third of the worldwide benchmark of confidence in S&B’s top management and future direction, as companies in the Industry Products & Services Sector. well as trust in the company’s ability to adapt to change. In addition, the company’s commitment in health & safety standards, The main strengths of the organization were expressed in environmental issues, social engagement and working towards people’s feeling of pride for working at S&B, a strong belief and clear goals received very positive evaluations. Employee Engagement in our Regions Particularly in Germany, the Employee Survey results triggered a In the US, team building activities at each location were conparticipative process which was cascaded top-down to production ducted as per the Employee Engagement Survey Action Plan. sites with the aim to identify and address improvement areas. The Team building training sessions took place at 8 US locations process was initiated with a Diagnosis session to identify improvewith the participation of all employees. In parallel, the survey ment areas followed by an Executive Committee workshop to action plans were reviewed and new items were added as apassign these to specific teams. Each team’s work will be followed propriate. up on a regular basis. In addition, six Employee Workshops took place at each production site involving employees from all working areas and aiming to elaborate on site-specific topics. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 11 年雇员调查 We strive to achieve zero accidents and continuously improve our working Machinery maintenance environment Our approach Our approach to Health & Safety is to encourage safe behavior in all our employees and contractors and minimize or eliminate occupational health hazards. A comprehensive framework of Health & Safety is reflected in our Corporate Policy of Quality, Environment and Health and Safety. Our ultimate goal is to achieve zero accidents creating an environment of proactive risk management to workers’ health and safety. Certification per OHSAS 18001 is in progress at all Facilities. Apart from obtaining certification, the development of certified H&S management systems across all our operations ensures that their principles, standards and systems are implemented by all our employees. 12 S&B Industrial Minerals Health & Safety Operational highlights Safety Performance The Group’s accident severity rate (SR) was slightly decreased by 2.5%, but no decrease was noted in the frequency rate (FR) during 2012 for reasons that vary across the Group’s facilities. Lost Time Accidents Frequency & Severity Rate Total Group 450 14 400 12 350 Frequency Rate 10 Severity Rate 300 250 8 200 6 150 4 100 50 2 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Severity Rate Frequency Rate (LTA only) Safety Behavior Improvement Near Miss Incident Reporting Despite expansion of proactive “behavior improvement” safety Near miss reports increased by 26% in 2012 compared to practices (including on site management safety visits, safety 2011, although the increase is not uniform across all Regions. barometers) at all facilities in North and South Europe and parFocused “near miss reporting” training for facilities lagging tially in the Americas, the implementation quantity and quality behind shall be carried out in 2013. wise was below targets set. A high percentage (almost 50%) of incidents in 2012 was found to be related with occupational ergonomics, following assessment of the causes of all incidents. For that reason an Ergonomics Initiative is launched in 2013 aiming to mapping job activities associated with musculoskeletal risk, training of the employees in risk identification and initiation of improvement actions. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 13 Dust Dust exposure mapping Respirable dust exposure mapping covered 88% of all S&B % exposed above 0.8x legislation limit and supervised contractors employees in 2012. Dust generated from mining, processing and handling of S&B’s products 100 91% 91% 98% 88% poses a potential impact to worker’s health, especially as 80 pertains to the respirable fraction of dust, so measurements 60 58% are carried out regularly and good practices are followed 40 according to strict standards. Monitoring showed that 10% of 20 11% 12% 10% employees exceeded the target set, i.e. 20% below the local 3% 3% 0 legislation limit; it is expected that this target will be achieved Group South Europe North Europe Americas Asia / Pacific as scheduled, that is before end 2014. Dust exposure mapping, % % exposed above 0.8x legislation limit Health & Safety Training Man-hours Number of S&B and Average man-hours Contractors Employees training / employee (S&B and supervised contractors) South Europe 7,416 1,281 56 North Europe 2,610 450 15 Americas 3,075 252 27 Asia / Pacific 1,016 253 16 Group 14,117 2,236 40 Product Safety Safety in the use and disposal of our products is ensured that provides all necessary details for its safe use, handling by the strict adherence to guidance and regulations for their and disposal. We are in compliance with REACH and CLP proper handling, transport, use, storage and disposal. Every regulations for the entire S&B Group products in EU and with product sold (bentonite, perlite, wollastonite, continuous castrelevant legislation in other jurisdictions. ing fluxes etc.) is accompanied by a safety data sheet (SDS) 14 S&B Industrial Minerals In the spotlight Health & Safety Campaign in Germany One of our Sustainability goals concerns the establishment of an annual Health & Safety week and a Health & Safety campaign at each facility worldwide. Good progress was made in all our German facilities during 2012 enjoying high employee participation. In Marl Sinsen & Marl Brassert the H&S week was organized first, serving as a pilot for the rest of the German plants, with great success. H&S-related activities adapted to each facility’s size and needs, were also deployed in Oberhausen, Essen, Oelsnitz, Mannheim, Landshut and Neuss often combined with a H&S campaign. Health & Safety Week in the USA S&B North America held its 1st Annual Health and Safety Awareness Week in October 2012. The week included various activities starting off with hands-on Fire Extinguisher Training, followed by ergonomics in the workplace tips and safety suggestion contests. Annual physicals, routine blood work and advice for steps to a healthier life and dental care, complemented by company assistance programs, were offered on the health aspect. Thorough Incident Investigation and Communication A practice was initiated in 2012 that mandates investigation of all Lost Time Accidents by top management within 5 working days from the incident date, irrespectively of the investigation made at the facility where an incident occurs. Investigation participants include all levels of hierarchy and functions involved, from General Manager to foreman. Discussion is focused on causes and corrective-preventive actions, and conclusions are communicated to the CEO. The practice has proven very useful, demonstrating among others the top management commitment to safety. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 15 We improve ours and our customers’ environmental S&B’s Milos plant nursery: Young Milos Cedar trees footprint Our approach We work systematically and effectively to protect, preserve and rehabilitate affected areas and to mitigate the potentially adverse impact of our mining operations. Moreover, we are constantly pursuing the mitigation of environmental impacts related to processing activities. We also invest in the development of innovative new products and applications that improve the environmental performance of our activities and those of our customers. We have formulated our environmental strategy on the fundamental principle of prevention or minimization of environmental impact dictated in our Corporate Policy for Quality, Environment and Health & Safety. Our goal is that all our facilities are certified per the environmental management system standard ISO 14001, by the end of 2014. Currently, facilities where 80% of products are produced are certified per above standard covering 64% of S&B and supervised contractors’ employees. 16 S&B Industrial Minerals Environment Operational highlights Land Reclamation The S&B Group operates mainly open cast mines but also three S&B Group, Surface area in use underground mines in several locations around the world. The per country (2012) Egyhazaskeszo, major part of S&B’s mining activity is located in Greece (Fokis Hungary & Milos island). The S&B Group is committed to implement best practices in land reclamation everywhere it operates. Milos & Fokis, Greece 1% 64% Huanyu, China In Greece, where the major part of S&B’s mining activity is located: Aberdeen, 1% USA • Already 51% of the total affected area has been reclaimed Sardinia, Italy • Of the remaining 49%, 44% is still in use for mining purposes 25% 3% and only 5% is currently available for restoration Landshut, Kardjali, Germany Bulgaria 3% 3% Land Reclamation of affected areas in the S&B Group per Region (2012) (in hectares) South Europe North Europe Americas Asia-Pacific New areas brought into use in 2012 18 4 0 0 Total area in use end of 2012 514 33 188 6 Reclamation of affected areas in 2012 203 2 137 0 Reclamation of affected areas since the beginning of the activity 350 32 25 0 Biodiversity Management S&B is aware of the importance of protection and management nurseries, on-going research & development) have been chanof biodiversity, not only in the areas under its management but neled to reclamation works. As per the target set a few years also of the protection and preservation of the natural environback, today no foreign plant species are used in our Milos and ment in general. Substantial know-how has been developed in Fokis reclamation works. This means, however, that we are conFokis and Milos and important investments in human resources stantly researching local new plant species not only to improve (dedicated Land Reclamation departments with experienced reclamation end results, but also to ensure that we can produce foresters) as well as infrastructure work (company-owned plant these plants each year in our nurseries in large scale. Dust A significant environmental as well as H&S related issue for the and prevent disturbance to neighboring local communities. Dust S&B Group is combating dust emissions generated from raw mamapping at our operations during 2012 progressed and covered terials handling and processing. We measure, control and reduce 97% of the Group’s facilities. 93% of dust measurements were dust emissions to air to improve the occupational environment found to be within the target set at the beginning of 2012. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 17 Waste Mineral waste constitutes the greater volume of S&B’s waste Of equal importance are the coordinated efforts of recent and is mainly overburden (inert) from extraction activities. years to gain value from waste. Many of our facilities in recent During 2012, the total production of mineral waste (overburden years have quantified the saleable mineral waste products and and minerals processing waste) amounted to 2,647,664 m³ are returning profits from former waste streams. The utilization from Greece and to 229,618 m³ from the rest of S&B Group and exploitation of reusable materials and by-products from mining and processing activities. 61% of overburden produced other industries for the production of new products is signifiin Greek extraction activities (Milos and Fokis) was used to cant in all our Continuous Casting Fluxes (CCF) operations refill old excavations and underground depleted mines in reclaaround the world. Approximately 10 out of the 45 ingredients mation works. normally used in the product formulation of continuous casting fluxes are based on such materials, which in 2012 represented on average 20% of total input materials used. Energy Energy consumption per MT The S&B Group’s activities are not energy intensive. S&B, however, is particularly sensitive to issues regarding energy 1400 -9.45% consumption, as much in response to the problem of climate 1200 change, due to greenhouse gases emissions, and because en1000 +0.76% +16.32% 800 ergy cost constitutes a significant portion of total production 600 +0.80% -2.21% cost. The Group energy consumption reduction target was not 400 200 achieved during 2012 and even though the objective aims for 0 2014, we will intensify our efforts towards achieving it in the Group South Europe North Europe Americas Asia / Pacific interim, as well. 2011, MJ/MT 2012, MJ/MT Water Water consumption in the mining operations of S&B pertains Water consumption to sprinkling the roads used for transportation of the com(m3/MT) pany’s raw materials, in order to reduce dust emissions, slurry preparation for certain processes, beneficiation of bauxite 0.5 and cooling of equipment in certain processing stages. We +0.21% 0.4 are committed to the sustainable management of the water 0.3 resources, its conservation and protection. The target was not +0.25% +0.04% 0.2 +0.19% achieved mainly because of increased water consumpion at -0.01% 0.1 Fokis bauxite operations in Greece. 2012 was a year of prepa0.0 ration, as a lot of work on water consumption mapping was Group South Europe North Europe Americas Asia / Pacific carried out to identify areas for improvement in coming years. 3 2011, water m /MT 3 2012, water m /MT Materials Stewardship The S&B Group is a supplier of mineral raw materials extractduction, use, recycling and final disposal may have to human ed from its mines and of products tailored to various industrial health and the natural environment, i.e. the total “footprint” applications. Responsibility for our products means underthroughout their lifecycle. It also means improving our client’s standing and efficiently managing the impact that their prosustainability performance, where possible. 18 S&B Industrial Minerals In the spotlight New Plant Species Produced for use in Land Reclamation Milos During 2012 the deciduous tree Pyrus amygdaliformis thorns, and propagates not only with seeds but also with growing on Milos and the rest of Greece was successfully underground side-ways grafts. produced in large scale in our local plant nursery and used in reclamation works. We have been researching this plant Fokis During 2012, four new plant species were reproduced for years in our continuous quest for tree species, which are successfully in our Fokis plant nursery to be used in our few on Milos, but much needed for a good reclamation result. reclamation works. These were: Wild rose (Rosa sp), Pyrus Moreover, the plant is resistant to grazing since it grows amygdaliformis, Pistacia terebinthus and Fraxinus ornus. Recognition Award on Resource Efficiency S&B received the IMA-Europe 2012 Recognition Award about a practice that illustrates how the company has succeeded in reducing overall energy consumption by exploiting Milos island climate conditions for bentonite pre-drying. In comparison to industrial drying, adoption of sun-drying results in approximately 35% savings, reducing not only fuel consumption, but also CO2 emissions by 24,000 ΜΤ, annually. S&B is proceeding with the transfer of this know-how to other Group production facilities. Read about our Bulgarian facility online. Transforming Waste to Product In keeping with S&B sustainability goals for product development, RIKO patented technology was exclusively licensed and developed further during 2012. Green sand extraction dust, traditionally sent to landfill, is transformed into reusable and value-creating products. The RIKO process separates the component parts of the dust into bentonite, carbon, silica sand and inert fines (waste). The benefits for the foundries and the industry are multiple, with reduced waste disposal costs to landfill, in an environment where the availability of disposal sites is becoming scarce with ever increasing costs. Savings of dry bond procurement and additions at the foundry are realised with subsequent conservation of valuable mineral resources. Foundry processes are improved with optimized green sand performance and lower casting rejects. During 2012 the RIKO pilot plant was established in Burbank, Ohio. Trials with customers are on-going. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 19 We build goodwill capital and relationships in every community based on the so“Full house” for S&B colleagues in Spain cial relevance of our operaparticipating in Global Volunteerism Initiative 2012 tions Our approach The S&B Group directly operates and manages mines, plants, processing units, laboratories and distribution centers in 15 countries worldwide. Our local community relations and contribution is based on a comprehensive understanding of community needs versus our relative size and impact. Our Social Policy, therefore, is based on an evaluation methodology that takes stock of our social relevance at each area where we operate and of our stakeholder needs. During 2012 we re-evaluated our social relevance for all facilities worldwide and ensured that those with high social impact have rigorous Social Contribution Plans in place. This new approach will assist us in effectively engaging with our key local stakeholder groups, shaping further our strategy and truly enhancing our legacy. 20 S&B Industrial Minerals Social Contribution Operational highlights Socio-economic Contribution In 2012, S&B’s global sales revenues were €470.2 million and In 2012, S&B businesses developed activities covering a wide its operating profit €38.7 million. Employee payments in comrange of areas including Community Development, Volunteerpensation and benefits reached €72.4 million, and payments ism & Donations and People Empowerment. Overall, we spent to the State (taxes and duties) & social contribution was €28.6 €1.29 million on social contribution with the majority directed to million. €324.3 million was paid to suppliers of all kinds. areas where our activity has a high social impact i.e. Greece. Community Development From the creation and operation of infrastructure works that promote the cultural and industrial heritage of the areas in which we are involved, to active educational and cultural programs development and even more sophisticated shared value initiatives such as developing and promoting sustainable tourism, we believe in the power of partnerships and we embark into multi-stakeholder collaborations and initiatives when possible. This way, our projects are the appropriate answer to the concerns, aspirations and needs of the local communities. We focus on: • Local Infrastructure: technical and financial support • Cultural and Industrial heritage • Organization of International Days and Events Volunteerism & Donations People Empowerment Our main goal is to contribute to society needs in the most As a Group, we firmly believe in the training and education appropriate manner through a collective and participatory of our people and in assisting them to fulfill their maximum process with multiple positive results. We focus on: potential. We apply those principles in the communities we operate, assisting through established scholarship schemes, • Local and Global volunteer initiatives educational programs targeting the young and participation of • Philanthropy and Causes endorsement our own employees in training others. We focus on: • Educational activities • Scholarships and training programs 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 21 In the spotlight “live brighter” Volunteerism Initiative The S&B Group Volunteerism initiative, newly established in 2012, aims at actively involving S&B people in a common cause to help local communities and society across the world regions we operate in. The final objective is to create awareness, mobilize and engage our workforce into community issues but, in such a way as to increase our positive social impact and multiply our social contribution. The initiative was embraced by colleagues around the globe. 26 different facilities in 9 countries from Europe, USA and Asia joined forces towards a common cause: address health and poverty by organizing local events around blood drives and in-kind donations, like food or clothes, to charitable organizations. With the motto “live brighter”, S&B’s Global Volunteerism had a successful 2012 inauguration. Germany Hungary Mannheim Neuss Essen Marl Oberhausen Oelsnitz Landshut Egyhazaskeszo USA Waterloo, IA China Jilin Niagara Falls, NY Burbank, OH India Cincinnati, OH Durgapur Birmingham, AL Aberdeen, MS Morganton, NC Brunswick, GA Vero Beach, FL El Ejido Οlmedo Monte Sparau Fokis Athens Milos Kardjali Spain Italy Greece Bulgaria Americas North Europe South Europe Asia / Pacific Blood drive City / Country In kind donation City / Country 22 S&B Industrial Minerals Social Contribution in Greece Cash Contribution Donations (Milos, Fokis) to Milos Municipality 54.4% 16.6% €1.22 million Milos Mining Museum, Milos Conference Center, Donations (rest of Greece) Fokis Mining Park 13.5% 15.5% With the Greek economy still in deep recession and various soemployees, with total payments in compensation and benefits cietal negative consequences, S&B’s contribution to the national amounting to €28 million. Payments to suppliers in Greece economy and to the local economies of Milos and Fokis, where amounted to €96 million, with almost half directed to Milos and our mining and production facilities are located, remains not Fokis local communities. Payments to the state for taxes and only significant, but also vital. At the end of 2012 our operations duties, as well as social contribution totaled €7.3 million. in Greece employed 597 direct and an additional 292 indirect Miloterranean Geo Experience Since the very early years of its activity in Milos (Greece), S&B has engaged in social activity with a large amount of its annual Social Contribution directed to this local community. Mining and tourism are economic activities that can go hand-in-hand for the benefit of Milos’ local economy. Milos has been the living example of such a fruitful and sustainable symbiosis for many years now. In 2012, and within the framework of S&B’s Sustainable Development strategy, S&B sponsored the development of MILOTERwww.miloterranean.gr RANEAN, a project aimed to help the further development of the island’s tourism. MILOTERRANEAN Geo Experience (www. miloterranean.gr) caters to the inquisitive traveler’s desire to discover the multifaceted beauty of the Greek islands’ Milos and Kimolos landscape and volcanic origin. Maps with detailed routes complemented by concise text, guide the visitor’s discovery of the island’s unique geology, wealth of mining history and present, and its beautiful natural environment; a so-far “secret” Milos is revealed. Geologists, mining engineers, foresters, cartographers and historians combine their expertise and insights to take the visitor on an unprecedented journey to this Cycladic scenery. MILOTERRANEAN aims to attract visitors that seek a unique nature geo-experience beyond a typical Greek-island vacation. MILOTERRANEAN is not a commercial project in itself, but a “product” to be embraced by the local tourism professionals. It aspires to place Milos on the map of unique global destinations promoting all aspects of the island’s past and present. 2012 Summary Sustainability Report 23 Our Values Integrity We keep our promises Respect for People We foster the development of our people within a culture of mutual trust and respect Safety We secure safe working conditions and we all behave accordingly Customer Intimacy We strive to understand our customers’ needs contributing to their future aspirations Social Responsibility We contribute to economic development while sustaining our natural and social environment The full 2012 Sustainability Report is available online http://reports.sandb.com/2012/ http://www.linkedin.com/company/s-and-b http://www.youtube.com/user/SandBIndMin Goals & Performance Goals and targets Performance In 2012 trends Health & Safety: We strive to achieve zero accidents and continuously improve our working environment Ultimate goal to achieve zero accidents – Group’s Severity Rate was slightly decreased by 2.5%, but no decrease was noted in the Group’s Frequency Rate during 2012 Certify all facilities* per OHSAS 18001 Health ▲ 1 facility in South Europe Region has passed certification audit await& Safety management system standard (by ing official certification and a second one in Americas Region has end 2014) passed certification pre-audit per OHSAS 18001. Gap analysis per above standard implemented in South & North Europe Regions. Expand implementation of proactive safety ▲ During 2012 implementation expanded to all facilities in South practices. Implement Management Safety and North Europe Regions and partially in Americas Region where Visits practice (specific methodology) at nevertheless training has been completed. mines and processing plants (by end 2013) Improve working environment: ▲ Exposure dust mapping covered 88% of all S&B and supervised Targeting dust dose on each employee 20% contractors employees, 10% exceeding the target set. below thresholds of local regulations (by end Noise mapping covered 87% of employees. 2014). Targeting 8 hours noise exposure level in working environment at all production/processing facilities below 85dBA (by end 2013). Safety training of all S&B and supervised ▲ Target achieved at all facilities contractors employees – 4hours/year Environment: We improve ours and our customers’ environmental footprint (waste/energy/land) Certify all operations* per ISO 14001 environ▲ One Facility successfully passed the audit in Feb 2012. Gap analysis Goals & Performance ▼ mental management system standard (by end performed in most Group facilities. Currently facilities where 80% of 2014) products are produced are certified. Reduce net water consumption in all Group ▼ Declining trend, mainly because of increased utilization of bauxite facilities by 5%/MT of product in 3 years beneficiation plant at Itea facility, Greece Reduce energy consumption in all Group ▼ Declining trend attributed to product mix and reduced utilization of facilities by 5%/MT of product in 3 years Facilities in North Europe Region Dust emissions to be at least -20% vs permis▲ Mapping covered 97% of the Group facilities, 93% of which are within sible limits set by local legislation (by end the target set 2014). Group additional (new/new) revenues will ▲ The target set to achieve by end 2014 10% of Group additional be coming from exploiting the value of waste (new/new) revenues from exploiting the value of waste streams was streams (by end 2014) achieved and the new target was raised to 25% Goals and targets Performance In 2012 trends People: We will be considered a great place to work in our sector Align HR systems and practices across the ▲ • Integration of HR systems in China, India, Brazil and Italy Group (by end 2014) • New Group HR policies introduced Enhance collaboration ▲ • Actions initiated as per Global Employee Engagement Survey • Various workshops organized bringing together colleagues from operations around the world Strengthen training ▲ • Emphasis on on-the-job projects and cross-functional assignments • Effective feedback training with participation of about 140 employees globally • Formalization of global Training Data Reporting system Social Contribution: We will build goodwill capital and relationships in every community based on the social relevance of our operations All operations have in place locally appropriate, ▲ Rigorous Social Contribution Plans in place for high social social action plans (by end 2012) impact facilities Encourage employees to participate in ▲ Establishment of Global Volunteerism Initiative “live brighter” community and/or volunteerism activities with 27 facilities in 9 countries participating in 2012 (by end 2012) Key: ▲ Improving performance ▼ Declining performance – Static performance * facilities where production and/or processing of industrial minerals/ores takes place
