Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Ernst & Young Ukraine Table of contents 3 Opening address from the Managing Partner in Ukraine 38 Environment 4 44 Community 2012 main achievements 6 About Ernst & Young 59 Report parameters and contact information 60  Appendix 1: Ernst & Young’s offices in the world 8 Our approach to 61  Appendix 2: Ernst & Young’s services in Ukraine corporate responsibility 65  Appendix 3: Ernst & Young Ukraine organizational structure 66  Appendix 4: Corporate Responsibility 9 Stakeholder Committee in Ukraine engagement 67 Appendix 5: Procurement and consumption of materials: our principles and results 69 Appendix 6: GRI G3 disclosures and 10 Workplace performance indicators 74  Appendix 7: Our commitment to UNGC principles 26 Marketplace 75 Appendix 8: List of abbreviations used in the Report Opening address from the Managing Partner in Ukraine Dear Readers, I’m pleased to present Ernst & Young’s fourth strategy in light of human rights, the need to foster Corporate Responsibility Report. good labor practices and protect the environment, and the fight against corruption. Our Company has The Report highlights the Company’s performance for four years now been actively engaged in and achievements for 2012 financial year, covering promoting responsible business and sustainable the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 in development in Ukraine. In 2012, we joined the UN four areas: Workplace, Marketplace, Environment Global Compact Alliance to support leadership and and Community. financial sustainability of the initiative in Ukraine. This year, we celebrated Ernst & Young’s 20th This year the Company was elected as an anniversary in Ukraine. We have been operating on international business representative to the the Ukrainian market for over 20 years, spreading Steering Committee of the UN Global Compact — Alexei Kredisov, the culture and values of the Ernst & Young Global the authority managing strategic development Managing Partner, Company. Our 20 years on the market coincide initiatives in Ukraine. This indicates appreciation Ernst & Young with the rapid development of independent for our active social position and our long-term Ukraine Ukraine, and we are going through all the ups and activity on the Compact’s working committees. downs with our clients. We know the country, its Our corporate responsibility reporting is regular, problems and its needs. We are confident that the indicating that we are consistent in our actions and sustainable success of a company is possible only have a desire to improve. We conducted a survey on the basis of corporate responsibility, and that of the Company’s partners and employees and the sustainable development of society will be arranged a meeting with external stakeholders to possible when the majority of its people learn to hear opinions from clients, representatives of nonmake responsible, farsighted decisions. This is a government organizations (NGOs), experts, difficult path, and we all still have to overcome environmental organizations, youth organizations many obstacles in order to comply with the high and the academic world. Each comment is very standards of a responsible business. important to us, and most of the stakeholders’ In 2008 we joined the UN Global Compact wishes were taken into account in the preparation initiative, which gave us the impetus to consolidate of this Report. our efforts for the development of society and our understanding of the Company’s development Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 3 2012 main achievements Workplace • A verage staff turnover for the year was 15%, which is 8% lower than in the previous year. • E  rnst & Young Ukraine won a bronze • In 2012, our client-servicing employees award in the “HR Brand Award” contest dedicated about 14.000 hours to learning held by the HeadHunter group of and participated in 204 training courses. companies for the Working Mothers’ Marketplace Support Program. • B  ased on the results of an internal global survey, the engagement index for Ernst & Young employees in Ukraine was 75%, • E rnst & Young is the auditor of 28% of the which is 4% higher than the 2010 result. companies listed on the Forbes Ukraine “200 Largest Companies” list for 2011. • B  ased on the results of an internal global survey, 91% of employees are proud of • E rnst & Young Ukraine’s Tax & Law practice their work at Ernst & Young. has won the National Tax Firm of the Year award at the prestigious International  uring the year, over 53% of employees • D Tax Review annual European Tax Awards. volunteered in Company social projects. • E  rnst & Young Ukraine won an honorary • 96.5% of clients are ready to recommend award in the category “Education and Ernst & Young to others according to our Culture” for its complex of educational global survey. initiatives within the national contest “Corporate Volunteering in Ukraine.” 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine • Ernst & Young held 15 seminars and • T  wo awareness campaigns for • 3 2 lessons took place at the School of conferences on important business employees and a seminar for the English initiated by Company volunteers issues for clients and the general public. business community on the ”green for orphaned students. office” concept took place; 1250 Kyiv • 7 0 employees participated in the Salary • M ore than 1200 people participated in schoolchildren participated in Deduction Program to benefit children educational programs at the Ernst & environmental awareness lessons with with cancer: 21 children received regular Young Academy of Business in 2012. support from the Company. or one-time financial support during the year. Over the years of the Program, Environment Community more than 300 children have received support in an amount of more than one million hryvnyas. • The Company fully abandoned  early 9000 students and • N • E rnst & Young has been recognized as the disposable plastic utensils in its offices. schoolchildren participated in company that has the highest • We offer parking places for bikes. educational initiatives implemented or awareness rating among students and supported by Ernst & Young. graduates among the Big Four in • Plastic garbage bags were replaced with bags that quickly decompose.  tudents from 18 higher educational • S Ukraine according to the Best Employer establishments of Ukraine took part in 2011 Research project, conducted in • Imported tea was partially replaced in November 2011 by the rabota.ua portal. the “Step into the Future” career our kitchens by Ukrainian-made tea. program initiated by the Company. • The technical capacity of our video • D  uring the year, financial support was conferencing has been improved; granted to 17 students deprived of video conferencing offers an ecological parental care. Nine Company employees alternative to business travel. served as these scholars’ mentors. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 5 About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK We invest in leading-edge thought leadership in assurance, tax & legal services, company limited by guarantee, does not to interpret business trends, which delivers transaction support and advisory services. provide services to clients. valuable insights to our clients. Our global industry centers draw upon teams We engage with regulatory authorities in all Ernst & Young today is an international of professionals from across the global our markets, to contribute to the development organization with offices in 700 cities in organization with deep technical and industry of an effective and balanced regulatory 150 countries. Our FY 2012 revenues were experience. They help clients by anticipating framework. Our ongoing communication with USD 24.4 billion. Our 167,000 employees trends, identifying their implications and governmental bodies around the world enables are united by our shared values and our high developing points of view on relevant industry us to help clients to respond quickly and standards of quality. We make a difference by issues. effectively to new regulations and helping our employees, our clients and our interpretations, promptly addressing any Our networking events around the world – wider communities achieve potential. issues that come to light. seminars, conferences, roundtables – provide Ernst & Young refers to the global organization clients with regular forums to discuss current of member firms of Ernst & Young Global and emerging issues relating to the business Limited, each of which is a separate legal environment. 2012 awards The high level of financial expertise Ernst & Young is positioned in the Leaders of Ernst & Young professionals has been Quadrant in Gartner’s Finance Management for Ernst & Young recognized internationally. In 2012 Consulting Services Magic Quadrant. across the world it has been ranked number one “Financial Services Consulting Provider globally for Last year Ernst & Young, for the seventh financial consulting revenue in 2010,” time, was among the top 10 companies by Kennedy Consulting Research & in terms of providing good conditions for Advisory. working mothers, according to the worldwide 2012 Working Mother 100 Best Companies rating, compiled by Working Mother Media. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young is a private limited liability company. The main executive officer in group of partners working in the Ukrainian offices, including the Service Line Heads. Ernst & Young established its practice in Ernst & Young Ukraine is the Country The total net revenue of the Company in the Ukraine in 1991. In September 2006, we Managing Partner, who is also the Chair of reporting period was UAH 296 million were the first among the Big Four to open an the Partners Board. The Partners Board is a (UAH 372 million in 2011). office in Donetsk. In the period covered by this Report, Ernst & Young Ukraine employed 524 professionals, 34 of them in Donetsk. Ernst & Young Ukraine provides services in Kyiv assurance, advisory, transaction support and tax & legal advisory services (for more detailed information about the Company services see Appendix 2 to this Report). Donetsk The client portfolio includes world-renowned multinational corporations and influential Ukrainian enterprises. Ernst & Young was honored by In January 2013, Verdantix published a Our programs to promote equal Procter & Gamble as one of its best service report based on the results of a survey of treatment on the basis of race providers during an annual ceremony at 250 large companies from 21 industries. and gender were awarded in the which P&G honored its business partners. Ernst & Young received the highest scores, “More Talents – More Options” Ernst & Young was noted as one of as the company that has the strongest category in the global BITC Gender 12 leading companies from among team of consultants on sustainable and Race Benchmark Survey 2012. 75,000 Procter & Gamble service development. providers across the world. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are convinced that any company can We created a Corporate Responsibility benefit more than just its own clients. Committee for our Ukrainian offices. How can Ernst & Young help society achieve Its tasks are: qualitative changes? • t o embody the values and principles of What can we do to foster the sustainable the global corporate responsibility development of the planet? strategy at all levels of the Company’s operation, with regard for local specifics; What’s the best investment to make today to foster successful development of a • t o communicate on corporate company and of society in the future? responsibility; We define our corporate responsibility •► to develop corporate volunteering; strategy via the answers to these questions. •► t o manage projects and initiatives aimed Globally, we concentrate our efforts in three at the development and improvement of key areas that are consistent with our society, namely: promoting responsible business strategy and important for the business practices, educational programs development of emerging market for Ukrainian youth, environmental economies. Ernst & Young supports initiatives and charity programs. entrepreneurship, education and environmental sustainability in order to build a better future. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Relationships with stakeholders We see our mission We divide our stakeholders into four groups: Workplace, Marketplace, Environment, Community. as creating the conditions Workplace in which stakeholders can Company partners Creating a job climate and working conditions in accordance maximize their potential. and employees with our values: integrity, enthusiasm, constant growth, teamwork, respect for all Marketplace Company clients Providing services of a constantly high quality in compliance with the principles of auditor independence, transparency and good governance Legislative bodies, government Active participation in specialized agencies, lobbying for business representatives, investors, interests, participation in public events, promotion of corporate expert and professional responsibility, development of an entrepreneurial culture associations, the business community in general Former employees Support of relationships via the Ernst & Young Alumni Club Environment Suppliers, employees, local Measures to promote an attitude of respect for the environment communities, NGOs Youth Educational programs aimed at environmental awareness and responsible behavior Community Universities, teachers, youth Professional educational programs for students and teachers, educational programs that promote leadership and entrepreneurial skills Children with special needs, Support for educational programs philanthropic institutions Vulnerable members of society Charity programs Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 9 Workplace Corporate culture way we serve our clients and connect with our wider communities. “For me, living company’s values means sharing the same principles Our values define who we are: Our values and moving in the same direction • People who demonstrate integrity, with all my colleagues, as one team, Our values underpin our people culture respect and teaming; to achieve common strategic goals. everywhere in the world and define who we By living our values we create • People with energy, enthusiasm are binding us together as one truly global a unique, strong and positive and the courage to lead; team. They are the fundamental beliefs of Ernst & Young culture, which drives our organization and guide the actions and • People who build relationships our performance, determines how we behaviors of each of us, influencing the way based on doing the right thing. interact with each other and with we work with one another, as well as the our stakeholders. We are known for our culture and this makes Ernst & Young very special and attractive place to work for those whose personal beliefs are aligned with our corporate values.” Olesya Melnyk, Assurance Partner, a Chairman’s Values Award Champion for EMEIA, 2012. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Each year we award employees for adherence to our corporate culture Some examples of how the Code governs principles. The Chairman’s Values Award (CVA) is a global program established in team relations: 2006. It allows our employees to recognize and celebrate the colleagues who • We build relationships with each other based on a shared trust demonstrate our values in their everyday and confidence that each of us has a personal and professional working lives, making a positive commitment to do the right thing. contribution to the development of our organization. • We are committed to communicating openly and honestly. In 2012, Olesya Melnyk, the Ernst & Young • We are committed to working in diverse teams and are personally Ukraine Assurance Partner, was selected as accountable to other team members for the contribution we make. one of the Chairman’s Values Award • We rely upon each other to deliver quality service to our clients Champions for EMEIA. and for our individual development. We are proud that a Ukrainian office employee was selected from among the • We nurture integrity, respect and teaming. 4200 Company employees in the CIS. • We consult with each other and value the perspectives of those who are different from us, as well as those who challenge our Code of Conduct own point of view. The Global Code of Conduct is a set of norms and rules that we follow when doing • We embrace multicultural experience and diversity as strengths of our business. It regulates behavior in all areas global organization. As such, we respect one another and strive for an of activity: cooperation on a team and with inclusive environment free from discrimination, intimidation and clients and the community; adherence to harassment. professional principles; independence and objectivity; and work in terms of fostering • We encourage and support the professional development of our intellectual capital. colleagues and promote individual achievement and continuous learning. Our Code of Conduct can be found at: www.ey.com/GL/EN/home/Global-Code-of-Conduct. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 11 The Working Mothers’ Support Program lets you spend more time with your children and thus improves the work-life balance of our employees. Young mothers don’t fear that they have to forget about their careers, because they feel that the Company саres about their needs. Marina Zakharina, Head of HR department Employer brand development •d  evelopment of and support for projects to promote social welfare in accordance Ernst & Young pays considerable attention with the corporate responsibility strategy; to developing its brand as an employer, to • s trategic partnership with leading attract and retain the best professionals universities and youth organizations, work and improve motivation. on educational projects aimed at In 2012, the following employer brand development of modern youth leadership elements were given the most attention: skills and building bridges between • r evision of the Employee Value academia and the business world; Proposition to enable differentiation of •u  se of the most popular social networks as the Company from others on the labor modern tools of communication with market; young people and for promoting Company •p  romotion of professional and career projects and initiatives; development programs for Company •a  ctive participation in professional and personnel that provide for a business associations, such as the comprehensive combination of coaching, Association of Chartered Certified Employee of the Year award work experience and training; promotion Accountants (ACCA), Ukrainian Society of global mobility programs allowing our of Investment Professionals (CFA Society), In recognition of our employees’ employees to gain work experience, not the European Business Association (EBA), achievements, the annual Employee only in the Ukrainian offices but also the American Chamber of Commerce of the Year award was introduced in Ukraine abroad; (АСС) and others; in 2011. The winners were announced •e  nsuring equal and comfortable working and awarded special prizes during the • s upport for ongoing relationships with the conditions for employees, including celebration of the new fiscal year, Company’s alumni. competitive salaries, a number of benefits in September 2012. and new solutions for maintaining workIn November 2011, Ernst & Young won the They were: life balance, so that Ernst & Young’s bronze award in the “HR Brand Award” employees are inspired by their work; contest, conducted by the HeadHunter •T aras Kulyk, Ielizaveta Ogorodnikova — • f urther improvement of our group of companies for the Working Assurance; communication strategy; new Mothers’ Support Program. This program •O lena Boichenko, Bogdan Malnev — communication channels; offers a range of benefits that support and Tax & Law; encourage women to continue their careers after childbirth. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine • Iurii Vyshniak, Viktoriya Bondarchuk — •m  entoring teenagers from troubled Advisory; families; In March 2012, Ernst & Young won an •N  astia Ovchynnikova — HR; •e  ducational modules for students and honorary award in the category young adults in orphanages; “Education and Culture” for its complex •D  mytro Iashchenko — ІТ. of educational initiatives under the title •e  nvironmental initiatives; “We Give Knowledge for Success”. We sincerely congratulate the employees •d  onorship and financial support for Those initiatives took place thanks to whose personal and professional qualities children with cancer; the active involvement of Company were honored by their colleagues. • s ports charity events; experts. The award was granted within the framework of the national Corporate volunteering •v  isiting orphans; “Corporate Volunteering in Ukraine” •e  vents to honor veterans of the Great Voluntary participation in social initiatives competition, organized by the East Patriotic War; and events is a component of the corporate Europe Foundation in partnership with culture of our Company. •p  reparing lots for charity sales. the UN Global Compact in Ukraine, the UNV Program, the European Business 53% of Company employees volunteered for corporate Employee participation in social activities allows them to go beyond the bounds of Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the US Peace Corps and responsibility projects during the year. their day to day work, expand their circle of the Ukrainian Philanthropists’ Forum. They participated in the following initiatives: friends and develop new skills. Most • c areer initiatives for students; importantly, each employee can join in an • f ree counseling and training for important mission: to change the world for representatives of government and nonthe better. The Company’s executives profit organizations; provide ideological and administrative •p  articipation in public events for the support for volunteering. The most active development of the business community; volunteers are compensated for the time they devote to social work in the form of •e  ducational programs and contests to additional paid vacation days. develop leadership and entrepreneurial skills in young people; Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 13 Diversity culture Diversity implies awareness and tolerance 61% of our employees in Ukraine are women. 52% of employees in middle management positions and 29% of for differences in thinking, mentality, employees in top management positions in management style, age, gender, experience, Ukraine are women. etc. Diversity on a team provides an additional competitive advantage We understand the difficulties that may because it enhances our ability to use arise for employees combining career and our talents, develops new professional motherhood, so in 2010 we developed a and personal qualities and helps us special Working Mothers’ Support Program. 65% to overcome bias. of our employees are young When making decisions pertaining people under 30. The Wellness to hiring, promotion, performance Program, aimed at maintaining the physical evaluation and compensation, we do not and emotional health of employees, takes take into account factors unrelated to into account this factor. performance of professional activities and competencies. 28% of our employees are parents, and we’ve developed a number of initiatives for them. More information about the Working Mothers’ Support and Wellness Programs can be found further on in this Report. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Channels of People Board People Board 2012 communication The People Board was established in 2010 with a view to developing and improving Olesya Melnyk, HR strategy, discussing current people The Company pays particular attention Partner, Assurance issues and providing suggestions to solve to internal communications. A whole range them. The People Board consists of Olga Gorbanovska, of channels has been developed to receive partners and senior managers from Partner, Tax and provide feedback. This supports different departments and works closely a corporate culture in which everyone’s with the HR Department, Managing Partner, Rostyslav Grygorenko, idea is appreciated and no question is left and Service Line Heads. Senior Manager, TAS unanswered. Examples of projects with the involvement Anzhela Nikolayenko, The main platforms for communication are: of the People Board in 2012: Senior Manager, Advisory Services •P eople Board; • r evision of the Employee Value Proposition; Marina Zakharina, •P eople Advisory Council (PAC); • implementation of the Company’s employer Head of HR department •S taff Day; brand development strategy; •S ervice Lines meetings; • c onducting employee surveys to get •S urveys. feedback on various aspects of the Company’s life and to improve working According to a survey conducted in June conditions; 2012, 95% of our employees believe that the • c ommunicating survey results to Company’s communication channels are employees and developing action plans; sufficient. • f urther support for the Working Mothers’ 93% of respondents find important or very Support Program and other initiatives to important having Service Lines meetings and improve the employee work-life balance conducting surveys among employees. 89% and meet the emotional needs of appreciate the chance to express their views employees. during Staff Day and affect the Company’s life by giving suggestions to the People Advisory Council. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 15 People Advisory Council The People Advisory Council is an internal Global People Survey At Ernst & Young, we are constantly striving to 75% employee engagement index in 2012 (previous year indicator — 71%) “trade union” consisting of representatives ensure our organization is a great place to of all Company departments and levels. In work. Every two years Ernst & Young holds a The engagement index is comprised 2012, three meetings took place, during thorough Global People Survey (GPS) based of five survey items and is an indicator of which office comfort, improving internal on 74 indicators. Inbetween, the Company the extent to which employees are procedures and policies, organizing runs the short Global People Survey as an motivated to contribute to the Company’s additional training programs and new interim check on our progress since the last business objectives: solutions to technical issues were discussed. full GPS. We want to know if we have done the The PAC allows each employee to make right things to improve our people’s motivation suggestions to improve workplace well-being to contribute to business outcomes. In May and often drives important decisions. 2012, 58% of our employees took part in the interim short survey. Examples of PAC meetings results in 2012: •p  rovision of additional vacation days for those who spend a lot of time on business trips was agreed; Pride: I am proud 86% 91% to work for Ernst & Young • t he following have been developed, to eliminate confusion: rules for calculation of Commitment: I rarely think about looking 60% for a new job with another company 58% hardship allowance and daily expenses on business trips; rules for office access and Intent to stay: I would prefer to remain with Ernst & Young, even if a comparable job 66% 68% use of rooms for negotiations; unpaid leave were available at another company policies; rules for reporting time spent on Advocacy: I would recommend Ernst & Young corporate volunteering programs; as a great place to work 78% 82% • t he number of 3G modems for use on Satisfaction: Overall, I am extremely business trips was increased. satisfied with Ernst & Young as a place to work 65% 72% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Employees’ positive feedback indicates that corporate volunteering programs, the 2012 Staff Day we are moving in the right direction with our survey included a comprehensive list of people agenda. Service Line Leaders and programs and initiatives in the following People Board members received the detailed categories: results for their respective Service Lines. • Initiatives for employees: This helped our leaders reflect on their work over the past year. — learning and development — health CBS service quality evaluation — sports survey — the Mothers’ Support Program — initiatives for parents In June 2012, we conducted a regular quality evaluation of the Company’s Core — hobby clubs The tradition of annual staff meetings with Business Services (CBS). On average, the — recognition and reward the Company’s management at the Ukraine positive answer score was 94%, as compared — channels of communication and CIS levels was established in November to 89.5% in the last year’s survey. The results 2010. Presentations by all Service Line • Initiatives for the environment leaders have acquainted employees with the confirmed the professionalism of CBS employees and their willingness to provide • Initiatives for the community Company’s market strategy, priorities for effective ongoing support to client servicing the coming year and HR initiatives. — educational programs for youth employees. The CBS leaders received The meeting has also provided for direct — charity programs performance results of their units for their communication between employees and top further consideration. • CSR reporting management. During the event in November 2011 an SMS-session took place • CSR communications Surveys of employees so that employees could ask questions and on corporate responsibility According to the survey, the personnel get honest answers. programs praised the Company’s social programs. The An appearance by famous Ukrainian football Corporate Responsibility Committee, HR player Vladislav Vashchuk was a fascinating To see how employees evaluate the Department and People Board took into aspect of the meeting. He shared the effectiveness of Company initiatives relating account employee proposals, which helped secrets of success in sports and business to personnel, the environment and the in prioritizing areas for future work and and held a sports quiz and autograph community, and to generate new ideas for developing appropriate measures. session. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 17 Learning and Ernst & Young and You Counseling development The global framework for employees’ career development, “Ernst & Young and Counseling is a purposeful dialogue between a counselor and a counselee that is intended Adaptation program You”, offers our employees the skills and to help the counselee realize his/her potential knowledge they need to develop great within the Company. Counselors are We want a new employee to feel comfortable employees who are two or three career steps careers. This program provides for a from his or her first minute at the Company above their counselees. For the counseling combination of learning, work experience and to have enough information with which institute to be effective, the Company offers and coaching to elicit employee potential to navigate. All Ernst & Young Ukraine counselors special training on coaching and and provide high quality service to our employees have an employee-counselor on building meaningful conversations about clients. from their first day of work. We also offer the career issues. “Welcome to Ernst & Young” training session, which is held monthly and provides familiarity with the strategy, values and activities of the Company. Ernst & Young and You Experience — our employees get Education — all employees have access Coaching — this is a format of the useful experience as they work. to high quality education via a special effective team communication during Within each Service Line, the project structured training plan that addresses the performance of everyday tasks. teams are selected so as to provide high the specifics of a particular department Developing employee-counselors’ quality services to clients and ensure and the Company as a whole. We offer coaching skills is a component of the that each employee has the conditions in both traditional classroom training and Company’s training program. which to grow professionally, improve online modules aimed at improving the leadership skills, and master relationship skills of employees. skills. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine During 2012: Today, the Company offers more • all newly appointed counselors completed than 2000 online courses. an online training module; Ernst & Young employees attended • all newly appointed counselors attended a 120 courses in 2012. special seminar at the Ernst & Young They spent 2000 hours on online training. Academy of Business; • three training sessions on coaching were Ernst & Young Academy conducted for managers and senior of Business professionals of the Company; One of the resources to acquire professional • nine individual coaching sessions were knowledge and develop business skills held for partners and managers, to for employees of the Company is the improve communication with counselees; Ernst & Young Academy of Business, which • the approach to appointing counselors also provides training services to clients. was revised in order to enhance dialogue; • the policy that counselor-counselee meetings may be conducted in a format 100 Company employees attended 25 training courses at the of a business lunch was implemented. Ernst & Young Academy of Business in 2012. Online training modules Our employees can also get the Ernst & Young offers its employees ACCA professional certification at the a variety of online educational modules. Ernst & Young Academy of Business, Due to the mobile nature of the training, which is a certified provider of ACCA employees can access training at a (ACCA Approved Learning convenient time for them. Partner (Platinum). Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 19 Professional education Mobility programs The major mobility programs are: and certification Mobility programs involve short-term or • New Horizons — a 3-month mobility program for specialists and senior Professional education is an integral part of long-term transfers to work at other specialists; career development at Ernst & Young. It Company offices. They allow employees to gain professional experience in a new • Expanding Your Horizons — a 6-12-month involves the continuous improvement of environment and to learn how to cope with mobility program for managers and senior professional skills and the obtaining of unfamiliar tasks. The experience broadens managers; professional certification, which ensures high quality of performance at various the mind, familiarizes participants with new •G lobal Exchange Program — career stages. cultures and develops tolerance and a sense an 18-24-month mobility program of the diversity principle. At the same time, for professionals at all levels. 14,000 hours were devoted by client servicing participation in mobility programs gives employees the opportunity to accelerate their training and career development In 2012, five employees took the opportunity to gain experience in Company employees to training in 2012; they through a network of business connections offices in Germany, the Netherlands, participated in 204 training courses. both inside and outside the Company. Canada and the UK. 58 hours per year per person were devoted by client servicing In turn, employees from the UK, Belarus and Russia worked at the Kyiv office. employees on average to training and certification. Global Leadership Development Program The Company is implementing a special program to accelerate the development of our managers’ leadership skills Global NextGen. Our leaders determine the future of our organization, and our attention to their development is a reflection of our commitment to being a global company with a unique corporate culture. To remain a leader in today’s business world is not easy. Rapid change, a high level of uncertainty, global interdependence – such things raise the bar for managers. That’s why we consider investing in the development of our leaders so important. The Global NextGen Program provides access to a network of 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine specialists and a wide range of development and heads of departments collectively • fl  exible working hours for employeestools that help ensure success in leadership discuss and approve performance mothers; roles. Two senior managers from Ernst & evaluations and provide recommendations • a dditional payment for the first 12 weeks Young Ukraine took part in the international for the career growth of each employee. of maternity leave, so that the gross Global NextGen Program in 2012. Compensation levels are reviewed annually income of a female employee (payments based on performance evaluation. Evaluation from the Social Insurance Fund and Compensation and is also a key factor affecting the annual additional payments from the Company) bonus plans. benefits would be not less than 80% of the basic salary; One of the Company’s priorities is to ensure Working Mothers’ Support • 1 00% compensation for five days of leave the competitiveness of compensation Program a year due to the illness of a child, packages for Company employees. Every regardless of length of service and salary More than half of our staff in Ukraine are year we participate in a salary market survey, (in addition to the days that are women, most of them combining career and carefully analyzing its results and relying on compensated for all employees); motherhood. For female employees with them in determining wage levels at the • e xtension of medical insurance program children, the balance between family and Company. options for children of employees; work is particularly vital. specifically, an increase in the number of We pay special attention to the link between In 2010 a series of measures were proposed: clinics that provide services under the employee performance and pay. At the end • a woman with a child under 14 can use insurance program; extension of the list of each year, the Company conducts the soone hour a day (five hours per week) at of services provided by clinics, etc.; called “round tables,” where all counselors her own discretion; Company employee compensation • additional payment for the first 12 • an additional paid vacation day for packages above statutory norms include: weeks of maternity leave; 0 days of absence due to illness during • f ree medical insurance for each • 100% compensation for five days of sick the year; employee and one immediate family leave during the year regardless of • additional paid vacation days for those member; length of service and amount of salary; who spend more than 50 days a year • life and accident insurance, and • 2 additional paid days of leave on the on business trips. insurance when travelling abroad; occasion of a wedding; •a  nnual vacation – 25 working days; • 3 additional paid days of paternity leave for new fathers upon childbirth; Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 21 • agreement with the Pechersk District the launch of Wellness Program for all • arrangement of recreation areas in the Department for Education to admit Company employees and their children office (a ping-pong table, a horizontal bar, children of our employees to one of the in 2012. oosball); kindergartens located next to the office; In 2012, the Wellness Program included the • arrangement of a corporate fan zone • organization of sports, educating and following activities for employees: during EURO-2012; entertainment events for children of • training sessions on time and stress • arrangement of Health Days, which employees. management; envisage physicians’ consultations, • partial payment for memberships at lectures on healthy lifestyle themes and various activities in the office; 84% of working mothers consider sports clubs and swimming pools; • organization of corporate discounts for • activities for the children of employees that the program provides sports clubs; (participation in the “We Are the a better work-life balance according to Champions!” sports contests, the New the 2012 survey. Most mothers specified • financial support for football and Year celebration, the New Year drawing that they appreciate the introduction basketball teams (weekly training and contest, the “Fancy Kyiv” tour, the master of the Program, as it shows Company tournaments in Ukraine and abroad); class on Easter decoration, the management concern with their problems. • organization of various sports competition in the rope park, the office competitions among employees tour); Wellness (carting, cycling, table tennis); • organization of hobby clubs (Intellectual •p  ayment for employee participation in Games Club, Arts and Crafts Club, Photo A busy schedule limits employee opportunities tournaments organized by the European Art Club, Travelers Club, Movie Fans Club, to maintain physical and emotional health. At Business Association and the American Active Parents Club). the same time, maintaining staff health is Chamber of Commerce (squash, basketball, essential for the effective operation of the volleyball, table tennis, paintball, etc.) as Company. This factor affects the psychological well as sponsorship of participation in the atmosphere of a team and thus the Company’s Kyiv International Marathon; image. The Company wants its employees to find a balance between work and leisure. We approach this issue comprehensively. In Main Wellness Program areas: addition to the standard solutions – extended •d evelopment of employee time and • events to promote personnel health vacations, corporate events – we have stress management skills; and healthy lifestyles; developed a number of programs with regard •o rganization and support of sports • events to foster leisure and informal to the wishes and needs of our employees. In events for employees; communication. 2010, the Working Mothers’ Support Program •o rganization of sporting and recreational was introduced, and has been highly appraised activities for the children of employees; by our female employees. The next step was 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Goals for 2013 Given the previous year’s results, the Company has determined • to strengthen the role and improve the quality of coaching and the following work areas for FY 2013: counseling using existing tools; to promote a new global online tool for performance evaluation and career development (My • to maintain the attractiveness of the employer brand, to Development Site); increase the number of employees who are involved in the employer brand development activities, to present an updated • to support employees’ career development using international Employee Value Proposition to employees; and regional mobility programs; to promote mobility programs among employees and candidates for vacant positions at the • to promote professional and career development programs for Company; to ensure participation of at least 7 employees at employees (learning and career maps for different levels and Ukrainian offices in mobility programs; service lines; a calendar of training courses; web-based learning, including for studying English); to create database of • to introduce new initiatives aimed at improving the physical internal tutors; to increase the number of participants in and emotional health of employees: focus on preventive internal trainings conducted at the Ernst & Young Ukraine measures for disease prevention among employees; to office, including training at the Ernst & Young Academy of introduce flexible working hours; to propose new initiatives to Business; to monitor the level of satisfaction with training develop staff time management skills; programs among employees; to improve the adaptation • to maintain a high level of employee engagement in social program for new employees; projects (at least 50% of employees); to develop a calendar plan of corporate volunteering projects. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 23 Wellness 2012 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 25 Marketplace Ernst & Young services Ernst & Young is the auditor of 28% of the companies listed on the Forbes Ukraine Sustainability Services in Ukraine Magazine “200 Largest Companies” list in 2011. Ernst & Young provides services in four main areas: Assurance, Advisory, Tax & Legal and Transaction Advisory. 72% 28% More information about Company services is provided in Appendix 2 to this Report. We are proud to provide assurance and advisory services for many leading Ukrainian and international companies. Among our clients are Ukrzaliznytsya (Ukrainian Railways), Interpipe, Starlight In 2012, Ernst & Young Ukraine’s Media, the Industrial Union of Donbass, Tax & Law practice has won the the State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine, National Tax Firm of the Year award Ferrexpo-Poltava Mining, Arcelor Mittal, at the prestigious International Tax SCM Group of companies, the National Bank Review annual European Tax Awards. of Ukraine, and others. The awards are granted to companies Ernst & Young has provided sustainable that demonstrate excellence, innovation development services since 1992. These As an organization that provides assurance and the ability to deal with complexity. services have been actively developed in the services, we serve the public interest by CIS countries since 2007 and in Ukraine ensuring transparency, credibility and since 2010. Among our clients are independence on the market. We recognize companies operating in such sectors as the positive impact of our experts’ activities metallurgy, mining, energy and around the world and promote it. pharmaceuticals. The Ukrainian market is just beginning to practice sustainable business development. Many companies 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine already practice strategic CSR programs to dissemination of correct information and are planning to do even more. We help about such activities. “We consider our main achievement our clients with CSR strategy development over the two years of our practice in and efficient risk management, contributing Ukraine to be the creation of a strong local team of CSR and sustainable development experts. We help promote CSR practices at Ukrainian companies by preparing financial Ernst & Young services in sustainable reports, systematizing CSR activities development and developing CSR strategies. We help companies to better understand their roles in society and examine their social and economic contributions to the sustainable Strategic Risks development of the country. consulting on Climate and liabilities Nobody did such examination CSR and “green” change in ecology and Preparation technologies labor safety of non-financial report in the CIS before we did.” Victor Kovalenko, Independent verification Head of Sustainability Services of non-financial reporting Operational consulting on CSR and “green” technologies Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 27 Fraud Investigation & Dispute Services Companies that counteract fraud, bribery and corruption can gain commercial benefits. We help companies build a reputation for ethical behavior, develop tools to manage risk, investigate cases of alleged fraud and assess the financial implications of disputes and conflicts. “We began to develop this activity in to improve fraud prevention systems. in helping clients solve complex fraud Ukraine two years ago, seeing a market Unfortunately, not all executive officers on problems and further develop computer need to counteract corporate fraud and the Ukrainian market pay due attention to forensics services, which are increasingly create more transparent and effective strengthening the corporate culture of fraud important in our electronic era.“ business processes. Our clients are large and bribery rejection and to appropriate Oleksandr Dermanets, and medium-sized enterprises, mostly employee training. Systematic measures Senior Consultant, Fraud Investigation & foreign ones, with offices in Ukraine. We are more efficient in the medium term than Dispute Services perform investigations at the request of is identifying specific crimes or abuses. individual clients and consulting projects We see the future of our department 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Our commitment Assessment of Service Quality to quality and risk One tool for improving the quality of management professional services is the Assessment of Service Quality (ASQ) research project, Quality forms the basis of our Company’s which is held annually and allows not only activities. Our reputation as an independent, for identifying the extent of our clients’ impartial and ethical supplier of high quality satisfaction with our work, but also for professional services is the key to the identifying ways of improving quality even success of the member-companies more. Clients selected according to special in the Ernst & Young global network. criteria are offered to participate in the survey at the end of the financial year. Ernst & Young has developed a set of global All negative feedback is sent to a specially policies and quality control practices in order appointed independent partner. In addition, to comply with the international standards a new scheme for the survey was published by the International Auditing and introduced in 2012: it now has an online Assurance Standards Board and the survey to gather a wider range of clients requirements of the International Federation and takes into account personal interviews of Accountants. Our integrated approach with clients selected by special criteria. allows us to observe high standards of The interview consists of three parts: quality worldwide. A number of global tools and procedures unique to all companies • a study of client expectations about in the network help us to make the right service quality (held at the beginning decisions to provide proper services of the financial year); (the main ones are presented on page 31). • an assessment of the quality of delivered services according to the results of the financial year; • a final interview with the client about the quality of services provided. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 29 Results of ASQ online survey for FY 2012: 1. Expectations of service quality Total questionnaires 32 FY 2011 Answers received 18 Service delive FY Total questionnaires 81 2012 Answers received 29 ry Client + Global Partner / Client service team 3. Confirmation 2. Assessment of service quality of service quality Clients’ satisfaction indicators Do you recommend Ernst & Young to others? Average satisfaction level FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2011 FY 2012 Yes (%) No (%) Yes (%) No* (%) Average level of service Average level of service satisfaction (max. 1 to 5) satisfaction (max. 1 to 5) 94.7 5.3 96.5 0 4.70 4.52 *3,5% of respondents did not answer 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine The Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards The global ethics hotline is an external emergency service for business conduct across all of our global organization that gives Ernst & Young employees and clients and other member firms. stakeholders the possibility for confidential feedback about unethical or inappropriate conduct that is contrary to professional standards.  very member firm of the global organization must undergo E global quality assurance programs. The results of the The client acceptance and continuance policy establishes external monitoring practices are evaluated and disseminated the criteria for determining whether to start working with a at appropriate levels so that we can take appropriate new client or new project and whether to continue a measures to improve quality. relationship with an existing client. We have restrictions on attracting clients from the gambling or pornographic industries, or companies engaged in illegal or unethical A hierarchy of responsible partners is developed activities. for each project in order to take into account all quality control risks. The principle of independence is fundamental for assurance and dominates in every aspect of the audit firm’s relationship SORT (Service Offering Reference Tool) – a database with clients. Ernst & Young’s compliance with the principle that allows for a quick check on the services we can provide of independence is critical to our providing quality services. to clients in any part of the world. We assess our commitment to the principle of independence from several perspectives. Every year Company employees are required to confirm compliance with the principles and procedures of independence that Ernst & Young has Since 2011 the global CRM (Client Relationship developed. The global independent quality review team Management) system has been operating at the Company; maintains a number of tests for member companies and it facilitates centralization and coordination of client-related visits them in order to assess the degree of compliance work and project team cooperation. with independence principles. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 31 Thought leadership Ernst & Young pays particular attention Вuilding a better working world for to investments in social development. We strive to create a business environment business community in which our organization and society as a whole will flourish for a long time. The Company conducted 15 conferences We supported the following strategic Ernst & Young employees help in this area and workshops during the year on events and conferences, which are by offering knowledge and experience, current business issues for clients important to the Ukraine investment taking into account the local characteristics and the wider public: and business climate: and culture of each country. By joining • innovations in the Tax •U krainian Investment Summit; efforts with commercial, government and and Customs Codes; •A gribusiness in Ukraine; non-governmental organizations, we create • t ransition to IFRS; •F inancial Leaders Summit; conditions favorable for the development of •p  ersonnel management; •U krainian Banking Forum business, society and protection of the environment. • c ounteracting fraud; (Adam Smith Conferences); • t ransfer pricing; •K yiv Investment Forum; • c ustoms regulation of the •M oscow-Kyiv: new horizons pharmaceutical industry; for investment cooperation; • t ax regimes of other countries. •D onetsk Investment Summit; •W ays to improve the capitalization of agribusiness through management and control technologies. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine We participate in the Domestic and Foreign placement on the IFRS international online Promoting CSR development Investors Advisory Council under the portal, created under in Ukraine auspices of the President of Ukraine. The aim the auspices of the Ministry of Finance of of the Council is to define the main lines of Ukraine: www.msfz.minfin.gov.ua. Ukrainian state policy, to improve the investment climate companies thus have access to reference in Ukraine, to attract and use domestic and materials and report samples that comply foreign investment for the economic with international standards. development of Ukraine and to speed up Ukraine’s integration into the European and Ernst & Young experts are involved in world economies. The second plenary meeting various business debates of the European of the Council, chaired by the President of Business Association (EBA): Alexei Ukraine, took place on 7 June 2012. Karl Kredisov, Country Managing Partner, is the Johansson, Ernst & Young CIS Managing Vice-President of the EBA; Jorge Intriago, Partner, delivered a speech on “Further Tax Partner, is an Advisor to the EBA Board; In 2011 Ernst & Young joined the UN Global Deregulation and Tax Reform: Key Factors for Marina Zakharina, Head of HR, is a member Compact (GC) Alliance. The Alliance is the Improving the Business Environment”. of the EBA HR Committee Board; Volodymyr organizational structure of the GC network Kotenko, Partner, Head of Tax & Law, is the in Ukraine. It aims to provide leadership and Company experts participate in professional Chairman of the EBA Tax Committee. the financial sustainability of the initiative discussions on IFRS in Ukraine, and Expert work continues within the framework and to distribute responsibilities among the provide expertise in connection with the of the Reform Club. This is a public most active signatories of the Global entry into force of the relevant legislation. organization that unites Ukrainian business Compact. In addition, this year our Ernst & Young helps companies in preparing leaders interested in radical improvement Company was elected to the UN Global financial statements and promotes best of Ukraine’s investment climate and Compact Steering Committee – the international practices among Ukrainian business environment through authority managing strategic development businesses. Vladimir Dabizha, Ernst & Young implementing necessary economic and initiatives. This step is an acknowledgement Assurance Partner, participated in a series of social reforms via constructive dialogue of Ernst & Young’s leadership in CSR and at events dedicated to IFRS implementation by between business and the government. the same time our commitment to further Ukrainian companies. In addition, Company implement best practices in corporate analytical materials were submitted for responsibility. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 33 Ernst & Young has acted as a general Ernst & Young acted as a partner and partner to the nationwide CSR Business presented its own successful case for the Cases contest for four years in a row now. ”Corporate Volunteering: Where to Start?” The contest is conducted by the Center for manual. The publication, issued by the CSR Development and is a unique initiative Center for CSR Development, aims to help in Ukraine, promoting best practices companies in Ukraine with corporate in responsibility and honoring the volunteer program development, which will achievements of companies. Moreover, be efficient and beneficial for both the competition has crossed the borders companies and the community. and has been introduced in Romania, the United States, Moldova, Belgium On 24 April 2012, the VI International On 23-28 January the Ukrainian Association and Norway. Conference “Social Responsibility of of Management Development and Business Business: Investments in the Future” took Education (UAMDBE) conducted a training place, traditionally organized by the Expert program for the academicians of Ukraine in Ukraine business weekly magazine. Victor Rivne. The theme was “CSR of Business and Kovalenko, Head of the Sustainability Education: Experience and Problems of Services Group, acted as a moderator for Development.” CSR instructors from the “CSR as a Tool for Increasing Business Alchevsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Kyiv, Kolomyya, Competitiveness” session, which discussed Kramatorsk, Lviv, Lutsk, Rivne and Ternopil socially responsible investments. participated in the event. Natalia Telenkova, Head of the CSR Committee, and Victor Kovalenko made a presentation of the Company’s CSR strategy, described the principles of auditing non-financial reports, and answered numerous questions from participants. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Supporting entrepreneurship honorable diploma for its work. GMC is a and innovation as the driving business simulation that gives participants the opportunity to get invaluable experience force of the economy and in complex business management and positive social change in solving difficult strategic tasks. On 17-19 April 2012, the event’s Ernst & Young acted as a general partner to International Finals took place in Kyiv the Second Kyiv Entrepreholic! Conference, for the first time in the GMC’s history. organized by the Cisco Entrepreneur Ernst & Young was represented on the Institute and the GrowthUp Business International Advisory Council by Alexei Incubator. Hundreds of young entrepreneurs Kredisov, Managing Partner, Ernst & Young as well as people who are thinking of Ukraine. It is pleasant to note that the launching their own businesses participated Ukrainian team took third place among in the event. The organizers invited teams from 25 countries. interesting speakers who told the participants how to find productive business The Innovative Breakthrough Project ideas and unique niches, develop a business, is a contest for innovations and new avoid hidden dangers and turn a small technological development ideas. Its aim is business into a money-making empire. to select and implement the most promising and innovative projects with the investment In 2012, the Company also supported the support of local businesses and investors. first “Made in Ukraine” Business Camp, The Global Management Challenge and the which brought together entrepreneurs and State Agency for Science, Innovation and people who want to build their businesses. Informatization are the organizers of the During five days of work on teams, the event. Ernst & Young has been a strategic participants created five projects that they partner to the project for four years already. plan to develop in Ukraine. Ernst & Young is a partner to the start-up Our Company has been a strategic partner EastLabs fund. We provide advisory and to the “Global Management Challenge” educational services to the start-ups’ strategic management contest for six years members. already, and has been awarded an Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 35 Ernst & Young Academy ”We highly appreciate the Academy’s extremely competent coaches, who coped perfectly of Business with their assignment: to present the maximum amount of material in the shortest The Ernst & Young Academy of Business possible time. The materials and information they provided during the training session will is a leader in professional training in Ukraine continue to find use as we carry out national projects. Thank you for your significant and the CIS countries. In Ukraine, the contribution to the development of the country. Introducing modern project management Academy has been offering educational standards and methods in the StateInvestProject is crucially important to the public programs for over 18 years.The main topics authorities and integral to the successful completion of our projects.” it teaches are: financial accounting, company Yuriy Gusev, management, financial management, risk Department Director, Department for National Projects, State Agency for Investment management, internal control/audit and and National Projects of Ukraine development of personal skills. The Academy offers training for exams for the ACCA, CIA and DipІFR certification programs. • a training session on “Evaluation of •a  joint Academy/EBA seminar on “Project Investment Projects” for representatives of Management: How to Comply with 1,200 people were the students of Academy in 2012, State Region Administrations in Kyiv with the Support of the Ministry of Foreign Scheduled Project Terms.” Top and middle managers of leading companies in Donetsk 119 of whom studied for free or on Affairs of Ukraine; attended the event. A similar seminar took special terms. place later in Kyiv; • the workshop “Ways of Attracting In addition to offering training, the Investment in the Region,” organized by • t he workshop: “Project Management: Academy’s teachers participate in public the Donetsk Region State Administration Investment Projects,” for representatives events. In 2012 they participated in the for businesses and government of the State Agency for Investment and following, among other things: authorities; National Projects in Ukraine. “We would like to thank for Ernst & Young participation in the “Standards for the Preparation of Investment Projects“ workshop, which took place on 8-9 November 2011 at the Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The Ministry appreciates Ernst & Young’s excellent work. I would like to note the professionalism and responsible attitude of its employees during this event.” Kostiantyn Gryshchenko, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young Alumni Club Goals for 2013 At Ernst & Young we’re committed to brought to the firm as employees and we • participation in development of building lifelong relationship with our appreciate the loyalty they continue to show legislative initiatives, including people and have always prided ourselves on as alumni. The Alumni Club launched its those related to the transition to the quality of our professionals – around the activities in Ukraine in 2007 and since then IFRS, the Tax Code, the Customs world and here in Ukraine. We consider our has held annual events where former Ernst Code and transfer pricing; alumni to be very important to our & Young employees can meet with their continued success. Many of them become friends. The Club now boasts more than • ensure effective management and clients or simply remain friends of the firm. 300 members. implementation of the final stage We value the knowledge and strength they of completion of the Client Relationship Management system (CRM); • establish a new internal global system for complying with and “Good communications have been, are and always will be the basis of any using branding standards (Brand business. I’m very pleased that Ernst & Young understands that, and that it Factory); sets an example that’s worthy of emulation. A club of former employees (the Alumni Club) is a relatively new phenomenon for our market, but it’s • adapt and implement policies for already bringing its first fruits. using online sources that are in line Alumni Club members have the unique opportunity to socialize with old with new realities: Internet security, friends in a relaxed atmosphere and discuss issues that are not always use of social media, etc. appropriate to bring up in routine formal meetings. Business isn’t always a structured process; sometimes it’s a confluence of interests or plans. Often, bright ideas or design solutions are born in such conditions. Meetings of former colleagues always take place in a friendly and welcoming atmosphere. And because the organizers choose the meeting places with unsurpassed thoroughness, the question of whether to come to the meeting answers itself. Many thanks to Ernst & Young for the excellent opportunity to spend time with professionals and for its ability to keep the bar high.” Valeriy Kushnirenko, HR Director, PZU Ukraine Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 37 Environment Awareness of the risks associated with The Corporate Responsibility Committee climate change has gradually spread of Ernst & Young Global has set five In Ukraine, the Corporate beyond the academic and research worlds long-term goals for environmental Responsibility Committee’s Green to penetrate the governmental sector and protection: Group is tasked with the following: the public at large. Business leaders around • M  easure the Company’s carbon footprint; • t o monitor the environmental the world recognize their responsibility to collect and analyze data on business performance of the Company; reduce the carbon footprints of their trips and energy consumption at the organizations and to use resources • t o initiate positive changes in terms Company offices. of environmental protection effectively. As a leading professional • D  efine operational goals and key wherever possible; services company, Ernst & Young cannot performance indicators that take into stand on the sidelines. We recognize our • t o foster educational activities account the need to reduce negative responsibility to our employees, to our aimed at Company employees; impact on the environment and create clients and to society in terms of reducing • t o identify programs to enhance a sustainable business. environmental impact. We have introduced environmental awareness of young measures aimed at the efficient use of • A  djust business trip policy to reduce people, and to provide sponsorship; materials in our offices, at reducing the the carbon footprint. • t o involve employees in impact on the environment caused by • D  evelop solutions for the further environmental events. business trips and at creating a responsible recycling of waste. attitude to the environment. In addition, our •► A rrange meetings so as to minimize sustainability service departments, which negative impact on the environment. exist at most Ernst & Young offices, help The results of Ernst & Young Ukraine’s clients manage business with regard to the use of resources in FY 2012 can be found risks caused by climate change. in Appendix 5 to the Report. 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Our “green steps” Ernst & Young signs the “Go Green” Declaration, initiated by the UN Global Compact in Ukraine 2008 For the first time, Company employees take part in the “Dnipro Day” environmental campaign in Kyiv T  he Corporate Responsibility Committee establishes the Green Group; green office concept is developed for the Company 2009 A massive awareness campaign for employees known as “Climate Week” takes place For the first time, Company employees join the “Earth Hour” global initiative “Delo” business newspaper covers the Company’s green office practices A competition takes place among employees to define “green champions” and develop “green principles” 2010 For the first time, Ernst & Young supports the “Green Wave” environmental education project, held by the AIESEC youth organization for schoolchildren and students We develop Code of Conduct for suppliers We reduce use of disposable plastic utensils in our offices 2011 We support the international “EcoCup”ecological film festival We support the “Let’s Make Ukraine Clean!” all-Ukrainian campaign Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 39 Our 2012 results conditions, bike to work, exploiting a completely ecological mode of transport. In addition to requiring that suppliers follow ethical business practices and the principle • In 2012, we replaced plastic garbage bags of independence in operations with Most steps towards sustainable consumption suppliers, the Code requires to consider the mean rejecting habits and practices that with bio-bags with a decay period of three impact on the environment and encourages have evolved over years: that is, a paradigm years. We use about 50,000 bags of suppliers to support our environmental shift. We thus consider each of these steps different sizes annually. This step increased principles. The following Code provisions significant, however small each may seem. our costs, but understanding the waste express our expectations for suppliers in • In 2012, we finally got rid of the disposable disposal problem at hand, we thought it a terms of the environment: plastic utensils in the kitchens of our good idea. offices. These items were convenient, but • We have included an in-office eco-behavior • we expect our suppliers to demonstrate a given the negative impact that plastic has module in our training program for the clear understanding of the environmental on the environment, the quantity we used newcomers. risks, impacts and responsibilities to consume before 2011 (half a million associated with the products and services units per year) in our offices and that these they provide; items were not being recycled, we Code of Conduct • suppliers should have in place an effective abandoned them. We purchased glassware, chinaware and metal cutlery. In some cases for Suppliers environmental policy to mitigate environmental risks; disposable paper cups and stirrers made In 2011 we developed our Code of Conduct • our suppliers should continually improve from sawdust (wood industry waste) are for our suppliers. It mandates that our their environmental performance by taking used. suppliers will respect human rights; eschew practical measures and employing best • In 2012, the Kyiv office arranged space for child labor; and not discriminate against practices where possible; bike parking and the possibility of employees or contractors for any reason. It establishing showers was agreed on with establishes equal treatment of suppliers on • our suppliers shall seek to minimize the use business center owners. In Kyiv and in the basis of transparent selection criteria, of energy, water and raw materials; where Donetsk our offices are located in the city mandates supplier compliance with health possible, these should be renewable or center, and we understand that it is not and safety regulations and states that sustainably sourced; easy to get there by bike. We are thus suppliers must be intolerant of corruption, especially proud that there are several of extortion, bribery and theft. our employees who, under favorable 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine • our suppliers shall make practical efforts to eliminate or reduce the levels of waste campaigns remain one of the Green Group’s most important activities. Ukraine That I Love they generate and should re-use and The Company’s most-used resource is paper. Photo Contest recycle waste materials whenever possible; Company employees in Ukraine use about 10 tons of it per year. • products and services proposed to Ernst & Young should include options that offer In autumn, a “paper campaign” with reduced environmental impact via the both educational and practical components utilization of environmentally sound started at the Ukrainian offices. The technologies, processes and materials. Company has joined Club A4, entering into an agreement on waste paper collection. 10 Company suppliers signed the Code of At the Kyiv office, containers to collect Conduct over the year – that is, 50% of the newspapers and magazines have been suppliers that provide goods and installed in addition to those meant for the administrative services to our offices in collection of confidential papers. In addition, From June to November of 2011 the Green Ukraine, i.e. suppliers whose operations are recommendations on the economic use of Group conducted the Ukraine That I love most implicated in environmental issues. paper are propagated at the office. Photo Contest among employees. Many Awareness-raising Another important indicator of resource use Company employees responded with pleasure to this creative initiative and sent in by office employees is power consumption. campaigns for The Green Group conducted an awarenessbeautiful pictures that depict fabulous places of Ukraine, enchanting landscapes, employees raising campaign among employees by publishing the striking figures relating to unique architecture and friendly people. how much power can be saved during a Olena Kyrychenko, Serhiy Korshun and Ernst & Young continues year, if everybody simply starts taking Tetyana Goray were the contest winners; to take steps to minimize simple steps every day. their striking photos won the most votes impact on the environfrom their colleagues. The best photos have ment wherever possible. In late March employees participated been displayed in exhibitions in the Kyiv and Often this depends on in the traditional Earth Hour international Donetsk offices. In addition, the selected the joint efforts of all action in response to an appeal from the pictures were used to illustrate the 2012 employees, so environGreen Group. corporate calendar. mental awareness-raising Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 41 Green Office Workshop: Cooperation Water Day in Donetsk Practical Aspects with Earthwatch 25 March 2012 was Water Day in Donetsk, and local EcoFun activists were invited to the first clean-up event of the year. Ernst & Young employees also joined in, picking up garbage left by irresponsible holidaymakers in the city’s green zones. Although it was still quite cold, the event fostered a warm and friendly atmosphere. As a result, the lakeside shone with Since 2009 Ernst & Young has collaborated cleanliness. The participants celebrated the with the Earthwatch Institute, organizing good cause with an eco-picnic. volunteer expeditions to collect information To promote green office practices among the for research on climate change and providing Ukrainian business community, Ernst & Young advisory services to local entrepreneurs to initiated the “Green Office: Practical Aspects“ help them develop economically and environseminar, which was held by the Ukrainian mentally sustainable practices. Teams of Green Wave Ecological Club with support volunteers from Ernst & Young have been in from the UN Global Compact. The event was Brazil, Costa Rica and India. In 2012 Natalia aimed not so much at CSR managers who Telenkova had the opportunity to represent develop green office strategy as at the the Ukrainian office on a team of volunteers administrative staff who implement it. On that carried out research and consultancy the basis of a survey of potential participants, work in Western Ghats, India. Natalia comthe most urgent green office issues were ments: “The experience was unforgettable. identified and discussed during the event. Me and my colleagues in Ukraine understand Ecologists moderated the event and the need to pay attention to environmental ishighlighted the theoretical aspects of the sues, and volunteering in the tropical forest green office concept and offered practical was a practical contribution to addressing enideas. The participants were engaged in the vironmental issues. Exchanging ideas with coldiscussion, exercises and games. More than leagues from different countries and talking to 40 representatives of various companies scientists and Earthwatch Institute representaparticipated in the seminar. tives enriched my understanding of environmental problems and inspired me to seek new ideas and solutions.” 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Green Wave, The Environment – Goals for 2013 Ernst & Young Contest • start measuring the carbon footprint of the Company’s offices in Ukraine; For three years in a row, Ernst & Young has supported the AIESEC youth organization’s • popularize video conferences as an alternative to business trips and raise employee Green Rush educational program. The awareness concerning the environmental impact of different modes of transport; program is intended to enhance youth • introduce a procedure for the monthly monitoring of electric power, water and environmental awareness; this year 1,250 paper use; students participated in environmental • reduce power consumption by 3% minimum compared to prior period; seminars. Ernst & Young has traditionally held a contest among the participants, and this • continue searching for more eco-friendly products, including locally produced time it asked the young people to think about products and products made from recycled goods; the problem of battery recycling and to • recycle solid wastes; suggest solutions in the form of a persuasive poster. • focus greater employee attention on environmental issues via awareness-raising campaigns in a new format; The winner of the contest was Zlata Odribets, a fifth-grader at the European College of Kyiv. • enhance the effectiveness of the AIESEC Green Rush educational ecological Her work has been displayed in the Ernst & program by involving the Company’s specialists in the preparation of program Young offices, and Zlata was invited to the materials; office for a tour and to receive a gift from the • sign the Code of Conduct for Suppliers with all Company suppliers of goods and Company. administrative services and suggest that suppliers of other services sign it. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 43 Society Giving knowledge They share their professional knowledge, leadership philosophy and secrets of success • Support and development programs for deprived children. for success — with participants. the Company’s 88% Educational projects 2012 of employees participating in Financial support for educational 737,700 educational projects the people survey to assess the Company’s CSR projects judged educational projects, UAH Ernst & Young has always paid great initiatives for students as “important” or Total hourly cost for Ernst & Young 589,830 attention to its work with young people. In “very important.” employees that participated 2012, it implemented a number of Educational projects that the Company in educational projects during initiatives to expand young people’s implements and supports: the year, UAH opportunities to gain the knowledge and Total investments in educational 1,327,530 • Professional orientation initiatives for skills they need to achieve success in adult projects, UAH students; life. The Company’s employees actively Students and pupils involved 8,700 participate in its educational initiatives. • Developing entrepreneurship and leadership among youth; Educational projects — benefits for — Access to high quality education and the —S  kills development and new selfparticipants opportunity to feel like an equal member fulfillment opportunities for employees — A deeper knowledge of selected subjects of society for disadvantaged young via involvement in educational programs people. —S  trengthening the Company’s reputation —D  eeper understanding of the Company’s as a responsible member of society. specialization; getting information imporEducational projects — benefits for the tant for decision-making about employment Company Educational projects — benefits for society — Practical experience and first-hand — A more efficient staff selection process —V  aluable contribution to building up the information about the Company — Popularization of the employer brand education system for today’s youth — Development of new skills, expansion of — Opportunity to impact the education and —B  uilding up social awareness and participants’ social circles upbringing of potential employees or responsibility among modern youth — Opportunity to impact social business partners and to promote —H  elping society solve problems development by participating in social principles of responsibility among youth associated with the upbringing and social projects adaptation of orphans. 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Step into the Future Depending on their preferences and qualifications, in the 2011/2012 —O  lexandr Romanishyn, Lyudmyla Kravchuk, Marianna Yakubenko, Pavlo 2012 — professional academic year students chose one of the Kolesnyk, Transaction Advisory Services ; following modules: Audit, Taxes or orientation initiatives Transaction Support. This year a new —N  atalia Telenkova, Victor Kovalenko, Ielizaveta Maksymets, Corporate for students Corporate Social Responsibility module Responsibility Committee. has been introduced in the University The 2011-2012 academic year was program. Teaching about CSR has started Lectures for students in Donetsk the second year to see successful at certain Ukrainian universities recently, implementation of Step into the Future, and the CSR module is attracting keen a complex career program for students interest from students. of Ukrainian higher education establishments. 180 students from various universities in Ukraine participated in University The program includes several modules. workshops; 10 of them passed their tests Ernst & Young University — seminars for successfully and gained employment students at the Company’s office. The with the Company. main goal is to provide students with an 16 workshops took place; 19 Company opportunity to discuss with the Company’s employees taught at the University. employees key trends in the profession and possible paths for career growth. We are grateful to those Company employees who served as Ernst & Young Lectures by Company experts are always University teachers in the 2011-2012 of current interest to students and teachers. academic year: Presentations on audit matters and the roles of auditors in IPOs were made at — Ganna Kurylenko, Mariana Simak, Iryna leading Donetsk universities by Olena Sukhanovska, Mykola Yerin, Anna Popova, Matviyenko, Yuliya Dolganova, Olexandr Olena Pivovar, Assurance; Spesivtsev, Iryna Baranenko, Danylo — Igor Chufarov, Iryna Kalyta, Olga Klymenkov and Denys Maksymets, Anufriyeva, Mykola Khomenko, Oksana assurance specialists at Ernst & Young’s Lapiy, Dina Bokatova, Tax & Law; Donetsk branch. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 45 The Coffee with a Partner — program sets Open Door Days — this year we were A business case contest was held for up meetings where students can talk with visited by about 100 students from senior students of V. Hetman Kyiv National Company executives about the secrets universities in Kyiv. Human Resources Economic University. Six students who of a successful Ernst & Young career employees told them about career demonstrated the most profound in an informal atmosphere. During the opportunities for graduates, accounting and audit knowledge won 2011/2012 academic year students had a Ernst & Young’s structure, and internships at the Company. chance to communicate with the Head of corporate culture. We are grateful to Ganna Kurylenko and Tax & Law and with partners from Assurance. Andriy Misky-Oglu for the preparation and We are grateful to Vladimir Kotenko, Tom “This was a unique opportunity to see implementation of the contest. Cradock-Watson and Yuliya Studynska for the office, to talk with representatives their contribution to youth development. from various departments and to learn In 2012 more than 800 students from more about how to get an entry-level 18 universities of Ukraine participated position at the Company. I was impressed in the Step into the Future Program. by the Company and the people who work there.” Yevgen Makarevich, Student of the International Economy Faculty of V. Hetman Kyiv National Economic University Universities, participants of the • Taras Shevchenko Kyiv National • National University of Bioresources Step into the Future 2012 Project University and Nature Management of Ukraine • Kyiv National Technology and Design • Kharkiv National Economic University • Vadym Hetman Kyiv National Economic University • Cherkassy State Technological University • Kyiv School of Economics University • Kyiv National University of Trade and Economics • Kryvyi Rig National University • Donetsk National University • National University Kyiv-Mohyla • International University of Finances • Donetsk National Technical University Academy • National Aeronautical University • M. Tugan-Baranovsky Donetsk National • National Technical University of Ukraine • National University of the State Tax University of Economics and Trade Kyiv Polytechnic Institute Service of Ukraine • Donetsk State University of Management 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Social networks — a modern platform Strategic partnership •T he annual AIESEC Youth Forum in for open communication with АІЕSЕС in Ukraine December 2011 was devoted to CSR and innovations. A Company representative In 2010 a career group was created on the discussed its CSR strategy and principal Vkontakte network, in 2011 we set up a social projects, answered questions and page on Facebook. By using social media c proposed to students that they try their we remain in active dialogue with students hand in solving cases related to the and graduates, answering their questions, АІЕSЕС is an international youth practical implementation of CSR discussing our educational projects, organization uniting active young people practices. The best student proposals sharing our professional knowledge and in more than 100 countries who grow won Company prizes. inviting students to participate in professionally through joint projects and internships. initiatives and try to change the world for •T alents Fair (Kyiv) and Career Forum the better. AІЕSЕС has been functioning in (Donetsk). Developing Ukraine since 1994 and includes more than 1000 students from 70 Ukrainian Ernst & Young representatives participated in annual AIESEC professional orientation entrepreneurship institutions of higher learning. Ernst & events, talking with students about the peculiarities of the professions of auditor, and leadership Young is a strategic partner to AІЕSЕС in Ukraine. Alexei Kredisov, Managing tax adviser and risk management among young people Partner, and Marina Zakharina, Human consultant. They also shared advice Resources Head, have joined the AІЕSЕС on looking for jobs and held skills Ernst & Young believes that the new Advisory Council, which helps to develop development mini-training sessions that generation of entrepreneurs and leaders strategy and analyze the organization’s will help students find success in the can bring positive changes in the achievements. In 2012, Ernst & Young business environment. economic and social life of our country. It experts participated in a number of thus materially supports projects in this •W orld Without Borders and Green Rush AІЕSЕС educational initiatives. The Company has supported educational area as well as encourages its employees to act as experts, judges and mentors in •L eadership Development Seminar. projects aimed at forming social and special programs and contests. Our In July 2011, 150 of the most active environmental awareness among employees also share their experience at senior students in Ukraine participated young people, as well as leadership youth conferences and host workshops in the Leadership Development Seminar. development and cultural tolerance. and training sessions. Company employees shared experience on how to create and manage a team. They also discussed the important role that corporate courtesy and culture play in an organization’s life. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 47 The results of the World Without Borders Enterprise 2020: Summit NGO G20 – and Green Rush Projects for the 2011/ Students’ Ideas Youth Unites for Change 2012 academic year are as follows: In February 2012 the Enterprise 2020: •E ducational events were held in 30 Kyiv Students’ Ideas Conference, organized by schools; about 2,500 young people were the CSR Development Center, took place involved; in Kyiv. The Conference brought together •6 0 students of 27 nationalities more than 100 students from all regions participated in the Project; of the country as well as representatives •2 70 training sessions and three of leading Ukrainian companies, conferences took place, as did the international organizations and “Green World: Create It Yourself “ universities. The participants outlined the eco-event and a festival of cultures. characteristics of an enterprise of the future, creating the “Entrepreneur’s 2020 We are grateful to the following ABC”. An award ceremony was held for Ernst & Young specialists who participated the winners of the “Enterprise 2020: Ernst & Young supported the First in AIESEC 2011/2012 academic year What Do You See?“ essay contest during All-Ukrainian Summit of the Largest Youth projects: the conference. Some 95 students from Organizations of Ukraine, which took •R ostyslav Grygorenko, Transaction 30 higher educational establishments in place in May 2012 in Kyiv. The organizers Support; 15 cities of Ukraine participated in the of the event — JCI, AIESEC and EYP — contest. Natalia Telenkova, Head of the gathered 20 reputable youth non•T amila Teleganenko, Human Capital Corporate Responsibility Committee at government organizations of Ukraine Group; Ernst & Young, was on the jury panel. to develop a joint development strategy •M aksym Popko, Tax & Law; Those students who won first and second for the period until 2020, to prepare an places in the contest won paid internships educational program of current interest •N atalya Yakovleva, Advisory; at Ernst & Young for a month. and to establish partner relationships. •V eronika Matviychuk, Kateryna Nataliia Krivtsova of Ernst & Young’s HR Tereschenko, Vasyl Klets, Assurance; Department discussed the prospects for youth organizations seeking to partner •N atalia Telenkova, Ielyzaveta with business. Artiom Kozlovski, Advisory Maksymets, Natalia Vyshnevetska, Partner at Ernst & Young, held a theory Kateryna Kayda, Corporate session on developing efficient strategies Responsibility Committee. for non-government organizations. 48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Girls in IT Young Tax Professional Ernst & Young and Enactus of the Year Enactus is an international organization that unites students, teachers and business representatives in 40 countries. Enactus numbers more than 57,000 students from 1,600 universities. Working as a team led by In April 2012, CISCO organized a seminar Ernst & Young’s Young Tax Professional a coach, Enactus students use their academic dedicated to Girls in “Information and of the Year International Contest took knowledge to teach others the principles of Communication Technologies International place in Ukraine in the spring of 2012 the market economy, entrepreneurship skills, Day“. The seminar’s attendants were for the first time. Eight finalists, who financial expertise, environmental knowledge graduates of CISCO Networking demonstrated the deepest tax knowledge and business ethics. Since 2010 Alexei Academies. There were 50 attendants, and skills, were chosen from more than Kredisov, Ernst & Young Managing Partner, more than half of them girls. The speakers 300 registered participants from Ukraine. has been a co-chairman of Enactus Ukraine’s at the seminar were successful women This year Olexandr Sakalosh, a master’s Business Advisory Council. Thanks to the representing leading Ukrainian companies. student at T. Shevchenko National Council, more representatives of large Anzhela Nikolayenko, Advisory Senior University, won the contest. Ukrainian businesses have been attracted to Manager, Ernst & Young, talked about her the program. In April 2012, participants from Olexandr Sakalosh comments: “The Young career and about her experience in various teams got the opportunity to attend Tax Professional of the Year Contest gives maintaining a successful work-life “Learning to Speak in Public“ master class, talented students the chance to balance. led by Mykola Khomenko, Tax & Law expert demonstrate their knowledge in the tax at Ernst & Young. Alexei Kredisov, Marina field. As the winner of the Ukrainian Zakharina and Natalia Telenkova were the contest I‘ll represent Ukraine in the judges in the finals, and Ielyzaveta International Finals in Boston, Maksymets acted as league coordinator. Massachusetts. I’ll do my best to win.” Olexandr was among the six international contest finalists. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 49 Mukachevo in Zakarpattya region and to create a clean and healthy recreation area for Israeli visitors. The team reached an agreement with the head office of the Israeli company DIDWW on financial support, owing to which 15 families had their guest houses restored. Seminars were held with the families on the theme of teaching foreign tourists about Ukrainian Traditions and DIDWW promoted vacationing in Ukraine among its Israeli clients and partners. As a result of the Project, 15 families from Mukachevo made a profit, Israelis got to vacation in an ecologically pristine area of the Carpathians, and DIDWW’s employees received a great benefit – a chance of a new type of recreation that could improve their health. The From 70 Towards 20 project has The winner of Enactus national mode power supply units equipped with helped to improve the lives of pensioners competition in 2012 was a team from built-in protection against overheating and in Vinnytsya. A physical training groups the Vinnytsya National Technical short circuit. The replacement reduced the has been created for the elderly and University. The team won the contest enterprise’s monthly repair and 45 pensioners received free of charge for the second consecutive time. maintenance costs, increasing the reliability healthcare products of UAH 82,000 from of the enterprise’s operation, reducing the Team’s projects: the Zdravo Company. Green Vinnytsya, likelihood of production downtime and of As part of the Milk of Life project, an audit a movement of Vinnytsya pensioners bovine diseases, and decreasing lead took place of the production activity of to improve the environmental situation, penetration of soil as a result of the Muson, a Vinnytsya enterprise. Muson was organized, as a result of which recycling of power supply units. produces and maintains electronic 240 trees were planted in the city and equipment for cow farms. The proposal was The goal of the ECO-style Tourism project 125 bags of garbage were collected. made to use high-performance switched was to overcome poverty in the city of 50 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine CFA Institute Investment Ernst & Young and Global Ernst & Young Scholarship Research Contest Management Challenge Fund at NUKMA Ernst & Young supported the 2nd All-Ukrainifor Students (GMC Junior) Ernst & Young’s an Investment Research Contest, held by the Ernst & Young has been supporting GMC Incentive CFA Institute. The CFA Institute encourages Junior competitions in Ukraine since 2008. Scholarship Fund at the development of best practices concerning We are strategic partners to this initiative, the National share market research among future financial in which senior students from Ukrainian University Kyivanalysts, attracting coaches from the busiuniversities participate. Each team Mohyla Academy ness community and conducting intensive establishes a board of directors for a large was established in training in enterprise analysis and presentavirtual manufacturing enterprise, and then 2008. Annual scholarships go to the best tion skills. This year Stanislav Kartavykh, analyzes that enterprise’s financial position, teachers and students of the Academy, as Senior Consultant, Corporate Finance and production capacities and market positions selected on a competition basis. In 2012 a M&A, Ernst & Young, served as a mentor to in order to implement a corporate strategy professor scholarship was awarded to Iryna Kharkiv National Economic University’s team. for successful development and share value Grygorivna Lukyanenko, Professor, Finance Thanks to the cooperation between mentor maximization. The severe competition for Chair; a student scholarship was awarded to and team, the students won a place in the ficonsumers helps the students feel what it’s Olesya Mykhailenko, a third-year student. nals as one of the six best teams in Ukraine. like to run a real business, and they obtain The Fund is used also to finance research crucial managerial experience. and innovation projects. IASA CaseChamp Business Case Championship In autumn 2012, 3333 students from 188 Developing a new generation Marianna Yakubenko and Dmytro Ukrainian universities participated in the of economists championship. The eight leading teams Yeremenko, Business Valuation specialists, (from among 834) teams were from Kyiv, Ernst & Young, judged the IASA CaseChamp Ternopil, Sevastopol, Kryvyi Rig and Spring 2012 Business Case Championship, Dnipropetrovsk. They won the right to organized by the students of the KPI Instiparticipate in the Global Management The Kyiv School of Economics (KSE) is one tute for Applied and System Analysis. The Challenge adult league, where they will of Europe’s leading educational participants determined the fair value of one compete with the best top managers from establishments; graduates are committed to corporate share, performed corporate operUkraine’s leading companies. improving Ukraine’s economic, political and ating forecasts and developed a five-year business environments. Recognizing the model for discounted cash flows. The Atlant need to support a new generation of team, consisting of third-year students, won economists, Ernst & Young joined the the contest. The winners received certifiFriends of the KSE Association and selected cates to participate in professional training scholars for the 2011/2012 academic year: at the Ernst & Young Academy of Business Zoryana Podilchuk and Anton Vorush, firstand got the chance to undergo summer year students. training in business valuation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 51 KSE students participate in the Ernst & Starting-up Your Own Business: Choosing International Summit Child Young University educational program and Patterns of Ownership and Taxation”. Youth Finance International Company specialists are guests of KSE on The participants took part in a business occasion. On 30 November 2011, Alexei plan contest. The jurors, who were Kredisov, Managing Partner of Ernst & entrepreneurs, economists and consultants, Young, visited KSE and talked to students estimated the feasibility of the plans and about his career path and the Company’s provided their comments to the first-time activities. He also answered questions entrepreneurs. Pavlo Kolesnyk, Senior about the prospects for the audit and Consultant, Transactions, Ernst & Young, consulting market in Ukraine. participated in the jury’s work. The authors of the best business plans won special Real Start prizes from Ernst & Young: the opportunity to spend a day at the Company, certificates to attend the Ernst & Young Academy of Business and the right to participate in an Ernst & Young supported the senior female Ernst & Young University seminar. students from the Zhytomyr Humanitarian Gymnasium who, in concert with the Successful Youth Club international organization IREX, attended In November, students of the Successful the Child Youth Finance International Youth Club, a short-term business education summit in Amsterdam. The goal of the program, visited the Ernst & Young Kyiv summit was to gather young people aged office, and attended a seminar “Corporate 8 18 from various countries to discuss The participants of the Real Start project Culture and its Diagnosis,” which was held challenges in financial education. Alina under the auspices of Kyiv National by Tamila Teleganenko, Human Capital Yakymchuk, Daryna Vlasyuk and Yuliya Economic University had the opportunity Group. Frolova were invited to participate in the to hear Mykola Khomenko, Tax & Law, summit as an award for their academic Ernst & Young, lecture “Legal Aspects of achievements and proactive roles in school life. The Ukrainian girls submitted papers on such topics as what money means for young people, youth loans and financial education as a part of the educational process. 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Support and Statistics on the lives of these teenagers can be sad. The goal of the Scholar program is to development programs support orphans who want to be full members of society. It’s not only scholarships, however, for senior students that help orphans get higher education. It’s and graduates also human concern and friendship. Cultural events, training, psychological and legal of orphanages advice, and meetings with and speeches by successful people – all these things help Ernst & Young believes that everyone can orphans change their attitudes to the world, succeed if you give them the chance. Kids to adapt and to find themselves. in orphanages require particular attention and the Company supports several Ernst & Young volunteers often meet with programs in this very area. orphans and will testify that the program is “Last year I joined the Scholar program very important for the teens. The program has as a coach to a student. We meet at The Scholar program many times served as a starting point for events organized by the Fund, but we For the fifth year in a row Ernst & Young is changing the lives of those whose chances for also try to find other times to get supporting the Scholar program for orphaned success seemed low. Ernst & Young employees together. Recently, for example, we went students, which is implemented by the act as sponsors and coaches within the to the theater together. I’m sure that Pryyateli Ditey (Friends of Children) Charity program. In 2012 the Company paid for nine children without a family and deprived of Fund. Teenagers who leave orphanages often students to participate in the program. parental care and love find it extremely lack social skills, have no goals, perceive the Another eight students got individual financial important to have an older friend who world negatively and are unable to solve the support from Company employees. can serve as an example and help with a simplest problems. kind word or advice in a difficult time. I also feel that my new role enriches me as a person. It requires integrity and “What distinguishes Ernst & Young work is its volunteers, who get personally involved responsibility and encourages me to in our projects. Workshops, visits of interesting coaches and communication with the improve myself, to be more kind and students in the Scholar program create an atmosphere of trust and transparency between compassionate.” the Fund and the Company’s employees. Thanks to the charitable support of Ernst & Young, Pryyateli Ditey (Friends of Children) projects are developing and providing assistance to kids Anzhela Nikolayenko, who are moving on to independent lives and who represent the most vulnerable part of Advisory Senior Manager society. Ernst & Young’s work has resulted in a higher quality of care for these children, as they themselves testify.” Maryna Krysa President, Pryyateli Ditey Charity Fund Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 53 Roshchupkina, Olga Podilchyk, Hanna Director of the Psychology and Social Sydorchuk, Kateryna Korolenko, Elena Pedagogy Institute of Ukraine. All student Bykova, Nastya Lysyanska, Valya Ivanets teachers are provided with preliminary and Nadiya Trynchuk. training conducted by the Project Coordinator. Exercises, work in groups, Students to Children games and handouts enable discussion and Scholar program participants have the help teens find answers to important opportunity to be trained as teachers in the questions. Students to Children Project and share their experiences with senior orphan pupils who The results of the Students to Children are just starting out in the world. The 2011 – 2012 program are as follows: there Project was launched in 2008 by the were 44 training sessions at 13 Company employees made the following orphanages, attended by 330 senior pupils. Pryyateli Ditey (Friends of Children) Charity presentations during meetings with the Seventeen students from the Scholar Fund with the participation of Ernst & 2011/2012 Scholars: Program became teachers. Student Young. The Project involves discussion • “How to Prepare a Competent Resume,” sessions oriented around the following volunteers who distinguished themselves as Ielyzaveta Maksymets, Human Resources themes: “Achieving Personal Goals,” “The dedicated and talented teachers received specialist World of Modern Professions,” certificates for professional training at the “Countertrafficking,” “HIV/AIDS Prevention Ernst & Young Academy of Business. •“How to Prevent Conflicts and Resolve Them,” Svitlana Sologub, Audit Assistant and Drug Avoidance,” “Love and Family Planning” and “The Search for Housing.” Way to Success • “Why to Learn English,” Anna Roshchupkina, Tax & Law assistant. In the 2011-2012 academic year we Training materials were prepared by the continued supporting the ”Way to Success” From January to May 2012, Ernst & Young Fund’s employees and reviewed by the program, which is implemented by the organized a School of English for the Edinstvennaya Charity Foundation. During Scholars. Lessons took place in the the year professional trainers, psychologists Company’s office in three groups, organized and teachers contributed to the development according to the level of students’ of young leaders under the Leadership preparation. In the summer, two Scholars Breakthrough program, in which participated were selected to participate in international 55 children aged 12 to 17 from orphanages youth exchange programs and to travel to in three regions of Ukraine. Ernst & Young Slovakia and the UK for their achievements employees not only financially supported in English classes. We are grateful to all four program modules, but also shared those employees who taught at the practical knowledge during sessions on time Saturday School of English: Anna management, conflict management and 54 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine budgeting. Teachers and trainers noticed real changes in the personal development of the Charity children, as their self-confidence and Charity initiatives remain integral to our leadership skills improved. Here’s what interaction with society. We plan corporate Project participants confess themselves: charity programs so that they have • “I learned to perform on stage, in front maximum positive effect. We adhere to the of the footlights” principle of consistency: we work in selected areas for a long time. At the same • “I realized that not everything I’m taught time, we’re always looking for new activities is true” and new partners. • “I believed in my own power” • “I never thought that I could confess to my faults” Over the summer, the next stage in the Way to Success program was achieved with 92% of our employees who participated in a people survey • “I’ve overcome my awkwardness” to assess the Company’s CSR projects, Ernst & Young’s support: 40 children from determined charity initiatives as • “I learned to appreciate the people orphanages in the Chernigiv region “important” or “very important.” around me” participated in the Seven me of My Adult • “Now I know who I want to become” Life tent camp, aimed at developing Charity donations, UAH 2012 • “I’m now able to plan for 5-15 years leadership and teamwork and at fostering preparation for an independent life. Orphanage support projects 92,345 ahead.” Helping children with cancer 290,750 Other charity donations 73,873 Total charity donations 456,968 “Teens in orphanages need help, and learning to plan for the future. Teachers sometimes the skill and strength of the at our seminars, meanwhile, improve teachers who work with them daily their skills, and thus are better able aren’t enough. The development to help children. Ernst & Young is programs implemented by the Charity continually supportive of our work; we’re Foundation with the support of the grateful for its attention to the problems business community help both teenagers of orphans and for its confidence in the and teachers. In participating in our Foundation.” programs, children expand their Olena Viter, knowledge about life outside the Director, Edinstvennaya Charity Foundation orphanage, becoming more open and Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 55 Day’s Salary for Charity • support for a Charity Mini-Football and Paintball Tournament to raise funds for The Day’s Salary for Charity event the Center for Early Development of traditionally takes place on the eve of the Children with Down Syndrome; New Year at Ernst & Young’s Ukrainian offices. The funds raised through this event • support for a children’s picture contest to have resulted in: benefit the Pediatric Epilepsy Center. • eight volunteer trips to visit children in The orphanages supported by the orphanages throughout the year; tourism Company from 2004-2005 are: training for children in Ivaniv; contests, games, picnics and holiday gifts for — Ivaniv, Vinnytsya Region children from three orphanages; and — Boyarka, Kyiv Region purchase of equipment for orphanages; — Snizhne, Donetsk Region • the “Best Pupils” contest, held at three More than 100 employees participated orphanages and aimed at encouraging children to succeed in school; Gifts from Saint Nicholas in the event, and the wishes of 200 children came true on the eve of the holidays: • the repair of a bedroom for girls at the they received the gifts they wished for. orphanage in Ivaniv; They also prepared a concert for the • the repair of a ceiling and purchase of volunteer team and chatted with their sanitary ware items at the orphanage in Ernst & Young friends. Snizhne; • payment for plastic surgery for a girl from the Ivaniv orphanage who suffered from “The children and employees of the severe burns; Ivaniv special orphanage are sincerely grateful for your friendship. The • payment for airfare for a disabled student, children’s eyes glow with joy when you a participant in the Scholar program, to come to visit us. You’re no longer participate in a summer program for In December 2011, the Company’s guests, but rather our sincere friends. people with disabilities, in Italy; employees helped prepare gifts for children Your moral and material support is a • support to a summer camp for 26 children manifestation of heart, soul and who had been victims of trafficking, in the orphanages the Company patronized. Participants in the initiative received letters kindness.” organized by the International Organization for Migration; from children addressed to St. Nicholas. In Vira Tkachuk, the letters, the children told St. Nicholas Director, Ivaniv orphanage about their achievements, confessed their bad deeds and shared their dreams. 56 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Special Children Seventy Company employees served as collected these stray coins until there were benefactors during the past year. Thanks to enough of them to send them, via a volunteer 2012 was a year of friendship between them, 21 children received regular or onechain, back to Europe, where they were used Ernst & Young and the All-Ukrainian time financial support. Funds went to pay to buy medicines that are scarce in Ukraine; Charitable Organization Down Syndrome. for medication and visits to the doctor, via another chain, the medicine was The Company’s employees participated with allowing children to get vital treatment in transferred to the Pediatric Oncology pleasure in tournaments the fund organized. time. In addition to targeted assistance to the Department at Okhmatdyt. About 130 Euro We provided support to the fund’s minichildren, we provided financial support was collected between May and July 2012. football and paintball championships, totaling UAH 16,300 to the Bone Marrow which raised funds for the Center for Early To benefit children in the Donetsk Hospital Transplant Department at the Okhmatdyt Development of Children with Down oncology department, the volunteers from hospital for purchase of rapidly consumed Syndrome. the Company’s Donetsk office organized a materials and equipment. pre-holiday celebration, including sweets. For From 2007 to 2012 financial assistance a few hours, the contests and pleasant of more than one million UAH was provided surprises distracted the children from their to more than 300 children. challenges. In June 2012, the Company organized the We are always looking for new ways to provide first Donor Day event – a mobile team from assistance. Thus, since 2011 that Company the Blood Center in Kyiv was invited to the has been organizing an online fair. Items Company office, and employees could made by the hands of talented employees — donate blood. Only five employees dared to paintings, photographs, knitting and decor give, but we hope that their example will items — are offered for sale, and the funds inspire others, and there will be more raised go to children in need. During the year brave souls next time. the fair raised UAH 18,000, which went to the parents of Nastia Pilyayeva, to pay for her Helping children with cancer treatment at the Kyiv City Oncology Clinic. Since 2007 the Company is continuing its Salary Deduction Program in favor of In addition, Company employees participated children with cancer. As a rule, oncological in a charity project sponsored by the Small diseases require prolonged and expensive Tablets (Tabletochky) initiative group: the treatment, and parents alone often cannot Euro Coins (Euromonetky) initiative. Smallcope with the bills. That’s when benefactors denomination Euro coins, which people find come to help them out. themselves stuck with after they return from Europe, are useless in Ukraine. This project Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 57 Jeans Day The funds raised go to a person who needs No one can respond to all requests for help, immediate assistance (usually we receive Society — but sometimes trouble comes close and is information about pertinent cases from Goals for 2013 our own employees). impossible to avoid. Jeans Day is a way of • maintain efficient relations with keeping the fundraising going that our Ernst & Young’s Ukraine offices have recurring partners in education colleagues from the Western offices have conducted seven Jeans Days, thus and charity projects; shared with us. Jeans Day means that an raising about 48 thousand UAH. employee can wear jeans on Friday if he • develop the new Young Generation or she makes a charitable contribution. of Financial Managers educational program; April 2011 Kyiv fundraising for treatment of Nikita Pochatovsky • participate more actively (deafness); in educational programs for teaching staff at universities; April 2011 Donetsk fundraising for treatment of Zhasmin Grebenyuk • develop a mentoring program (cancer); for student-orphans. September Kyiv fundraising for purchase of 100 pairs of shoes for 2011 children in the orphanage in Ivaniv; March 2012 Kyiv and fundraising for Kostya Hetman, a student of Kyiv-Mohyla Donetsk Academy and of Ernst & Young University who was brutally beaten in the street; April 2012 Kyiv and fundraising to organize a holiday for veterans, Donetsk including gifts; July 2012 Kyiv fundraising for purchase of an infusomat for the Adult Oncology Department of the Oblast Hospital, where a Company employee was treated; August 2012 Donetsk fundraising for treatment of Sofia Sklyarevska (cancer). 58 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Report Parameters and Contact Information This is the fourth Corporate Responsibility Representatives of the Corporate The prior Report was issued in May 2012 Report of the Ernst & Young Ukraine entities Responsibility Committee, Human and covered the period from 1 July 2010 (Ernst & Young LLC and Ernst & Young Resources, the Procurement Team and to 30 June 2011. It can be found at: Audit Services LLC). Resources, and Marketing/PR took part in www.ey.com/ua/cr. the Report’s preparation. It covers the activities of the two offices in We plan to continue reporting on the Kyiv and Donetsk during the 2012 financial The Report was reviewed by the Company’s Company’s corporate responsibility year, i.e. the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 non-financial reporting and sustainability activities on a yearly basis. June 2012. specialists. The structure of the Report is consistent The report has been prepared taking into with Ernst & Young’s overall approach to account comments and suggestions that the corporate responsibility and presents Company received after issuing the previous information in four chapters: Office, Report. To obtain feedback, the Company Marketplace, Environment and Society. conducted: The Report describes the Company’s • a survey of the Company’s employees and performance in the economic, social and partners; there were 153 respondents; environmental areas whenever the effect • a meeting with stakeholders – there were may be considered as significant. It is 12 guests, representing clients, expert prepared in accordance with the Global organizations, academia, non-profit Reporting Initiative (GRI), G3 standard. organizations and the media. Disclosure level is С, self-declared. Your feedback on the Report is important for us. We look forward to receiving your comments and will be ready to answer your questions at the following address: Natalia.Telenkova@ua.ey.com. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 59 Appendix 1 Ernst & Young’s offices in the world Ernst & Young has offices in more than 150 countries of the world, in four regions: North and South America; Asia Pacific; Europe, Middle East, India and Africa (EMEIA); and Japan. Belgium Cyprus Hungary Liechtenstein Norway South Sudan Bermuda Czech Republic Iceland Lithuania Oman Spain Bolivia Denmark India Luxembourg Pakistan Sri Lanka Bosnia and Dominican Republic Indonesia Macedonia Palestinian Authority Sweden Herzegovina Ecuador Iraq Madagascar Panama Switzerland Botswana Egypt Ireland Malawi Papua New Guinea Syria Brazil El Salvador Isle of Man Malaysia Paraguay Taiwan British Virgin Islands Equatorial Guinea Israel Maldives Peru Tanzania Brunei Estonia Italy Malta Philippines Thailand Bulgaria Ethiopia Ivory Coast Mauritius Poland Trinidad and Tobago Cambodia Fiji Jamaica Mexico Portugal Tunisia Cameroon Finland Japan Moldova, Qatar Turkey Canada France Jersey Republic of Romania Uganda Cayman Islands Gabon Jordan Mongolia Russia Ukraine Chad Georgia Kazakhstan Montenegro Rwanda United Arab Emirates Chile Germany Kenya Morocco Saudi Arabia United Kingdom China Ghana Korea, Republic of Mozambique Senegal United States Colombia Greece Kuwait Namibia Serbia, Republic of Uruguay Congo Guam Lao People’s Netherlands Seychelles Uzbekistan Congo, the Guatemala Democratic Republic New Zealand Singapore Venezuela Democratic Republic Latvia Nicaragua Guernsey Slovakia Vietnam Costa Rica Lebanon Nigeria Guinea Slovenia Zambia Croatia Libya Northern Mariana Honduras South Africa Zimbabwe Curacao Islands 60 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Appendix 2 Ernst & Young’s services in Ukraine Assurance Financial statement audit Fraud Investigation and Dispute Services • F  inancial statement audit in accordance with International • Fraud investigation Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and National Accounting • C ollection of evidence and facts in financial documents and Standards (US GAAP, Ukrainian Accounting Standards) electronic data analysis • Reviews • Dispute services. • Assistance in financial reporting preparation • Accounting advisory services Climate Change and Sustainability services • Transition to IFRS • S trategic advisory, including development of strategies and • Special reports and agreed-upon procedures programs in the area of corporate social responsibility, assistance in building management systems and developing relevant key • Initial Public Offering (IPO) support. performance indicators • S upport in the development and further improvement of nonFinancial Accounting Advisory Services financial reporting systems, as well as in preparation of non• Transition to IFRS financial reports • IPO or other public offerings and refinancing issues • Independent assurance of non-financial reports in accordance with international standards • Accounting standards and regulatory accounting requirements • A  dvisory on climate change, including strategy development • Accounting and financial reporting processes. and introduction of relevant management and control tools, as well as verification of greenhouse gas emissions • A  ssessment of the company’s environmental, health and safety (EHS) risks and liabilities. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 61 Advisory Services Performance Improvement • F  inancial management (transformation of finance operating • P rogram and project management (program and project model, designing and managing outsourcing, offshoring and management advisory services, program assurance and delivery) shared services center, sharpening performance management • S trategic performance (strategic review, operating model design, framework, designing and implementing financial systems, contransformation programs, pricing and commercial strategy) ceiving and implementing enterprise cost • P ersonnel and organization management (organizational • C  lient relationship management (development and deployment design, performance management systems and KPIs, change of market and customer strategy, development and implementamanagement strategy) tion of insightful customer analytics that allow a company to • I nformation systems advisory (IT strategy, IT program delivery, understand and anticipate customer needs, development system selection and technology sourcing, IT system architecture, of pricing, product promotion, marketing to increase profits, IT security assessment/penetration tests) improvement of customer service management, improvement of marketing and sales performance, modernization and • S AP Roll-out assistance (evaluation of Business Blueprint and acceleration of collections processes) standard system settings (corporate template) and identification of major gaps from the point of view of Ukrainian statutory • S  upply chain management (obtaining information on supply chain conditions through reliable data analysis; transformation requirements; assistance with configuring the standard Ukrainian of global supply chains through a cross-disciplinary approach localization package (AddOn), assistance with test planning and covering operations, tax and risk; revision, improvement and execution; training key users and end users; supervision of data assessment of risks of procurement functions to realize long-term, cutover (migration); post go-live support). sustainable benefits; improvement of supply chains and infrastructure in emerging markets as a powerful catalyst to secure new market share and drive revenue growth; provision of sectorspecific supply chain insights with our experienced industry supply chain professionals) 62 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Business advisory services Tax & Law Risk Tax • Corporate Governance • T  ax planning, corporate tax, cross border advisory, customs • Risk management and international trade, tax accounting, tax performance advisory, tax policy and controversy, transaction taxes, • Internal audit transfer pricing, indirect taxation. • Internal control • Contract risk management Human Capital Group • Program management. • Advisory on international employee transfer (business immigration, outsourcing advisory, advisory services on Information Technology and IT-Risk Management international employee transfer) • Information technology advisory services (IT transformation, • Performance management and staff motivation advisory technology assistance, client-side advisory programs services (remuneration system, short-term motivation (transformation of core ERP systems, overall transformation programs, long-term motivation programs (including profit program, including management of 3rd party vendors) sharing), staff performance management, audit of HR functions, improvement of staff management performance processes, • IT risk and assurance services (IT control services, legal risk management, mergers and acquisitions support, HR IT risk transformation, IT assurance). due diligence, labor market monitoring, training and seminars) • Personal tax services. Ernst & Young Academy of Business • Ernst & Young Academy of Business is a leader in providing Law training and professional development services in Ukraine •C ► ommercial law and the CIS countries and offers a wide range of training courses in accounting, finance and company management: •C ► orporate Company law — open training (more than 70 topics in total) •C ► ommercial agreements — international qualification programs (DipIFR, АССА, CFA®, CIA) • D ► istribution (supply), procurement, license, R&D and services agreements — corporate training. •C ► orporate reorganizations •R ► egulatory advice for public companies •C ► orporate governance advice and implementation. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 63 Transaction Transaction Support Real Estate Advisory • Acquisition of assess • Real estate appraisal • Disposals • Hospitality and leisure advisory services • Management buy-outs • Due diligence of real estate objects • Buy-ins and fundraising • Project development and management • Initial Public Offering (IPO) • Advisory services on real estate mega-projects • Acquisitions • Assistance in strategy development • Mergers • Location advisory services • Strategic Reviews. • Strategic financing. Restructuring Services on Operating Contract Integration • Corporate restructuring • Carve-out readiness and support • Working capital management • Operational due diligence • Capital markets. • Synergy assessment and delivery • Day-one readiness assessment and 100-day planning Valuation & Business Modeling • Integration process support. • Business valuation; • Intellectual property valuation; • Valuation of assets. 64 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Appendix 3 Ernst & Young Ukraine organizational structure Partners’ Board Managing Partner • Corporate Responsibility Committee • People Advisory Council • People Board Client Service, Service Lines Heads Core Business Services Marketing Transaction Finance & Business In-house Legal Assurance Advisory Tax & Law Development Advisory Human Information General Resources Technology Administration Audit Performance Transaction Corporate Tax improvement Support Fraud Investigation & IT & ITRisk Corporate Dispute Law Services Finance Services Financial Human Valuation & Accounting Risks Capital Business Services Modeling Sustainability Academy Real Estate Services of Business Advisory Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 65 Appendix 4 Corporate Responsibility Committee in Ukraine Natalia Telenkova Svitlana Sologub Yulia Byba Head of the Committee Audit Assistant Key Legal Adviser Administration Manager Svitlana.Sologub@ua.ey.com Yuliya.Byba@ua.ey.com Natalia.Telenkova@ua.ey.com Alexei Kredisov Kateryna Gorbunova Yuriy Shibanov Managing Partner in Ukraine Business Advisory Manager Transaction Support Alexei.Kredisov@ua.ey.com Kateryna.Gorbunova@ua.ey.com Manager Yuriy.Shibanov@ua.ey.com Victor Kovalenko Nataliia Krivtsova Natalia Vyshnevetska Head, Sustainability Services HR Key Specialist Administration Manager Victor.Kovalenko@ua.ey.com Nataliia.Krivtsova@ua.ey.com Natalia.Vyshnevetska@ua.ey.com Olga Danchenkova Kateryna Kayda PR Senior Specialist Administration Senior Olga.Danchenkova@ua.ey.com Specialist Kateryna.Kayda@ua.ey.com Ielyzaveta Maksymets Mykola Yerin Human Resources Specialist Audit Manager Ielyzaveta.Maksymets@ua.ey.com Mykola.Yerin@ua.ey.com 66 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Appendix 5 Procurement and consumption of materials: our principles and results Item Our approach and results, 2012 financial year Suppliers In 2011 the Code of Conduct was developed, requiring compliance with high legal, ethical, environmental and labor standards on our part and on the part of our contractors. As of the end of 2012 financial year, the Code had been signed by 10 Company contractors: half of the suppliers of goods and administrative services to the Company. Office equipment The office equipment used by the Company in Ukraine complies with energy saving classes “A” and “A+.” During the 2012 financial year the number of office equipment items (printers, copiers, and multifunctional devices) remained unchanged. Power In the 2012 financial year power consumption Power consumption by Ernst & Young in Ukraine, decreased by 23% as compared to the previous period. 2009-2012 financial years, kWh per month This significant decrease in power consumption is related to optimization of the Kyiv office premises. 6000 5000 Green Group activity had concentrated on making 4000 employees aware of power consumption indicators 3000 and of simple daily steps that decrease power 2000 consumption. 1000 0 1 2 3 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 67 Item Our approach and results, 2012 financial year Paper In the 2012 financial year paper use increased 18%, to Paper use by Ernst & Young in Ukraine, 2008-2012 14580 kg per year. financial years, packs per month Starting from 2013 there will be monthly monitoring of 600 paper use in various Company departments in order to 500 take steps to decrease its use wherever possible. 400 All paper used in the Company’s Ukrainian offices is FSC 300 (Forest Stewardship Council) eco-marked. 200 We compensate for our high consumption of paper by 100 delivering our used paper for recycling. We work with two 0 contractors, one of them responsible for shredding and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 recycling confidential paper waste, the other responsible for removal and recycling of non-confidential paper waste. During the year Ernst & Young’s Ukraine offices delivered 16,768 kg of waste paper for recycling. This significant quantity is explained by the fact that some archive documents were delivered for shredding. The Company has conducted an awareness-raising campaign for employees, including paper use indicators and useful tips on how to decrease paper use. It also encourages recycling of paper. Business trips During the year the number of flights of the Company’s employees took increased by 63%, while the number of trips they took by land transport decreased by 6%. At the same time, engineering capabilities for video conferencing have improved. Tandberg Movi software has been installed for all Company partners and managers, to facilitate video conferences. The data transfer channel has been enhanced threefold, significantly improving video conference quality. 68 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Appendix 6 GRI G3 disclosures and performance indicators GRI disclosures Short description Pages, comments Level and indicators of disclosure 1.1 Corporate responsibility statement by the Managing Partner 3 disclosed 1.2 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities 3, 8, 9, 26, 32, 38, disclosed 40, 44 2.1 Name of the organization 6 disclosed 2.2 Principal services 7, 61 64 disclosed 2.3 Operating structure 65 disclosed 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 6, offices in Ukraine 7 disclosed 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 6, 60 disclosed 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 disclosed 2.7 Markets served 6, 7 disclosed 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 7 disclosed partly 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, There were no significant disclosed changes apart from partners number changed from 14 to 15. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 6, 7, 12, 13, 26 disclosed 3.1 Reporting period 3, 59 disclosed 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 59 disclosed 3.3 Reporting cycle 59 disclosed 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report or its contents 59 disclosed 3.5 Process for defining report content 59 disclosed 3.6 Boundary of the report 59 disclosed 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report No limitations. disclosed 3.8 Basis for reporting on other entities that can significantly affect comparability No other entities. disclosed 3.10 Explanation of the impact of any changes in the treatment of disclosure of information No significant changes. disclosed presented in prior periods Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 69 GRI disclosures Short description Pages, comments Level and indicators of disclosure 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in scope, boundary or measurement No significant changes. disclosed methods 3.12 Table identifying the location of standards disclosures 69 72 disclosed 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 7, 65 disclosed partly 4.2 Indication of whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 7 disclosed partly 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonWithout independent or disclosed executive members non-executive members of the governance body. 4.4 Mechanism through which shareholders and employees can provide recommendations or 15 17 disclosed directions to the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 8, 9, 11, 26, 29, 31, 32, disclosed relevant to economic, environmental and social performance 38, 44 4.13 Membership in associations and (inter)national advocacy organizations 33 disclosed 4.14 List of stakeholders 9 disclosed 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders The Company interacts disclosed with stakeholder groups that are relevant for its principal activities. The Company also supports corporate volunteer activity in areas to be identified by the Company’s employees. 4.16 Approach to interaction with stakeholders 9 disclosed EC1 Economic performance 7 disclosed partly ЕС2 Financial aspects and other risks and opportunities related to organization operation 38 disclosed partly in the context of climate change EC5 Range of standard wage at the entry-level vs established minimum wage in the regions Minimum wage at the disclosed where the Company operates entry level in the reporting period exceeded statutory minimum wage in Ukraine by 274% on average. 70 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine GRI disclosures Short description Pages, comments Level and indicators of disclosure EC7 Recruitment procedures for local population and proportion of top executives hired from The Company gives disclosed the local population preference to citizens of Ukraine in hiring. In the reporting period: the share of workers hired from the local population was 98%, the proportion of top executives hired from the local population was 67%. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily 44, 55, 58 disclosed partly for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagements EN1 Materials used 40, 41, 68 disclosed EN 4 Energy used 67 disclosed EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of services 38 43, 67, 68 disclosed LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region According to the data as disclosed of the end of the reporting period, in Ukraine 524 were employed, 490 of them in Kyiv and 34 in Donetsk. 92% of employees have permanent employment contracts, 1% have fixed term contracts, 2% serve part time, 5% are persons who provide services under civil law agreements. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region Average turnover (ratio disclosed of employees who left the Company during the year to the total headcount as at the reporting year-end) was 15%. Male turnover is 18%, female turnover is 13%. Turnover of employees aged 20 to 29 was 16%, aged 30 to 49 was 12%, aged more than 50 is 13%. Employee turnover in Kyiv was 14%, in Donetsk – 26%. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 71 GRI disclosures Short description Pages, comments Level and indicators of disclosure LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Part-time employees and disclosed employees those under fixed term agreements (in the reporting period 2% і 1%, respectively) make free use of benefits (pages 21-22 of the Report). LA4 Percentage of employees covered by the collective agreement Pursuant to Item 1.2 of disclosed the Collective Agreement, its conditions apply to all entity employees and are mandatory both for owners and administration and for the labor staff and each employee. LA6 Percentage of total workforce that is represented in formal joint committees and develops People Board includes disclosed guidelines concerning occupational health and safety programs 5 executives (1% of staff), People Advisory Council comprises 20 representatives of staff at various levels (4% of staff). LA8 Existing education, training, counseling and prevention programs regarding serious 21-22 disclosed diseases to assist workforce members and their families LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, by employee category Average hours of training for disclosed partners and directors – 23; for senior managers and managers – 32; for senior and young specialists 26. These data do not include training for obtaining certification. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 100% employees disclosed per year receive a performance evaluation and corresponding proposals regarding career development. 72 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine GRI disclosures Short description Pages, comments Level and indicators of disclosure LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee In the whole, during the disclosed partly category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other reporting period 61% of staff indicators of diversity consisted of female employees. 52% of middle-level managers and 29% of top-level managers were represented by women. Employees aged from 20 to 30 comprise 65%, aged from 30 to 50 comprise 34%, aged more than 50 comprise 2%. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category In determining remuneration, disclosed the Company does not make gender differentiations. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There were no incidents of disclosed discrimination in the reporting period. HR5 Operations in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective There were no incidents in disclosed bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. which freedom of association and collective bargaining could have been at risk in the reporting period. HR6 Risk for incidents of child labor The Company does not use disclosed child labor. HR7 Risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor The Company does not use disclosed forced or compulsory labor. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people There were no incidents of disclosed violations in the reporting period. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and 100% of employees providing disclosed procedures services to clients. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 33 disclosed PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 29 – 30 disclosed customer satisfaction PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy There were no breaches in the disclosed reporting period. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations There were no breaches in the disclosed concerning provision of services reporting period. Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 73 GRI application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self-declared √ Third party checked Optional GRI confirmed Appendix 7 Our commitment to UNGC principles UN Global Compact principles Reference to the pages in the Report disclosing information on compliance with the principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 71, 72 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 72 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 71 collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 72 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 72 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. 72 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 38-43 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. 38-43 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 38-43 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 28, 72 74 Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine Appendix 8 List of abbreviations used in the Report ACC American Chamber of Commerce NGO Non-governmental organization ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants SAP Systems, Applications and Products ASQ Assessment of Service Quality SORT Service Offering Reference Tool BITC Business in the Community HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome CFA Chartered Financial Analyst HEE Higher education establishment CIA Certified Internal Auditor GC Global Compact CRM Client Relationship Management DipIFR Diploma in International Financial Reporting CVA Chairman’s Values Award EBA European Business Association EMEIA Europe, Middle East, India and Africa CSR Corporate Social Responsibility ERP Enterprise resource planning EC Efficiency coefficient EYP European Youth Parliament KPI Kyiv Polytechnic Institute FSC Forest Stewardship Council FY Financial year MFA Ministry of Foreign Affairs GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards GMC Global Management Challenge NUKMA National University Kyiv-Mohyla Academy GRI Global Reporting Initiative UAE United Arab Emirates ITR International Tax Review UN United Nations IPO Initial Public Offering UNV United Nations Volunteers IREX International Research & Exchanges Board USA United States of America IT Information technology CIS Commonwealth of Independent States JCI Junior Chamber International KSE Kyiv School of Economics (Kyiv School of Economics) UAMDBE Ukrainian Association of Management Development and Business Education M&A Mergers and Acquisitions Corporate Responsibility Report 2012. Ernst & Young Ukraine 75 Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 167,000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients and our wider communities achieve their potential. Ernst & Young expands its services and resources in accordance with clients’ needs throughout the CIS. 4,500 professionals work at 19 offices in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Ekaterinburg, Kazan, Krasnodar, Togliatti, Vladivostok, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Almaty, Astana, Atyrau, Baku, Kyiv, Donetsk, Tashkent, Tbilisi, Yerevan, and Minsk. In Ukraine, the Company has been operating since 1991. Currently, Ernst & Young’s offices in Ukraine employ more than 500 professionals providing full range of services to international and Ukrainian companies. For more information about our organization, please visit www.ey.com. Ernst & Young refers to the global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. © 2013 Ernst & Young All Rights Reserved.
