Sustainability Report 2012 Letter from our CEO 5 and 50 years of milestones operations. They also communicate the Our company was founded in Sweden important message that Camfil aims to in 1963, and five decades later, we can be best at eco-efficiency in the global air proudly state that we are have grown to filtration industry. become the leading air filtration enterWe are accomplishing this by incorpoprise in the world – a position we will rating sustainability thinking in our day-todefend and strengthen in the competitive day operations. We benchmark and share landscape and also improve from a susbest practices throughout the organizatainability standpoint. tion. We develop, improve and refine For 50 years, customers have trusted our processes to save energy, conserve us to deliver the right filtration solution in resources and create a better and safer a market that is increasingly requiring – working environment for our employees. and demanding – better ways to protect These sustainability measures are just people, processes and the environment as significant as corporate actions to in an effective and energy-efficient manpromote Camfil’s continuing business ner. Leveraging our leadership, we will success, such as strengthening human expand our range of sustainable clean air resources, developing in-house compesolutions, enabling customers and endtence and expanding R&D facilities. users to comply with increasingly strict We also concentrate on educating energy standards and requirements for the public, policymakers and customers eco-efficiency. about the importance of filtration for air quality, health and performance – and the Sustainability is vital for our benefits of having Camfil as their clean future F ive years ago Camfil became the first air partner. In many respects, 50 years is a fairly long air filter manufacturer to launch a sustime for an enterprise to exist and opertainability programme and we have been Celebrating 50 years ate. During this time, we have observed working hard from the start to meet our The year 2013 is important to us because a steadily growing need for clean air in objectives and pass internal milestones. it marks Camfil’s 50th year of operation. industry and society. This trend bodes well We have been steady and persistent in our goal to make Camfil as sustainable and environmentally friendly as possible. Several of our past and present efforts are described in this report and we are pleased to state that the measured results of the programme continue to exceed expectations. This quest for greater sustainability has actually been part of our corporate mindset for several decades, as illustrated by Camfil’s track record of R&D initiatives to create the most eco-efficient clean air solutions on the market. Our pioneering efforts to develop the first ­ energy classification system and life cycle costing software for air filters are other CamfilCairing Week is an annual event held throughout the Camfil Group, across all geoexamples. These efforts have steadgraphic regions, to firmly establish sustainability thinking in local companies and markets. ily helped our customers to green their Photo is from this year's event at Camfil Thailand. 2 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y REPOR T 2 0 1 2 Highlights of the 2012 financial year Robust performance: Despite the turbulence in the global financial market, Camfil recorded another successful year – its 49th consecutive year of profitability since the company was founded in 1963. for Camfil because clean air solutions are Additional growth was achieved in the company’s core business – highly efficient filters the very foundation of our business. with low energy consumption for air handling systems – notably in North America and But we are deeply aware that we Asia. Significant sales increases were also accomplished in other key markets, such as must remain a sustainable enterprise for air filtration solutions and AMC systems for microchip manufacturers in China and Taiwan, continuing success. We have focused and dust collection systems in the U.S. market. on being as green as possible from the Net sales amounted to SEK 4,865 M (4,851). Underlying organic growth was 3% and beginning. Today, our core values, local compensated for the divestment of the Railroad business (see below). Underlying presence and global reach as a multioperating profit, excluding restructuring costs and items affecting comparability, was­ cultural enterprise require us to care just SEK 492 M (493), corresponding to an operating margin of 10.1% (10.2). as much about our local community as our local company and business. We are To build for the future, investments and capital expenditures were on a record level in steadfast in our goal to bring the benefits 2012 and the balance sheet was strengthened. of eco-­ efficient air filtration to all geographic regions where the global Camfil Divestment of Railroad business: In early 2012, Camfil finalized the divestment of Group operates. the Railroad business to Parker Hannifin Corporation as part of Camfil’s strategic plan to By offering the market the most enerfocus exclusively on core air filtration business. gy-efficient clean air solutions – and producing them with the least environmental Inauguration of R&D Tech Centre in Trosa impact – we will do everything we can to In Sweden, a new Tech Centre was opened that is the largest of six Camfil R&D hubs, preserve our planet for current and future all of which collaborate and exchange local research experience for global application. generations so they can benefit daily from The facility provides the Camfil Group with a faster and more complete flow process our most valuable end-product – clean air for introducing new filtration products in the marketplace. The Centre is also equipped and everything it means for health, proto provide a wider range of support services for Group units within all technology and ductivity and operational efficiency. specialty areas. Air Pollution Control plant opened in U.K. In the United Kingdom, Camfil has opened a 3,700-square-metre facility to manufacture Air Pollution Control products in Heywood, Greater Manchester. The investment builds Alan O’Connell further on recent sales and marketing initiatives to migrate and establish the American President and CEO APC product line in Europe. The new facility will drastically reduce lead-times for APC Camfil Group deliveries in Europe. When fully staffed, it will employ more than 100 in engineering, manufacturing and support positions, and also produce other Camfil products. Caring for customer sustainability By providing clean air solutions, we help our customers to become more environmentally friendly. On a daily basis, we advise them on the selection of the most eco-efficient filters, with the lowest possible energy consumption, for the sake of their businesses and the future of our planet. Today, we are focused on developing sustainable solutions, taking into account the entire product life cycle. Camfil’s air filtration solutions deliver We are also committed to maintaining and strengthening a partnership of trust with our optimum air quality, with the lowest customers by respecting the highest standards in business ethics, ranging from respect of possible energy consumption, helping intellectual property to fair competition or transparency in business affairs. our customers to improve health, All these principles – stated in our Code of Conduct – are applicable to all Camfil entities. productivity and eco-efficiency. S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 2 0 1 2 / 3 Camfil's business units Camfil’s business is air filtration and our products deliver one of the most valuable commodities in the world – clean air. This is being achieved with sustainable best-in-class filtration products and services, as well as through local presence. Our products are found everywhere in offices, schools, hospitals, manufacturing facilities, laboratories, oil platforms and nuclear power stations, to mention just a few. These solutions, products and systems are developed, manufactured and supplied internationally by the following b ­ usiness units: supply a full range of dust collectors to clean dust and fumes from factories, making them safer, more productive and more sustainable. Customers include food processing, metalworking, pharmaceutical, mining, laser and plasma cutting, woodworking and other industries. Filters – protecting people, processes and the environment – Camfil is the world’s largest and leading manufacturer of air filters – the product platform for all of Camfil’s operations and the Group’s biggest core business. These filters can be as small as a matchbox but as large as a shipping container. Their end product is clean air free of harmful or damaging pollutants, dust, dirt, allergens, conPower Systems – protecting gas turbines. The Power Systems taminants, molecular gases and, in some cases, even life-threatening Business Unit, operating in the market under the Camfil Power radiation, depending on the application. Systems name, is a leading supplier of heavy-duty filtration and noiseThe largest application area is comfort ventilation, in which control equipment for gas turbines used by major power-generating Camfil offers the most energy-efficient filters for occupant health and offshore operators worldwide. Solutions include air inlet filtration and well-being in public and commercial buildings. These products systems, acoustic enclosures, de-icing and cooling systems and provide clean air for high indoor air quality (IAQ) and help building exhaust stacks. Other specialties include diverter dampers, ducting, owners reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint. silencers, and service and refurbishment. In the production world, Camfil’s clean air solutions protect advanced or sensitive manufacturing processes. In the nuclear power industry, Camfil is the leader in particulate filtration, gas-phase filtration and containment. The business unit includes the CamCleaner™ line of mobile, stationary and standalone air purifiers. Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC) for micro­electronics. Controlling both AMC and particle contamination is crucial in integrated circuit (IC) manufacturing. Camfil’s clean air solutions remove critical AMCs, including sulphur dioxide, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), diverse acids and ammonia. In outdoor air and cleanroom environments, all these gases are present in concentrations that Air Pollution Control – advanced dust collectors. The Air are too high for many electronic manufacturing processes. Camfil’s Pollution Control Business Unit operates in North America and the advanced AMC solutions for cleanrooms and process equipment international market under the Camfil Air Pollution Control (APC) safeguard the production of microprocessors, memories or displays name. Camfil APC’s main mission is to design, manufacture and for smartphones and tablets. For a complete description of Camfil’s operations, please refer to the company’s corporate website (www.camfil.com) and the 2012 Annual Report. 4 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y REPOR T 2 0 1 2 Camfil around the world H EA D OF F I CE P R OD UCTI ON UNI T, I NCL . S ALE S S A L ES OF F I CE A G ENT • Key figures Sales performance 2010-2012 operating profit* performance 2010-2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 SEK MILLIONS: 4,575 SEK MILLIONS: 4,851 SEK MILLIONS: 4,865 SEK MILLIONS: 471 SEK MILLIONS: 493 SEK MILLIONS: 492 *Excluding restructuring costs and items affecting comparability Filters EUR O PE A M E R IC A S NUM B E R OF S A L ES I N N U M BE R O F SALES IN EMPLOY E E S : 1 , 4 7 5 S EK M I L L I O N S : 2 ,1 5 6 EM P L O Y EES: 585 SEK M ILLIO N S: 874 A S IA -PAC I FI C oth er regio ns NUM B E R OF S A L ES I N N U MBER O F SALES IN E M PLOY E E S : 5 8 6 S EK MI L L I O N S : 4 0 4 EMP L O YEES: 41 SEK M ILLIO N S: 99 power systems APC AMC NUM B E R OF S A L ES I N N U MBER O F SALES IN N U M BER O F SALES IN E M PLOY E E S : 2 8 7 S EK M I L L I O N S : 8 9 1 EMP L O YEES: 245 SEK M ILLIO N S: 349 EM PLO Y EES: 73 SEK M ILLIONS: 80 S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 2 0 1 2 / 5 Buildings need effective air filters that protect health and use less energy Air quality, especially indoor air quality air, some governments seem to be focusing innovation and allowing consumers to (IAQ), directly affects life, health and proing too narrowly on the energy aspects of identify and benefit from the best available ductivity. ventilation as a means to lower the enertechnologies. Unfortunately, healthy air is becoming gy consumption of buildings and reduce But in view of the sharper focus on scarce, especially in the larger cities of greenhouse emissions. It is a known fact energy efficiency – with the risk of comthe world. Europe is an example, where air that heating, ventilation and air conditionpromising IAQ – Camfil has decided that a pollution is estimated to cause more than ing (HVAC) systems use much energy, dialogue is needed with government agen450,000 premature deaths annually, and contributing to CO2 emissions related to cies, NGOs and stakeholders. Our goal is where 80 per cent of the urban population power production. to raise awareness about IAQ and health, is exposed to air pollutant concentrations But reducing ventilation rates to save and to take part in the debate on future above the guideline limits of the World energy can compromise IAQ. A simple regulations and their potential causes for Health Organization (WHO). measure like installing quality filters with air filtration. Part of this strategy is to On a worldwide basis, the figures are the lowest average air resistance, and make “invisible” clean air “visible” with our just as grim: WHO reports that approxithe highest filtration efficiency, reduces Road Show Campaign (page 7). mately two million people die too early the considerable power appetite of HVAC because of exposure to air pollution. systems and increases IAQ. Reaping the benefits of clean air While governments are starting to This has been documented in many In summary, the health benefits and enerreact with better air quality legislation, of our installations for customers over gy savings will be substantial and tangible they are not fully considering the impact the years, proving that quality filters last if the right decisions are made to use the of air pollution on IAQ. The two are longer, clean better, save more energy best available air cleaning solutions. clearly interlinked: polluted outdoor air and do not have to be changed as often. Although some initiatives have been penetrates the indoor environment, where Simply described, good filters provide taken at national level in countries, IAQ it also mixes with indoor pollutants. This is clean air with economic benefits. Clean should be integrated in specific energy why indoor air can be up to 50 times more air is good for the bottom line of business legislation for the building sector. Stronger polluted than outdoor – involving health and society at large. air quality laws and policies are needed to risks, particularly for the young, elderly protect human health and create a better and chronically ill. Poor IAQ has also been A vehicle for our message indoor and outdoor environment for citiassociated with higher sick leave rates zens, taking a holistic approach towards Up to now, Camfil has driven the air and lower worker productivity. With people air quality. filtration industry towards better standspending up to 90 per cent of their lives Reducing the energy needs of ventilaards for product performance and energy indoors, we need to think of IAQ just as tion systems with eco-designed air filters efficiency. Examples are EN 779:2012 much as ambient air quality. will also support global efforts to fight and the EUROVENT product certification programme. against climate change. Balancing needs >>> These developments are positively At the same time as people need cleaner impacting the air filter industry, encourag6 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y REPOR T 2 0 1 2 Ongoing Road Show campaign trailer, Camfil has selected an eco-efficient Scania vehicle with “Ecolution” package for Camfil’s European Road Show camthe highest possible fuel efficiency and the paign, in progress for two years, is a lowest possible CO2 emissions. Inside, the multi-purpose initiative and a first for trailer is equipped with mobile lab stations the air filtration industry. The Road and facilities for testing air quality at venues Show is educating the general public in order to show visitors what they are actuand policymakers about the dangers of ally breathing at the moment. indoor and outdoor pollution. It is also This rolling exhibition explains how Myriam Tryjefaczka serving as a mobile filter demonstraCamfil filters keep polluted city air from penCorporate Sustainability Manager, tion unit and exhibition to explain the etrating indoor spaces. Visitors also learn Camfil Group benefits of using effective air filters for about the filters needed to accomplish this myriam.tryjefaczka@camfil.fr human health and productivity. Another and how effective air filtration has important www.camfil.com/RoadShow objective is to explain how sustainable economic and environmental benefits. indoor air quality and lower energy conInside the trailer, air quality is monitransferred to a global database and live sumption are attainable with the right tored continuously at several remote sites measurements are shown on gauges in choice of filters for ventilation systems. in Trosa (Sweden), the New York area and the trailer to indicate how air pollution To transport the 13-metre-long Paris, France. Data from these sites are varies regionally. During 2012, Camfil's Road Show visited key cities in Belgium, ­Den­Stockholm, Mostra Convegno Milan, ACHEMA Frankfurt and Festimark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, Slovakia and Sweden. val della Salute in Pietrasante, Italy. In Sweden, the Swedish HVAC The trailer with its mobile lab and exhibition was also on location ­industry association also used the trailer at a major annual political at several trade exhibitions, including Pollutec Lyon, Nordbygg event as a vehicle to voice concerns about ventilation and air quality. S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 2 0 1 2 / 7 Customers save energy with Camfil filters Energy-efficient product Examples of Camfil filters, of which range several are from the green range. In 2012, our most energy-efficient filter soluThese products are designed to deliver tions for ventilation accounted for 67% of high filtration efficiency with the added our global sales in the Comfort Air products benefits of low energy consumption, segment. This share has grown 8% since long life and minimum waste. 2007. Since 2007, 21% of our Comfort Air product sales volumes have been converted into energy-efficient filters that also improve IAQ. Camfil was the first company to develop innovative systems for accurately rating the energy consumption and efficiency of air filters. These proactive systems, introduced several years ago, have been adopted by the European air filtration industry. An example is EUROVENT’s introduction of a new energy efficiency classification system in 2012, based on EN 779:2012, which gives customers a clearer understanding of a filter’s annual Designing environmental aspects into the company’s air filters has been a Camfil energy consumption, initial efficiency and minimum priority for years. We maintain a constant dialogue with filter media suppliers and efficiency. This information makes it easier to evolve our filter designs to reduce the airflow resistance of our products. This select the right filter for the right application for the improves the energy-efficiency of ventilation systems that use Camfil filters in air best energy efficiency and filtration. handling units and other filtration systems. This will become more and more important as Product design and process control integrate a number of eco-efficiency EU directives require public and commercial build­considerations to: ings to improve energy efficiency. Today, heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems consume a • Preserve natural and fossil resources substantial percentage of all electrical power used • Reduce waste and emissions by buildings. In addition to reducing energy consumption and • Increase energy efficiency environmental impact for sustainability reasons, • Eliminate pollution risks building owners also need to cut operating costs as power prices increase. Selecting the right qual• Find safe alternatives to hazardous substances ity air filters with the lowest energy consumption • Use recycled materials and develop optional product-recycling can boost their eco-efficiency and also increase IAQ for a better and healthier work environment. methods AIR FILTERS CLASS F5-F9 8 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y REPOR T 2 0 1 2 Building an eco-culture with CamfilCairing “CamfilCairing” is the name and framework of our internal programme to integrate sustainability and corporate citizenship in every aspect of our business strategy. The CamfilCairing name is built around our corporate name and key words associated with Camfil, such as caring for our environment and the air we breathe. CamfilCairing is designed to communicate our long-term commitment to care about our employees, the communities ­ where we are present, our customers and their processes, and the environment. See also page 14 for recent CamfilCairing ­activities. Camfil supports the United Nation Global Compact initiative and has integrated its principles in the CamfilCairing Code. Camfil reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative. The GRI matrix is available on our sustainability pages at www.camfil.com. S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 2 0 1 2 / 9 Five-year track record of sustainable ­progress When our sustainability programme was ing Camfil a more sustainable enterprise the majority of the Group’s manufacturing introduced in the Group five years ago, on a daily basis. facilities by benchmarking best practices it was difficult to predict the goals Camfil from our most advanced plants for use could reach with regard to resource effiStrategic investments for at others. We have reduced water usage ciency and mitigating the Group’s environeco-efficiency dramatically. The amount of waste we mental impact. “Doing good” is a long-term commitment recycle, compared to landfill deposits, is Today, we have a much better picand sustainability initiatives need time to now the inverse. ture of our initiatives, as documented by mature before a company can reap the full These achievements have been environmental metric data from the past benefits of organizational efforts. accomplished by means of skilful planfive-year period, compared with 2007, the The Camfil Group's global resource ning and strategic investments in the baseline year. usage trends remain positive. At almost best available technologies for heating, We can clearly see the results of our all Camfil sites, resource efficiency proventilation, lighting, compressors, energysteady efforts to save more energy and grammes have been fine-tuned for continintensive production equipment and green water. We also have data on our waste uing success. These efforts are creating building renovation. reduction. The measurements over the additional resource-saving opportunities The benefits of these capital investpast five years indicate that our comand enabl­ing new improvements. ments were further strengthened by the mitment, focus and sound measures are Within the past five years, Camfil has human factor: we have also made small producing very satisfactory results, makimplemented energy efficiency plans at but important changes to our day-to-day Measured eco-efficiency improvements, Camfil Group, 2007 vs. 2012 37% reduction in energy consumption The energy efficiency index (value created/kwh) has increased from 37 to 63. 26% decrease in water consumption The water efficiency index (value created/m3) has improved from 33 to 48. 0.5% reduction in waste Material efficiency (value created/per tonne of waste) has improved 9%. Within five years, waste recycling has increased from 30% to 46%, with equivalent Waste recycling vs. deposits waste to landfill deposits proportionally reduced. The number of lost work days due to work-related injuries has decreased from Occupational safety 0.32% to less than 0.1%. 1 0 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y R EPOR T 2 0 1 2 behaviour and habits, thanks to the deterIn these countries, Camfil has become a mined contributions and motivation of all reference for other businesses and repreour employees, who have proved that sentatives from our company have been they are ready to tackle the challenge of invited on several occasions to participate “producing more with less”. in conferences arranged by national certification and standardization bodies for the Certification projects purpose of sharing our experience (BSI, CEN and AFNOR). We have also implemented major projects We have also received several envifor environmental and energy manageronmental and sustainability awards (see ment certification. As a result of these page 15). initiatives, Camfil became the first comSeveral more projects are in progress pany in the United Kingdom, Malaysia to attain additional ISO 50001 and ISO and Slovakia to be certified according to 14001 certification. EN 16001 and ISO 50001. We were also close to becoming the first in France. Energy use Water use ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF FACTORIES gwh 3 3 total water use m eei* k sek/t water m eei* = cogs/energy use SEK M/gwh 3 EEI Total water use m 80 50 100000 60 38 75000 40 25 50000 20 13 25000 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 *Energy Efficiency Index Waste Waste destination total waste tonNEs eeI* index ksek/tonNE 2007 2012 20% kSEK/TONNE Total waste TONNES 19% 640 0 520 34% 480 0 390 51% 320 0 260 30% 160 0 130 46% LANDFILL incineration recycling 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 20 1 2 / 1 1 How HR contributes to Camfil’s sustainability strategy tive profile if we can to store their CV electronically in our CV database, launched in 2012, which is another recruitment tool for managers and HR. Survey and Empowerment Index At Camfil we focus on creating a work environment to retain and engage employees. Employee engagement is strongly related to sustainability, as it is an enabler of customer satisfaction and business Trainees from the Global Development Program outside Camfil's Road Show trailer. growth. Our global employee survey – Camfil develops, manufactures and sells surveys and competence development CAMPAIR (Camfil Personnel Attitude air filtration products that provide someprogrammes have been introduced over Involvement Research) – is a dynamic thing as essential as clean air, so we the past few years to this aim. tool for employee engagement. The purnaturally need to ensure that our own envipose of this survey is to identify Camfil’s ronmental footprint is as small as possible Right person in right role strengths and weaknesses and gather while operating with the highest possible From a sustainability standpoint, the key information to improve our business. The ethical standards. With a firm commitment to recruiting and staffing is to provide and survey generates valuable data, measureto eco-efficiency, we can meet society’s match the right people with the right roles. ments and findings that can be processed evolving criteria for sustainable business Sustainability also provides strategic busiand assessed to create added value and good corporate social responsibility. ness opportunities for Camfil to attract for employees, and ultimately, for our At Camfil, we recognize that our and compete for the best future talent. customers and owners. employees are a key factor in our ability to Today, an increasing number of applicants CAMPAIR was successfully conducted build and sustain competitive advantage. want to work with a company that does on a pilot scale in 2011 to prepare for the With employees committed to sustainabilnot only get results, but does it in a susfirst official survey in October 2012. In the ity through human resource (HR) actions, tainable way. full-scale survey in 2012, all employees we achieve business goals and increase An effective recruitment process is worldwide were invited to give their anonylong-term customer value by integrating therefore essential and online tools are mous opinion about Camfil to influence our economic, environmental and social needed. People interested in working at the future development of our culture, opportunities in strategies. Camfil can now submit their CVs via our management and work environment. This is why HR and global HR processCareers page on www.camfil.com. All The response rate for the first official es are essential to make our sustainability applications are screened and confirmed survey was as high as 89.1% for the journey a success. As described below, a to the candidate by Corporate HR. Camfil Group, indicating a strong commitflora of recruitment techniques, employee We also ask candidates with an attracment and interest among employees. Lost work days due to work-related ­injuries Number of sick leave days per 100 work days per 100 work days 0.35% 6. 00% 0.30% 5. 00% 0.25% 4. 00% 0.20% 3. 00% 0.15% 2. 00% 0.10% 1. 00% 0.05% 0. 00% 0.00% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 2 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y R EPOR T 2 0 1 2 The 2012 CAMPAIR survey also measured our Empowerment Index, a well-known measurement/tool used in many countries Developing in-house competence by many companies. It consists of five factors: motivation, getting support from your manager, having authority, taking Camfil Academy responsibility and possessing professional A sustainable mindset, from an HR perspective, encourages us to constantly competence. These factors are related to improve our skills, competencies and focus on performance. leadership and all have a great influence Camfil Academy has been running for almost two years and will expand its on employee performance. course offering for employees. Empowerment is all about giving Each training event is evaluated and carefully followed up to ensure continuemployees the best conditions to do a ous improvement and quality assurance of concepts, teaching methods, course good job and use their competence in materials and trainers. the best way. A high Empowerment Index drives profitability because empowered Global Development Program (GDP) employees take on more responsibility, One of HR’s greatest contributions to sustainability effectiveness is seen in comtake initiative and create better value for petence development. In May 2012, Camfil launched the Global Development customers. Program (GDP) to support employee development and growth (see below). The Empowerment Index for the The program covers a total of 22 days and consists of six face-to-face modCamfil Group was an encouraging 64. The ules over a period of 18 months. Each participant is part of a global team that external benchmark value was 59, based investigates, analyzes and reports a development project directly related to an on more than 30,000 answers from surissue that is strategic for Camfil. veys conducted by Mercuri International over the past five years. Sustainability mindset A sustainable development mindset, from Showing commitment at global level an HR perspective, encourages Camfil’s employees to improve their skills, compe“The course contents so far have been relevant and valutencies and performance. able,” says Camfil employee Ashlee Wallace, State Manager The HR-related actions described WA at Camfil Australia, who has attended one of Camfil’s Global above are strengthening values that make Development Program (GDP) courses, a specially designed comsustainability central to business stratpetence development program that Camfil has developed in assoegy. They also enable the development ciation with the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm. of metrics and systems aligned around “KTH clearly has experience in managing development courses and focusing sustainability. on the key areas of business,” says Ashlee. “It is clear that senior management Based on the success of the HR has a strong belief in the program and is putting in significant effort to train us in initiatives carried out to date, Camfil will their different areas of responsibility. This is encouraging and shows the commitcontinue to develop its sustainable busiment of Camfil at a global level to always improve. ness model and HR processes in coming years to recruit, retain and Camfil’s most “Meeting management and other course colleagues to discuss all areas of important asset – our employees. business has also been beneficial. It helps me understand how other Camfil countries manage their businesses and we can all learn a lot from each other’s different experiences and successes as a Group. “I converse with my manager to better understand our national business based on what I have been learning in the GDP. I have also utilized my new ­contacts in day-to-day business as a resource. “The project assignments are as significant and challenging as I had hoped. They will be difficult with the current job roles that we have, but even more rewarding. It is great to work on something that can positively impact Camfil on a large scale,” ends Ashlee. Eva Bergenheim-Holmberg, VP Human Resources & Internal Communication. S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 20 1 2 / 1 3 Recent CamfilCairing activities In early 2013, the fifth consecutive Camfil Germany appointed “energy ergonomic improvements in production, CamfilCairing Week was held across the scouts” to find where energy could be while Camfil Finland arranged work safety Group. As in previous years, employees saved at facilities and donated gifts to exercises. were actively engaged in a wide variety of support children suffering from cystic Employee wellness and exercise sustainability-related activities. fibrosis. events were held at Camfil U.S.A. and These CamfilCairing initiatives are carCamfil India registered employees for China, and the American subsidiary also ried out annually around the world and blood and organ donations on behalf of a participated in numerous community vary from company to company. foundation and arranged a family day for actions, such as toys for tots, a coat drive For example, Camfil Malaysia educatemployees. for needy families and holiday meals for ed local school children on the importance Camfil Slovakia arranged blood drives the homeless. of clean air and resource conservation, and provided other voluntary assistance Camfil Sweden improved raw material planted trees, assisted an orphanage and to the Red Cross. yield and made improvements to holiday carried out an internal project to reduce Camfil France’s employees ran races homes for staff. A few other examples are filter media waste. for breast cancer research and made described below. Village Upliftment Programme near Camfil India’s Trichy production plant. Over the next two years, Camfil India The project involves promoting selfis sponsoring a Village Upliftment help groups, creating jobs, eliminating Programme (VUP) in partnership with child labour, improving villager health Hand-in-Hand India (HiH), a charitable and education opportunities, establishing trust working to reduce poverty through citizen centre enterprises, and a range job creation and income generation. In of activities to build general awareness the programme, Camfil India and HiH about the environment and renewable are working with the rural villages of energy. Devarayaneri and Asoor, both located ‘Sustainability is provider of clean air solutions. These activities have also helped me understand “One of the very first projects at the Dublin plant analyzed energy usage doing things right the ‘Camfil Way’. and the Irish team reduced the plant’s energy consumption by more than 1000 the Camfil Way’ “I have discovered that people make Camfil a good place to work. We have a kW annually, proving the importance of CamfilCairing. fantastic team and I am very lucky to be part of it. The people and corporate cul“Of course, CamfilCairing is much ture, combined with constant professional more than energy savings. I have seen challenges, create a great environment to so many fantastic undertakings within work and learn. the whole Group, such as supporting the Aoibhneas refuge, blood donations “I have seen how CamfilCairing has also in Slovakia, tree planting in Malaysia, changed my perception of the company by supporting children in India, and I believe adding more values. When I was with the there are more great ideas to come. Irish subsidiary and joined CamfilCairing in 2009, in the middle of the biggest reces“I see sustainability as responsibility Tomasz Rokowski, Corporate Engineer sion Ireland ever encountered, I could towards people, the environment and proof Raw Materials, Corporate Sourcing, Camfil AB. not fully comprehend how CamfilCairing cesses. I believe that we at Camfil, regard“I have been involved in many Camfil could bring more value to our customers less of our level of responsibility and area Group initiatives that have taught me a in such challenging times in Ireland and I of influence – local or corporate – should lot about the way we take responsibility wondered how I should communicate this simply do things right, follow the Camfil for our decisions as a manufacturer and internally. Way and not cut any corners.” 1 4 / SU STAINAB ILIT Y R EPOR T 2 0 1 2 Recent Energy & Environmental Awards and Achievements Initiatives to improve internal energy and resource efficiency, manufacture eco-efficiently, develop low-energy products, and take good care of employees and the environment. Camfil Group Nobelux Environment Award for General Sustainability 2012. Camfil France Finalist for Trophée Responsible Care, Environment Category, for power savings and energy management, and for achieving EN 16001 certification. Camfil India Mohan Foundation Award for Organ Donation. Camfil Malaysia Pengarah Hospital Award for blood donations. FMM Excellence Award, Rising Star of the Year. FMM Institute Perak Award for Staff Training Programmes. Camfil Slovakia EKP’s Company of the Region Award for environmental management and personnel care. Camfil United Kingdom Winner of the Tomorrow’s FM Products and Services Award for the Hi-Flo™ M7/F7 bag filter. Camfil United States 2012 New Equipment Digest’s Best New Product of the Year, Silver Award for Gold Series® Dust Collectors. Certifications Camfil United Kingdom, Malaysia and Slovakia: First company in their countries to be certified according to EN 16001 and ISO 50001. Cover photo: Camfil S US TA I N A BI L I TY REPO RT 20 1 2 / 1 5 Camfil – Sustainability Report CAMFIL is the world leader in air ­filters and clean air solutions. Camfil is the global industry leader in clean air s­olutions with 50 years of experience. Our ­solutions protect ­people, p ­ rocesses and the environment to benefit human health, i­ncrease performance, and reduce and manage energy consumption. Twenty-­three manufacturing plants, six R&D sites and over 65 ­local sales offices worldwide provide service and ­support to our customers. The Camfil Group is headquartered in S ­ weden but more than 95 percent of sales are international. The Group has around 3,500 ­employees and a turnover in the range of SEK 4.9 billion. For further information about Camfil’s global sustainability programme, contact: Myriam Tryjefaczka Corporate Sustainability Manager Camfil Group myriam.tryjefaczka@camfil.fr Phone: +33 3 44 29 33 40 Artwork: Kaigan. Text: Thorn PR Sweden and Camfil. ©Camfil. 2013-06. www.camfil.com For further information, please contact your nearest Camfil office.
