Global Compact United Nations Communication on Progress Business Language Skills Period from May 2012 to May 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) BLS’s CEO makes a formal commitment to Global Compact principles every year in her note to shareholders. Dear Shareholders On joining Global Compact in 2004, BLS committed to uphold the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor standards, protection of environment and anti-corruption and advances those principles within our company and to extend them to our sister companies, BLS formation and BLS Group. We are today happy to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This commitment is now included on our website on the home page. We feel that today, in the context of the economic global crisis, it is all the more important to uphold and honour these principles . As always practical actions taken by our group in the last year are summarized in our Communication on Progress and periodically in our internal newsletters to staff. Karen Mander Chairman & CEO Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Human Rights is expressly part of BLS’s Code of Ethics, which is distributed to all employees when they are recruited. This information is also communicated to the Trade Unions, the Work inspectors and to the shop floor stewards. At BLS we make every effort to ensure equal opportunities for our staff (to training, to promotion opportunities, to access to the management for example) and to ensure a positive, respectful environment for all. Siège social : 4 Rue de la Pierre Levée, 75011 PARIS – Tél : 01 55 28 89 30 – Fax : 01 55 28 89 33 SAS au capital de 80 000 € – SIREN 393 206 370 APE 8559 A Global Compact United Nations Communication on Progress Business Language Skills Period from May 2012 to May 2013 We reassert our commitment to the respect of human rights principles and labour law in the contracts we sign with our customers. We also ensure that our suppliers respect human rights principles and respect the French laws and practices. We respond favorably to surveys on our respect of human rights carried out by autonomous organizations. Implementation With the workers’ representatives, we have opened up a suggestion box for awareness raising and to anonymously bring to management’s attention any violation of Human Rights. We discuss equal opportunities in our monthly meetings and access to training and promotion for all members of staff. We specifically include in our work contracts an article referring to our commitment to equality of treatment of every member of our personnel within our organization. Measurement of outcomes • Monitors and evaluate performance • Incidents on human rights violations No claim regarding violation of Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals BLS upholds and applies the national labour rights in France and the branch agreement for training organizations. Employees are free to choose their shop floor representatives and consult trade unions of their choice. They can request help and counciling from their shop floor representatives in negociations or discussions with management. Siège social : 4 Rue de la Pierre Levée, 75011 PARIS – Tél : 01 55 28 89 30 – Fax : 01 55 28 89 33 SAS au capital de 80 000 € – SIREN 393 206 370 APE 8559 A Global Compact United Nations Communication on Progress Business Language Skills Period from May 2012 to May 2013 Implementation The CEO meets with the workers’ representatives every month to answer employees’ questions, determine training and further development programs for all categories of staff (executive and non executive workers). This monthly meeting enables collective grievances to be aired and acted upon. The agreed actions are stated in a log book 6 days after each monthly meeting and signed by the CEO. They are posted on the workers representatives’ news board and communicated to all members of staff An annual audit regarding employees’ health and safety is carried out conjointly between the management and the workers’ representatives. In accordance with French law, every two years employees are offered a free health check up paid for by the company. This year the annual audit on health and safety was submitted to the independent workers health body (la Medecine du Travail) and a visit of the premises by an expert in Health and Safety from this body was carried out. Every 4 years elections are held enabling staff to vote for their choice of staff representatives. At this moment, BLS informs the different bodies in France and the work inspectors and opens the elections to union and non union candidates. Measurement of outcomes No claim regarding violation of Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. An action plan is drawn up every year to improve working conditions and reduce risks cosigned by management and the staff representative body. This action plan is reviewed and evaluated every year by management and the staff representatives. All actions decided upon during the last 12 months have been implemented. The visit of the Independent Health body (see above) confirmed the report made between management and the staff representatives and included further advice to enhance working conditions. Demographics of management and employees by diversity factors (gender, ethnicity, age, nationality) are made available to staff representatives. BLS employees come from a wide variety of backgrounds : • French, British, Spanish, Portuguese • Columbian, Brazilian, Venezuelan, • Nigerian, South African • From Vietnam, China, Japan, Australia With an equal balance between male and female employees With an age range going from 25 to 56 years old. Siège social : 4 Rue de la Pierre Levée, 75011 PARIS – Tél : 01 55 28 89 30 – Fax : 01 55 28 89 33 SAS au capital de 80 000 € – SIREN 393 206 370 APE 8559 A Global Compact United Nations Communication on Progress Business Language Skills Period from May 2012 to May 2013 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection BLS has elaborated an Ecological Charter that is systematically handed out to each newly recruited employee. This document explains BLS’s commitment to protecting the environment, preventing and managing environmental risks. BLS ensures sustainability in the management of all its activities and is committed to minimize its impact on the environment such as promoting car sharing and preference for public transport. Implementation Concrete examples of the implementation of our ecological charter of the past year have been • the choice to order recycled paper • recycling printed paper as internal notebooks • to favour “soft copies” of training materials (podcasts, IT versions of training packs) over “hard copies” such as paper training manuals and burning CDs. Over the last 12 months, this has been an option actively promoted in our response for calls for tender and several companies have seized this more cost effective and environmentally friendly option. • the choice of a new photocopier / printer certified “imprimvert”, the French ecological label” with standby functions to economize energy • the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies – promotion of e-learning tools and remote conferencing internally. A formal offer for viseoconfering now completes our training solutions offer. • raising awareness among suppliers by asking them for environmental data on their products. Siège social : 4 Rue de la Pierre Levée, 75011 PARIS – Tél : 01 55 28 89 30 – Fax : 01 55 28 89 33 SAS au capital de 80 000 € – SIREN 393 206 370 APE 8559 A Global Compact United Nations Communication on Progress Business Language Skills Period from May 2012 to May 2013 Measurement of outcomes • No claim regarding violation of Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. • participation on external environmental as consulted, • reduction of 10% of our paper orders • reduction of more than 35% of our orders for notebooks • active promotion of soft copy training materials -implementation in recent responses for calls for tender and winning of training contracts. Anti‐‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Principles regarding anti corruption, use of BLS or customer property (tangible or virtual) or information for personal needs are clearly stated in our internal code of conduct that has been validated by independent work inspectors. This document is distributed to all employees when they are hired and is available on the staff . We have developed a specific workshop on money laundering that we offer and run for banking institutions. Implementation With respect to anti corruption laws and principles, we run a workshop on money laundering for the banking institutions we work for. We refrain from offering presents to our customers in that such presents could be construed as a means to influence the customer. We are audited annually by a statutory auditor who examines our accounts and sends a report to the French authorities. Measurement of outcomes No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. An audit conducted by an independent French government body showed that all social charges have been paid on salaries as required by French law. Siège social : 4 Rue de la Pierre Levée, 75011 PARIS – Tél : 01 55 28 89 30 – Fax : 01 55 28 89 33 SAS au capital de 80 000 € – SIREN 393 206 370 APE 8559 A
